The Voice of Nigerian Youth Initiative has described Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as a winner despite the outcome of the presidential primary of the ruling All Progressives Congress. According to the initiative, the Vice President, who came third in the contest after polling 235 votes, won because of the belief the youth have in his leadership. This was contained in a statement on Thursday titled, ‘2023: Nigerian youths to Osinbajo – You won’, signed by the Co-Founder, Mrs Temi Okesanjo. The statement read in part, “It is our firm belief that regardless of the outcome of your party primaries, you are a winner. “You won because Nigerian youths believe in your leadership and the joy that comes with the hope you bring, which many had lost before now. “You won because those, who hijacked and controlled the process, altered what would have been a voluntary embrace of change. “You won because we will continue to look up to you for answers, even as we do not see clearly when you will be crowned to give these answers. “They say people shouldn’t have what they didn’t fight for, but the ones who couldn’t be induced didn’t get a chance to vote. “We are sad that the hijack of the process may have taken us 10 years backwards, but we are happy because we fought a good fight and we still have you with us. “We hope that you will continue to give yourself to this country the way you have done relentlessly, knowing we need you.” The initiative said the Vice President had taught youths one of the most important lessons of life, which is to stand firm in spite of the many contrived and obstructing plots. “We are already looking forward, for in the future lies the realisation of our dreams of a greater nation,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com