A northern group, Coalition of Arewa Youth and Women for PYO 2023, on Wednesday, has drummed support for Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, saying that he is the best man to succeed his boss, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in 2023. The group said the president should not go too far in his search for a successor as the Vice President possessed the qualities for the nation’s coveted seat. The PUNCH reported that President Buhari had, during his meeting with the 23 All Progressives Congress governors, at the Presidential Villa in Abuja, advised the party to think of the right candidate to succeed him after his tenure in 2023. The group noted that the experience the Vice President had garnered for over seven years as second-in-command to Buhari, stood him out among the arrays of the APC’s presidential aspirants including the APC National Leader, Bola Tinubu; the Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi; former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, among others. According to the Arewa group in a statement by its Spokesperson, Mohammed Lawal, in Kaduna on Wednesday, Buhari should look inward and pick his vice, who’s endowed with a series of sterling qualities as one to succeed him in 2023. They acknowledged that the APC paraded eminently qualified presidential personalities but noted that a man with an exceptional political, and professional stand such as “Vice president Yemi Osinbajo SAN,” could not be ignored. The group said, “Although there are so many presidential aspirants but only one of them is standing taller, higher, more competent, accepted, tested, and trusted. A man who has been president in an acting capacity, a professor of Law, and an exceptional political breed of his rare kind. “Across Nigeria, from North to South, East to West, you find Professor Yemi Osinbajo with the Muslims and Christians, Hausas, Yorubas, Igbos, Igede, Idoma, Ibibio, Ekwere, Ishakiri, and others for unity, peace, and development to prevail in Nigeria. “He is a detribalised Nigerian. A man who is only defined by his humanity, philanthropy, and respect for all irrespective of tribe, religion, and political affiliation, indeed, a symbol of national unity. A leader with impeccable qualities of leadership, one of the best and rare politicians of our time. “Professor Yemi Osinbajo has also used his office as the Vice President to add to the economic strength of Nigeria by inviting foreign investors who saw and believed in the potential of Nigeria to come and invest. “These and many other initiatives of his have helped in stabilising and boosting the economy, contributing greatly to the reduction of poverty and creation of more jobs for our teeming youths. “Also, as the Vice President, he has always been key to the success of this regime and that of Nigeria due to his wealth of experience, strategy, and political mastery. President Muhammadu Buhari left him in charge as the acting President of Nigeria when he travelled in 2017 and 2018. A task he carried out so well diligently and efficiently enough to assure Nigerians that the president left the country in good hands. “As acting President, he sacked the then Director-General of the Department of State Services, Malam Lawal Daura, for his reckless invasion of the National Assembly. Sacked all the directors in the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority for negligence and incompetence that were capable of killing innocent Nigerians. he carried out, completely, the overhauling of SARS, relocation of service chiefs to Borno State, and signing of the Executive order of Ease of Doing Business are some of his achievements as acting president within the shortest possible time. “With such unbeatable track records of this distinguished Pan – Nigerian of our time, a symbol of national unity, a true federalist, full of integrity, active and smart, whose foresight is really worthy of saluting and emulating, we are left with no option but share this with Nigerians as the reasons why Professor Yemi Osinbajo should be the successor of President Muhammadu Buhari.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com