The Peoples Democratic Party aspirants for Lagos State’s House of Assembly have called on the National Working Committee of the PDP to order fresh primaries just as it did for their House of Representatives counterparts. The aspirants said both primaries for House of Representatives and Assembly seats were botched on May 22, 2022. The aspirants alleged that the ruling APC in the state has infiltrated the party hierarchy in the state. They affirmed that there were no primary elections across the state on Sunday, May 22, 2022. The aspirants, who spoke in a statement on Sunday, are House of Assembly hopeful for Surulere constituency 2, Oladotun Sodunke; Mainland constituency 1 aspirant, Aduragbemi; and Oshodi constituency, Muyideen. Part of the statement read, “Delegates of the PDP were sidelined by the people that just came into the party a
a few months ago, in connivance with PDP leaders known for a history of working against the party during elections. “In spite of the state Executive’s objection to the skewed ad hoc list, they forced their way to ensure that their candidates emerged winners, even with clear objections from all other aspirants and no election took place. “We pleaded with the NWC to wade into this matter before it snowballed into a major crisis. The PDP Presidential candidate and other statutory bodies should as a matter of urgency, call the committee to order for the survival of the party. “The ad hoc list sent to Lagos was skewed in favour of the governorship candidate fingered in these sharp practices. Election venues were changed arbitrarily, while INEC and DSS officials who were to monitor the process were denied access because the lists of candidates were written in hotels and private residences of some of the manipulators.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com