The Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, has commended the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress for the smooth conduct of the just concluded primary. To this end, the governor boasted that the party would win all the seats in the National and State Assemblies elections in 2023, urging members of the party to be united in order to achieve the goal. Akeredolu, who spoke in a meeting with aspirants and new candidates of the party, charged candidates, stakeholders and leaders of the APC in the state to work assiduously for the party to record total victory in the 2023 general elections. According to him, there was a need for the party to work in unity in ensuring that the three senatorial seats, the nine seats of the House of Representatives as well as the 26 seats of the state House of Assembly are won by the APC. He charged, “We cannot and we must not lose any seat. Not even in the House of Assembly. We must have three senators this time around. We cannot lose anywhere. This coming election is a very vital one. Your campaign must be APC-based. Appealing to your co-contestant is very important,” On the alleged imposition of candidates during the primaries, the governor denied that he never imposed any aspirant, insisting that the election was free, fair and credible. In his remarks, the state chairman of the party, Mr Ade Adetimehin consoled the losers of the primary, saying that the victories belonged to everyone in the party. “All of us are winners. Whatever that has happened should be seen as a family affair. I want to appeal to those who stepped down. I am here to appeal that we must work together. We do our things in Ondo State in a very colourful way. Let us see the contest as a contest within the family,” he admonished. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com