The Federal Capital Territory Command of the Nigeria Police Force has said that it has tightened security within Abuja ahead of the All Progressives Congress convention scheduled to hold at the Eagles Square on Monday 6th, and Tuesday 7th, June 2022. A statement signed by the FCT Police Public Relations Officer, Josephine Adeh, which was made available to The PUNCH, partly read, “The All Progressive Congress Presidential primary election is scheduled to hold from Monday 6th June to Tuesday 7th June 2022 at Eagle’s Square. “The event is often associated with a high influx of different calibre of people especially the politicos thereby requiring an argumentation of the working security architecture of the FCT.” The police also stated that it has deployed operatives to strategic points within the country’s capital. The statement continued, “Given the above, to effectively police the territory within the period in view and beyond, an all-encompassing security deployment has been made. “Notable amongst the apparatus of this security arrangement is the emplacement of traffic diversions at strategic places around the event ground as follows; Good luck Ebele Jonathan By Court of Appeal point, Behind Court of Appeal, Ecowas by Women Affairs, Finance area, Behind Foreign Affairs, Kur Mohammed by National Mosque, Benue Plaza, Nitel junction, Phase 3, NNPC Tower, Ceddi Plaza bridge, Gana by Transcorp, DSS Headquarters, Phase 1, NASS Junction, Bullet, and Bayelsa House”. The deployment, according to the Police, would be characterised by heavy visibility policing as would be witnessed at various traffic control points to aid the free flow of traffic, stop and search, and vehicular and foot patrol among many others. The Commissioner of Police, Babaji Sunday, who spoke to our correspondent concerning the Command’s commitment to curbing insecurity, said, “We urge all and sundry to shun all forms of violence, as we reaffirm our unflinching commitment to the sustenance of the relative peace and tranquillity enjoyed by the people of the FCT, and a boost in the onward march against crime and criminality in the Territory in the period in view and beyond. “We, however, urge members of the public to remain vigilant and strengthen partnership with the Police as touching the rendition of prompt and actionable intelligence, and reporting any suspicious or abnormal occurrence to the Police through our emergency lines.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com