A few days to the governorship election in Ekiti State, an Ondo State-based legal practitioner, Mr. Morakinyo Ogele, has advised the people of the state to shun the act of selling their votes to politicians on the election day. He alleged that the ruling All Progressives Congress was planning to involve in the act of vote-buying, calling on the people of the state to reject the act. He said the APC had failed the people of the state in the last four years and didn’t deserve to remain in power. The lawyer made the allegation in an open letter to the Ekiti people. The letter was made available to our correspondent in Akure, the Ondo State capital, on Monday. It was titled, ‘Letter to Ekiti People.’ According to the letter, the present administration had allegedly grounded the state. He asked the people to vote the ruling party out on Saturday. The letter read, “We must observe carefully to see what is on the ground presently in Ekiti State, on how the present government has grounded our dear state. It is no defamatory statement that the APC non-functional government in Ekiti State is an accidental discharge that produced the government in the state. “The state has become a dynasty of emirate where APC is handling to its stooges a baton in a relay race over to whosoever they believe that can dance to the rhyme of their music. The APC organised a charade and dubious Congress and selected a candidate appointed by the former governor, signed, sealed, and delivered to Fayemi. “The government has monetised politics in Ekiti Which is now cash and carry affairs, hence, they could not make the financial obligation for the provision of infrastructure as the party is on daily basis going down due to their confused management of Ekiti affairs. “My investigation so far revealed that the APC is coming with a strike force and money, forcing and buying votes. People are wondering how the APC candidate for the June election sourced N50 million paid to their party headquarters in Abuja, a man whose salary is not up to N500,000 monthly as former secretary to Ekiti State government. “The years of APC government has been years of the locust and termites, state workers are suffering, retires are dying for non-payment of their pension, still the government is ready to buy votes on June 18, 2022 election,” He urged people to go out and vote for the candidate of the Social Democratic Party in the election, saying “We are tired of dynasty government in Ekiti State.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com