Some retirees under the Federal Civil Service Pensions, Lagos State branch, have protested non-payment of pensions among other challenges encountered by federal retirees. The retirees who staged a protest at the Lagos office of the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate, the agency in charge of payment of the Federal Government’s pensioners, called on the government to promptly respond to the plight of the retirees. In a protest letter jointly signed by the Chairman, FCSP, Arashi Lawal, and State Secretary, Abiodun Micheal, the retirees said, “Since September 2017 verification exercise, countless number of pensioners are yet to be on PTAD payroll till present.” The union complained that their monthly pensioners were not paid as of when due. According to the retirees, the ‘I am Alive’ programme of PTAD has been consuming huge funds of the government which could be used to settle pension arrears. The retirees said PTAD claimed it had paid their increment of three months arrears balance to the banks which they had not got. The association stated, “Where is our approved 2010 to 2015 outstanding arrears before the ongoing 2019 arrears?” “Serious discrepancies were found in the last disbursement of the three months. Some were not paid while some are being owed up to nine months from the arrears.” Reacting to the protest, PTAD said “The three months arrears of the pension increase have been paid as at the time they were protesting in Lagos. “Verified and qualified pensioners are on our payroll. Any person in doubt should come with his/her documents to confirm otherwise.” It added in a statement that the Executive Secretary of PTAD, Dr Chioma Ejikeme, had held a meeting with the executive members of the Nigeria Union of Pensioners and the Federal Civil Service Pensioners branch to inform the unions of the directorate’s plan to properly place pensioners in the Civil Service Pension Department who were being overpaid on their accurate monthly pension. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com