The Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, has reappointed Ibrahim Kassim as the Secretary to the State Government. This, our correspondent observed, was a way of rewarding him (Kassim) for stepping down for him and paving way for him to get his re-election ticket to contest for a second term. The PUNCH had reported that Governor Mohammed who was earlier contesting at the presidential primary of the Peoples Democratic Party, had assigned Kassim, who secretly resigned from office as SSG, to get the ticket of the party for him. After losing the presidential primary with only 20 votes, Mohammed returned to the state in a bid to claim the governorship ticket of the PDP which Kassim won for him. However, the news broke late Tuesday evening, that the former Director-General of the Bureau of Public Enterprises, who was the candidate of the PDP, had been elected, according to the party, as the “sole candidate” with 655 votes out of 656 cast, resigned from contesting the election. Following this development, the party started making arrangements to conduct a fresh governorship primary which would pave way for Bala Mohammed, a former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, to get the PDP ticket to contest for a second term. The Special Adviser on Media to the governor, Mukhtar Gidado, in a statement which was made available to journalists in the state Thursday night, said Kassim’s re-apportionment as SSG was with immediate effect. He said that his appointment was a result of his loyalty, track record, and competence. The media aide said, “His Excellency Sen. Bala A. Mohammed CON, the Executive Governor of Bauchi State, has approved the re- appointment of Ibrahim kashim as the Secretary to the Bauchi State Government. “His re-appointment is informed by his track record of sincerity, loyalty, commitment, and wealth of experience in the discharge of assigned responsibilities. “Ibrahim Kashim was the immediate past Secretary to the Bauchi State Government. The appointment takes immediate effect.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com