A real estate firm, Signature Real Estate, has advised Nigerians to diversify their real estate investment portfolio to foreign countries with better returns on investment as well as security of property. The company’s CEO, Prof Ahmed Olaniyi Salawudeen, stated this last week during the “Own a piece of Dubai” sensitisation programme which was held in Lagos. According to Salawudeen, a place like Dubai now presented promising investment opportunities due to the low-interest rates on mortgages and the regulatory apparatuses that made it convenient for foreigners to own real estate. He said, “Signature Real Estate is headquartered in Dubai. Many people will ask, ‘Why Dubai?’ From Dubai, we moved to Nigeria. This is our first time coming to Nigeria for the roadshow. Our country, Nigeria, is a great country. I love Nigeria and looking at it, apart from the political situation, Nigeria is the best country in the world if we get the right people to manage it. “In Nigeria, when you want to give a mortgage, you are asking for 11-15 per cent? In Dubai, It’s 1.9-2 per cent. What is happening is this, if you live in UAE, particularly Dubai, the regulation is very simple. It provides security for the buyer and the seller. It is a win-win situation. There is a lot of advantages. As an international buyer, they have a project. It is not like in Nigeria when you want to buy a property, you make one lump payment. They have mortgage banks. You can have many parts of payments. This is very key.” He further noted that in Dubai, mortgage was available to everybody – indigenes and foreigners – while in contrast, the affordable housing for all which the Nigerian government promised its citizens 22 years ago had continued to be an elusive dream. He said Nigeria still had a long way to go in terms of perfecting the structure of the real estate market and that all hands needed to be on deck to tackle the bottlenecks associated with the acquisition of real estate in the country. “There are benefits to doing business in Dubai. Ownership of houses is freehold, tax-free purchases, and infrastructure is superb. “Yield is high, that is the return on investment. The money you make from one bedroom flat is far in excess of what you make from a four-five bedroom flat in Nigeria.  I tell people, when you go Dubai, do not think about the naira conversion rate,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com