Chairman, Catholics in Politics and Business has urged government to sack officials responsible for the protection of lives and properties in the country. The group said this in a statement by its Chairman, Patrick Okedinachi Utomi, titled, ‘Massacre in Owo – Condemnation is not enough’, on Monday. The PUNCH had reported that gunmen invaded St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo on Sunday leading to the death of over 30 people who were mostly children and women. Utomi said, “My heart is heavy but my trust in God makes the burden more bearable as I commiserate with the Bishop, the lay faithful in St Francis, Owo, the people of Ondo State and their Governor, my schoolmate Rotimi Akeredolu, in whose hometown the inhuman carnage occurred on Pentecost Sunday. “My heart literally bled as I struggled to send a message to the Shepherd of the flock in this diocese to which I have travelled to give talks, physically and virtually. I was crying to the God of purpose to please help me find the purpose in this senseless bloodletting crippling Nigeria. “The expected flurry of condemnation has come from the high and mighty for it is a condemnable act of mass murder of innocents. “We must not accept condemnation as enough. Enough is enough. People must be held accountable, consequences meted and future deterrence put in place. “If we were normal, I a few resignations and sackings should have been announced by now. “More importantly, all serious politicians should be seeking meetings to discuss how we live together. Peace and Justice precede progress. Not to have either one is to retreat into primitive times. “Our country is at war. More people die every day in Nigeria than in a month in the Russia/Ukraine war. It must stop. Every politician who fails to ask for serious engagement to decide how we move forward betrays his mandate. It is time for that Peace promised by that Holy Spirit the faithful went to encounter on Pentecost Sunday. “I pray for Souls of the lives lost, and for the gift of fortitude to relatives and friends of those who died. May the joy of the Lord be the strength of all in Ondo state and Nigeria family writ large.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com