Greenbond Finance Company has said it will continue to deepen the nation’s money market by providing top-notch financial services to individuals and business entities to grow the Nigerian economy. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Greenbond Finance Company Limited, Mr Niyi Adeseun, was quoted in a statement as saying this at the official launch of Greenbond FCL in Lagos on Friday. According to him, the firm’s short-term market entry Loan Offerings Strategy is tightly ring-fenced with an effective loan collections strategy targeted at providing sustainable returns and capital growth. He said, “We are a boutique financial services company whose objective is to provide permissible Financial Services to individuals and business entities.’’ According to him, working collaboratively with its investment partners to meet its loan offerings to the respective and potential clients in the ever-changing needs of the Nigerian economy and the communities in which it operates, Adeseun will constitute a focal aim of the company. “We provide Institutional-based loan offerings in the simplest form & terms through our innovative platform called “GreenBond Mobile” which complements our strategic objectives, and thereby, creating value for our stakeholders.’’ “Our dynamic financial services approach provides a deep understanding of the areas in which we collaborate and partner with numerous Public Sector & Private Sector employers to create additional value to their workforce livelihood.” “Supported by a team of professionals, our credit analysis reviews, and evaluation process of our potential obligors applies a best-practice approach benchmarked at an international Fintech level’’, stressing that ‘’this disciplined approach is focused on ensuring that we consistently deliver superior returns to our shareholders while growing our business into the next decade’’. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com