The forum of statutory delegates in Nasarawa State has appealed to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (Retd.), to support the presidential ambition of a former Governor of Rivers State, Rotimi Amaechi, to emerge as the flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress in the 2023 general election. The leader of the forum, Kassim Muhammad, who was a former member of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, disclosed this in a statement made available to our correspondent in Lafia on Thursday. He narrated that Amaechi remained the most popular and acceptable candidate that could defeat the former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, who is the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party. He said, “As a former speaker of Rivers State House of Assembly; chairman, conference of speakers forum for eight years; Governor of Rivers State for eight years; two-term Director-General, Buhari Campaign Council; and two-term Minister of Transportation, no presidential aspirant in the party has such diverse experience and credentials to emerge as president.” President Buhari recently met with all the APC governors in the country where he pleaded with them to allow him to choose his successor. Kassim Muhammad added, “Amaechi has both the legislative and executive experience. He has traveled the nooks and crannies of the country and has seen the challenges faced by Nigerians. He will address them if he is elected into office in 2023. “So, we are appealing to President Muhammadu Buhari to support Amaechi during the forthcoming presidential primary election and in the 2023 general election.” The forum promised to work assiduously to deliver Amaechi in all the 36 states of the country and the Federal Capital Territory in order for the party to retain power at the presidency. It equally regretted that the Electoral Act excluded them from participating in the primaries, vowing to support the former Minister of Transportation to emerge as President. “As a mark of respect, the statutory delegates were ready to vote massively for Amaechi without collecting any penny from him to show that he indeed deserve our support at this material time but the unfortunate situation brought us to where we are. “If he is given the presidential ticket of the APC, we shall all go out to mobilize support and ensure he wins landslide the 2023 elections,” Muhammad added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com