Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, has promised to liaise with leaders and stakeholders of Umunneochi Local Government Area of the state with a view to putting an end to kidnapping and other social vices that have become the order of the day in the area. This move by the governor was followed the protest by Umunneochi people over incessant kidnapping of people around the area. Ikpeazu, who was addressing the people of the community during a meeting at the Palace of Eze Godson Ezekwesiri at Umuelem Isuochi, said the issue of insecurity in Umunneochi and its neighbouring communities had become a matter of great concern, adding that it was worrisome to see any Abia person in danger. The governor noted that many steps had been taken in the past, adding that government would no longer treat the matter with kids glove, adding that the recent kidnapping of the Prelate of the Methodist Church of Nigeria would mark the end of kidnapping around the area. He decried the worsening state of insecurity across the country and called for concerted efforts to deal with the situation. Ikpeazu therefore, directed stakeholders of Umunneochi to articulate various flashpoints in the area for immediate action, restating that the ban on open grazing was still in force and promised to do all it could to put an end to the menace. Speaking earlier, the Methodist Archbishop of Okigwe Archdiocese, Most Rev. Biereonwu Onuagha, who regretted that Umunneochi had been turned into moneymaking centre for kidnappers and other criminals, called for the reopening of the Ihube-Lomara road, noting that the closure of the road turned it into a known flashpoint for criminals. Archbishop Onuagha also called for the immediate relocation of the Lokpanta Cattle Market which he described as a security threat to them and thanked Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for his role in the timely release of The Methodist Prelate recently kidnapped along Leru-Umunneochi road.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com