An activist, Mr. Vincent Ezekwueme, has urged the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency over the erosion menace in the country, especially in the South-East. Ezekwueme, who is the leader of Women Arise for Change in South-East and other civil groups, made the call while speaking with newsmen in Enugu on Saturday. He spoke on the sideline of the World Environment Day 2022, commemorated world over on Sunday, June 5. According to him, government at all levels and stakeholders should expedite concrete actions and encouragement towards preservation and protection of our environment. “There is an urgent need for both state and federal governments to declare a state of emergency on erosion in the country, especially in the South-East. “It will be recalled that nearly one-quarter of our environment within the South-East is ravaged by the menace of environmental disaster and degradation. “We commend the relentless efforts of Governor Chukwuma Soludo’s administration to ensure a clean, safe and habitable environment, especially the evacuation of refuse and wastes dumped in all nooks and crannies of Anambra State. “However, government at all levels and stakeholders should redouble efforts aggressively towards the evacuation of refuse and wastes dump sites throughout the South-East. “These heaps of refuse have brought unprecedented health hazards, environmental pollution, erosion and blockage of the drainage system,” he said. The activist called on Nigerians to see the urgent need to protect our environment through tree planting, proper waste disposal, cleaning and beautification of the environment. “There is a need for government at all levels to direct all landlords to clean their drainage systems and gutters to avoid flooding in view of torrential downpour and blockage of drainage witnessed in cities across the country,” he said. The theme of 2022 World Environment Day “Only One Earth” is the campaign slogan that focuses on “Living Sustainably in Harmony with Nature”. NAN