The real estate community from Africa, Europe and United Arab Emirates, last week in Lagos, called for renewed commitment toward sustainable and qualitative standards in the profession. The real estate organisations made the commitment during the just-concluded 10th edition of Real Estate Unite, a summit which pooled together real estate firms for the purpose of rejigging the standards in the business. The two-day summit welcomed over 60 speakers, 50 exhibitors and 650 delegates, among others, and was kicked off with an address of welcome by the Chairman, Unite ESG Community, Jumoke Akinwunmi, who gave a broad overview of the real estate industry in the last 10 years and the role Real Estate Unite had played in the overall spectrum of the economy. This year’s edition of the event was centred on climate tech, sustainability and ESG with the theme, “Towards A Sustainable Culture.’’ It featured a sustainability conference and exhibition attended by industry stakeholders and stakeholders looking to improve efficiency and environmental preservation through sustainable practices in the real estate sector. Speaking on how the African real estate sector could embrace a more sustainable culture, the keynote speaker, Obas John Ebohon, Professor of Sustainability and Environmental Law, London South Bank University, said how and where building took place could have an impact on the African environment and health of the people. “A 36 per cent reduction in CO2 emission by 2030 is expected of the real estate sector to remain under the 2oC target, benchmarking with the Paris Agreement target. The ultimate goal is carbon neutrality by 2050,” he said. Industry stakeholders such as IFC EDGE, Stanbic IBTC, Broll, Elalan, Mixta Africa, Purple, Landwey, Clifton Homes, Karmod, Rendeavour, Dutum, The Address Homes, Horizon Estates, Haven Homes, Master Builders, ACTIS, Family Homes Fund, Home Works and Afriland Properties PLC, Damac Dubai, UPDC, CPL Ghana, Strongmas, 3INVEST, represented half of Unite 2022 Summit audience. As one of the key real estate events in Africa which provide the platform for participants to meet, network and dialogue, the Unite Summit hosted panel discussions on sustainable building, management and finance, with some of the talent-thought leaders sharing ideas and opinions towards shared prosperity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com