A group, Nigeria Christian Graduate Fellowship, has called on the Federal Government to improve security in the country, while condemning the killing of over 35 worshippers at St Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State by unidentified gunmen on Sunday. The group’s national President, Prof. Chuks Eboka who stated this on Monday in Benin, Edo State, also noted that it is time for Nigerians to demand good governance. He said the group was shocked to see the latest slaughtering of Nigerians who went to worship God, noting that the carnage has to stop, adding that no place is safe in the country anymore. Eboka said, “The latest killing has shown that security is getting worse by the day and there is a need for the government to improve security in all parts of the country. We are also using this opportunity as a group to demand good governance. “We are grieved that there no longer exists a safe place in our country today. Nigerians can no longer go to church and feel safe, they can no longer travel by road and train in safety. Innocent lives are being lost every day and we call on President Muhammadu Buhari to urgently arrest the descent into anarchy.” Proffering solutions to the problem, the group called on Nigerians to reject any attempt to foist clueless leaders on the country, noting that there is an urgent need for a return to true federalism and nationalism as was practised in the First Republic. He noted that since the present structure is not working, a secure and equitable environment should be provided urgently for free and fair elections to be conducted. He added, “A rework Nigeria Eminent Personalities Team should be set to fashion out a way forward between now and the general election. This will help to stem the growing tide of agitation and insecurity and provide a context in which free and fair elections can be conducted. “If this degeneracy, insecurity and social crisis continue to escalate across the country, the National Assembly should do the needful by invoking the relevant provisions of the Constitution to salvage the country, Nigeria,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com