The Edo State Government has commenced its telemedicine service to enhance health delivery in the state. The Commissioner for Health, Prof Obehi Akoria, who stated this on Saturday in Benin, noted that the programme was a collaboration between United States-based doctors and health officials in Benin. According to her, patients are attended to by doctors through the screen and their prescribed medicines are given to them for free by nurses who are in Benin City. She said, “The patients consult our doctors in the United States of America through the screen. After they are done seeing them, the nurses give them their medicines for free and they go home. Last Saturday, we saw 12 patients and this is something we intend to continue to do. “There will be an official launch of this programme on Tuesday with our partner from the United States present. The launch is to tell the world that it has been tested and proven that it is possible, while we also have people who have benefited from it. “As it is right now, this is being done on an absolute voluntary basis, a free service courtesy of the Government of Edo State. The government is investing in the hard wares, computers, Internet and solar panels required for this programme. “The first phase was the proof of concept phase. We have passed that stage, it is working seamlessly. We are at the pilot phase and we need to strengthen it.  The next phase is for us to scale, and it will be outside Benin so that over time, the service can be enjoyed all over the state. “If after examination the patients require surgery, they will be arranged in batches and the surgeons will be booked to come from USA to carry out the surgery in Nigeria. This is a win-win situation for everybody.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com