The Delta State Police Command has arrested a man identified as Innocent Uboh for possessing 1124 rounds of live cartridges, 20 bottles of codeine and other contraband drugs. Uboh was arrested around 3.30 pm on Thursday, June 2, 2022, by operatives attached to the Command’s Safe Delta Tactical Squad deployed to Head Bridge, the boundary between Delta and Anambra states. In a statement by the state police spokesperson, DSP Edafe Bright, the suspect was intercepted during the routine stop-and-search on the road. “While on stop-and-search duty at the Head Bridge, the police intercepted one Innocent Uboh, a native of Ogume in Ndokwa West LGA, Delta State, driving a Toyota Hiace bus with number plate FGG 645 ZV. “The driver was the only occupant of the vehicle. He was flagged down, and upon searching the vehicle, 1124 rounds of live cartridges, 20 bottles of codeine, and other illicit drugs were recovered. “The suspect claimed that the cartridges belonged to a man named Monday Adibeli, a 61-year-old indigene of Ogume, Delta,” part of the statement read. Bright further said that operatives were deployed to Ogume, where the alleged owner of the cartridges was arrested, adding that investigations were ongoing. Earlier, at around 2.30 pm, men of the Crack Surveillance Operatives raided a criminal hideout at Okwagbe Community, Isoko North LGA, Delta State. “During the raid, three suspects; Alex Johnholt, 23; Abe Ujiro, 25; and Omoro Joy, 26; were arrested. “105 wraps of SK weeds, six wraps of loud (hard drug), 16 wraps of substance suspected to be cocaine, four wraps of Indian hemp, four litres of monkey tail (alcoholic drink), 60 packs of razlers (hard drug), one Indian hemp grinding device were recovered from them. “The suspects will be arraigned in court as soon as investigation is concluded,” the police said in a statement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com