Global leader in conversational engagement, Gupshup, has announced the acquisition of OneDirect, the omnichannel, AI-enabled, customer-service platform of choice for leading brands in India, South East Asia and the Middle East. A statement by the company on Thursday said the acquisition would strengthen Gupshup’s suite of conversational solutions and enable superior omnichannel conversational engagement with a powerful and flexible live agent-assist solution that could scale to thousands of agents with configurable workflows, integrations with existing CRM and helpdesk systems. The live agent-assist solution works seamlessly with chatbot automation solutions to provide the best customer experience on-demand, 24/7, in customer’s choice of channel and language, the statement said. OneDirect’s platform enables businesses to manage all customer conversations across multiple channels – SMS, WhatsApp, Instagram, Google Business Messenger, RCS, Voice, Email and more – using a simple and unified Agent Dashboard interface. With the platform, businesses can leverage Gupshup’s low-code chatbot automation tools to deflect incoming tickets and frequent customer issues automatically, while freeing up time for agents to handle more complex support queries, convert prospects with consultative sales and drive commerce with personalised upsell and cross-sell. Using OneDirect’s platform, agents will be able to access a full 360-degree view of the customer profile, their past interactions and view data stitched across existing CRM and Ticketing systems. The platform also supports active listening and monitoring across social media, including a feedback module for timely and rapid customer experience management. OneDirect has processed over 1 billion customer interactions across 10 different languages for leading brands across BFSI, retail, consumer electronics, travel and hospitality, with customers reporting an improvement of 40 per cent in customer satisfaction and reduction of operational expenditures by 25 per cent, on average. Its notable customers also have a strong overlap with those of Gupshup and include brands such as Canara Bank, Tata Capital, SBI Card, PayTM, Whirlpool, IFB, Acer, ASUS, Vistara, Indigo, OYO, McDonald’s, KFC, PizzaHut, Tata Sky, Dabur, Puma, Tata CLiQ and Flyin. “Customer support is being transformed with conversational experiences that deliver instant, personalized experiences using both automated and manual solutions across a range of messaging channels. Businesses are using these solutions at scale to dramatically increase customer delight and reduce support cost,” said Co-founder and CEO, Gupshup, Beerud Sheth. “OneDirect, with their proven leadership in helping leading brands transform omni-channel customer service, is a valuable addition to our Conversational Engagement Platform. We welcome OneDirect to the Gupshup family.” “We are excited to join the Gupshup family and look forward to building more efficient and personalized conversational experiences. Gupshup’s advanced AI capabilities combined with Onedirect’s robust customer service and engagement platform will provide businesses the ability to reinvent customer experience,” said Co-founder and CEO, OneDirect, Vishrut Chalsani. OneDirect’s key investors include: Sequoia Capital, American Express and ru-Net “Gupshup’s proven expertise and market leadership in the CPaaS space and OneDirect’s truly omnichannel customer service platform is a winning combo for businesses looking to redefine digital customer experience (CX),” said Operating Partner, Sequoia Capital, Bharat Singh. “This will help both companies unlock new growth opportunities and further scale their enterprise CX offerings.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com