The University of Ibadan has appointed a legal practitioner, Dr Bayo Adaralegbe, as an Adjunct Professor of Law at its Centre for Petroleum, Energy, Economics and Law. The CPEEL is a collaboration between the university and the MacArthur Foundation, USA, for research and training in energy. According to a statement made available to The PUNCH on Wednesday,  Adaralegbe would be the first legal practitioner in private practice to be appointed to professorship cadre by a first-generation Nigerian university. While speaking on the appointment, the Director of CPEEL, Prof. Olusanya Olubusoye, said,  “We are lucky to have someone of  Prof. Adaralegbe’s standing join us at a time CPEEL is repositioning itself not only for the Nigerian market but also internationally, especially considering developments of energy transition and the new Act in the industry. “Not only does he have over three decades of industry experience, but he is also a scholar in his own right.” In his reaction to the appointment, Adaralegbe said, “I take very seriously my responsibilities to our students and the centre and look forward to working closely with my other colleagues to achieve a perfect ranking for the centre.” The statement revealed that as Adjunct Professor, Adaralegbe would be responsible for teaching postgraduate courses and supervising PhD and Masters Students in Energy Law; Arbitration and International Investment Law. It read,  ‘’Adaralegbe has published some 19 scholarly articles; all in peer reviewed top international journals and delivered over 60 papers before learned and professional audiences, including judicial officers in his areas of expertise. “He has been involved in editorial responsibilities including for JWELB, a publication of Oxford University Press and OGEL Law Journal. He is currently Editor of LCA Journal of Arbitration and Dispute Settlement.  Prof Adaralegbe is a Fellow, Energy Institute, UK, the first Nigerian legal practitioner to be so honoured. ‘’He holds an LLM (with Distinction) in Petroleum Law and Policy, and a PhD with focus on International Investment Law from the CPEMLP, University of Dundee, Scotland, UK. “He was awarded a full scholarship for his doctorate studies by a Petroleum Corporation based in the US. He is also Fellow and Chartered Arbitrator, Chartered Institute of Arbitrators, UK; Fellow and Char9tered Secretary, Chartered Institute of Secretaries and Administrators, UK.  Adaralegbe is a Partner in Babalakin & Co.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com