A total of 3,135 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination and Direct Entry examinations candidates who scored 300 and above in 2018, 2019 and 2020 did not gain admission into tertiary institutions, The PUNCH reports. The figure is based on the admission statistics prepared by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board for the three years. The statistics for 2018, 2019 and 2020 were made available on the board’s website. The board is still working on the 2021 statistics following the conclusion of the 2021 admissions. The PUNCH reports that while tertiary institutions are at liberty to determine their respective cut-off marks for admission, there is a widely held belief that candidates who score higher marks have advantages over those with poor UTME scores. In 2018, JAMB noted that though a total of 4,683 candidates scored 300 and above, only 3,683 gained admission while 1,000 candidates were unable to gain admission. In 2019, a total of 2,967 candidates scored 300 and above, while 2,288 candidates got admitted 679 were denied admission. In 2020, a total of 4,948 students scored 300 and above, while 3,492 candidates were admitted, 1,456 were denied admission. The JAMB registrar, Prof Ishaq Oloyede, on the website of the board listed, “Wrong O’Level subject combination; low post-UTME screening score; non-acceptance of admission offer; duplication of application; absence from post-UTME screening and mismatch of catchment” as some of the reasons some candidates who scored over 300 marks did not get admission. Speaking in an interview with The PUNCH on Monday, an educationist, Roseline Obamiyi, said there was the need to sensitise students and parents on the need to select the right combination of subjects for UTME examinations. Obamiyi said, “The issue of subject combination is a big deal. In the JAMB brochure, there are UTME subject combinations for different courses. Similarly, at the O’Level, there are certain combinations. “For instance, you can’t be aspiring to study Medicine and choose Mathematics, English and Religious Studies as your UTME subjects. Students and parents need to be sensitised. JAMB is already doing enough by sensitising through the distribution of JAMB brochures.” Meanwhile, a statement from the board’s Head of Public Affairs and Protocol, Dr Fabian Benjamin, on Monday directed all candidates who registered for the UTME and DE but had yet to link their e-mail addresses with their profile to visit any JAMB approved Computer Based Test centres and do so. “With the examination completed, it has now become imperative for candidates to link their e-mail addresses with their profiles to complete their registration process to facilitate the printing of their results. “To do this, all a candidate needs to do is to visit any accredited CBT centre to get the linkage done after which the e-mail becomes part and parcel of the candidates’ completed profiles,”  Benjamin said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com