As part of preparations for the full operations of the Lekki Deep Sea Port, the management of the Lekki Free Trade Zone Enterprise Limited has said that all is set to take delivery of three new-generation ship-to-shore cranes and 10 rubber-tyre gantries from Shanghai, China. In a statement, the company said that the STS cranes would be able to service the largest container vessels currently sailing the oceans, which could carry more than 18,000 20-foot equivalent units. The statement also said that the specifications of the STS cranes included a fixed rail line at the quayside, which was targeted at accessing vessels and reducing delays moving from bay to bay. The statement read partly, “These cranes have a lifting capacity of 65 tons in twin-lift mode, 50tons in single lift mode, and 85tons under the hook beam. They can reach out from the quayside up to 61 meters and have an air draft of 52meters and a span of 30.5 meters beneath the crane.” In the statement, the Managing Director, Lekki Port, Mr Du Ruogang, said that the equipment would be the most sophisticated ever used in Nigeria, noting that it would completely change the port landscape, putting Nigeria at the forefront of container operations in West Africa. “Lekki Port would become a catalyst and an economic enabler for Nigeria with this development. The equipment would make Lekki Port operations fast, efficient and seamless,” he said. Also speaking, the Chief Operating Officer of Lekki Port, Mr Laurence Smith, stated that an STS Crane would generate 300 lux of light. He explained further that a personnel elevator was installed for the operators’ comfort and safety, adding that the cabin was fitted with an ergonomic seat so that the operators could find the most optimal comfortable position for themselves.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com