The Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Agency has said that many properties that were previously sealed for contravening physical planning permit laws have broken the seals and failed to comply with directives issued in the contravention notices served them. A statement by LASPPPA, signed by its Director of Public Affairs, Abimbola Emdin-Umeh, said the enforcement team of LASPPPA embarked on its monitoring and enforcement activities to ensure compliance with planning permit laws. The enforcement team, last week, visited Eti-Osa North and South, Ifako-Ijaiye, Somolu and Ejigbo areas of the state simultaneously, during which it resealed illegally reopened structures, according to the statement, which added that such contravention included the conversion of residential properties to commercial ones without due recourse to the processes guiding such. The statement, titled, “Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority expands its enforcement machinery and enforcement offices”, further said that LASPPPA had further strengthened its Monitoring and Compliance Unit by increasing its staff strength and putting additional strategies in place that would help widen the coverage of the enforcement activities of the Authority while aiding its delivery of other statutory mandates. According to the statement, LASPPPA General Manager, Kehinde Osinaike, said the deployment of additional manpower to the unit was informed by the need to seamlessly cover the entire metropolis and prevail on recalcitrant members of the public who would not follow relevant laws willingly until they were compelled to do so. She said, “We have realised that we should not only tell people to do the right things; we have come to the conclusion that we have to force them to do the right things to safeguard their lives and economic well-being. “It is in this vein that we have expanded and subdivided the daily enforcement team into groups so they can work simultaneously and ultimately increase their coverage of enforcement on physical structures in Lagos State.” Osinaike also said that apart from increasing daily coverage, the Authority had created zonal offices in the state to receive petitions and attend to enquiries in their various zones with a view to creating more avenues for receiving and attending to complaints of members of the public on physical planning issues. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com