The Federal Government has lauded the performance of Ekiti State in the execution of the World Bank-assisted Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project, in the areas of reversing land degradation and erosion control. A statement by NEWMAP’s Ekiti State Communications Officer, Rotimi Feyisina, in Ado Ekiti on Sunday, titled ‘Ekiti emerges overall best in World Bank-assisted project,’ said the Federal Government thumbed up Ekiti for the execution of notable projects including the construction of Ajolagun Bridge in Ikere, and the Arinkin Bridge in Ikole. Feyisina listed other projects to include Ipao channelisation, Irele Health Centre channelisation, Ogbomu culverts, erosion control works at Afao-Oriebu, Kajola-Temidire, and Bisi-Aloba/Adun Ogbon all in Ikere Ekiti, as well as afforestation of the nine forest reserves in Ekiti among others. According to him, the Minister of Environment, Mohammed Abdullahi, who handed over an award for best performance to Ekiti State over performance in the projects, said “NEWMAP was designed in 2012 to reduce vulnerability to gully erosion and other forms of land degradation in targeted watersheds, focusing on reversing and preventing further land degradation and at the same time enhancing the livelihoods of beneficiary communities.” The minister, who was represented by his Special Assistant, Abdulhadi Abdullahi, noted that NEWMAP had completed over 50 gully erosion sites and reclaimed over 23,000 hectares degraded lands among others. Ekiti State NEWMAP Project Coordinator, Dr Akinyemi Akinyugha, while receiving the award, thanked the World Bank and the Federal Ministry of Environment for considering Ekiti as one of the beneficiary states in 2019. Akinyugha, who lauded Governor Kayode Fayemi for ensuring Ekiti keyed into the project, said “The governor’s efforts and unrivaled support served as a major backbone for the success of the project in Ekiti, resulting in rapid execution of erosion control projects in different communities in two senatorial districts of the state. The World Bank NEWMAP task team leader, Dr Joy Agene, and NEWMAP National Project Coordinator, Dr Salisu Dahiru, charged governors of the beneficiary states to ensure sustainability of the different projects designed to last for a period of 100 years as NEWMAP winds down. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com