The son of late Aliyu Akwe Doma, a former Governor of Nasarawa State, who served between 2007 and 2011, Umaru Aliyu-Doma, has emerged as the consensus governorship candidate of the Zenith Labour Party for the 2023 elections. Aliyu-Doma was also the governorship candidate of the ZLP during the 2019 elections. He, however, emerged again as the party’s candidate during its state special congress held on Thursday in the Obi Local Government Area of the state. Aliyu-Doma emerged through a voice vote following a motion for his affirmation moved by the member representing Doma North Constituency at the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Musa Iyimoga, and seconded by David Iposhi. Speaking to newsmen shortly after the Congress, Aliyu-Doma explained that he decided to contest for the governorship position again because residents of the state were suffering under the leadership of the incumbent governor, Abdullahi Sule, who is the candidate of the All Progressives Congress for the 2023 general election. He said, “As an agrarian state, Nasarawa requires a revamped agricultural sector that is technology-driven for development to thrive. “I decided to contest for the governorship seat again in 2023 in order to actualize the dreams of our founding fathers to pull together the human and material resources of the state for the development of our people and enhance the status of the citizenry. “Successive administrations in the state have failed to prioritise the salient resources that should drive our development. We have relegated agriculture and human capital development to the background. “I will ensure an agricultural revolution in the state and the youths would be given their pride of place in my administration if I am given the mandate in 2023.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com