The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, has said the killing of worshippers in Owo was carried out
to dampen the morale of the government and the community. Aregbesola who lamented that the criminals were going after soft targets because they have been weakened, added that the Federal Government is not deterred in its efforts to ensure adequate security of lives and property of the citizenry. Aregbesola who paid a condolence visit to Owo on Monday urged Nigerians not to allow the incident to affect the peaceful coexistence of the various ethnic groups and religions in the country. These were contained in a statement by his Media Adviser, Sola Fasure. The statement partly read, “While the motive of the perpetrators is yet to be established, there is no doubt that their cowardly act is intended to cause chaos and instill fear in the people, foment trouble and provoke bloody inter and intra-ethnic crises. “It is worrisome that this is happening in the region of Nigeria that has a measure of peace and tranquility. This could only have been intended to destabilize the state and plunge the nation to a needless crisis. The attack was to dampen the morale of the government and Owo community. “Their action is capable of widening the cracks in national harmony and peaceful coexistence of Nigerians, stoking ethnic and religious crises and pitting our people against one another on the basis of primordial cleavages.” He added that a manhunt has been launched by all security agencies in the country to apprehend those behind the heinous act. “Those who attacked innocent people worshipping in the house of God are the enemies. They are nothing more than cowardly savages and animals. I can assure however that the entire security system of Nigeria is on the trail of the enemies that sneaked in on us to wreak this havoc. We are on their trail, they will be apprehended and made to pay dearly for this unprovoked attack.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com