An Ondo State High Court sitting in Akure, on Friday, sentenced three persons to death for killing Mrs Funke Olakuori, the daughter of the Afenifere leader, Chief Reuben Fasoranti. Olakuori was killed by the convicts on the Benin-Ore-Sagamu Expressway in the Ore Odigbo Local Government Area of the state in June 2019, while she was on her way to Lagos State. Apart from Olakuori, the convicts were also found guilty of killing one Matthew Ogunbiyi in the bush. Initially, four persons, Muhammed Shehu Usman, Mazaje Lawal, Adamu Adamu and Awalu Abubakar, were arrested by the men of the Nigeria Police Force and charged with the offence. They were arraigned on eight counts bordering on murder, armed robbery and kidnapping. After arguments by both the prosecution and defence counsel, the trial judge, Justice Williams Olamide, found the first, second and third defendants (Usman, Lawal and Adamu) guilty of involvement in murder, kidnapping and armed robbery, and sentenced them to death by hanging. The court, however, discharged and acquitted the fourth defendant, Abubakar. Justice Olamide commiserated with the families of the victims and asked the government to urgently do something about the spate of insecurity, which had become the order of the day in different parts of the country. In a reaction to the court verdict, the Secretary-General of Afenifere, Sola Ebiseni, said although Olakuori’s death could not be reversed, it was however imperative that justice was served, noting that all offenders would eventually be caught by the long arm of the law. “Though it is not able to bring back the dead, the judgment is nevertheless most welcome in several ways. First, the families, friends and other well meaning citizens will have a sense of relief that justice has been done; notwithstanding, these murderers have a constitutionally guaranteed right of appeal up to the apex court. Besides, it is a signal to these criminals that they are neither invincible nor above the law of the land,” he noted. Also speaking about the government’s failure to curb banditry and terrorism, Ebiseni stated, “For too long, it is unfortunate that the Federal Government, which monopolises the instrument of coercion and security, has given Nigerians and the world the impression that these criminals, who parade themselves as cattle herders, are above the law of the land for which they make the lives of the citizens worse.” He added that the trial confirmed the group of persons predominantly involved in attacks, noting that the assailants had been identified to come from a particular tribe as the victims always identified them by their language. He added, “The Federal Government prefers to live in denial, while the hawks around the corridor of power accuse well-meaning Nigerians of ethnic stigmatisation, a case of blaming the owner of not properly keeping his goods rather than condemning the thieves. “For whatever reason, the Buhari administration is deaf to all admonition that centralisation of the security structure in a supposed federal system, which predominant ethos is decentralisation, is a contradiction apart from the manifest incapacity of the federal security architecture to deliver on the most fundamental issue of protecting life and property.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com