Project Management Institute says project management is key to the revival of firms in the post-pandemic world. It said in a statement while announcing its annual Africa Conference, an event for the project economy leaders. The conference, which is themed, ‘Sustainable Growth for Social Good: Connecting Ideas, People and Projects,’ would be hosted in Lagos from September 11- 13. The Managing Director, Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa, PMI, Ashwini Bakshi,  said the in-person conference would host visionary project leaders, captains of industry, and government. He said it would provide a platform to scrutinise the trends and technologies required to transform how projects were delivered. “At its heart, the Africa Conference has always been a forum to create connections and build a project management community.” Bakshi added, “It is important that we continue to have these conversations as projects, and the successful management of them are essential to industry and economic growth across the continent.” On hosting the conference in one of the continent’s largest economies, the PMI Nigeria Chapter President, Paul Omugbe, said: “We are looking forward to welcoming delegates from across the world as they join us in September for the in-person event. The profession is at an exciting point as governments gear to build back better and what better place than a centrepiece event like the Africa Conference to have a dialogue.” The conference brings together chapter leaders, members, volunteers, captains of industry, government, and stakeholders from the project management sphere to share best practices, earn professional development units, meet like-minded professionals, learn and retain valuable skills and knowledge. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com