The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has assured members of the All Progressives Congress that a consensus presidential candidate won’t be imposed on the party. Speaking at a meeting with the governors at the State House, Abuja,  Buhari said “the party is important and its members must be respected and made to feel they are important”. This was contained in a press statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media & Publicity, Garba Shehu,  titled, ‘I have anointed no one, there shall be no imposition, says President Buhari’. The statement read, “President Muhammadu Buhari, Monday afternoon cleared all doubts about where he stands on the choice of a presidential candidate for the governing All Progressives Congress, APC, declaring before the party’s 14 governors of northern states that he has ‘no preferred candidate’, and has ‘anointed no one’, and is determined to ensure that ‘there shall be no imposition of any candidate on the party’. “The President said he had a clear mind about what he was doing and asked the APC governors to feel the same way: You were elected as I was. Have a clear mind as I have. God gave us the chance; we have no reason to complain. We must be ready to take pain as we take the joy. Allow the delegates to decide. The Party must participate, nobody will appoint anybody’.” “Earlier in their addresses, the Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum, Governor Simon Bako Lalong and Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of the Progressive Governors Forum, said they had come to affirm the position of the Northern Governors that the party’s candidate in the presidential election shall come from the southern part of the country. “They apologised to the President for the leakage of their signed memorandum which was not in support of any particular candidate and gave assurances to the President on their readiness to accept his leadership on the matter,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com