The lawmaker representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives, Shina Peller, on Wednesday, visited the prominent leader of the New Nigeria People’s Party in Oyo State, Alhaji Adebisi Olopoeyan Peller had faulted the conduct of the Oyo North Senatorial District primary election by the All Progressives Congress. The incumbent senator, Fatai Buhari, won a return ticket for the third time but four aspirants who contested against him, including Peller, alleged manipulation. The aggrieved lawmaker’s visit to Olopoeyan, who also recently defected from the Peoples Democratic Party has sparked defection rumour. However, Peller, while addressing some of his supporters after the visit, said his going to Olopoeyan’s residence was not politically motivated. He said it was a private visit, saying Olopoeyan and his late father, Professor Peller, had a very good relationship and that he also had been relating well with his father’s ally. Peller said, “I came to visit a political guru, a brother who was a close ally of my dad when he was alive. “Alhaji Olopoeyan is a well-respected politician, but my coming here today is to pay homage to my dad’s friend who also has been playing a brotherly role for me since.” Asked if he would still contest the Oyo North Senatorial District election since his party ticket had been won by Senator Fatai Buhari, he said ” I will surely contest the Oyo North Senatorial District election in 2023.” Olopoeyan also said the visit of the lawmaker to him had nothing to do with politics. He told our correspondent on the telephone that Peller visited him but they did not talk about politics or defection. He said, ” Shina Peller visited me, it’s true but the visit has nothing to do with APC, PDP or NNPP. I was close to Professor Peller when he was alive and I have been close to Shina also. “He just came to visit me. Bayo Adelabu visited me some months back. The APC chairman, Isaac Omodewu also came to my house then. I have also visited some of them. So, the visit is not political.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com