Google and Sendy have partnered on a bootcamp programme to empower small and medium-scale businesses in Nigeria and other African countries. According to the firms, the programme themed Google Hustle Academy, seeks to provide MSMEs across Kenya, Nigeria, and South Africa with expert training on business strategy and development, digital marketing, and financial planning. In a statement, the firms said the participants would have access to key industry leaders and master classes on business to help create opportunities, and boost business growth and job creation across the region. They added that Sendy would provide fulfillment and logistics support for the participating businesses. The Head of Brand and Reputation, Google Sub-Saharan African, Mojolaoluwa Aderemi-Makinde, said, “We are thrilled to be collaborating with Sendy to give much-needed assistance to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. Small and medium-sized companies are the backbone of the global economy, accounting for the majority of businesses in almost every region. “They employ over 50 million people in Sub-Saharan Africa and contribute to the region’s GDP. Through the Hustle Academy, we will provide them with training to assist them in packaging their businesses and obtaining the necessary funds to take them to the next level.” Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Sendy, Mesh Alloys, added, “The Google Hustle Academy is a noble idea that clearly speaks to our mission and aligns to our purpose. We recognize the significant role played by small and medium businesses in the economy. “We are also aware of the vast challenges they face. We want to empower them by enabling them to trade efficiently and effectively. Through this partnership with Google, we hope to unlock their potential so that they can learn and seize existing opportunities to build sustainable businesses.” The firms added that the bootcamp hopes to support 5000 MSMEs by helping them scale and grow through positioning for investment, increasing revenue, and building a sustainable business for the future.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com