Amstel Malta Ultra Regional Trade Marketing Manager, Benin, Martins Ubimago, says the beverage brand has reinforced its position with the sponsorship of the 2022 Okpekpe 10km International Road Race, which took place in Benin City, Edo State May 28. Speaking on the sponsorship, Ubimago said, “As a force in the Nigerian brewing industry, we wholly understand that our brands are built by people – our loyal consumers.  It is therefore always a delight to thrust ourselves into activities and programmes that yield progress and recognition for our host communities. These commitments on our part to those who keep us in business are non-negotiable and would only increase with time.” On the competition’s impact on the state and host communities’ economy, Ubimago added, “It’s all about fostering unity and providing avenues to grow tourism within the community. If well leveraged, we will begin to see an influx of people and enterprises pitching tents in Okpekpe and its environs courtesy of the race. It is our hope that subsequent editions will see the organisers expand racing activities and allow for greater involvement of investors in the hospitality and commerce sector,” he said. Also, a member of the Non-Alcoholic Drinks Portfolio of Nigerian Breweries Plc, Chisom Uroko, said the company was poised to continually sponsor activities that fostered peace, unity and economic sustainability for host communities. “We want to see our loyal consumers grow and prosper in their given societies and as long as we find opportunities for athletes locally and across the continent to unite, interact and compete favourably, we shall continue to find ways to support them,” he said. Conceptualised to promote long-distance endurance-related races for athletes, the Okpekpe International 10km Road Race is a brainchild of Pamodzi Sports Marketing, in collaboration with the Athletics Federation of Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com