The Ministry of Women Affairs on Tuesday trained women in Ekiti State in the production of sanitary items as part of programmes of the Federal Government to provide economic empowerment for women. The workshop, organised by the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs in partnership with Top Goddy Nigeria Limited, had in attendance women across the 16 local council areas of Ekiti State. They were trained in the art of making items including multi-purpose liquid soap, germicide and hand sanitizers. Representative of Top Goddy Nigeria Limited, Mulikat Mayowa, said the essence of the programme, with the theme, ‘Building women’s economic resilience for inclusive recovery’ “is to benefit Ekiti women across the three senatorial districts for them to acquire skills with which they can produce some items with a view to empower them”. Mayowa, who spoke in Ado Ekiti at the training workshop on the production of sanitary items for the management of COVID-19 hazards, said that following COVID-19 outbreak and the attendant lockdown, many women had lost their source of income and business. She said, “The training programme comes in handy for the women to put them on course to be able to provide for their families and to train their children in schools. “I advise the beneficiaries to seize the opportunity of the training to become self-reliant through producing the products to make money. You can even go ahead to assist others in your communities by training them so that they can better their lots as well,” she said. The facilitator, Mrs Rachael Adeagbo, said, “The beneficiaries stand to gain a lot from this programme. They are being trained on how to make the products which will boost their revenue and make it possible for them to make financial contributions at home. I am sure the trainees will make use of what they learn today. A widow and beneficiary, 65 years old Mrs Victoria Fagorusi, who lauded the minister for the training programme, said, “This is a profitable training. I thank Dame Pauline Tallen for remembering us in Ekiti. As a person, this is a great boost for me. Producing the items and selling them will help me as a widow to take care of my children”. Another beneficiary, 59 years old Mrs Opeyemi Aribisala, said, “I learnt a lot in this workshop. They taught us how to produce germicide, hand sanitiser and liquid soap. The training will boost my economy because since the COVID-19 period, my business had nosedived, but with this, I will now be able to produce and sell to boost my finances.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com