The Coca-Cola Foundation has awarded a grant to Growing Business Foundation to strengthen Nigeria’s plastic waste management value chain. The award was done through Coca-Cola Foundation’s Empowering Collectors Initiative, designed to improve the largely informal plastic waste collection, aggregation and recycling process in Nigeria. The Managing Director, Coca-Cola Nigeria, Alfred Olajide, said this on Monday in Lagos, during the launch of the initiative. According to him, the programme will run for about 24 months and it seeks to enhance environmental resilience by preventing the flow of plastic waste to waterways and landfills through an aggressive and organised system that targets about 25,000 MT of waste. The President,  Coca-Cola Foundation, Saadia Madsbjerg, explained that the initiative was aimed at creating an economic ecosystem that would not only support environmentally beneficial actions but would also provide women with skills and training in the waste management value chain enabling their economic empowerment and in turn improving quality of life for their families. The Founder, Growing Business Foundation, Ndidi Nnoli-Edozie, lauded Coca-Cola Foundation for the Empowering Collectors Initiative, saying it would impact every aspect of the value chain. She said, “We are passionate about uplifting and empowering communities as we believe that we can make a difference in the poverty situation across the country. With ECI, we are set to significantly impact the economically vulnerable, help in promoting a circular economy, and ultimately drive down cost of doing business.” She explained that the ultimate objective of the programme is to support and accelerate the growing opportunity spectrum of bottle-to-bottle recycling value chain which is still nascent in the country. The initiative will also empower 3000 female collectors and micro aggregators across six states of Nigeria, representing key hubs where increased urban migration and economic activity coupled with a poor waste management system has exacerbated the waste concerns in the country. “Target participants will receive training on effective and efficient collection methods, and hygiene skills while working in the waste and will also receive materials including PPE to ensure their safety.” The program seeks to help participants, through their transferable skills program, to improve earning capacity of the women by 200 per cent from current earnings of about $2 a day.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com