The political parties have concluded their presidential primaries and presidential standard-bearers have emerged. In the last couple of months that the jostling for presidential tickets lasted, there was a recurring challenge on the issue of zoning the presidency, especially in the two leading political parties (All Progressives Congress and Peoples Democratic Party). The conclusion of the primaries seems to have made the issue a dead one considering that nothing can be done at this stage to reverse what apparently seemed to have emerged from a democratic process. This discourse reviews the development and the logical conclusions and actions that should follow the abandonment of the principle of zoning and rotation in presidential politics. The beneficiaries of the current scheme have argued about the need for merit and electing the best and most supported among the candidates. A very wonderful idea which was followed through. The beneficiaries of throwing everything open to contest seemed to have forgotten the 1999 experience when heads and tail, the South-West was programmed to win. They also forgot the 2007 and 2015 power shift arguments and experiences that programmed the presidential leadership back to Northern Nigeria. For the beneficiaries who had earlier taken their turn, the zoning arrangement has served its purpose and has lost relevance. Indeed, the geographical zones that had positioned themselves to benefit from jettisoning the zoning arrangement asked for presidential tickets to be taken on the basis of “competence.” But the principle of federal character has been entrenched in our public life, public service and expectations of different segments and divide in Nigeria. We run a system where admission to federal institutions of learning is based on quotas and different performance ratings and standards of merit for different states and parts of the country. Some states have a cut-off mark that is seven to 10 times higher than what students from other states will score to be admitted. The implication is that brighter students from states with higher cut-off marks are denied admission while students with lower marks gain admission based on where they come from. In the federal civil service, it is expected that promotions and higher-level positions are to be distributed so that every part of the federation will have a sense of belonging. It is not about competence or the brilliant problem-solving disposition of the candidate that gets him promoted, but to a great extent, where he comes from. However, it is admitted that the federal character principle, to a great extent, has been rubbished by parochialism and nepotism, especially in the current regime. In the light of the outcome of the presidential primaries of the APC and PDP, it is evident that the federal character practice has lost its relevance. The same arguments against zoning the presidency have removed the foundation of the continuation of the federal character principle in education and the public service. The APC and PDP are used as benchmarks in consideration of the fact that they are two political parties that have produced leadership at the federal level. They are expected to set good examples for others to follow. And when the primaries process that threw up the presidential candidates of the two parties is analysed from the standpoint of the massive corruption and bribery, as reported in the popular media, discerning Nigerians can now understand what “competence” means. Therefore, vacancies and positions in the federal civil service and similar appointments should be thrown open for selection based on merit and competence. Competent international consultancy firms (in the event local firms compromise the trust) should be hired to set examinations and interview candidates and the best should be allowed to take the seat even if it means a majority of the successful candidates will come from particular sections of the country. It will therefore amount to utmost injustice, institutionalised deprivation and violence to deny a child, who came from a part of Nigeria that has been told that it is improper for the presidency to be ceded to their part and who scored very high marks overall, to be denied admission when his colleague who scored a much lower mark is admitted into the same school. All admissions to schools should henceforth be based on the scores obtained by candidates. Anything short of this will not be consistent with the logic of merit and competence espoused by our new democratic philosophy. There has been a question mark on the origins and continuation of the federal character principle in education. The background to similar programmes in other countries is instructive. Affirmative action is mainly used in situations when law, policy and social norms held back certain sections of the populace from enjoying or taking advantage of educational opportunities. Therefore, laws and policies are usually deployed to ensure that they catch up with the rest of society. Pray, at what time in Nigeria’s history did law and policy hold back these parts of Nigeria that claim to be educationally disadvantaged while advancing the rights and opportunities of other parts of Nigeria? This discourse cannot find it in Nigeria’s history and the author would like to be educated on the very set of facts that provide the background to this practice. If someone or a group of persons deliberately refused to attend Western education or their leaders refuse to prioritise such, should other parts of the same society be punished for the failure and refusal to take advantage of what was available to them? Indeed, the section of our society held back by social norms from appropriately benefitting from education is the female gender and if there is any need for affirmative action, it should be targeted at encouraging the female gender in education. One more important point is that each time a Nigerian has to fill out a form relating to government activities, he is asked about his state of origin. This should be stopped as the current jurisprudence (per our Lords in APC and PDP) states that where you come from is no longer relevant and is not important in public decision-making. Even the question of religion is outdated now. The current argument now is about whether we can have a president and vice president of the same religion and the same pretenders now believe it means nothing. They cite M.K.O Abiola’s June 12 victory based on a Muslim-Muslim ticket. But they forget that 1993 is not the same year as 2022/23 and no one had at that time deliberately put a knife on the things that held us together as the retired Major General Muhammadu Buhari regime has done. Justice is about treating like cases alike and a measure of consistency of logic and rational dispositions. In any society where the rules of a game change because it is the turn of a person or group and all manner of obfuscations and excuses are deployed to cause confusion and deliberate mischief, such a society cannot continue the pretence of unity and sustainable peace. Unity and peace are founded on truth and justice. Any other foundation is faulty and shaky. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com