The Executive Director of Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, Auwal Rafsanjani, has said that Democracy Day was not worth celebrating under the current regime of the President, Maj. Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Rafsanjani, who spoke with Saturday PUNCH on Thursday, stated that the current government had failed to provide Nigerians with the gains of democracy. It was earlier reported that the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, had announced in Abuja on Thursday, the line-up of events to celebrate the 2022 Democracy Day. Mohammed said, “No government before now had the courage to declare June 12 as Democracy Day. It took the courage of President Muhammadu Buhari to do so.” But Rafsanjani insisted that Buhari had failed in his cardinal campaign promises to the people. He stressed that insecurity had curtailed the freedom of movement across the country, while corruption had become the order of the day for loyalists of the regime. He added that the economy had been stifled by recession and mismanagement. “If anybody will do an honest assessment on the performance of democracy in the last seven years. He would look out for the commitment made by the government vis-a-vis what it promised to do regarding the key areas of concern, which include security, economy and the fight against corruption. “Speaking on the economy, companies have closed down due to the failure of infrastructure, especially electricity, inability to get raw materials and the problematic exchange rate,” he said. Also, the Co-convener, Centre for Liberty, Ariyo-Dare Atoye, told Saturday PUNCH that Nigerians would be glad to celebrate the 2023 Democracy Day when Buhari must have left office. He said, “Democracy is June 12. When we look at the trajectory of the nation between June 12, 1993 and June 12, 2022, you will realise that we have failed to build a nation that we thought will be the giant of Africa in terms of prosperity “The regime of the Buhari administration had failed the Nigerian people especially in the aspect of security in the country, in terms of technology, security, economy, standard of living. It is a sad development. “The government has failed to justify section 14 (2b) that security will be the primary responsibility of the government. A few days ago, terrorist entered a church in Owo and massacred more than 30 people, and nothing has been done to apprehend the killers. Nigeria is a failed state under the current administration.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com