A presidential aspirant and national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, has, on Thursday, said that it is the Yoruba’s turn to produce the President of Nigeria come 2023. Tinubu said this at the Presidential Lodge in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, while addressing the APC delegates ahead of the party’s presidential primary. Tinubu, who said it was the Yoruba’s turn, also noted that it was his time to become the president. In his words, “This time, it’s Yoruba turn and in Yorubaland, it’s my tenure.” The national leader was accompanied to Ogun State by the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; his Kano State counterpart, Umar Ganduje, and former Borno State governor, Kasim Shettima. He also noted that he made Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.,) the president and nominated Prof. Yemi Osinbajo as his running mate in 2015. Tinubu also said without God and him, the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, would not have emerged as an APC candidate and the eventual winner of the 2019 governorship election in the state. Referring to Abiodun in his remarks, Tinubu said, “This one sitting behind me here could not have become governor without me. We were at the stadium, they tore all his posters. Even the party flag, they didn’t want to hand over it to him. “If he wants to meet God at the right place, he must know that without God and me, he would not have become governor.” He added, “Since the time we started with the Action Congress, Action Congress of Nigeria, and now the All Progressives Congress, I wanted to contest for president that time. “This is me telling you between me and God Almighty, Buhari called me to be his Vice President. He said because the first time he contested, he picked (Dr Chuba) Okadigbo, flamboyant, Catholic, but Nigerians didn’t vote for him.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com