A security guard, Dayon Ayuba, has been arrested by men of the Lagos State Police Command for allegedly stabbing a carpenter, identified simply as Taiye, to death on Nitel Estate, in the Ikorodu area of the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that Taye, who lived in the Mushin area of the state, visited his friend, Samuel Shobowale, to do some carpentry works at his residence on the estate, along Ota-Ona, Ikorodu. After completing the work, Taiye was said to be on his way home when he decided to take a shortcut to quickly access the main road to board a vehicle to his destination. A landlord on the estate, who gave his name Bolade, said Taiye attempted to scale the fence of the estate to link the main road when Ayuba, who was on duty, accosted him around 8.40pm. Bolade said, “The incident happened on May 14, 2022, but what happened after the incident was that all the security guards were sacked. The security guard was still new on the estate when he stabbed that man. “The person (Taiye) wanted to scale the fence, but the security guard told him to pass through the official gate. He refused and decided to jump the fence. So, it led to a misunderstanding and both of them started fighting. “In the process, the security guard brought out a knife and stabbed one of his laps. The man started bleeding and people rushed him to a hospital.” Our correspondent gathered that the 30-year-old was rushed to the Life Seminary Hospital, Ota-Ona, Ikorodu, where he was confirmed dead by a doctor. Another resident, who asked not to be identified, said the police were contacted, adding that the suspects arrested were transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department for further investigation. He said, “The incident happened at night and the victim was one of the people working at a site on the estate, where many building constructions are ongoing. The security guard was just overzealous as there was nothing incriminating on the deceased.” The Chairman, Nitel Estate Residents Association, one Adeshida, said he was not privy to the incident, but would call his secretary and get back to our correspondent. He had yet to do so as of press time. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, said investigation into the incident was ongoing, adding that the suspect (Ayuba) had been arrested. He said, “The suspect was promptly arrested and as of the time he was arrested, it was just a case of assault occasioning harm. But later, the person that was stabbed died and the investigation moved from that to homicide. The case has been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com