The African Action Congress has denied a media report (not PUNCH) wherein one Yakubu Mohammed alleged that there was an ongoing crisis within the party. The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Olorunfemi Adeyeye, who spoke to The PUNCH, Monday noon, said there were no factions nor crises rocking the party. Adeyeye said, “There are no factions in the AAC neither are there any crises. The party has weathered the storm of hijack by state-sponsored usurpers who are most probably still licking their wounds. “The said Mohammad is not known to the party; he’s not on our party membership register which is with the Independent National Electoral Commission, he is also not on the party’s aspirant database, let alone being part of any contest to fight for a ticket.” Adeyeye, who urged citizens to disregard the report, further stated that the publisher of Sahara Reporters and convener of the #TakeItBack movement, Mr. Omoyele Sowore, was the only presidential candidate recognised by the AAC. He said, “Omoyele Sowore is the presidential candidate of the AAC who emerged June 9, 2022, after another presidential aspirant Godswill Nwankwo withdrew from the race to support him. “We urge members of the public to disregard such news in its entirety as we are coasting to victory come 2023 and we won’t be distracted by people who have lost out in law and fact.” The PUNCH had reported that Sowore emerged as the presidential candidate of the AAC on June 9, 2022, after another presidential aspirant, Mr. Godswill Nwankwo withdrew from the race to support him. This came exactly seven days after the Court of Appeal in Abuja affirmed Sowore as the National Chairman of the AAC. Ending the protracted legal tussle bothering on the chairmanship of the AAC, Justice A.J Adah in a unanimous verdict with two other Justices of the Court of Appeal, struck out a 2019 judgment by the High Court, which sacked Sowore as the party’s national chairman. Justice Adah also stated that the initial meddling of the High Court in the party’s affair was out of the court’s jurisdiction, adding that it was an internal affair. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com