Shooting Stars SC have tendered an apology to a journalist, Tobi Adepoju, who was attacked by supporters of the club after their 1-1 draw with Remo Stars FC at the Lekan Salami Stadium on Wednesday. The apology comes after the club’s Media Officer, Tosin Omojola, who appeared on a radio programme in Ibadan, reportedly stated that if the journalist had been killed there would have been no repercussion. In a statement signed by 3SC Executive Chairman, Babatunde Olaniyan, the club stated that Omojola’s utterances were his personal opinion and not that of the club. The Oluyole Warriors also apologised to Adepoju for the attack and stated that it will investigate the incident and the statement credited to the Media Officer. “The attention of the Management has been drawn to a statement credited to the Club’s Media Officer, Mr Tosin Omojola, during an interview on a popular radio programme on Thursday morning. “The Management of the Club wish to state that the utterances he was reported to have made were his personal opinion and do not represent the position of the Club in regards to the incident of Wednesday, June 1, 2022, after the match involving 3SC and Remo Stars. The Club would not support any utterance, comment or opinion that tends to promote violence or put the lives of others in danger. “The Club regrets the unfortunate attack on Mr Tobi Adepoju and condemns it in its entirety. “Mr Omojola, as Media Officer of the Club in the last three years, has carried out his assignment with absolute professionalism and cordiality with his professional colleagues. We are however surprised at this reported outburst. “That be as it may, the Club shall further investigate and address the whole issues surrounding the attack as well as the statement credited to the Media Officer, using our internal procedures,” the statement read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com