The national leader of the New Nigeria Peoples Party and ex-governor of Kano State, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso, has been asked to remain its sole presidential candidate to fly its flag in the 2023 general election. The pioneer National Chairman and founder of the NNPP, Dr. Boniface Aniebonam, said this at a news conference in Lagos on Friday. Aniebonam said the party’s special national convention scheduled for June 8 in Abuja was to confirm Kwankwaso, a former defence minister, as the candidate of the NNPP. Aniebonam stated, “He (Kwankwaso) is to be returned unopposed. Kwankwaso is a man of God. Now is the time for God’s intervention in Nigeria. What Nigeria needs now is a strong leader like Kwankwaso, a man with character and patriotism with capacity for human development. “When we get a strong leader, all agitation will die a natural death. If Kwankwaso emerges the President, some of these problems will be resolved.” The founder noted that only divine leadership could solve Nigeria’s numerous challenges. Aniebonam stated that the Kano politician heard the divine voice of God to lead on the platform of the NNPP. He added that the responsibility before Kwankwaso was to reunite Nigerians, address insecurity through a revamped economy, employment opportunities and social services. Aniebonam added, “Let Nigeria start again from the beginning. Kwankwaso is coming in to bring everybody together to end all these challenges. He is going to bring Nigerians together and he is going to unite this country. “Nigeria is a consuming nation. Therefore, a mandate for Kwankwaso is to reverse the trend and to make Nigeria a productive nation. Insecurity will die a natural death if there is a sense of belonging and employment. “The messenger of God has come. God’s hand is in the NNPP. Let the people take their destiny in their hands in 2023,” he said. According to him, the NNPP commenced its operations in 2022 to mobilise Nigerians in a bid to reinvent a new Nigeria of everyone’s dream. He said it had become imperative for people to take responsibility and elect credible Nigerians in 2023 to enthrone good governance. He added, “Indeed, the problem of Nigeria is solvable if only the leadership is divine. This is because there are no difficulties in bringing all the nationalities together to discuss how best we can live together as a people. “The resources are available to cater for social amenities, sports, youths development and education. “Let us go out to mobilise all over our clients (importers, exporters, dependents and associates) and with our PVCs on hand to raise 10 million votes for the NNPP presidential candidate.” He urged stakeholders and members of the party to build consensus and ensure constructive criticisms so as not to incite the people.