The United Nations has organised a global consultation on the roles of traditional leaders in preventing genocide, including crimes against humanity and war crimes. The initiative was part of measures to involve traditional rulers in conflict mediation and peace-building to prevent crisis and strife in the society. To this end, a consultation was held with selected traditional rulers from Nigeria, Ghana and Cameroon at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja, on Thursday, by the United Nations Office on Genocide Prevention and the Responsibility to Protect. At the meeting were the Obi of Onitsha, Nnaemeka Achebe; the Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar; Gbong Gwom Jos, Dr. Gyang Buba; Emir of Argungu, Samaila Mera; Chief Gladys Mbuyah from Cameroon and Queen Nana Nkanomako IV from Ghana. The parley was also attended by the Under Secretary-General and Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, Ms. Alice Nderitu and the Executive Director, Network for Religious and Traditional Leaders, Mohamed Elsanoussi. Addressing the participants, the UN Resident Coordinator, Mr. Matthias Schmale, noted that traditional leaders, not only in Nigeria but in the whole world, are very important actors in society as they provide vital social services to local communities, including humanitarian aid, health, and education, alongside state actors. According to him, traditional leaders are often recognized by local populations for peace building initiatives and promoting the values of tolerance, respect for diversity and justice. Schmale, who was represented by his Senior Human Rights Adviser, Ms. Adwoa Kufuor, stated, “Traditional leadership comes with social responsibility. It is, therefore, critical for traditional leaders to be inspired and guided by the international human rights framework. “In this context, it is of paramount importance that traditional leaders respect and promote women’s rights and contribute to wider efforts to eliminate gender-based discrimination and violence and to uphold all other fundamental rights, including freedom of opinion and expression and religion and belief.” The sultan in his comment admonished the UN to ensure that the various recommendations and solutions to the crisis that would be presented at the meeting are implemented. He again reiterated that terrorism was not Islamic, stressing that the crime of a few misguided persons should not be blamed on Muslims. Commenting on the roles of traditional rulers in mediation, Abubakar said, “Traditional leaders handle more cases than Magistrates courts because the people trust the traditional rulers and they do not need lawyers and we don’t charge legal fees.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com