In declaring his presidential interest, Pastor of Citadel Global Community Church, Tunde Bakare, anchored his declaration on tripling Nigeria’s gross domestic product to $1.5 trillion by 2030. He remains the only politician to mention the holy grail of a Trillion Dollar Economy as a political target. Other presidential aspirants love to make do with platitudes and other generics employed to tickle the ears of the electorate, including their intention to divert fewer monies into their and cronies’ pockets. However, Pastor Bakare did not elaborate on the means to triple Nigeria’s GDP in eight years. I am not aware he has shared the ways and means of achieving this objective by way of writing or using his pulpit as a platform to educate Nigerians on steps to break into the trillion-dollar mark. His pronouncement also remains a platitude because we didn’t hear a word from him as his party led our economy further away from the trillion-dollar milestone. This article is not on Pastor Bakare tripling Nigerian GDP, it is about our failure to recognise the importance of GDP as a prime economic index. The closest we have got to set such a target was Nigeria becoming one of the 20 largest economies in the world by 2020; a vision actually extrapolated for us by Goldman Sachs when they saw our growth profile early in the 21st century. This was lamely adopted by the late President Musa Yar’Adua. There was never a document that specified for us how large our economy had to be to achieve this vision. Rather, people posit that of what importance is GDP with hunger in the land. They rather we focus on our Human Development Index, GINI coefficient (measures income distribution across a population) and the like. For the last three decades, we have focused on Millennium Development Goals, Sustainable Development Goals and HDI and lowering the misery index. As with infrastructure acquisition, we have decided to put the cart before the horse. Growing GDP at a rate much higher than population growth translates to baking a bigger national cake that can then be shared to attain SDG or HDI goals. Any wonder we have not made any progress on these fronts as countries that prioritise GDP growth. This weakness was perceived in changing the earlier MDGs to a sustainable ones, the new SDGs. However, the solution was poorly addressed in the SDG document. Rather than accelerated economic growth being given a stand-alone priority, it was tucked in as one of the 17 goals. Meanwhile, combating climate change was given a stand-alone priority. In discussions, society’s closest link to GDP is people positing that ‘our common wealth is being looted’. We conflate the wealth of our commons, this being the proper order of the words, with GDP. In the latter part of the 18th century, French Physiocrats and Scottish philosopher, Adam Smith, wrote manuals on the creation of national wealth. Actually, Adam Smith’s tome, The Wealth of Nations, is not a manual but a bible! Karl Marx contributed to the discourse in his epic, Das kapital, this being more about wealth redistribution than wealth creation. In between are many others like Joseph Schumpeter who postulated that wealth might be destroyed in order to be newly created in the oxymoron, Creative Destruction. Computations and compilation of GDP were a further attempt to measure and quantify economic activities that take place in the building of a nation’s wealth.  This was introduced in 1934 by American economist, Simon Kuznets. In a recent article, eminent economist, Professor Sheriffdeen Tella, called for a rebooting of the Nigerian economy. The Punch Editorial Board also called for resetting of the economy in its opinion to mark democracy day. No doubt 2023 is perceived as another change opportunity hence the call for rebooting the economy. However, the politicians need help in achieving a veritable change this time around. In simple terms, economic thinkers need to fashion out a manual on the ‘how to’ create societal wealth for achieving a multitrillion-dollar economy. Making soundbites or regular mantras as we begin campaign season is the easier part. Knowing how to deliver on campaign policies and targets is the difficult part. In the past, we have been saddled with all types and hypes of visions, action plans, SDGs and recently a Medium-Term National Development Plan but not a single one has been achieved. These have remained mere wishlists without the know-how of actualising items on the wishlists. Hence my call for a how-to, non-partisan work on national wealth creation, the how-to bake the national cake before any other venture of distributing national cake. It is after we as a nation deliberately achieve this how to create national wealth in a rapid and sustainable manner can we have a rapid decline in our misery index. A corollary of attaining a multi-trillion dollar economy is the pace at which it is done. We could crawl to the milestone or through double-digit economic growth, achieve it within the time frame Pastor Tunde gave—eight years. Another corollary to the target is the nature and quality of the newly attained status. Is it to be a bloated one, as the increased production of natural commodities offers, or is it to be one that engages a large percentage of the population in higher skill manufacturing jobs. Would our manufacturing sector contribute over 20% to GDP from its current 9%? Would less of our people engage in farming as happens elsewhere with less than 5% of their population in farming? This is the hallmark of a transforming economy. It follows that as our GDP grows, our per capita income also grows and life improves across the board. Our current per capita income hovers around $2000. Anything higher than a trillion-dollar GDP means a $5000 per capita income. This surpasses a known threshold that automatically delivers finer things of life to the general populace even after allowing for the theft of proceeds of our commons. These are reasons enough for gunning for these targets over anything else. It becomes easier to finance and pursue our HDI or SDG targets from proceeds of a performing economy. It is obvious that some policies work for the Nigerian economy more than others. For example, most government-driven aspirations hardly work, while the private sector trudges along in this harsh environment. So there is full support for The PUNCH editorial’s call for the private sector to lead over an overbearing government. Any politician who comes out saying ‘my government will do this, my government will do that’ should be suspect to a discerning listener. The question for us is, who would we believe? A Samad Rabiu or Dangote that says I will deliver 10,000 megawatts of electricity to your sockets or a politician who says it? There is a need for each state to compute its annual GDP. The focus must move to regional GDP and each governor must be judged on how he or she impacts the state’s GDP. Focusing on GDP performance eliminates cherry-picking that dominates how we assess our state and national actors. After all, for as long as the contractual nature of our polity remains there will always be a project to sink money into and get celebrated. To sum up this discussion I believe there is no need to reinvent the wheel. Apart from the works of the likes of Adam Smith,  David Ricardo and Schumpeter, there are other pragmatic books on our quest for generating national wealth. As Erik Reinert said in his book, How Rich Countries Got Rich and Why Poor Countries Stay Poor, there is a toolbox available for creating wealth of nations, and I add,  for depleting wealth of nations. There are comparative works on what has worked for other nations in the recent past and thus can be emulated. 10 years ago our very own Prof. Kingsley Moghalu published a seminal book, Emerging Africa, that can match other books on this subject. As the saying goes, if you intend to hide information from Africans, put it in a book, particularly one that is not a recommended text for passing exams. On this note, I wonder what percentage of readers kept faith to the end. Dr Jaiyesimi writes from Sagamu Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com