Former senator and Rivers State governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, Magnus Abe, has supported comments made by a presidential aspirant, Bola Tinubu, about the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Tinubu had caused a stir on Thursday when he claimed that without him, Buhari would not have become the president in 2015. The former governor of Lagos State made the statement at the Presidential Lodge in Abeokuta, Ogun State capital, when he was addressing the APC delegates ahead of the party’s primary. Reacting to the outburst, Abe, who represented Rivers South-East district in the upper chamber of the National Assembly, described Tinubu’s remarks as a statement of fact no one can deny. In a statement signed by his spokesperson, Parry Saroh Benson, and made available to The PUNCH on Saturday, Abe insisted that there is nothing new or different about the statement, which has been publicly admitted by the President himself. The statement quoted Abe as saying, “It is no longer news to all genuine lovers of the APC, that the past seven years have witnessed all sorts of evil plots by desperate politicians to destroy the fabric of unity between President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “He did not say anything new, which Nigerians do not know. So, the politically contrived hue and cry about the factual statement is to create disunity between both leaders in order to promote their plots to upstage Asiwaju and destroy him in a classic ‘use and dump fashion’. “I appeal to all members of our great party, the APC, to disregard the innuendos aimed at painting Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in bad light as, in the minds of the plotters, there is nothing he will do that will not attract condemnation. “Delegates should focus on their future, the future of the country and our Party, and ignore these chameleons and wolves in sheep’s clothing; Asiwaju we know and Asiwaju we shall follow. “Therefore, I urge all party faithful to be firm, especially delegates and be committed to the success of our party.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com