Some yet-to-be-identified gunmen terrorising Anambra State have reportedly killed a youth leader of the ruling party in the state, the All Progressives Grand Alliance. According to sources, the youth leader identified as Emeka Alaehobi was kidnapped from his home in Ukpor, Nnewi South Local Government Area of the state two days ago. However, no call for ransom was known to have been made, until his remains were found on Saturday morning in a neighbouring town, Utuh. The source said, “He is Hon Emeka Alaehobi, Nnewi South APGA local government youth leader. He was kidnapped two days ago by unknown gunmen. “This morning his remains were found dumped at Utuh Junction.” Anambra State Police Command spokesperson, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, confirmed that a corpse was discovered in the area on Saturday, but was unable to ascertain the identity of the corpse. He said: “When our operatives got to the scene, the corpse had been removed by some persons, we are yet to identify, and we have also ascertained that the corpse is that of the youth leader.” Ukpor, the headquarters of Nnewi South Local Government Area, has remained one of the most troubled parts of the state since violent crime erupted in Anambra. The council headquarters has severally been attacked, same for the police division in the area. Sources said eligible youths of the community have all fled for fear of being conscripted forcefully into criminal gangs. The state Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, had on Friday, vowed to fish out more criminals from the state during a raid of kidnappers’ hideouts by security agencies in the state. At the weekend, joint security operatives stormed a house in Oba, Idemili South Local Government Area, which was a hideout for criminals, and also a place where kidnap victims are kept in wait for ransom. The house was demolished, and some suspects were arrested, just as three kidnap victims, including a priest, were rescued. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com