Many Nigerian youths defied the rain on Saturday, June 11, 2022, as they trooped out en masse for the Youth Vote Count Mega Concert 2.0 at the Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos. It was indeed an electrifying and heartwarming atmosphere as the youthful audience began the process of exercising their civic rights and also party with their favourite celebrities. The event kicked off with a session for registration of voters at the venue, as only people with valid permanent voter’s cards and temporary voter’s cards were admitted into the venue for the concert. The rain was no deterrent as many determined youths waited patiently to register for their voter cards. Speaking at the event, the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Mahmood Yakubu, said, “In the last one week, we have registered over 5000 people. When I saw the crowd that trooped here to register, we had to change our strategy. We decided that instead of everyone coming here (TBS) to register, we would register prospective voters in 20 centres spread across 20 local government areas in Lagos. Also, more machines will be deployed all over Lagos from next week”. He assured the youth that if they register and vote, their votes will count. The hosts of the event were popular comediennes— Anita Asuoha (Real Warri Pikin) and Bukunmi Ilori (Kie kie)— and they gave attendees many rib-cracking moments. Thanking the youth for coming out, Asuoha said, “This is a good time to be a youth. Thank you for coming out, because the country is in our hands. Thank you for not giving up on Nigeria. “We will keep doing what we have to do till the country gets better.” Taking to the stage, popular rapper, Folarin Falana, aka Falz, urged the youth to get their PVCs. He said, “Our people were killed at the Lekki toll gate (during the #EndSARS protest on October 20, 2020). We have not forgotten and we will never forget. They are killing us every day. You can see what happened in Ondo, Kaduna and Sokoto states. Please, it is important to get your PVC.” Singer, Teniola Apata, popularly known as Teni, also got many laughing when she sang the popular social media song, ‘Carry me dey go my husband house’, with a guest who she called to meet her on the stage. After the performance, she directed him to meet someone (ostensibly a member of her team) backstage to receive an undisclosed amount of money. She termed the money as ‘groom price’. Guests were also feted as many of them were served sumptuous meals. Entertainers who performed at the event include 2Baba, Mr Macaroni, Kizz Daniel, Asake, Waje, Omawumi, Small Doctor, Pasuma, Skiibii, Mayorkun, Joeboy, Patoranking, Broda Shaggi, Toyin Abraham and MI Abaga.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com