The National Working Committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress has unveiled a list of 18 chairmen and 11 deputies to head the sub-committees of the party’s special convention slated for June 6. This was disclosed in a statement issued by the APC National Publicity Secretary, Felix Morka, on Wednesday night. The list contained the names of 17 governors, five ministers, deputy senate president and deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, among others. See the full list below: 1. Budget – H.E. Muhammad Yahaya, Governor of Gombe State
Co-Chair: Minister of Finance, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed 2. Finance and Logistics – H.E. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Governor of Lagos State 3. Accreditation and Decoration – H.E. Prince Dapo Abiodun, Governor of Ogun State 4. Security and Compliance – H.E. Rotimi Akeredolu, Governor of Ondo State
Co-Chair: Gen. Abdulrahman Dambazau (retd.), former Minister of Interior 5. Election Planning – H.E. Atiku Bagudu, Governor of Kebbi State
Co-Chair: H.E. Hope Uzodimma, Governor of Imo State 6. Transportation – H.E. Abdullahi Ganduje, Governor of Kano State
Deputy: Ramatu Aliyu, Minister of State for the Federal Capital Territory 7. Accommodation – H.E. Babagana Zulum, Governor of Borno State
Co-Chair: H.E. Gboyega Oyetola, Governor of Osun State 8. Media and Publicity – H.E. Abdullahi Sule, Governor of Nasarawa State 9. Medicals – Dr. Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment
Co-Chair: Prof. Isaac Folorunso Adewole, former Minister of Health 10. Legal: Abubakar Malami SAN, Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice 11. Venue and Site Servicing: H.E. Bello Matawalle, Governor of Zamfara State
Co-Chair: Mohammed Bello, Minister of the Federal Capital Territory 12. Election Appeal – H.E. Mai Mala Buni, Governor of Yobe State 13. Hospitality and Welfare – H.E. Simon Lalong, Governor of Plateau State
Co-Chair: Hajiya Sadiya Farouq, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development 14. Protocols – H.E. Aminu Masari, Governor of Katsina State 15. Digital Communications – H.E. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, Governor of Kwara State 16. Pre-Convention/Management/ Rapporteur – H.E. Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, Governor of Kaduna State
Deputy: Dame Pauline Tallen, Minister of Women Affairs 17. Presidential Screening Appeal – H.E. Abubakar Bello, Governor of Niger State
Co-Chair: Rt. Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase, Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives 18. Accreditation of Diplomats – H.E. Ovie Omo-Agege, Deputy President of the Senate
Co-Chair: Geoffrey Onyeama, Minister for Foreign Affairs Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com