The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, has introduced a new digital technology to equip lawyers handling criminal cases and tackle recurring incidents of missing files. Baba also disclosed that no fewer than 50 lawyers were being churned out annually from the Police College. The IG made the statement during the official unveiling of the Q-Soft Hybrid Case Management System, an application designed to enhance the productivity of lawyers by automating the management of a case from inception until judgment is delivered. Baba stated that the Nigeria Police Force prides itself as one of the Federal Government’s agencies with the highest pool of lawyers with high quality. He cited the recent decoration of DCP Simon Lough, a seasoned police lawyer, as a Senior Advocate of Nigeria as a testament to the depth of their law practice. “Unfortunately, the accreditation process was hampered because the police force failed to meet some requirements, which include a standard digital law library,” he said. The IG expressed the belief that the new digital technology to be deployed in virtually all areas of police operations would assist in the prosecution, quick dispensation of justice and tackle new waves of banditry and kidnapping in the country. The IG stated, “Despite a huge pool of intellectually sound and highly dedicated lawyers, the continuous management of cases manually over the years remained a fundamental challenge in our drive to advance the course of criminal justice. “We have deployed not only the software, but the hardware to all the 36 state commands, including the FCT. We have also made arrangements for the training of officers in charge of all legal departments across the country.” The facilitator of the technology, Funmi Quadri, SAN, also emphasised that the police could not afford to be seen operating in the analogue space because the world had gone digital. According to Quadri, the Q-Soft hybrid case management technology has a user management system that easily profiles all the legal officers of the NPF, including their addresses and phone numbers. She said, “From the click of a button, one can tell the number of cases going on in Oyo; you can tell the cases being handled in Maiduguri and you can give immediate counselling on what to do rather than to write and keep waiting for the next two to three weeks. “This is in addition to accessing the names, emails and contacts of all lawyers handling each case in the federation. All case files, court judgments and decided cases are also scanned and arranged in the system. “The interesting thing is that this can also be accessed from mobile phones in court or anywhere else.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com