Ibrahim Kashim, who won the Peoples Democratic Party PDP Bauchi State governorship ticket, has stepped down for the incumbent governor of the state, Bala Mohammad, in a quick political house run. Kashim offered to step aside for the incumbent governor in an inside caucus meeting conducted by stakeholders to plan the way forward, according to sources. The former Secretary to the State Government resigned earlier this year to run for governor of the state under the PDP. Bala Mohammed, the Governor of Bauchi State, had run for President in the primary but failed to win the ticket. Kashim emerged as the PDP’s gubernatorial candidate in the primaries on Monday, May 20th, 2022. However, in an unexpected turn of events, he honourably stood down to allow his supervisor, Mr Mohammed, to continue the captainship he had begun in the state. “In Nigerian politics, integrity is a word thrown around loosely, while actualisation of its value is few and far between. Integrity is to do the right thing at the right time, every single time, and this is a value that Ibrahim Kashim embodies,” Kashim tweeted Wednesday morning. Kashim noted that he believes effective governance that results in long-term, good development necessitates a stretch of continuity, even to a higher capacity, in policy and program implementation. He said that he would do it again in a heartbeat for the prosperity of our state. He reaffirmed his resolve to continue assisting in the process of turning Bauchi State’s development goal into reality. “The sequence of events, as well as Sen. Bala Muhammad’s and Barr. Ibrahim’s unity, integrity, and teamwork will go down in history as a “new leadership paradigm” worth adopting by other politicians and leaders.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com