The Anambra State Governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo’s directive that all kidnappers and other criminal gangs’ hideouts be raided and buildings harbouring them be destroyed has been carried out in Oba, Idemili South Local Government Area of the state. Men of the state Joint Security Task Force on Saturday demolished an old bungalow at Oba, which allegedly belonged to suspected kidnappers. The hideout had earlier been raided on Friday and exhibits such as locally-made pistols, shrine items, charms, concoctions, Indian hemp and other incriminating materials were recovered at the building, while some arrests were also made. Soludo commended the efforts of the task force personnel, saying the action would serve as a deterrent to other criminals. Soludo, who addressed journalists at the Governor’s Lodge, Amawbia, warned criminals terrorising the state that they would have no place to hide again as security operatives had been empowered to fish them out wherever they were in the state. The governor explained that it had been established that the demolished building was being used as a den for criminal activities, stressing that the government policy did not allow any criminality to reign in the state. He warned that henceforth, in line with the law, criminals would have no place in any part of the state. Soludo gave an assurance that his government was determined to ensure that the state was safe for everyone, and that people could move freely around without fear of molestation. He also applauded the cooperation of some people in the state who had been volunteering information, adding that every stranger was suspicious until their job was confirmed to be legitimate. “Any building being used for criminal activities will be brought down and confiscated by the government. I appeal to the people to be security conscious at all times and report strangers and criminals operating in their communities to security agencies,” he stated. A gang of kidnappers were traced to the hideout by the police following an attack and subsequent kidnap of two persons at Oko, Orumba North Local Government Area, and two other persons in Ekwulobia, Aguata Local Government Area of the state. The gunmen had entered Oko through Nanka for a kidnap operation and were about to succeed but for the prompt intervention of the police special force acting on a tip-off, with the personnel engaging them in gunfire. One of the suspected kidnappers was killed, while others escaped with varying degrees of injury. The killed gunman, whose video went viral on social media, was identified as a former vigilante who was part of a four-man gang involved in high-profile killings and kidnapping in the area. The state police command spokesman, DSP Tochukwu Ikenga, explained that the command received a distress call about the kidnap of two persons in Oko, and while on their trail, the police learnt that the gang  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com