The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board on Tuesday said it was investigating claims of candidates who had biometric failure and technical issues, which prevented them from writing the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination and Direct Entry. The examination agency noted this in a tweet via its official twitter handle @jambhq. Statistics obtained from the website of the board revealed that while 1,761,338 registered for the 2022 examinations, only 1,707,626 sat the examination, making it a total of 53,712 who did not sit the examinations, despite registering. “The Board is investigating claims of candidates who could not sit the 2022 UTME due to biometric failure or technical problems. Those whose claims are genuine might be considered,” the board noted. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the board said 69 results were withheld while 1,783 candidates were to sit the exams again as a result of the biometric challenges. The examination board also noted that it would subsequently adopt the use of laptops for examinations. “For effective delivery of its Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination at the various CBT centres nationwide, the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has concluded plans to phase out the use of zero thin-client computers from the conduct of its UTME. “Hence, the major drawback against a zero thin-client configuration is that once the memory of the server is exhausted, or if there is any network disruption, all connected users are simultaneously affected, thereby impacting multiple candidates at once in the centre. “This policy direction is one of the measures being contemplated to address the issue of examination disruptions holistically. Consequently, the board, in consideration of the immense benefits to candidates and centres alike, is requesting its partnering centres to begin to plan for obtaining mini PCs that are cheap to procure, easy to operate, and more efficient in power consumption.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com