As a back-up goalkeeper for one of Abuja’s biggest football clubs, Water FC, you’ll have to bide your time and train hard, hoping the manager to one day tell you that you will be starting in goal in the next game. For Nathaniel Nwosu, that game was a friendly in 2018. Of course, it was a golden opportunity for Nwosu to show that he truly had what it took to step up when required. And he grabbed the opportunity with both gloves. Despite conceding twice, he left a lasting impression on the technical crew. “I never believed I could man the goal post at the start of my football career,” the 16-year-old Flying Eagles keeper told PUNCH Sports Extra. “I started my career at Water FC as a left-back when I was six, and I was good, but I switched to goalkeeping at 11. “It took the encouragement from my coaches and club owner to feature in that memorable match, after our first choice left the team without explanation. “I was scared throughout the game as I was exposed by my defenders. I lost my voice shouting at my defenders because I didn’t want to concede. I ended picking the ball twice from my goal but the game ended 2-2. After making his Flying Eagles debut last month at the WAFU B U-20 tournament in Niamey, Niger, Nwosu is hoping to emulate his role model Thibaut Courtois, the Real Madrid safe hands. “Courtois is my model. I was excited when he was named the Man-of-The-Match during the final of the UEFA Champions League against Liverpool. He helped Madrid win the trophy for the 14th time. “As tall as I am, I want to learn more on how to use my height to the advantage of my team like Courtois usually do. He inspires me a lot. “I just want to be like him, keeping cleans sheets and making good saves to help my team win.” He did just that at the recent WAFU B U-20 Championship in Niger, where the Flying Eagles were crowned champions last month, and he was awarded the Golden Gloves as the best keeper of the tournament. “Making the U-20 team was a big step for me and becoming the first choice gave me more confidence and I’m happy I didn’t let my country down.” “I feel so lucky and it’s hard to describe these amazing feelings. To have won the WAFU B U-20 tournament with the Flying Eagles is a great feeling, it means so much to make history like this. “I can’t celebrate too much though because we will be back in camp later this month to prepare for the U-20 AFCON, so we have another tournament we want to win.” Reacting to Nwosu’s meteroic rise, Chairman of Water FC Abuja, Nureni Makanjuola, said,” No one expected Nwosu to be permanently in the starting line-up of Water FC at the start of his career, but he showed he could with his hard work and resilience after being converted from a left-back to goalkeeper. “We are trying to turn him into the finished article. Our dream is for him to become a good goalkeeper that will serve Nigeria well for many years to come. He will continue to develop.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com