A former representative of the Rivers South-East Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Magnus Abe, has condoled with the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State over the death of two of its members, Onimiteim Vincent Samuel and Loveday Motats. Samuel and Motats, who died in a car crash while returning from the APC special convention in Abuja, were secretaries of the party in the Akuku-Toru and Degema local government areas of the state, respectively. Abe, in a statement by his spokesman, Parry Benson, described the death of the duo as saddening at a time when the party needed committed men like them. Abe called on party faithful in the state to rally round and support the immediate families of the deceased as a mark of respect for the grassroots politicians. He said, “The death of Onimiteim Samuel and Loveday Motats saddens us deeply and our prayers go out to the families and the party in Rivers State over this irreparable loss. “I will like to extend my deepest condolences to their families and the party, praying that the Almighty God will grant them eternal rest and the sacrifice of their commitment to the APC shall not go in vain.” Similarly, the state APC in a statement by its spokesman, Chris Finebone, commiserated with the families, friends and associates of the deceased. Finebone said the party was greatly devastated over the incident, describing Samuel and Motats as great assets, who cherished and worked for the APC while alive. The statement read in part, “Our party notes with appreciation the outpouring of sympathy that has come from far and near since the unfortunate death of these our outstanding members. “We urge all well-meaning people to continually pray for God to grant divine repose to the souls of our departed colleagues, console their family members and heal those still undergoing treatment in hospitals due to that vehicular accident. “Even as we mourn their untimely demise, we can only surrender to the inevitability of death as the ultimate end for all mortals. It is not whether it will come, it is about when it will come. Only God has the power over that.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com