Aroad traffic crash has claimed the lives of a bus driver and a female pedestrian at the front of the Adam and Eve Motors, Upper Iweka, by Awka-Onitsha Expressway. The accident, which occurred late on Wednesday, involved four people, comprising three male adults and one female adult. Four vehicles – a Mercedes Benz truck, a Mercedes Benz car, a Suzuki bus and a Mistibushi L300 bus , were involved in the crash. An eyewitness said the truck fully loaded with tiles and other building materials suffered brake failure and rammed into three stationary vehicles, killing the driver and the female pedestrian. PUNCH Metro gathered that the killed bus driver was in his vehicle waiting for his turn to load, while the pedestrian was hawking sachet water along the road. Those injured were taken to the Toronto Hospital for treatment, while the corpses were deposited at the hospital’s morgue by the Federal Road Safety Corps rescue team from RS5.31, Upper Iweka Outpost Command. The Anambra Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Adeoye Irelewuyi, commiserated with the families of the dead victims, and wished the injured quick recovery. He urged drivers to ensure their vehicles met minimum safety standards before hitting the road. “Traffic rules and regulations must be obeyed at all times,” he added. In a related development, an articulated truck on Thursday crushed an Okada rider, killing a 15-year-old secondary school student. The accident, which occurred around 8am along Zango-Lokoja Road, also left two other persons injured. PUNCH Metro learnt that the truck driver fled the scene as good Samaritans picked the injured and rushed them to Falvares Hospital, Zango, for medical attention. The corpse of the girl, identified as Bola, was reportedly left on the road until the arrival of FRSC officials, who deposited the body in a mortuary. It was gathered that there was tension at the scene of the accident when a mob tried to burn the truck, as security operatives stopped the action. An eyewitness, Mike Adejoh, said, “The driver was at top speed when he crushed the commercial motorcycle, which led to the death of the innocent girl. The rider and another person were injured. “Immediately he (driver) realised what he did, he jumped down and escaped.” The Kogi State Police Public Relations Officer, SP William Ovye-Aya, confirmed the incident, adding that investigation had commenced. The Kogi State Sector Commander, FRSC, Mr Stephen Dawulung, said his men had deposited the corpse of the minor at the Federal Medical Centre’s mortuary. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com