Our correspondent speaks with some married Nigerians on how they would help their spouses battling serious health ailments We’ll take necessary steps Mr Joseph Akinwande Health challenges have no tribe, culture, or language. Anyone can develop health issues at any point and time. What is important is taking the proper steps medically to make sure that my spouse gets the best of treatments medically. First, we will carry out all vital tests to ascertain the seriousness of such health challenges. Second, we will take medical advice on how to treat the said ailment and necessary steps will be taken based on professional medical advice and procedures. Third, God is the healer and restorer of health and life. Prayers and supplications will be offered unto the Lord to heal and restore the health and trust Him to perfect the healing to His glory. I’ll be supportive Mrs Peace Udoh This should be one of the topics that we should have discussed while dating. However, it has a remedy. I’ll be supportive; my spouse needs my full support at this time of his life. I’ll support him. I won’t insult him or change my attitude towards him. I’ll be prayerful, prayer is also needed. I will pray for him. The Bible says healing is the children’s bread. Our God is a great physician. We will seek medical attention, take him to a hospital and seek medical help. We’ll carry out proper tests Mr Elijah Alawode I don’t pray for that to happen to my wife but since she is my wife, I will take her like that. I believe in prayer. Prayer can change everything. We will also seek medical attention, we will carry out proper tests to know the cause and the solutions to her health challenge. I will accept her and I’ll help her in every way to recover. We’ll overcome the challenge together Mrs El-freda Odutola The best thing to do is to help him seek medical attention and to find an everlasting solution to his health challenges. The first thing to do is to know what the health challenge is and everything about it. The treatment has to go in line with each other from medical attention to spiritual help. We won’t only rely on medical attention alone but we will also use our herbs too. With God, we will overcome that health challenge together. We’ll obey medical advice Mr Adebayo Dada It’s a tough one but that aside, I will definitely stay by her and know that she will surely overcome it by God’s grace. I will obey the doctors’ recommendations and possible daily routines and surely involve her family at a later stage if her health situations still persist. I will pray an important prayer in this situation. My prayers and wishes are for anyone in this situation to have a speedy recovery. Prayer, medicine’ll be used Mrs Biodun Abdulwahab I can’t abandon him at this time of his life. But he should have told me when it started and what he does to subside it. As his wife, he shouldn’t have kept it from me but he might have a reason so I will help him in every way I can. We will seek medical and spiritual help. There’s nothing prayer cannot do. We will fast and pray about it without ceasing, and God will surely hear our prayers. We will also go traditional by trying herbs with faith. He will need me at that moment of his life and I will not leave him because of that. I’ll offer all help Mr Abayomi Ahmed As a learned person, I think before we go far in the relationship, we must have been noticing its longevity. There will be some certain processes where we will make some tests to know and understand each other more. As for a curable health challenge, we will definitely look for a way to cure it, medically through herbs. As for the incurable one, we will manage it. I will offer all the help I can and give her full support. I’ll do everything to help him Mrs Akinloye Abosede Anyone can be tested with health issues at any time and it might have a remedy or can be managed. God forbid if my husband has a health challenge, I will do everything in my capacity to make him better again. I will help him manage it. First, we will pray fervently about it. God who created him will heal him. Second, we will seek medical help and we will know more about his health challenge. We’ll consult medical experts Mr Kolawole Fasipe This is hard. If my wife has a serious health challenge, God forbid, it will be a tough time for us. During our courtship, we would have talked about things like this. We would have known each other better. But if it started while we are married then it’s a different case. I will support her in every possible way. We will be more prayerful and consult medical professionals. I’ll show him love, care Mrs Akinsunmade Folashade Things are bound to happen to anyone at any time. If I found out that my spouse is having a serious health challenge, I will make research about the particular challenge. Well, spouses cope better when they like their partners, and have accurate firsthand information about their mate’s condition, treatment, and needs. I will support him in whatever situation and stand by him inasmuch he doesn’t keep it away from me. We pray together and ask for God’s healing hands on him. We will seek medical advice. And the most important is that I will show him love and care for him the more because that is what he needs  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com