The Lagos State Police Command has debunked the claim in a trending WhatsApp voice-note that some persons are planning to launch an attack on Muhammadu Buhari Estate, in the Badagry area of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, SP Benjamin Hundeyin, in a statement on Wednesday, said the content of the voice-note was entirely false and mischievously designed to cause unnecessary panic in the state. He said, “The attention of the Lagos State Police Command has been drawn to a viral WhatsApp voice-note claiming that Fulanis have camped in Muhammadu Buhari Estate, Agemowo, Badagry, in readiness for a massive attack on Badagry. “The command wishes to state in unequivocal terms that the content of the voice-note is entirely false and mischievously designed to cause unnecessary panic within Lagos State. “It is worthy of note that there is a police division close to the estate – Morogbo Divison. There is also a police post next to the estate – Mowo Outpost. Police presence and intelligence gathering in the area is top notch.” In a bid to be double sure that the claims were false, Hundeyin said the Divisional Police Officer, Morogbo Division, visited the estate on Wednesday, inspected the entire facility and had an exhaustive session with the facility manager. “The outcome of the operational visit lends credence to the futility of the voice-note. While all residence of Lagos State are enjoined to disregard the voice-note, they are all assured by the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Command, Abiodun Alabi, that the police command in synergy with sister security agencies are fully prepared to nip any criminality in the bud; and would leave no stone unturned in ensuring continued peace in the state,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com