Daud Olatunji,Abeokuta The Labour Party has called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) to declare a state of emergency in Lagos State following alleged attacks on intending voters in the State. The party alleged that there was an attack on some people of the Igbo extraction while attempting to collect their Permanent Voter Cards in Ojo Local Government Area of Lagos State by some political thugs believed to be loyal to the All Progressives Congress. Some videos were trending on social media indicating that some thugs have launched attacks at the Independent National Electoral Commission registration centres. The Labour Party through its acting Publicity Secretary, Abayomi Arabambi, described the incident as “a crude electoral terrorism” saying that it does not portray the good intentions of the APC presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu’s ambition Arabambi argued that it is a constitutional right of every resident in any part of the country of voting age to vote or be voted for anywhere they have been living for six months. The Labour Party spokesman maintained that the brutal attack on the Igbo people in Lagos state laid further credence to the APC government’s commitment to divide Nigeria on a tribal basis. He, however, called on security agencies to immediately intervene to forestall the breakdown of law and order in the Igbo densely domiciled area of Ojo-Alaba, warning of an impending brazen murder of democracy in Nigeria. The statement read in part, “The attention of Labour Party was drawn to the coordinated attacks launched by miscreants and misfits political thugs. “It is quite alarming and highly frightful that in today’s Nigeria, the Lagos State APC Government could officially promote and sponsor open terrorism on the Igbos to stop them from registering for and obtaining voter’s cards across many points in the State. The IGBOS are attacked and brutalized at the registration centres very heavily. “Most Igbos in the neighbourhood of over 66% have up to now been unable to register and or obtain their PVC officially which is scheduled to end very soon. These are people who do pay taxes and do contribute largely to the economy of Lagos State. “The Labour Party unequivocally here urge the President to without delay declare a state of emergency in Lagos State over this ongoing official electoral terrorism, treason, arson, and political banditry because a stitch in time is said to save nine. “Every Nigerian has the inalienable right to be protected by the Government. This ongoing official rascality is gradually growing into becoming an evil by the Lagos State APC to run Lagos State into the abyss of deep irreversible political economic and social disaster. Of course, it is far very obvious that this would have a further attendant crisis across the Nation. “Labour Party also here calls on the National Assembly to become much more attentive and dutiful to intervene in the ongoing acts of political/electoral terrorism in Lagos State. It is a danger that could have an unpleasant consequence on the peace of the nation even in the midst of the now crippling larger insecurity in the country. “Labour Party asks the Igbos to stay and remain very resolute in their struggle to receive their PVC as it is their constitutional due and right. “The IGBOS are also advised to ensure that when they eventually secure the PVC, they must let their votes make a very strong statement as they voted wisely for the best Party of their choice.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com