A support group for the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, has called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) to end killings in Nigeria. The group, under the aegis of Atiku Support Organisation made the call in a statement on Sunday, as it condemned the attack on St Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State. The incident which led to loss of lives, happened in the church, which is less than 200 meters away from the Palace of Olowo of Owo. The statement signed by the group’s National Publicity Secretary,Victor Moses, partly read, “The continued unwarranted killings of Nigerians under the failed regime of President Buhari-led APC government is unacceptable. The reported killings of innocent worshippers in Ondo state is a very sad development and our hearts and prayers are with the family of the deceased. “But for how long shall we continue in this manner? We wish to remind President Buhari that he derives his legitimacy from the people and that the inefficiency of his government is driving Nigeria and Nigerians to the edge.” “As a retired military general, the least Nigerians should enjoy under his government is security, but the reverse is the case. “Under ‘General’ Buhari-led APC government, Nigeria has very, unfortunately, become a kidnapper den and a paradise for terrorists and killers. “For the first time in our history as a nation, insecurity has become the next cash cow as in the oil industry. Terrorists now kill for fun.” Calling on the President to end killings in the country, the group said, “We, therefore, call on President Muhammadu Buhari to stand up to the challenges his failed government created and made worse and put a stop forthwith to the plethora of killings going on in the country or take a bow.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com