The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board said it has clamped down on institutions awarding fake A-level certificates. The board said its decision followed the discovery that over 90% of A-Levels certifications presented for admissions in a particular university were fake. In the weekly bulletin issued by the National Universities Commission, the Director of Legal Services, JAMB, Dr Abdulwahab Adedokun, said, “The Board’s assessment showed that more than 90% of A-Level results presented by candidates to gain admission into universities were fake. “In the last one year and in the second coming of Prof. Oloyede as Registrar of JAMB, one of the major assignments we did here was to focus on some of the things that are happening in these Joint Universities Preliminary Examinations Board and Interim Joint Matriculation Board Examination. “During the last examination, we called a stakeholders’ meeting and invited managers of these organs and we asked some questions. “We also collaborated with other security services to spread our net across the country to see what is happening and lo and behold, more than 47 proprietors of these institutions and some of their lecturers and teachers and people conniving with them in perpetuating malpractices were arrested all over the country. “Arising from that, the Minister of Education has graciously approved the establishment of A-Level data bank. So for example, in a particular university, 90% of those who presented their A-Level results for admission were found to be fake.” Speaking in an interview with The PUNCH, a lecturer of Mathematics and chairman, Academic Staff Union of Universities, Federal University of Technology, Minna, Dr. Gbolahan Bolarin, said there was the need for candidates to register with universities who run accredited programmes. “Universities that are running the programmes include FUTMinna, University of Ilorin and University of Nigeria, Nsukka. “Private individuals also run these programmes but it is better to run them with universities to be on the safe side,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com