The Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs on Monday condemned the attack on St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State by suspected terrorists describing it as a crime against humanity and grievous and inexplicable sin. The organisation also called on governments at all levels to issue and pursue an ultimatum for the security agencies to unravel the identity and bring to book the perpetrators of the violation of the sanctity of not only life but also religion. The NSCIA, under the leadership of its President-General and Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence, Alh. Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, in a statement by its Director of Administration, Zubairu Haruna Usman-Ugwu, said all peoples of a different faith should take the killing as a direct attack on all law-abiding citizens. Many innocent worshippers were said to have been gruesomely murdered and several others severely wounded. The NSCIA said, “It is a crime not only against humanity but also a grievous and inexplicable sin. All peoples of Faith should take this attack as a direct attack on all law-abiding citizens and should therefore be in the vanguard to halt the evil that appears to be assailing the life, property and integrity of humanity, particularly believers in God. “The council also calls on the governments at all levels to issue and pursue an ultimatum for the security agencies to unravel the identity and bring to book the perpetrators of the violation of sanctity of not only life but also religions.” The NSCIA said it “stands in absolute solidarity with the Christian Association of Nigeria, the Catholic community, the government and people of Ondo State and commiserates with the families of the victims in this period of immeasurable agony and distress.” “May Allah grant us peace and security in our nation,” the council added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com