The Osun State Police Commamnd has clarified that a journalist with The Nation newspaper, in the state, Toba Adedeji, is not dead. However, the police neither took responsibility for the shooting by its officials nor apologise in a statement issued 24 hours after the incident. The PUNCH had reported that police officials deployed to disperse some protesters in Osogbo had shot two people, including the journalist. Some youths had assembled under Olaiya bridge in Osogbo to protest the alleged extrajudicial killing of one of them, identified as Abiola. The protesters had blocked the road and prevented vehicular movement. About 30 minutes after the protest, some police operatives stormed the scene and shot into the motley crowd and journalists covering the protest. The journalist, who was shot in the thigh, was rushed to Osun State University, Osogbo for treatment. In a statement by its spokesperson, Opalola Olawoyin, on Tuesday, the Osun police said, “The CP wishes to use this medium to inform the good people of Osun State, especially the journalists and youths that, the investigation to unravel the circumstances surrounding the alleged shooting of a journalist is ongoing; as he promised to make the outcome of the matter public. “He urges everyone to believe in the Police and allow justice to take its course, as the affected journalist is alive, hale and hearty, having visited his home last night after he was treated and discharged from the hospital. “The Commissioner of Police, CP Olawale Olokode, psc urges the members of the public to go about their lawful duties, as Police will not relent in discharging its constitutional responsibility of protection of lives and property. “He also warns against incitement and peddling of fake news, as this has criminal implications.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com