Southern Nigeria Governors’ Forum has hailed the resolution of the 10 governors from the North backing power shift to the southern region in 2023. The jubilant Southern governors made their position known in a statement by their Chairman, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, on Saturday. They also commended the Governor of Jigawa State, Abubakar Badaru, who withdrew after the northern governors made their stance known 2023 presidency. The PUNCH had reported that APC governors from the Northern part of the country backed the transfer of power to the South. The decision was taken at a meeting of the governors on Saturday night in Abuja. The Northern governors also asked aspirants from the northern region to withdraw. “We, therefore, wish to strongly recommend to President Muhammad Buhari that the search for his successor as the APC Presidential Candidate be limited to our compatriots from the Southern states. “We appeal to all aspirants from the Northern state to withdraw in the national interest and allow only the aspirants from the south to proceed to the primaries. We are delighted by the decision of our esteemed colleague His Excellency Gov Abubakar Badru to contribute to this patriotic quest by withdrawing his presidential aspiration,” a statement issued by the northern governors read. Reacting, the southern governor said they received with utmost joy the news of the resolution of the 1o Governors from the Northern Region. The southern governors’ statement read, “We did not expect anything short of this heart-warming decision from our colleagues, great patriots and reliable partners in the collaborative efforts geared towards the attainment of nationhood for our dear country. “This is indeed another landmark achievement in our quest for understanding, rapprochement and continual engagements for mutual beneficence. We acknowledge this courageous stance for equity and moral rectitude. We applaud the zeal and determination of our brothers to engage realistically and honestly. “We salute this uncommon resolve to confront issues militating against the march towards nationhood and ultimate greatness. By this gesture, we are convinced of the seriousness of our colleagues to join other patriots in ensuring that the ascendant march towards stability, progress and prosperity is not truncated by indiscretion. “We congratulate our brother Governor, Abubakar Badaru, for his exemplary conduct. Posterity will remember him for good. We thank the leadership of the Northern Governors’ Forum for the patriotic zest displayed at this crucial moment. We look forward to conducting a hitch-free Convention which will culminate in the election of a suitable candidate who will hoist the flag of the party with a sense of mission.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com