The Peoples Democratic Party Senatorial candidate for Ogun West in Ogun State, Prof. Olufemi Bamgbose, has disclosed that he won’t withdraw from the senatorial race irrespective of the challenges before the general election. This is as he also raised the alarm alledging diabolical threat to his life by an unnamed person in the party. Bamgbose stated these on Sunday during a press briefing held in Abeokuta. He claimed that the battle for the district’s senatorial ticket has led to threats from some unnamed individuals. He also noted that the national headquarters of the PDP recognised his name as the candidate for the district. He added that those behind the threat are strongholds of the party, noting that they have adopted the threat instead of legal means . He said, “This is a press conference to confirm and establish that I am the elected candidate of the party. And that is the position of the national headquarters of PDP. “The list of the names of Senatorial candidates was released recently and my name is among them. “I want to reiterate and confirm that I did not intend to withdraw from this race for any reason. “I have been involved in campaigning and election over time that I ran the race through. “Now, what is going on in Ogun West is a situation whereby a particular candidate that was elected as I was also elected, is telling people because he feels that he is an emperor. He wants to run an undemocratic system that is going to force me to withdraw my interest in the candidature, which will not be. “We are suspecting that, in his usual parlance, he is thinking of employing diabolical means over lawful means, in pressuring me against my will.” Bamgbose however warned that the person behind the threat should be held responsible if any mishap happens to him. “So, I am putting everybody on notice that this individual, who thinks he is the owner of the party, because he has been able to show is lacking in the sensitive position of the party, is somebody to be watched. “Let me say this, the pedigree and our relationship with the people in Ogun West show that not only that the election is doable, but it is winnable.” He further called on the national leadership of the party to meddle in the matter before it goes overboard. “I am making the call to the national excos of the PDP because this individual did not release the INEC form  for my senatorial district which is supposed to  have been  given to me, he held on to that form unlawfully and illegally.” Asked to name the person behind the threat, Bamgbose said, “When the time comes, if it is not duly checked , it will become an issue of litigation and names will be mentioned with evidence.”