An angry mob on Tuesday set ablaze a suspected cultist popularly called ‘Tempo’, who is believed to have been terrorizing Uyo residents and its environs. He was set ablaze by the youth after a failed robbery at a popular boutique, Frankfik, located along Barracks Road, in the Akwa Ibom State capital, while members of his gang took to their heels. It was gathered that his body was dismembered before being set ablaze at number 2, Effiong Udo Akpan street, close to the boutique. “We were woken up by the shout of ‘thief ooh, thief ooh’ this early morning at about 4:30am at number 2, Effiong Udo Akpan Street. So, we immediately rallied the youths, who cooperated and stormed the compound. “And while his gang fled, he was unlucky. The youths tried to administer instant judgment on him, but machetes could not penetrate him. It was after the boys chained his legs, and cut off the charms from his waist, that the cuts started piercing his body. “Thereafter, they poured petrol on his body. He was in the habit of taking hard drugs inside the ravine of Eka street, where he used to live during the day and come out in the night to carry out his criminal operations,” Emmanuel Ekong, an eyewitness, said. “Several female students of the nearby University of Uyo bound by Eka street, have complained of being raped and dispossessed of their phones, laptops and cash,” he stressed. The Police Public Relations Officer, Odiko Macdon, while reacting to the incident, warned the youth and vigilante groups against jungle justice, and vowed that the command will not hesitate to prosecute culprits in the habit of lynching criminal suspects in the state. “Jungle justice has no place in the criminal justice system. Individuals have a right to arrest criminal suspects, but must hand them over to the Police for diligent investigation and proper prosecution,” he explained. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com