The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in Enugu State, Peter Mbah, has expressed gratitude to a former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu and other persons who contested the just-concluded primary in the state for their spirit of sportsmanship in his endorsement ahead of 2023 general elections. According to him, his emergence was the victory of all as there was no vanquished in that primary election. The other aspirants praised by Mbah were Captain Evarest Nnaji, Prof. Barth Nnaji, Senator Gil Nnaji, Chijioke Edeoga, Sir Christian Chinyeaka Ohaa, Rev. Raphael Nwoye, Dr. Josef Ken Onoh and Erasmus Anike. Others were Prof Hilary Odo-Edeoga, Dr. G.O.C Ajah, Pastor Beloved Dan Anike, Dr. Kingsley Udeh, Prof. Jehu Nnaji, Dr. Abraham Chukwudi Nneji, Nwabueze Ugwu and Chief Chikwado Chukwunta. Mbah in a statement signed by the Spokesperson of his Media Office, Dan Nwomeh, obtained by journalists in Abuja said all the aspirants won his heart for their sense of sportsmanship. He said, “We won together as there was no vanquished in that primary election. More than ever before, all the aspirants won my heart for their sense of sportsmanship. I thank all of them, without exception, for this demonstration of support and I can assure them that if Enugu people give us their votes and we enter the Lion Building, we shall all have stakes in the government. “The aspirants have shown that the people of Enugu State are more valuable in consideration than their personal political ambitions.” The Enugu State governorship candidate also said that he had “received phone calls and visits from virtually all the 16 aspirants”, who contested with him in the governorship primary. He said all of them pledged their loyalty to and continued support for the togetherness of the PDP in Enugu State. Mbah had called for unity among the Enugu PDP family, while Ekweremadu had congratulated him with an assurance that he would ensure the participation of everybody in his campaign team and government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com