The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, has ordered for the prosecution of perpetrators of economic crimes who weaken the revenue growth in the country. This was as the IGP appointed an Assistant Commissioner of Police, Lot Lantoh Garba, to be in charge of the IGP Special Task Force on Petroleum and Illegal Bunkering. These were contained in a statement signed by the Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, on Thursday. It partly read, “The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, psc(+), NPM, fdc, has ordered tactical and intelligence Commanders of the Force to deploy assets towards tackling perpetrators of economic crimes aimed at sabotaging and weakening the revenue-generating apparatus of the country. “He stressed that the actions of these economic saboteurs have become worrisome due to the huge losses being recorded as a result of their criminal activities. “The IGP issued the directives while charging the newly appointed Assistant Commissioner of Police in charge of the IGP Special Task Force on Petroleum and Illegal Bunkering, ACP Lot Lantoh Garba, to improve on the fight against economic crimes.” According to the statement, ACP Garba has, upon assumption of office, restructured the task force. The statement read, “Upon assumption of office, ACP Lot set the ball rolling which has led to immediate restructuring of the task force, and continuous decimation of the operations of criminal elements responsible for the theft of crude oil and other petroleum products, as well as illegal bunkering in the country. “Prominent amongst these is the breakthrough in Port-Harcourt, Rivers State, where operatives on surveillance patrol intercepted a 40-feet Container Truck conveying a large quantity of crude products suspected to be illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil stuffed in sacks. “The truck with Registration Number JRV 322 XV was driven by one Chukwudi Okafor aged 54 year-old, who has been arrested in connection with the offence. Preliminary investigations have shown that the driver is a member of a high-powered syndicate responsible for illegal bunkering in the area and beyond, and the arrest of the driver has definitely provided a lead to the arrest of other members of the syndicate. “The recovered truck with the accompanying product is currently in police custody at the Refinery Life Camp Division, Eleme, pending the conclusion of investigations.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com