The Bayelsa State House of Assembly has passed a one-point resolution urging the state government to take urgent steps to establish three additional oil palm plantations, one each in the three senatorial districts of the state. The one-point resolution also called on the government to resuscitate moribund plantations across the state. The resolution was sequel to a motion moved by a lawmaker, Mitema Obordor, on the need to establish three more state-owned oil palm plantations, one in each of the three senatorial districts of the state. He argued in his motion that the government’s over-dependence on crude oil had had telling negative effects on the state’s economy because of the price volatility of crude oil in the international market. Obordor informed the House that most sister-states in the South-South had taken concerted measures to improve their internally generated revenue through agriculture, and that Bayelsa should also prioritise agriculture. He stated that despite the existence of the Bayelsa Oil Palm at Elebele in the Ogbia Local Government Area, the state could still set up other oil plantations in the three senatorial districts to generate employment opportunities. The legislator also noted that such business ventures could help stabilise the economy of Bayelsa and reduce the state’s over-dependence on monthly federal allocation. Speaking in support of the motion, another law maker, Tonye Isenah, said it was never too late to do the right thing, adding that aggressively harnessing areas of strength in the agricultural sector would help the state to achieve economic viability. Also, a legislator, Ebiuwou Koku-Obiyai, remarked that the state’s plantations were aging and there was wisdom in establishing new ones for the economic growth of the state. Other lawmakers who backed the motion were Charles Daniel, Bernard Kenebai, MacDonald Igbadiwei and Oforji Oboku, and they stressed the need for the government to revive moribund plantations in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com