The Institute of Chartered Accountant of Nigeria, ICAN, has elected its 58th president, Tijani Isa. His investiture took place in Lagos and was witnessed by the governors of Lagos State and Jigawa State, the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, sister professional bodies, the academic community, and other relevant stakeholders. In his acceptance speech, the new ICAN President promised to hold dear the position of trust and responsibility reposed in him by his professional colleagues, with a commitment to live the ICAN ideal of integrity, professionalism, and defend the public interest. According to him, the theme of his presidential year is, ‘Positioning ICAN for higher members’ transcendence and public interest augmentation.’ He added that the institute will embark on collaborations with stakeholders such as the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria among others. In a statement Isa said, “As a nation, we are painfully at a crossroad. We are at a point in our economic development race where we must address the paradox of poverty in the midst of plenty. “Given the nation’s huge natural and human resource endowments, this is clearly an aberration. The anger of the hungry and the sense of insecurity of the helpless and vulnerable must be addressed for this narrative to change, for the sake of all of us. “As professionals skilled in resource management, we must confront these inexplicable, inexcusable, and unacceptable misery indices accentuated by the high rate of unemployment, poor access of the citizenry to the basic things of life, high illiteracy rate, a huge number of out-of-school children, low life expectancy rate and high rate of girl-child marriages if we are desirous of making any appreciable progress in the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals by year 2030.” In her remarks, the immediate past ICAN President, Mrs Comfort Eyitayo, expressed her gratitude to members of staff for their unflinching support and commitment and God who helped her during her tenure.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com