Pioneer Vice-Chancellor of the First Technical University, Ibadan, Prof  Ayobami Salami, who ended his tenure on May 8, 2022, in this interview, tells GRACE EDEMA that there is no knowledge that cannot be commercialised Kindly share your experience for the past five years being the vice-chancellor Well, it was a wonderful experience. Let me say it has not been easy. There was a point in time when the economy or the state of the country was not good; that it was even difficult to pay salaries; I think around the time of recession.  And starting a new thing at that time was actually a tough job but by the grace of God we were able to weather the storm and today, we can hold our heads high. Do you have fears that in the future, due to the political differences in the country,  partners will deviate from the mission and vision of the institution? What are those things in place that will prevent such occurrence? I think this fear has been there from the outset. I want to appreciate those God has put in running the affairs of the Oyo State government, both the APC (All Progressives Congress) and the PDP (Peoples Democratic Party). The two regimes have decided to preserve this university and we should give kudos to them – and this should be a model for other states in Nigeria to follow. The current administration should have just discarded the idea of this university. The current Oyo State governor is a man that has prioritised politics of development over the politics of our politicians. We are not yet there but we are moving there, it is in progress and we have set the mind to get to the mark. However, the aim is to make sure that this university is able to generate enough funds to sustain itself. In other words, there is a sustainable programme underway. What do you say concerning cultism and drug abuse in most tertiary institutions? The university is a microcosm of what you have in society. Let me start with the issue of cultism. Whatever you have in a larger society, they are bound to be replicated in the university because these children come from various backgrounds. The university is like a remodelling centre, where destinies are reshaped, with set rules and regulations. The school’s Code of Conduct is brought to the notice and awareness of the students immediately they step in, there’s zero tolerance for cultism. And it is with the code of conduct you are disciplined. We don’t allow notable individuals to interfere with our disciplinary process. We ask ourselves, why is it that Nigerians break traffic lights but when they get to the US and the UK, they don’t do that? All of us have the tendency to obey when we know sanctions will be applied, and all of us have the tendency not to obey if we know we will get away with it. That’s one thing we have established in this place. Even if you are the son of the president, you will face the consequences once you cross the red line. And that has helped to bring sanity. And the law is strictly applied. What are those noticeable things that your students have done and what is that unique thing that makes them stand out? The way and the kind of orientation and mindset you allow these students to have are very important. We have what is called entrepreneurship orientation. We say, you’re welcome to the university, but know this; we have millions of graduates seeking jobs outside there. So if you come to this university just to get a degree, it means you’re part of the crowd. Unemployment is real. A degree alone does not guarantee a job. It’s even a liability to people when they graduate from the university. We want to prepare them to know the reality outside. You need the knowledge and the skill. It’s no longer about what you can do. We also let you know that you should build yourself. Even if you read history, you can be enterprising with history. You can write biographies for people celebrating birthdays, burials, etc, as someone who reads history. There’s no knowledge you cannot commercialise, so we let you know what you can commercialise in your training from day one. We let our students and lecturers have this mindset, that as you are teaching them, let them know the application aspect of it. And we allow them to do vocational training at the end of every semester. There are two weeks of vocational training. When students graduate, they go for NYSC and they start organising vocational training for them for that one year. For me, I think it’s coming too late. It is good they are doing it, but the statistics show, and I think, 51 per cent of SMEs in Nigeria are run by graduates of tertiary institutions. Meanwhile, they didn’t have that mindset when they were in higher institutions. So why do we have to wait until they finish? Why don’t we mainstream it into their training? It’s my students that painted these two buildings. The paints were made by the students of this university. The paint used in Ajoda was made by the students of this university. Even the burglary fabrication was made by the students of this tertiary institution. And when we were doing our first graduation, the best student with a CGPA of 4.91 was also the best graduating student in vocational training. He got the prizes for the two. So that tells you that we have been able to cement skill and knowledge. Some of them while they are here are already running their businesses; they are already entrepreneurs. In the next five years, what would you like to see in place? I expect to see a transformation. When the foundation is solid, it’s easy to build on it. I expect to see rapid development and transformation and I can assure you, by the grace of God, it will come to pass. About what is driving us, is it to prove a point? It’s not. When I applied to become a Vice-Chancellor, I always believed that whatever office you occupy, it’s not about the office; it is about you the man. The opportunity that God gives us is for us to be able to leave a legacy behind. I’m a man of vision; I’m a man of passion. And I’ve always believed nobody will or can be remembered for himself. It’s what you have done for others. When you leave how will you be remembered? So I have always been asking myself anywhere I am and anywhere I find myself, I believe I should make a mark. When I look back, I feel highly fulfilled. God has been able to help me to make a contribution, however little it can. On VC selection process, it has become crisis filled. What’s your advice for the government? Ordinarily, the selection process should not be rancorous. It should follow the normal approved processes and procedures. But the Nigerian factor would want to come into the system. And the only solution is to go back and do it the way it should be done. If we are not ready to do it the way it should be done, we will continue to have the same kind of problem. The managers of the universities, the government, the stakeholders, it’s not just about one sector. Almost every sector is guilty. The due process should be the legacy and culture of the university, but we just want to throw it into the wind. We should stick to due process. And we should stick to what has been stated in the books, in the laws. My advice to the government is that government should not continue to interfere unduly in the affairs of the university. You are not a Vice-Chancellor just to make a name for yourself. You should have the vision and be able to make contributions. Try as much as possible to stay away from politics. If you are a politician as a VC, you won’t be able to do what you ought to do. You won’t be able to stick to the ethics of the calling of your office. What are the challenges limiting the incorporation of biotechnology into the Nigerian system? Now with respect to biotechnology and the rest of this country, the development challenges we have in this country today we know them, talking about the basic things about security, about livelihood. When you talk about biotechnology, it requires concerted efforts. The basic things we need, we are unable to provide them, even electricity. Let’s first talk about power before biotechnology. Until we are able to put our hands together, we may continue to struggle with it. What are those strategies ASUU could deploy in reducing strikes? ASUU is one of the crucial stakeholders in Nigeria’s tertiary institutions. All the stakeholders need to work collaboratively to rescue our educational system from the quagmire. I know, as a people,  we blame ASUU but is the government fulfilling its own part? If the government is not fulfilling its own part, you don’t expect ASUU to keep quiet. It’s not only about ASUU, it’s about the government; it’s about other crucial stakeholders in charge of the system.    ,,  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com