A group in the All Progressives Congress in Ogun State, under the aegis of Concerned APC Members Platform, has called for the review of the outcomes of the party’s primaries held in the state. The APC in the state had held primaries into elective positions and had declared the winners. But some aspirants have kicked against the results of the primaries, claiming there were manipulations and sharp practices. The APC group has, however, petitioned the state governor, Dapo Abiodun, to investigate and review the outcomes of the party primaries. The group in the petition titled, “APC primaries: Group calls for redress of injustice against some aspirants,” said it has found out that primaries did not take place in some places. Speaking on behalf of the group, a chieftain of the APC in the Ogun East Senatorial District, Olushola Oyapidan, said some aspirants were not given level playing fields during the primaries. He stated, “Some were discriminated against while others were completely disenfranchised and their teeming supporters, who were amongst the delegates, could not cast their votes while the exercise lasted. “We, therefore, call on the Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, and other leaders of the party in the state to urgently address the issue; with a view to calming down frayed nerves and forestalling any moves by some self-centred and destructive characters whose machination is militating against the cohesion of the party. “We want things to be fair, orderly and peaceful. This is why we launched some years ago, the APC Concerned Leaders and People platform, in order to ensure that grassroot members of our party are given equal opportunities to operate within the party’s structure. “Our platform has, within the period of its existence, operated as a conveyor belt between the leaders and other members of the party.” The group, which cited a case study of Odogbolu and Sagamu, said, “Having been present on the day of the election, we heard and saw all that happened. “We can confidently say primaries have not been done. What was done was presided over by one of the aspirants who took advantage of her incumbency to subvert the will of the majority of people in our constituency. We consider it a rape of our democracy. “It is unimaginable to submit our aspirant to a primary that is presided over by another aspirant who showed up at the venue with a prepared result of the election that has not been held.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com