The Maigari of Lokoja, HRH Muhammaddu Kabir Maikarfi, has showered royal blessings on a leading digital terrestrial television service provider, GOtv Nigeria, for extending its service to Lokoja, Kogi State. Expressing his delight, the Maigari, ably represented by the Maiyaki of Lokoja, Alhaji Ali Lawal, said GOtv followed the traditional and spiritual path for its launch in the city and would continue to enjoy royal blessings and support of residents. He said, “We are glad that GOtv has come to Lokoja, and we know that GOtv will go far. This is because, from a traditional and spiritual perspective, you have made the right choice by starting from the palace. “When a visitor seeks royal blessings, it will not thread wrongly or derail. I come with blessings for GOtv for recognizing the royal institution. Patronizing GOtv is like patronizing a source of knowledge, mixed with entertainment, and reports that will widen the horizon of our thinking. “We also commend GOtv for making the decoder affordable. It is a privilege to welcome you to Lokoja and we are delighted to have you here.” Speaking at the launch, the Executive Head of Sales, MultiChoice Nigeria, Akinola Salu, stated that GOtv is coming into the city with high-quality entertainment for households and economic empowerment for residents. “This is the home of entertainment. The quality of programming and content is second to none. Overall, GOtv is a family package. Whatever amount you have, we have a package for you. And for the launch in Lokoja, we have brought the price down from N9,500 to N6,900 so that everybody can afford GOtv. “We have also made GOtv available all over Lokoja. We have over 200 neighbourhood stores selling GOtv across the city. Apart from that, we have over 100 young ladies and gentlemen who work as Canvassers to sell GOtv. These are young minds who probably haven’t been employed before now. We are taking them off the streets to earn and make a living for themselves,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com