A new public opinion poll has revealed that 68 per cent of adult Nigerians nationwide believe the country is grossly insecure. The poll also said 29 per cent of Nigerians believe the country is somewhat secured while 3 per cent described the country as very secure. According to the poll, seven in 10 Nigerians described the current state of security in the country as dreadful. The poll was conducted by NOIPolls Limited, a country-specific polling services in West Africa which conducts periodic opinion polls and studies on various socio-economic and political issues. The poll result, which was published on May 27, 2022, said the security situation in Nigeria is arguably the worst after the Civil War. It partly read, “The menace of insecurity has continued to rear its ugly head in our country Nigeria, causing loss of lives, destruction of property, instilling the undesirable element of fear and trepidation in the populace. “The insecurity situation in Nigeria today is arguably the worst since after the Civil War and has continued to rise unabated despite government intervention in terms of spending trillions of naira in fighting insecurity. “A new public opinion poll conducted by NOIPolls  revealed that 68 per cent of adult Nigerians nationwide described the current state of security in the country as insecure, 29 per cent of adult Nigerians believed the country is somewhat secured while 3 per cent described the country as very secure.” A security expert, Oladele Fajana, told The PUNCH that with spate of insecurity in Nigeria, the country is under threat. He said, “This shows you that we are under threat. Everyone should anticipate attack anytime. Criminals can attack anytime. The paupers, clerics and other well-to-do Nigerians have become subjects of attacks. Just tell me who and where is safe.” Another security expert, Jackson Ojo, said no place in the country is secured. He said, “Nigeria is an unsafe territory. With the recent attack in Ondo, it shows banditry has reared its ugly head into the South-West. “Don’t forget that Ondo State is the gateway from North to South West.  It is getting near to Lagos, and if it does, then the country will collapse because that is the nerve centre of the country. Apart from these, virtually all the states of the country are not safe.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com