A member of the House of Representatives from Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa federal constituency, Oyo State, Shina Peller, has described reports by some online media that he had defected from the All Progressives Congress to another political party as mere “rumours”. The lawmaker said this in a statement issued on Sunday by his media aide, Kola Popoola. Peller, who lost the Oyo North Senatorial ticket of the APC to Senator Fatai Buhari, said until he personally announce his exit from the APC via his verified social media platforms, any report of defection remains mere speculations, and should be regarded. His visit to a chieftain of the New Nigeria People’s Party, Alhaji Adebisi Olopoeyan, last week had triggered speculations that he had dumped the APC but refuted the claims. He said, “My attention has been drawn to an unfounded report going viral that I have defected from the All Progressives Congress to New Nigeria People’s Party. Also, while some speculate that I am now a member of the Peoples Democratic Party, some conclude I am now in Accord Party. This is nothing but a rumour and should be regarded as one by all as I still remain a member of the APC until I announce otherwise via my verified social media handles. “That I honoured Alhaji Adebisi Olopoeyan’s invitation to his house doesn’t mean I have defected to NNPP. Alhaji Olopoeyan is a family friend, and the fact that we belong to different political parties doesn’t mean I should start playing politics of bitterness with him. I am not that kind of a person and won’t turn to one for political reasons. “It would be recalled that about a week ago, one of the chieftains of our party in Oyo State, had also alleged that I am being secretly positioned by the Peoples Democratic Party to be a running mate to Governor of Oyo State, Engr. Seyi Makinde in the 2023 Oyo State gubernatorial race. This is also not true, and the recent announcement of Bayo Lawal as a running mate to Governor Makinde has further rendered the allegation baseless. “That I commended Governor Makinde on a project that is beneficial to my constituents shouldn’t make one conclude that I am now a PDP member. Also, Engr. Seyi Makinde is not a governor to PDP members only, but a governor to everyone in Oyo State including myself. I haven’t defected from APC to any political party, and even if I am going to do so, that would be for the people of Oke Ogun in Oyo State to decide.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com