Actor, Rotimi Salami, says he does not deceive women because his mother strongly advised him against doing that. Speaking on how he deals with admiration from women, he told Saturday Beats, “There are many cute guys in Nollywood and beyond. Something will always make a person stand out, and that is grace. The only thing I am enjoying is grace. In my line of work, the moment women like what one does, that means one is doing something right. “It is usually said that women have the power to push one up, and they can also push one down. My mother always warned me, even before I started acting, that if I don’t have the intention to eat anything, I should not even smell it. “She (mum) always told me not to lie to women. That is one of the things that have kept me going when it comes to dealing with female fans. I will welcome you (female fan) as much as I can but the moment I realise that you are going to bring discomfort (to me), I will let you know. Of course, I cannot embrace everybody but in my heart, I wish I can do that.” Reacting to a troll who mocked his wife on social media, the actor stated that fans should always put themselves in the shoes of celebs before making comments about time. He said, “My advice to our fans is that before making that hateful comment or even advice, they should read it at least three or five times before posting it (on social media).” The actor also stated that the lady who made the post was probably just looking for attention. He said, “I feel people are mentally, psychologically and even physically affected by a lot of things. Everybody wants attention at one point or the other. “If anybody really claims to love me and my brand, they will protect everything that has to do with me.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com