A Federal High Court in Abuja on Thursday issued a final order to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.); Attorney General of the Federation and the Federal Character Commission to defend or lose a suit filed against them on the alleged lopsided appointments in the Federal Capital Territory. Justice Inyang Ekwo issued the order following the refusal of the three defendants to file their defence in the suit by an Abuja-based lawyer and human rights activist, Maxwell Okpara. During Thursday’s proceedings, only the Minister of the FCT, Muhammad Bello, was represented by a legal practitioner, Udom Ibeanem, while Buhari, the AGF and the FCC were not in court and not represented by any legal practitioner. Counsel for the plaintiff, Chukwuma Ozougwu, drew the attention of the court to the refusal of the three defendants to respond to the originating summons issued and served on them since December 2021. He thereafter sought permission of the court to present the plaintiff’s case against them. However, Justice Ekwo held a contrary position, adding that the matter was such that the three defendants must file their defence. “If by next adjourned date, the three defendants fail to come up with defence, this court would have exhausted its patience and indulgence,” he said. Justice Ekwo subsequently fixed October 17 for definite hearing of the suit. Meanwhile, the FCT Minister who is the 1st defendant in the suit has filed his counter affidavit and preliminary objection against the suit, praying the court to dismiss it on the grounds of lack of locus standi by the plaintiff. Opara is contending that Buhari, the FCT Minister and the AGF violated the federal character principle in the recent appointments of Permanent Secretaries, Executive Secretaries, personal aides, directors and other members of staff of the Federal Capital Territory Administration. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com