Student body, under the aegis of the National Association of Ora-Igbomina students, Osun State, has frowned at the planned visit of Governor Oyetola to Ora-Igbomina town, Ifedayo Local Government Area of the state. In a press release issued on Thursday by the president and general secretary of the association, Adedapo Taiwo and Adewumi Boluwatife respectively, the student body bemoaned the poor state of roads in their community, stating that Governor Oyetola should not bother coming to the area to campaign ahead of the July election in the state if the roads were not fixed. The statement partly read, “The student body frown at the political leaders in the town who have refused to speak truth to power. Our leaders only run after their pockets at the expense of the poor masses of Ora-Igbomina. “The status quo of Ila-Ora road is nothing to write home about, as the road has been neglected for almost 12 years, thereby, causing accidents for the passersby who are majorly from Ora-Igbomina. We expect our leaders to have written to the state government and act accordingly as regards the state of the road, instead, they are busy praising the ego of the governor for their selfish benefits.” The students noted that they could no longer travel home in peace on the road as they feared accidents, adding that they gave the governor a week to fix the road or he should not bother coming to campaign for votes. “The aim of NAOS is to take Ora to the peak of her crescendo and to prioritise the interest of her members, but with this, the interest of our members is at stake as we can not travel home in peace due to the deteriorated condition of the road and the fear of accident. Below are some pictures of the road in the community:   “On the above-mentioned points, we hereby send a strong message to Mr governor and Political leaders in Ora-Igbomina that if nothing is done to the subject matter in less than one week, the governor should not bother coming to our town for a campaign and should forget a good number of votes in the town, mostly from students and our progressive parents.” The student body also called on its members to do away with violence in the forthcoming election in the state. “The leadership of the association also uses this medium to urge all the students and youths in the community to shun violence as we approach the governorship election in Osun State. It is no news that the political elites and gladiators will want to use students and youths for their political jumbo that can jeopardise our future, we should not forget election is not a war. The leadership of the association, hereby, calls on all the youths to do away with such acts. “We believe Mr. governor is a father, he will listen to our prayers and construct our road in a limited time before the governorship election comes up on July 16 this year,” the statement concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com