The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2023 general election, Atiku Abubakar, on Monday, said national security would be the thrust of his administration. The ex-Vice President said this in a series of tweets posted to his verified Twitter page, @atiku, on Monday. Atiku’s tweets also contained what he called “National Security 7-point Agenda.” “National Security will be a key policy thrust of my administration. This is because a secured country is critical to the success of every sector of our nation. To take us to where we ought to be security-wise, this is what we will do: -AA,” Atiku wrote. Listing his national security seven-point agenda, Atiku tweeted: “#1: Ensuring the security of lives and properties and the dignity of Nigerians by restructuring and enhancing the funding of our security agencies as well as training of security personnel. “#2: Restoring merit and professionalism in the process of recruitment, appointment and promotions enshrined in the acts establishing the security outfits and their extant rules and regulations. “#3: Implementing a Special Presidential Welfare Initiative for our security personnel. “#4: Increasing the number of security personnel to meet the security needs of over 200 million Nigerians. We shall conduct systematic and guided recruitment exercise of up to one million personnel into the police force, to combat current security challenges and meet the UN police to citizen ratio of 1:450. “#5: Employing the tools of strategic engagement with state and non-state actors in theatres of conflict. “#6: Promoting Police-Community relations to build mutual trust and confidence as a proactive strategy for crime prevention and control. “#7: Streamlining the functions and operations of security outfits like the NSCDC, FRSC, among others to foster synergy, and intelligence sharing in order to make them more effective.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com