A presidential aspirant of the African Action Congress, Omoyele Sowore has stepped down from his position as the national chairman of the party. Sowore who stepped down on Thursday at the presidential primary of the party said that the Constitution of the party does not allow him to be the chairman while contesting for its presidential ticket. Sowore clarified that he stepped down for the sole purpose of today’s presidential election but he would officially step down after their national convention which would come up soon. He said, “I stepped down for the purpose of today’s election. “Constitution says if you’re aspirant and chairman you step down for the sake of the primary.” Having stepped down as the national chairman, he presented himself as the aspirant and the delegates voted him in by shouting aye! He said he had what it takes to lead the country to a better place having led ground-shaking protests and other events in Nigeria. According to him, through the RevolutionNow and the Endsars protest which he claimed to have started, he has been able to rattle the government. He said, “I don’t want to be like other politicians, so, I will step down. “Other parties elected thieves as their presidential candidates, we elect our own police that will catch them. We are young people who are digital-oriented. “We have the mind and the agility to move around.” The PUNCH reports that a Court of Appeal in Abuja had June 2, 2022, affirmed Sowore as the National Chairman of the African Action Congress. The court held that a 2019 judgment by the High Court which sacked Sowore as the party’s chairman was out of the court’s jurisdiction, adding that it was an internal affair. In 2019, the High Court, in the judgment that was delivered by Justice Iyang Ekwo, said it was satisfied that Sowore who was the presidential flag-bearer of the AAC, was validly suspended by the National Executive Committee of the party. Sowore, in an appeal marked CA/A/812/2019, challenged the High Court’s judgment declaring an expelled General Secretary of the party, Leonard Nzenwa, as the acting Chairman. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com