While Kenya, Uganda, Botswana and Tanzania are raking in billions of dollars from wildlife tourism, Nigeria, on the other hand, is embattled with gradual wildlife extinction, owing to the government and citizens’ lackadaisical attitudes.  AMARACHI OKEH writes that this has been going on for a while, projects plausible solutions, and discusses other issues bordering on wildlife tourism As described by experts, some wild animals are now “functionally extinct” in the Nigerian forests as the country witnesses a decline in the number of the animals. This rapid decline has left conservation experts worried about the impacts of the looming extinction of some endangered species on the Nigerian economy. They share the view that the extinction of endangered species could rob the country of both ecological and economic benefits. According to WildAid, a wildlife conservation advocacy and non-profit organisation, Nigeria has no surviving cheetahs, rhinos, and giraffes. However, there are 50 lions, 100 gorillas, 500 elephants, and 2,300 chimpanzees in the wild that are critically endangered. The lackadaisical attitude of the government in preserving them could boost the economy of the country. The experts, Mark Ofua and Kelechukwu Iruoma spoke with The PUNCH in commemoration of the National Endangered Species Day. Speaking with PUNCH, Ofua, a veterinarian and conservationist, said the greatest challenge to the preservation of endangered wildlife species in Nigeria is ignorance. “The level of ignorance from the policymakers to the ordinary citizens is very alarming,” he said. “We do not even know why we should preserve them. We do not know the benefit these animals give to us. We do not know why we should co-exist peacefully with them and because we do not know, we are unconcerned about their plight whether they go extinct or not. “Some people do not realise that our livelihood is tied to these animals and we need them to thrive in order for us to thrive properly.” Ofua told our reporter that there is so much untapped potential in wildlife conservation in Nigeria rather, “People flock to Kenya, Uganda and South Africa annually and pay millions to see these animals. These countries rake in millions of dollars from tourism activities,” said Ofua. “I know that in Uganda to spend an hour with the gorillas in the wild you pay about $1,500. Just imagine that. So, you can imagine how much time these gorillas rake in for the countries but our gorillas here, we allow hunters to kill them or sell them as bush meat. “What about in Kenya?,” he asked, “to spend time with the orphan elephant, you’d pay. We have elephants in Nigeria but we are killing them. Imagine if I kill one adult elephant here in Nigeria and I sell the tusk, and maybe the flesh will feed about five or ten families and that is it but if I keep that elephant alive and it becomes a tourist attraction, it would fetch the community hundreds of thousands of naira every month for the next 50 years.” Nigeria has rare wildlife like the forest elephant, and Cross River gorilla, not found in other countries but their presence doesn’t matter as the country does not value it. As Nigeria still contends with the teeming unemployment that currently stands at 33.3% according to the National Bureau of Statistics, countries like Kenya, South Africa, Tanzania, Namibia, Uganda, Botswana through wildlife conservation are creating employment and increasing the Gross Domestic Product of their countries. Standard Media, a Kenyan media outlet, has reported that wildlife-based tourism contributes nearly 14% to Kenya’s GDP. In 2019, the country reportedly earned $1.61 billion, Reuters said. In South Africa, its wildlife economy driven by tourism contributed about $8bn in 2018 thus accounting for 2.8% of the GDP of their economy, Investec reported. The World Bank also stated that in “Namibia, 19% of all employment is directly or indirectly linked to tourism. In Tanzania, tourism is the largest foreign exchange earner, competing with gold.” While the tourism industry can create opportunities for preserving the endangered wildlife, Ofua noted that human activities like housing developments and agriculture reduce the habitat of native organisms thus risking their extinction. He argued that no matter how much you love a species or animal, once the home range is destroyed, that animal will go extinct but that doesn’t have to be so, he said. The zoo can be a breeding ground instead of being just a holding ground for them. A report by World Atlas also said human activities like farming, hunting and lumbering are the major threats to endangered mammals in Nigeria. Traditional beliefs and superstitions are also another reason why these animals become extinct. “About 10 years ago, how you would know you are approaching the southeast is the sighting of vultures along the road because vultures would come to the roadside to feast on road kills, but right now you can hardly see vultures. “If only you know the roles vultures play in taking care of our health because they are the garbage can for nature. They eat up dead animals and ensure those domestic animals do not get access to these dead wild animals and bring diseases to use. “Vultures help to safeguard our health but we have killed all of them both for food and for rituals. So, we are actually endangering ourselves if we do not care for these species that are in danger.” Just like the tagline for WildAid’s campaign that said, ‘Keep them wild, keep us safe,’ the experts noted that the preservation of these species is important in keeping the ecosystem balanced. There is a need for a nationwide campaign to raise awareness of the threat to endangered species in Nigeria, said Kelechukwu Iruoma, WildAid Nigeria’s representative. Iruoma stated that WildAid is committed to seeing that endangered species in Nigeria are preserved and their population increase in the near future. With support from relevant government authorities, Iruoma says WildAid hopes to restore the country’s declined wildlife tourism and make Nigeria a conservation leader in Africa. Can conserving these animals be possible? Ofua said it can be done but the right attitude from the government is necessary. He posited that once the government shows it is ready to preserve the wildlife and tackle wildlife crime, people would sit up to protect it. “We need conservation biology to be taught in our curriculum aggressively. We need it to be in our media and entertainment. We need to have this conservation consciousness, which is the first thing to do to preserve our wildlife.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com