About 72 hours after his emergence as the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress for the 2023 election, a former governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu, on Friday, visited Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, describing him as his son. He also commended Bello for mobilising the consciousness of the youths in the country, saying he “reminded us of what the nation wants to be.” Tinubu was accompanied during the visit by three Governors: Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos); Bello Matawalle (Zamfara); and Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano). A former governor of Edo State and former national chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, was also at the meeting where Bello announced the collapse of his Presidential Campaign Council and donation of the building to Tinubu. Bello said, “Today, I have collapsed my President Campaign Organization. I am donating my campaign organisation secretariat to you. I’ve learnt a lot from the little lecture you gave to us. What elders see when they’re in the valley, the younger ones won’t see it. “The exercise (convention/primaries) has come and gone. I will be on the streets to lead the youths to ensure that we win convincingly. Never again will PDP lead this country. Thank you all my colleague governors for giving me the opportunity to learn from you. “Senator Abdullahi Adamu (APC National Chairman) has never lost election and we will win the 2023 election. Our convention went well and peacefully.” On his part, Tinubu thanked the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for providing a level-playing ground for all the contestants during the special convention and primary. He said, “The man of the convention, the man of democracy for that day is Muhammadu Buhari. He said, ‘if you want to run, run; you want to crawl, crawl; you want to dance, dance. “Yahaya Bello is my son; you mobilised the consciousness of the youths in the county. You reminded us of what the nation wants to be. Today, we take a very good step to say we want to work for one united country that is concerned about prosperity. Thank you all members of Yahaya Bello Campaign Organisation. You all made a mark, you were resolute. But there’s a difference between a tiger and a lion. “Great things were done during the convention, wanting to become the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. But it’s only one person with a Vice President.” Tinubu also thanked the leadership of the party for ensuring that the convention ended peacefully saying, “they (opposition) thought there would be chaos and crisis. But we saw peace. Emi l’okan. It’s my turn.” According to him, he was very proud of the Director-General of Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation, Hafsat Abiola-Costello, saying the joy in the country was on her father, “MKO Abiola in who June 12 became public holiday.” He also informed that it was in the house of Kudirat Abiola (Hafsat’s mother) that he found the cap with which he disguised to flee from Nigeria, saying, “I’m happy to be back to save Nigeria.” Asiwaju also saluted the courage of the Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle, who, he said, faced the worst form of opposition including banditry, adding “I thought the termite would eat him up. He listened to the words of elders, brought reconciliation and peace to Zamfara state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com