The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has said it arrested 92 suspected internet fraudsters, popularly known as Yahoo boys, in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, in a sting operation on Wednesday. According to a statement by the agency on Friday, the arrests were made in different areas of the Rivers State capital including Choba and Ada George, following an intelligence report. The EFCC noted that of the 92 suspects arrested, 64 were found with incriminating contents on their phones and emails. The agency also published the name of all 92 suspects and stated that they would be charged to court once they were done with investigations. The statement read in part, “The 92 suspects were arrested for alleged internet fraud activities at locations including Choba and Ada George axis of Port Harcourt, Rivers State, following an intelligence report. “Analysis of the devices recovered from the suspects established that 64 of the suspects have incriminating items in their phones and emails. “The Sixty Four (64) suspects are: Lawrence Philip, Edewor Victor, Triumph Amgbu, Elvis Ogheze, Maduakolam Lius Fred, Edet Victor Akpan, Joshua Fidelis, Henry Wisdom, Isiah Ejarat, Destiny Waaogho Erigga, David Alli, Goodluck Edowru, James Otu, Asoulu Dare, Jerry Thankgod, Anawanti Finder, Edowuru Famous, Felix Osaro, Ukaegbu Franklin, Clinton Paul, Stansley .O. Tallick, Prosper Osadebameh, Prince Onyebuchi Ifeanyi, Gift Henry, Miracle Danien, Anyaeri Chidiebere, Udechukwu Ezenna, Udechukwu Victor, Favor Kelechi, Ernest Chidubem, Endurance Erebo, Chigozie Emeonye and Precious Enomah. “Others are Ohiarekurh Daniel, Ordinachukwu Daniel Obinna, Light Gospel Nwosu, John Junior, Udosina Obi Mike, Samuel Promise, Aremo Folarin, Treasure Mike, Confidence Paul, Precious Paul, Ndubusi John Kingsley, Emmanuel Matthew Agoke, Aso Gideion Apata, Favor Otogbo,… “Favor Shadrack Moses, Vincent Athanasius, Imafidon Junior, Kelly Didi, Emmanuel Odunor, Samuel Dickson, Victor Akpan, Godwin Oluwafemi Ozeknome, Norbert Atuna, Sam Uba, Emmanuel Bobo Ojuru, Kelechi Ben, Matthis Ibidabo, Kelvin Mathew Agoke, Chidera Chibuzor Anieze, Moses Shedrack and Collins Christopher. “The indicted suspects will be charged to court as soon as the investigation is concluded.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com