Twenty-four political thugs have been arrested by officers of the Nigeria Police Force in a hotel, Minki Suites, along Keffi-Akwanga road, Nasarawa State, acting on credible intelligence. The thugs, suspected to be loyal to an aspirant in the Nasarawa-West Senatorial primary election, came into the hotel in a convoy of seven private vehicles. Items recovered from the arrested suspects include: eight pump action guns, two locally made revolver guns, 37 rounds of live cartridges, four bulletproof vests, 27 mobile phones, two pairs of vigilante uniforms, five cutlasses, 10 assorted knives, criminal charms, and other incriminating objects. Preliminary investigations revealed that the suspects, who are thugs for hire, carry out their heinous acts under the guise of being members of the Vigilante Group of Nigeria. This is as the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, approved the establishment of Electoral Offences Desk at the Force Criminal Investigations Department, Force Headquarters, in Abuja on Tuesday, with the Commissioner of Police, FCID, as the Desk Officer. The IGP also approved its establishment at State Commands across the nation with the Assistant Commissioners of Police in charge of the Criminal Investigation Departments as State Desk Officers. “The mandate of the Electoral Offences Desk Officers includes the collation and investigation of all electoral offences and complaints from members of the public or any quarters, with a view to determining culpability in line with the amended Electoral Act 2022, and proffering charges before Courts of competent jurisdiction for necessary legal action,” the IGP said in a statement signed by the Force Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi. The IGP, however, ordered the immediate transfer of the arrested suspects’ case to the Electoral Offences Desk at the Force Criminal Investigation Department and the immediate arrest of the concerned aspirant for necessary investigative actions. Baba also tasked the Desk to commence its activities immediately with some isolated cases recorded during the pre-election activities such as screening, conventions, primaries, and other electoral events. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com