The 2023 governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in Katsina State, Dikko Radda, on Monday, called on party members to approach the forthcoming general election as a united family. He said doing so would ensure victory for the party and would be to the benefit of every party member. The immediate past Director-General of Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency made the appeal in Katsina during a meeting with chairmen and council leaders in all the 34 Local Government Areas of the state. Radda told the officials who are all APC members that, as a grassroots politician, he would give all councils a free hand to operate when he became the state Governor. He also assured them that he would operate an open-door policy to ensure the development of the state. The governorship candidate told the gathering that he had already met with all those who contested against him during the primary on the need to approach the forthcoming general election as a united team. He advised party members to put behind them whatever happened during the party’s governorship primary and begin to work at winning the hearts of the electorate ahead of the polls. The governorship candidate declared, “As the general election draws nearer, many allegations would come up aimed at tarnishing the image of the state government and the party. I want us to be vigilant about this. “We have several months before the polls, so we have time to work for the victory of the party. We should, therefore, come out with our resources and supporters to ensure success. “I hold no grudge against anyone in the party, especially those that contested with me for the governorship ticket of the party. “We have had our internal wrangling and we have come out of the primary. The time is now for us to put hands together, forget our differences and work to ensure we return the party to power in 2023. “On election day, you’re not going to vote for me. You are going to vote for the APC, the party that gave me the ticket. “The coming election is going to be different. Results are going to be sent to the Independent National Electoral Commission as they come, so there can be no irregularities. “Therefore, ensure that you work diligently for the party so that we can compete favourably with the opposition. “Look at ways you can sell the party and its candidates to the electorate, as this is the only way to win their hearts and convince them to vote for the APC. “I have been a grassroots politician and I know the problems facing the council areas. We’ll not lord it over you, but support you so that you work for the socio-economic development of your areas. “If elected, our government would operate an open-door policy, and would ensure that everyone is carried along. “As governor, I’ll ensure monies belonging to the councils are not tampered with so that you can use same to ensure the development of communities at the councils.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com