The Lagos State Government has partnered with the Africa Film Academy to train 600 youths in Alimosho, Badagry and Epe in filmmaking. A statement made available to The PUNCH on Thursday quoted the state Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf, as disclosing this at an event organised by the ministry in Alimosho. Akinbile-Yussuf, during her address at the event themed, ‘Film in a box, on the field,’ noted that the initiative would identify youth talents and train them in order to be the best to further improve the creative industry. She said, “The state government partnered with AFA to train 600 youths in three Local Government Areas of the state, specifically: Alimosho, Badagry and Epe, in the act of filmmaking and exploring different aspects of it. “This is in continuation of our efforts to discover, encourage and nurture talented creative youths of this state, who can favourably compete globally in terms of content and technical know-how in film production. “As we all know that the youth population is the strength and vigour of the society, this explains why Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu gives exceptional attention to youth-related initiatives, especially through capacity development as part of efforts by the government to address the growing and increasing unemployment rate across the country.” The founder of AFA, Anyiam-Osigwe, stated that the training would last for six weeks and would include practical sessions for the trainees.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com