The Lagos State Government has called on real estate developers to embrace practices that protect the earth, which is at the heart of the profession. A statement by the Lagos State Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, signed by its Director of Public Affairs, Mukaila Sanusi, said the call was made on the 2022 World Environment Day through a statement by the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development,  Dr.  Idris Salako. According to the statement, Salako said that the global celebration of the day was a clarion call for a sustainable attitude towards the built environment. He said, “No doubt, the human element is germane in what becomes of our earth. Therefore, let everyone of us,  in the various relationships we share with this benevolent matter,  be it professionals in the built environment, decision makers or land users, retune ourselves towards cultivating the right attitude that will promote livability and protect the Earth.” Reflecting on the celebration theme, “Only One Earth,” the commissioner urged Lagosians to desist  from practices capable of harming the ecosystem, urging them to protect its features and discharge their responsibilities towards its sustainability. “The day also reminds us of the responsibility we all share towards the sustainability of our avuncular host, housing our civilisations, symbolised by the physical developments and all their trappings,” he further stated. Salako said building collapses experienced in the state in recent times were aberrations and needless distractions which must be addressed via concerted efforts from stakeholders and industry players. “Specifically, in the built environment, it behoves  us to adopt attitude of compliance to regulations and endeavour to build right by doing the needful, including obtaining Planning Permits before building, subjecting building construction to Stage Supervision by LASBCA and getting the Certificate of Completion and Fitness for Habitation before moving into any building.” He stated that the Lagos State Government, on its part, would continue to promote sustainable planning, strengthen monitoring and enforcement and uphold its determination to deliver a 21st century economy for the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com