A Consultant Urologist, Dr. Gabriel Ogah has advised men who are battling premature ejaculation to seek appropriate medical treatment instead of taking a Viagra-type drug, noting that such medications cannot cure the health condition. The expert stressed that drugs like viagra are mainly targeted at men who suffer from impotence, noting that there are other medications for the treatment of premature ejaculation. The consultant urologist noted that while Viagra-type drugs may help a man who suffers premature ejaculation perform better, it is not a cure for the condition. He stressed that drugs like Viagra should only be taken on the recommendation of a physician, warning that its abuse can lead to some complications. Sildenafil, sold under the brand name Viagra and is also available under many other branded names in the market is a drug used to treat impotence – inability to get or keep an erection – in men. Some studies have, however, found that the drug may hold some potency in treating premature ejaculation. Ogah, who is the Chief Medical Director of Ogah Hospital and Urology Centre, Fugar, Edo State, explained that most men who battle premature ejaculation also battle with impotence. He, however, clarified that the two conditions are different, even though they are related. Speaking further with PUNCH HealthWise, the urologist noted that there are medications targeted at treating premature ejaculation specifically. Premature ejaculation occurs when a man ejaculates sooner during sexual intercourse than he or his partner would like. According to Mayo Clinic – a medical center focused on integrated health care, education, and research, “Premature ejaculation is a common sexual complaint. “Estimates vary, but as many as 1 out of 3 men say they experience this problem at some time. “As long as it happens infrequently, it does not cause for concern. “However, you might be diagnosed with premature ejaculation if you: always or nearly always ejaculate within one minute of penetration, are unable to delay ejaculation during intercourse all or nearly all of the time and feel distressed and frustrated, and tend to avoid sexual intimacy as a result,” Mato Clinic said. Explaining the difference between premature ejaculation and impotence, Ogah said, “Premature ejaculation is different from impotence although they are related. A lot of people who have premature ejaculation are also impotent. “In order words, they don’t have a good enough erection and some of them also have premature ejaculation. “If they take drugs like Viagra, they may perform better by having better erection but there are drugs now which are only for premature ejaculation. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com