A former governorship aspirant in Plateau State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, Yohnna Margif, has emerged as the governorship candidate of the Labour Party in the state. Margif, who left the APC in controversial circumstances after purchasing the party’s nomination form picked the Labour Party governorship ticket during the party’s primary held in Jos on Thursday . He was elected as the LP governorship candidate by 85 delegates, which consisted of five persons from 17 LGAs of the State. The primary took place in the presence of INEC officials, security personnel, the media and supporters of the party. The National Chairman of the Labour Party, Julius Abure, who conducted the primary election said the Labour Party is the party that will liberate the masses from the poverty that the APC and PDP brought to Nigerians. Represented by Joseph Ndirang, the chairman noted that the manifesto and mandate of the Labour Party is to present credible and quality candidates during the general elections that will focus on education, health, security, economy and the welfare of Nigerian workers. The National Chairman who was the electoral officer in charge of conducting the governorship primary elections in Plateau State declared Margif as the elected candidate of the party for Plateau State governorship seat. Margif, in his acceptance speech after being declared winner, said he is convinced that he will be the next Governor of Plateau State after Lalong, saying the party will work together to ensure the success of the election come 2023. “I promise never to waiver or fail. I promise to energize and mobilize our teaming supporters in the next phase of the struggle, I put myself to the task knowing fully well that the foundation laid by our founding fathers must never be destroyed but built upon,” he said. The state chairman of the party, Mrs Grace Zamfara, said they will work together with Plateau people to ensure that Margif is elected as the governor of Plateau State come 2023. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com