Four people lost their lives while eight others sustained varying degrees of injury on Sunday in an accident at the Ogunmakin, Ogun State end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The state Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Ahmed Umar, confirmed the accident in a statement. Umar said the accident, which involved a trailer with number plate, XA 802 KKM, and a Mazda bus with number plate, SHK 684 XA, occurred around 8.45pm on Saturday. The FRSC boss explained that the accident was caused by speeding and loss of control on the part of the bus driver, who allegedly rammed into the stationary trailer. He added that a total of 13 people were involved in the accident, adding that eight people got injured, while four persons, comprising three men and one woman, died. Umar noted that the injured victims were taken to Victory Hospital, Ogere, while the deceased were deposited at the FOS morgue, Ipara. The sector commander said the crash was avoidable if caution was put in place. He urged motorists to always obey traffic rules and regulations. In a related development, a woman was killed on Sunday when the driver of a Toyota Camry lost control of the car at Alagbole-Akute in the Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State. An eyewitness, who identified himself only as Tunji, told PUNCH Metro that the driver was speeding when he rammed the vehicle into a shop in the community. He said an Okada rider, who was coming from the opposite direction, was crushed and his female passenger died on the spot. Tunji said, “The accident happened around 2pm today (Sunday) and it was the fault of the driver of the Camry car because he was speeding. “Due to his speed, he could not control the vehicle and in the process, he rammed into the shop. “The Okada man and his passenger were coming from the opposite side of the road when the accident happened. The passenger of the Okada man, a woman, died on the spot while the Okada man was seriously injured.” A video clip of the accident, which was seen by our correspondent, showed that the bonnet of the car was bent, while the Okada was under the car’s tyre. The Ogun State spokesperson for the FRSC, Florence Okpe, said the corps had yet to receive a report on the accident. The state police spokesperson, SP Abimbola Oyeyemi, told PUNCH Metro that he would call the DPO of the area and get back to our correspondent. As of the time of filing this report, he had yet to do so. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com