Security operatives on Monday night evicted journalists wearied from waiting endlessly for the presidential convention accreditation, out of the national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress in Abuja. While urging the newsmen to hurry up with their belongings, the stern-looking security aides disclosed that they are acting on the order of the APC National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. When asked to give a reason for the eviction, one of the operatives retorted that Adamu asked them to clear out the premises because he was planning to ‘host an important meeting and won’t like to see journalists hanging around when he returns.’ The incident, which happened at about 7.15 pm on Monday evening, almost resulted in a stampede as journalists were seen rushing to pack their laptops, tripods, cameras, and bags. Earlier, Adamu had caused a stir when he announced at the meeting of the National Working Committee that the party has settled for Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, after due consultation with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Barely one hour after the NWC meeting ended, the report was subsequently debunked by the presidency, which disclosed that it was yet to agree on a particular aspirant. The crack within the leadership of APC became noticeable when seven members of the same National Working Committee held a press conference and denied choosing the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan as its consensus candidate. The National Organising Secretary of the APC, Suleman Argungu, has reiterated that the choice of Lawan was not the decision taken by the party as alleged. “It’s not an issue that has been discussed on the floor of the NWC and we have just, and just recently about two days ago, the northern Governors meeting had a meeting that the leadership of this country, under the leadership under the All Progressive Congress should go to the north. “And equally, the Southern governors also affirmed that. So we as members of the NWC are also with the governors on what they have said and some minutes ago the governors in the North have gone to the presidency and have just briefed the president that they are still on what they said with regards to the power shift to the south. “It is information and all of us are entitled to our opinion, we are all democrats,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com