A truck driver, Olumide Adesina, has sued the Inspector General of Police, Mr Baba Alkali and Osun state police commissioner, Wale Olokode, before an Osun state High Court, sitting in Ile-Ife, over death of his son, Olufemi Oriyomi, aged 21, while in police detention. Apart from the IGP and Osun CP, also joined in the suit were SUPOL Isaac Omoyele, Inspector Omoboriowo, Inspector Lekan and Officer ‘Baba Bolu.’ The claimant in the suit with the number HIF/30/22, asked the court for an order compelling the respondents to pay him a sum of N50million for the illegal arrest, torture and detention that led to the death of his son. Adesina also sought an order of the court for the release of corpse of the deceased which he said was still being withheld by the police. Also, in an affidavit in support of the originating motion, Adesina said one Kehinde Olayade, who was detained with his son, after his release, told him that the police operatives subjected them to dehumanising torture. He added that health condition of the deceased, who was arrested with Olayade and Raimi Sheriff, in Safejo Area, Ile-Ife on Thursday, April 7, on the suspicion that they were involved in internet fraud, deteriorated while in detention and he later died. He further said Olayade also informed him that virtually all police operatives at the station where they were detained beat them with sticks and machetes, insisting they must own up to being ‘yahoo boys.’ The suit partly read, “That they were handcuffed and put in cell, even with blood coming out of their bodies.
“That Femi could barely sat, as he was writhing in pains, but the policemen would not care to listen to his complaints. “That on that night, Femi could not sleep and everyone in the cell, even those they met there were crying, seeing the great agony the boy was experiencing, even with handcuffs. That the boy could not eat, would wee and pass excreta on himself, even till Wednesday, 13th April, 2022. “That later in the afternoon of Thursday, 14th April, 2022, when Femi would not stop groaning under pain, he was taken out again, but was not brought back.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com