Prisca Ogbeide emerged as the best graduating student for the 2018/2019 academic session at the Ekiti State University. The 21-year-old from the Owan West Local Government Area of Edo State, who made first class honours in Microbiology, with a Cumulative Grade Point Average of 4.82 out of 5.0, tells ALEXANDER OKERE why the feat came at a cost How did you confirm that you made the first class or did you already know what your grade was before you received the statement of results? I had a book in which I wrote courses taken for a semester, grades got, and each course unit alongside. After all results for the semester were known, I calculated the grade point average. This I did, consistently for the eight semesters I spent in school. With this, I was able to know my Cumulative Grade Point Average every school year. So, yes, I knew what my grade was before receiving the statement of results. What was your Cumulative Grade Point Average? My CGPA was 4.82 out of 5.0. Was making first class one of your targets? Yes, it was. Why did you decide to set a target? I decided to set a target of graduating with first class honours because I knew this would push me to be hard-working, give my best, and not lose focus throughout my university journey. Can you describe how you felt when you saw your final results? I was really excited and grateful. It showed my efforts were not in vain. It was a mixture of dance and shedding tears of joy. You said you graduated with the 2018/2019 academic session. What delayed your convocation? Coronavirus played a huge part in the delay as schools were shut down and, therefore, our results could not be compiled. Was Microbiology at Ekiti State University your original choice? No. Right from primary school, I had always wanted to become a medical doctor. That was part of the reasons I chose to be in the science class while in secondary school. I selected Medicine as a course of study while submitting my Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination form but I later realised that Medicine wasn’t accredited yet for the university as of then; so I had to switch to Microbiology. Did missing out on your chosen course of study affect you? Well, I wasn’t happy about the change but I was always determined to excel wherever I found myself. So, switching to Microbiology as a course of study didn’t make me lose interest in my academic pursuit at all. I remember browsing online to check for advantages of studying Microbiology, where a microbiologist could work, and all of that. I developed a keen interest in Microbiology and I came to really love it. What did you set out to achieve in your first year at EKSU? In my first year at school, I planned to have first class, after calculating my first and second semesters’ results and to maintain that grade all through my four-year journey in the department of Microbiology. What were the major challenges you had to surmount in your first year? The screening of credentials at various buildings in the school looked tiring –some was a major challenge. The large crowd of students during year one also made lectures tiring. Many students from different faculties attended some general courses together; hence, lecture halls were always filled to the brim. The struggle to hear what was being said by the lecturers, what was written on the board, getting seats and comfortable seating positions, long queues for course materials, or making certain payments were really challenging. Did you have to take some risks to meet your academic target? Yes. Sometimes, I had to leave home very early without taking breakfast to get a front seat in the lecture hall or to avoid getting locked outside for lateness to the lecture theatre. I also avoided sleep to finish reading course materials in preparation for examinations. What kind of stories were you told about how difficult it is to study Microbiology at EKSU and which of such stories did you find shocking or strange? Hmmnn, back then, we were told by seniors in the department and even colleagues from other departments and faculties that Microbiology was very difficult. One needed to read, read and read again to pass courses. Being able to answer exam and test questions too came with lots of preparations, so one wouldn’t have to carry over courses. The compulsory attendance at classes and practical sessions as requirements to take part in examinations were shocking to everybody. That showed the Microbiology department required one’s total and unwavering commitment. What did people tell you to discourage you from aiming for the top? I was told I should just read my books and focus on coming out with other grades, as making a first class from the department was indeed difficult. But I am happy all the stories I heard pushed me to put in all my effort towards my academic study. And here I am today, with God’s help, graduating not only with first class honours but also as the best graduating student of the school for the 2018/2019 academic session. What were some of the disappointments you faced as an undergraduate? Waking up to prepare for an early morning lecture only to discover while already in school the lecture had been cancelled, waiting for an evening class after a hectic day at school only to discover the lecture won’t hold and learning that scheduled tests had been shifted to other dates after preparations were disappointing. Sometimes, I found it disappointing preparing for an exam or test only to find out some parts I couldn’t remember were the areas questions were taken from, and having lesser grades in courses where excellent grades were expected. Which of them affected you the most? Having lesser grades in certain courses in which an excellent grade was expected made me unhappy most times. I was scared and sad it would affect my Cumulative Grade Point Average for that level and, hence, my target would not be met. Were there times you thought about giving up? Thoughts of giving up came once in a while, being tired from the stressful and draining school life. Can you share those experiences? Instances were when there were lecture-packed days from morning till evening, then, probably, practical sessions, assignments given and to be submitted within short intervals. At the same time, there were tests and examination preparations. Thinking of how to visit the library to add to notes, get answers to past questions, and all. Sometimes, sleeping out of being extremely burnt out became the best option. Which of the departmental courses were hard nuts to crack for you? Courses that had four-unit loads, lots of course materials, as well as some other non-departmental courses were indeed hard nuts. Examples were pathogenic mycology, microbial genetics, virology, organic chemistry, physics, and introduction to statistics. What did you do differently to excel in them? I made sure I visited the library to read textbooks that explained the courses better, looked for helpful explanations online, met with friends to explain areas that weren’t clear, attended tutorials, and read my notes after each class was conducted so the topics could stick. With God’s help and hard work, I was able to excel in them. What was your study routine as an undergraduate? I made it a goal to read all lecture notes the same day I was taught, or if very busy, at most, during the weekend. Many students prefer to study at night. Did you also study late at night? Yes, most times, I had to. That was the time everyone must have gone to sleep. So, it was always a quiet time for me to really concentrate. My study hours varied. Sometimes, after ending lectures in time, I went to the university’s library to study or went home. I read till I was tired or had other duties to attend to. Sometimes, studying very early in the morning before preparing for lectures did it for me or I would sleep in the evenings after a hectic day at school, then wake up at night to study. Tell me about your parents. My dad is a professor of English and Literary Studies and my mum is a Mathematics teacher and currently the vice principal of a government school. What form of support did you get from them? I am fortunate to have amazing parents like mine. They are indeed gifts. They supported me financially, morally, educationally, spiritually, physically and mentally. My school fees and other dues were always promptly paid. Hence, I didn’t miss lectures, tests, or examinations and this really helped my academic journey. I have also learnt from their wealth of experiences which made me put my best into achieving this feat to make them very proud parents. My amazing siblings are also not left out. They were awesome all through my university journey. I love my family from the depth of my heart and I am grateful to God for giving them to me. They are always there to cheer me up, motivate, assist, correct and commend me. These gave me reasons to make them happy as well. Did you have time for social activities as an undergraduate? Yes. I took part in certain excursions to places and attended social gatherings. How did you balance your social and religious activities with academic work? I tried to keep everything in its place, being moderate in all activities as needed. I made schedules for doing certain activities. So once the time for that was up, I switched to other things. It wasn’t really easy though but I am always grateful to God for granting me the needed wisdom and I am glad both activities didn’t hinder my academic goals. What type of company did you keep? Having amazing friends in school was something I wanted and when I look back, I am always happy about my choice of friends. We motivated and assisted each other in different areas. Having friends who had the same goals made it very interesting. We attended lectures and tutorials together. And I am happy we all graduated together and came out with excellent grades. Did any of your friends graduate with a first class? Four of my close friends also graduated with a first class. Our struggles together weren’t in vain at all. We all still keep in touch even after graduation and I am happy we are all doing well in our respective places. Were you in a relationship as an undergraduate? I was in a relationship with my academic studies. What did making a first class teach you about life? I learnt that whatever one sets their mind to achieve, they can achieve it, with dedication, hard work, consistency and prayers. One would also need people at various points in life. Always remember to do good to all, be humble, and choose individuals who are determined to excel in life and have equal goals like one does. One should set their priorities right and diligently work towards achieving them. No doubt, challenges will surely come as one can’t escape them. But one should be ready to tackle them and see them as reasons to always do more, put in one’s best, and never give up. What do you do for a living currently? I am currently undergoing the National Youth Service Corps programme, serving as a microbiologist in a research institute. How did you keep yourself busy during the three years you spent waiting for your results and convocation? I took different certification courses in bacterial genomes, marketing, health care, self-development, communication, and interpersonal skills at work, quality management system, soft skills training and other skills. Also, I increased my proficiency in the use of Microsoft packages. So, all these kept me busy before the service year started in 2021 and, of course, before the convocation ceremony that was held on March 29, 2022. What is your long-term goal as a first-class honours holder? I see myself in areas where I can explore and contribute my quota the best way I can to basically all aspects of Microbiology and make impacts, with major interests in the industrial, environmental, and public health sectors. I would like to ensure product quality and production efficiency and plan and conduct complex research projects such as improving certain microbial procedures or developing new drugs to combat infectious diseases. Furthermore, I would like to perform laboratory experiments used in the diagnosis and treatment of illnesses, and isolate, identify, classify and maintain cultures of microorganisms for study, prepare technical reports, present and publish research findings to scientists, non-scientist executives, engineers, other colleagues, and the public. I am interested in conducting applied research to solve particular problems happening around us, preserve, add to, evaluate, and transmit knowledge in the field of Microbiology and serve society by promoting science. I am fully open to various amazing opportunities. Is joining EKSU as a lecturer also an option for you? Yes.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com