The Borno State Governor, Banagana Zulum, on Sunday, paid a visit to Logumani, a community in Ngala Local Government Area of the state, that had been razed by terrorists. During the visit, the governor approved the construction of 500 resettlement houses in Logumani to accommodate people displaced by terrorists in Borno. Logumani residents had been displaced as a result of the activities of Boko Haram insurgents for over seven years. The governor, however, announced support for residents of Logumani to enable them to rebuild their homes, destroyed by insurgents. Zulum further directed the State Rural Water Supply Agency to construct a new deep aquifer borehole that would address water needs of returning Internally Displaced Persons. The governor, at the visit, interacted with residents of Logumani, who were taking refuge in Dikwa town, and discussed modalities of returning them back to their ancestral homes. Before Sunday’s trip, Zulum had gone on a similar one to Kirawa town in Gwoza LGA on Saturday. In Kirawa, the governor supervised the resettlement of over 2,500 households. Before Kirawa, Zulum had also paid visits to dozens of communities in northern, central and the southern parts of Borno State. The visits had mostly focused on building, supervising or allocating newly built resettlement houses, distributing cash, food aid and supplying agricultural packs to farmers. At most places he visited, Governor Zulum regularly held meetings with military commanders, volunteers, council chairmen and resident traditional heads, as well as community leaders to review security situations and deploy strengthening measures where necessary. The governor’s latest trip to Logumani comprised the member representing Ngala at the state assembly, Mustapha Dalatu, and that of Dikwa, Zakariya Dikwa. Others included former commissioner of Agriculture and the All progressives’ candidate for a seat at the House of Representatives, Mr. Bukar Talba, and heads of relevant establishments of government involved with construction and reconstruction, provision of water, livelihoods, and general human empowerment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com