An online medicines ordering platform, myMedicines, has said introduced a ‘buy now, pay later’ feature for its thousands of users. A statement by Advantage Health Africa explained that  myMedicines  aimed at ensuring access and affordability to quality healthcare for all Africans. It added that by partnering with healthcare financing company, Arteri, myMedicines now allowed users to buy medicines on the its website and spread payment over a specified timeframe without any interest. Commenting on the new feature, the Founder of myMedicines, Abimbola Adebakin stated, “We are delighted to announce this new offering on myMedicines. A core part of our drive at Advantage Health Africa is ensuring access and affordability to quality healthcare for all Africans. However, our economic realities in this part of the world can sometimes make quality medication unaffordable since many people pay out of pocket.  Now, this is resolved. Launching this BNPL gives the average person flexible convenient payment options and better access to quality medicines when they need them.” Also speaking on the partnership, the CEO of Arteri, Temitope Isedowo stated, “This partnership is in line with our promise of easy access to healthcare financing for individuals and providers. While traditional lenders shy away from the healthcare sector due to well-known challenges, our novel credit system for the sector addresses these challenges and gets quality healthcare closer to everyone. Partnering with the foremost online pharmacy to launch this is a good step forward for our ecosystem. MyMedicines is an online medicine ordering platform that allows Nigerians access quality medicines at their convenience. With the myMedicines website, users can order medicines and have them delivered to whatever location of your choice, nationwide.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com