Singer, Michael Aboh, one-half of popular music group, Zule Zoo, is dead. The group was responsible for the hit song, ‘Kerewa’, which dominated airwaves many years ago The singer was said to have passed away on Saturday morning, June 4, 2022, while taking his bath. His death was announced by his partner, Al-Hassan Ibrahim, on the group’s Instagram page, @ZuleZooAfrica. Ibrahim posted a picture of him and Aboh together with the caption, “My brother collapsed while taking his bath this morning and now my Michael is no more. Tears have fallen from my eyes and my hands are shaking as I can’t hide the fact that you’ve passed on. I really cannot question God for I have lost the other part of myself— a brother and friend. Oh death, why? Rest in peace, Michael.” Meanwhile, fans of the group have continued to mourn the late Aboh. Freddie Abah wrote, “Sad story today. May God rest his soul peacefully. The loss is for all of us. Accept my sincere condolences, big bro Ibro.” A member of the defunct Style-Plus group, Shifi Emoefe said, “So sorry, bro. Take heart. May Michael rest peacefully and may God strengthen you at this difficult time.” On his part, Frankyd2l wrote, “(There is) nothing in this life. This is bad. Rest in peace, Michael.” Recall that some years ago, Aboh was said to have suffered from mental health issues. However, Aboh denied that he was ill. In an interview with Sunday Scoop in 2019, Aboh said, “I don’t have any health challenge. But in life, you don’t expect everything to be hundred per cent. I don’t have issues with my brother (Ibro). I prefer working with him to being a solo artiste. We are working individually now, but if there is any need to do things together, I am open to the idea. Whenever I am with him on stage, I enjoy myself.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com