As part of efforts to sustain the existing peace in the state, the Akwa Ibom State Government has lauded the initiatives of the Ibom Veterans Peace League for setting up a strategic partnership aimed at adding value to the general security of the state. According to the statement on Saturday by the press secretary to the deputy governor, Mr. Ekikere Umoh, Emmanuel gave the commendation during the inauguration of the executive committee of the Ibom League in Uyo, the state capital. Governor Emmanuel, who was represented by his deputy, Mr. Moses Ekpo, maintained that the newly formed peace league would in no doubt complement the efforts of the state government in its efforts to ensuring that the citizens enjoy a peaceful and serene environment. “My administration is passionate about sustaining the existing climate of peace in the state, and the birth of your organisation is an indication that this passion is catching on amongst our people.” Emmanuel was quoted to have said. He noted that the Ibom Veterans Peace League was a timely back-up to the Maintain Peace Movement, which is a special purpose vehicle initiated by the Government geared towards the sustenance of peace. “Your organisation is a potent evidence of the solidarity and buy-in which Government is enjoying in its peace advocacy” the statement added. Emmanuel noted that since the aim of the organisation was to mobilise ex-service men and women across the state, promote unity, ensure ethnic harmony and togetherness in the state, as well as monitor elections. There was an indication that the organisation would be a force for good which would partner with government in the delivery of the state’s social contract ideals and expectations. He assured them of government’s continuous commitment to support and partner with the organisation, and other organisations that are willing to embrace the vision of the government for the growth of the state, while urging Akwa Ibom people in and out of service to continue to be worthy ambassadors of the state. “I believe that together we can guarantee the sustenance of our peace legacy and bequeath same to posterity.” In his opening remarks, the Chairman Ibom Veterans Peace League, Brigadier General Anthony Etukudo, said the formation of the group was to impact positively on the development of the state in areas of security and nation building while creating employment opportunities for veterans and the youths. General Etukudo further stated that the vision of the league was to engage in community-based peace negotiations, conflict resolutions and peace development as well as promote unity and welfare among its members, while helping to support in building a viable security architecture for the state by providing informed security advice, strategic security plan for Akwa Ibom State. He added that they would also act as a pressure group for good governance in Akwa Ibom State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com