A former Commissioner for Finance in Ogun State, Kehinde Sogunle, has emerged as the governorship candidate of the Labour Party in the state. Sogunle, who served under the administration of former Governor Gbenga Daniel, pledged to embark on a rescue mission in the state. Sogunle, an Egba indigene, was declared winner of the party’s primary election through voice affirmation on Thursday. He was declared the winner after his opponent, Gboyega Ijaola, failed to show up in the election held at the secretariat of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Abeokuta, Ogun State. The former commissioner won the election through affirmative votes from 100 accredited delegates who participated in the primary, which was monitored by the Independent National Electoral Commission. The Chairman of the Election Planning Committee, Oluwole Sokunbi, said, “By the power conferred on me as the chairman of the planning committee, I hereby declare Hon. Kehinde Sogunle as the winner of the election of the Labour Party governorship candidate of Ogun State through affirmation by the 100 delegates present here.” In his acceptance speech, Sogunle pledged to embark on a mission to rescue the people by resetting and renewing the polity. He announced a former Permanent Secretary and former President of the Federation of Muslim Women Association of Nigeria in the state, Dr Aishat Keshinro, as his running mate. The governorship candidate vowed to rescue the state from the fangs of the ruling All Progressives Congress, saying the people of the state had suffered enough following the failure of the APC. “We want to make Ogun State proud again and become a model for how things can change for the good of all in Nigeria. We have done it before, we can do it again. Ogun State shall rise. These are times when we need the best of men and women. “We call on all noble Ogun people in the country and in the diaspora to join us in this mission as we believe that the best of us should serve the rest of us,” Sogunle said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com