The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Abdullahi Adamu, on Wednesday, said the ‘overwhelming’ votes received by the party’s presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, showed that the APC had a nationalistic disposition. Adamu’s statement was contained in a release issued by his media aide, Muhammed Lawal, in Abuja. The statement read, “I write on behalf of the entire membership of the All Progressives Congress to congratulate Your Excellency on the sterling victory that you recorded at the just concluded Special National Convention to emerge as the presidential candidate of our great party. “Your victory has vindicated our party’s nationalistic outlook and patriotic posture as the party of choice for every Nigerian. I am pleased that the party spoke with one voice when the delegates voted overwhelmingly to nominate you as our presidential candidate. “It is my sincere hope and prayer that our collaborative efforts between the party’s National Secretariat and your presidential campaign team will proceed with the shared expectations of victory at the 2023 general election, by the grace of God.” Adamu had caused a stir on the eve of the convention when he took an unpopular decision that got so many Nigerians talking. Members of the APC National Working Committee watched in disbelief as the party’s national chairman announced the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, as the consensus presidential candidate. According to him, the choice of Lawan was decided after due consultation with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). The announcement did not go down well with the NWC members as the likes of National Vice Chairman (North-West), Mallam Salihu Lukman, kicked against the decision, demanding that the party should give every aspirant a level playing field. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com