The senatorial candidate of the Young Progressives Party for Anambra Central Senatorial District in the 2023 general election, Dr Chinedu Omeadi, has vowed to continue his various youth empowerment intervention programmes as a means of fighting poverty and restiveness in his constituency. Umeadi urged Anambra residents to obtain their permanent voters cards and vote for candidates of the YPP in the 2023 general election as they would guarantee the dividends of democracy for the people through quality representation. He stated this during an interactive session with the leadership of the Anambra State Association of Town Unions, held in Amawobia, Awka South Local Government Area on Wednesday. He informed the community leaders of his ambition to represent them at the Red Chamber of the National Assembly in Abuja. He said, before presenting himself for the contest, his Foundation had initiated various community and youth development programmes, aimed at equipping the youths with the right skills and empowerment for economic sustainability and entrepreneurship. He decried an apparent apathy by the youths on issues of skills acquisition in preference for white-collar jobs. He said, “My representation as your senator, would provide a more needed enabling environment to the youths to explore and maximise their potential so as to add value to society. “The YPP has better programmes for the Anambra people and the people of Nigeria than other political parties. The issue of godfatherism is hampering the needed development in Anambra and we don’t have such issue in the YPP. There is no political heavyweight anywhere, I assure you of a quality representation.” He commended the president-generals for embarking on various career development activities in their locality in partnership with the state government, urging them not to relent. In his assurance speech, the National President of ASATU, Mr Titus Akpordo, said the association under his watch would only support a candidate with community development initiatives. He advised the candidate to extend his political town hall meetings to all the communities in Anambra Central Senatorial District.
He added that the meeting was to show solidarity and to motivate the candidate on his ambition. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com