Some of the teachers who participated in the recruitment examination in Anambra State have expressed dissatisfaction over the malfunctioning of the website. The crash of the website 30 minutes into the exam as was gathered by our correspondent on Saturday, which caused wide complaints among the participants. One of them who identified himself as Kenechukwu Ibe, lamented that they were 30 minutes into the exam when the site went off, thereby causing disruption in the process. However, the Commissioner for Education, Ngozi Udeh, debunked the claims, saying that nothing of such happened, while lamenting that she had received over 3,000 calls within one hour “over matters arising” from the claim. Udeh, who was responding to our correspondent’s inquiry over wide complaints across the state from applicants that the site for the online exam crashed about 30 minutes into the one-hour exam, said she was having headaches caused by the avalanche of calls she had received shortly after the exam. She said, “I have not slept for three days now because of this exercise. Shortly after the exam, I received over 3,000 calls on this matter. “You can’t answer that number of calls if you were in my shoes. I’m having a headache. ”I don’t know what they meant that the site crashed. Over 6,000 applicants submitted their papers successfully, and that is what I’m going to report to the governor and not what you are telling me that they complained about.” But Ibe on his part, said, “This is another confusion from the government. We were about 30 minutes into the exam when the site went off and it made a lot of us unable to submit our papers. “Now somebody is telling us that 6,000 applicants successfully submitted their papers. This is funny. Why won’t they tell us that they had taken bribe from 6,000 people to give them jobs? I don’t expect this level of confusion from this government.” The state, through a public announcement, had called for the application for recruitment of teachers into the state’s school system. About 40,000 candidates had applied for the 5,000 teachers the state had concluded to employ and out of the 40,000 the state had shortlisted about 31,000 for the online exam which took place on Saturday, from where the required 5,000 would be recruited “based on merit”. The public announcement in that respect from the state’s ministry of education read partly, “The ministry received 40,000 plus applications. The ministry listed about 31,800 qualified applicants after reviews. “Applicants who are too old for civil service, graduates without NYSC discharge certificate or exemption letter were disqualified. “Against the proposed 5,000 qualified applicants to be shortlisted for CBT exam, the state government directed that all the over 31,000 listed applicants should be given equal chance to participate in a preliminary online exam, before shortlisting the successful applicants for second CBT exam. “The preliminary exam will be online and will hold on Saturday 4/6/2022 at your comfort zone/home/place and with your device-smartphone, laptop or Cyber cafe.The applicants to get ready for the exam by 10:30am on the Saturday. “The exam will start off at 11am dot on the Saturday and will last for one hour (11am to 12noon) “The applicants will receive their login password an hour before the exam time and log in at 10:55am to get set for the exam.Your exam result/score will pop up on your device once you submit.
No second chance if you miss the exam. “There will be a second CBT exam for the applicants that will scale through the first preliminary google online exam successfully. To be announced when due. “Applicants are cautioned not to give money to any person for securing appointment in the recruitment process, as it’s not possible and it is also a crime. Appointment will be on merit basis.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com