A former lawmaker representing Kaduna North Senatorial in the 8th National Assembly, Suleiman Hunkuyi, on Monday, emerged as the governorship candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party for the 2023 governorship election in the state. Hunkuyi, a serial governorship contestant would slug it out with the All Progressives Congress’s governorship candidate, Senator Uba Sani; Peoples Democratic Party’s governorship candidate, Isah Ashiru, and other governorship candidates in the 2023 governorship election in the state. He contested under the APC as an aspirant before defecting to the PDP in 2019. However, the former lawmaker dumped the PDP in February 2022 and joined the NNPP. The Electoral Committee Chairman, Mohammed Bello Ma’aji, who announced the result, said out of the total of 765 delegates, 732 were accredited, which represented more than the required figure for the primary election. In affirming the candidacy of Senator Hunkuyi, Ma’aji asked the delegates thrice “if Suleiman Hunkuyi should be the candidate of the NNPP,” of which they gave a resounding “yes”. The nomination of Hunkuyi was supervised by the state Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr. Asmau Maikudi, and her team from Commission. Hunkuyi, in his acceptance speech, reminded the government of the day of its constitutional responsibilities of providing security, welfare, and accommodation for the citizens. He said, “What is more worrisome is the recurring massacre of our people, insecurity has taken over the centre stage, farmers have been abandoned to their fate of high poverty. “Many roads in the state are no longer safe due to continuous criminal activities of the bandits. People of Kaduna State have been captives outside their homes due to insecurity. “We have never been divided in Kaduna State like we are today. Rural areas and semi-urban areas have been totally neglected in terms of infrastructural development. “We cannot allow few elements to turn our State into cash and carry State. I, therefore, call on the people to join hands with the NNPP to build a new Kaduna State.” The former lawmaker alongside former Senator Shehu Sani left the governing APC due to conflicts with Governor Nasir El-Rufai in the build-up to the 2019 general election. Hunkuyi joined the PDP and contested the governorship primary in 2018 but lost to a former, House Committee Chairman on Appropriation, Isa Ashiru. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com