I got many text messages from people who wanted to know the local name of Pecan nut. At the beginning of this series, I mentioned that most of the nuts I will discuss do not belong to this clime. Pecan is a nut from a species of hickory trees native to northern Mexico and the Southern United States, so, you cannot get a name for it in our local languages. However, you can get them to buy here. I will discuss cashew nuts today but I want to share something with you. I saw a video of fufu making on Facebook some weeks ago and I was shocked that the cassava was just blended and thrown into the pot to make the fufu. Cassava must go through fermentation to reduce its cyanide content before it is safe for consumption. I shared this with my mother and she told me something more shocking. She said one of her friends bought already made fufu and that everyone who ate it farted! Another person bought readymade fufu and it turned black overnight. Definitely, something must have been added during the preparation. If you love eating fufu, try to buy cassava and make it at home. This is not limited to fufu. You can make your gaari, cassava flour, yam flour and more at home. Cashews come from a tropical tree known as Anacardium occidentale. They are good for you as they are a powerhouse of proteins and essential minerals including copper, calcium, magnesium, iron, phosphorus, potassium and zinc. Sodium is also present in small quantities. It also contains vitamin C, thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, folate, vitamin E and vitamin K. They are a source of oleic acid and provide a good quantity of monounsaturated fat and low amounts of polyunsaturated fats with no total cholesterol content when consumed in moderation. A particular scientific study evaluated the effects of cashew nut consumption on reflex development, memory and profile of fatty acids of rat offspring treated during pregnancy and lactation. So it is good for pregnant women. The  oil from the nut is an edible cooking oil and considered a high quality cooking oil. Cashew flour, also known as cashew meal, is a powdery substance made of ground cashews. Some of its benefits Makes muscles and nerves healthier: Cashews are a good source of magnesium vital for the healthy development of bones, muscles and tissues. Magnesium helps maintain blood pressure, boost immunity, maintain nerve function and keep the bones strong. It also may be involved in metabolic functions and help regulate blood sugar levels. A deficiency of magnesium can alter the metabolism of calcium. Keeps the heart healthy: Cashews are known to be a good source of healthy dietary fats essential for our body to absorb the fat-soluble vitamins (vitamin A, D, E and K) and produce fatty acids that are vital for the development of the brain and blood clotting. These healthy fats include monounsaturated fats (MUFA) and polyunsaturated fats (PUFA).They are good for the heart and help reduce bad cholesterol (LDL cholesterol) if consumed in appropriate amounts even in diabetics. LDL cholesterol can rise as a result of excessive consumption of saturated fats, posing a major threat to people suffering from cardiovascular diseases. Studies have demonstrated that choosing unsaturated fats over saturated fats enhances the levels of HDL cholesterol, reduces triglyceride levels and beneficially lowers blood pressure as well. The inclusion of nuts such as cashews in the diet can provide these healthy unsaturated fats to the body. Prevents gallstones: Gallstones are stone-like deposits that usually consist of cholesterol which accumulates in the gallbladder. Risk factors include age, weight and any gastrointestinal issues. Regular inclusion of healthy nuts such as cashews can help lower the risk of the formation of gallstones. Boosts immune system: Cashews contain zinc which plays a vital role in the strengthening of the immune system. It can be extremely important during pregnancy for the growth of the baby and the developmental years of childhood. Boosts bone and oral health: Cashews provide phosphorus which can be essential for the healthy development of teeth and bones. Phosphorus may also aid in protein synthesis, absorption of carbohydrates and fats and the maintenance of cellular health. Good for eye health: Cashews contain zeaxanthin and lutein that are antioxidants which protect from UV rays. The antioxidant pigments naturally occur in the eyes and are an essential defence against damaging light and may reduce the risks of developing age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and cataracts. Helps boost brain function: Increases male fertility. Promotes formation of RBC Aids in managing diabetes Scientific studies In a study titled, “Health benefit of a handful of cashew nuts (Anacardium Occidentale L.)to prevent different disorders like diabetes, heart disorders, cancer, weight gain, gallstone, migraine headache,’’ by Vyavahare et al, the conclusion is that consumption of a handful of cashew nuts daily is useful in the prevention of all the above mentioned disorders. In a study titled, “Nutritional evaluation of cashew (Anacardium occidentale) nut protein concentrate and isolate,’’ by Ogunwolu et al, the conclusion is that the high essential amino-acid composition, high digestibility and low anti-nutrients contents of CNPI(cashew nut protein isolate) and CNPC (cashew nut protein concentrates) could make them good protein sources for fortification of a variety of food products to combat protein deficiency in many parts of the world, particularly in developing countries. In a study titled, “Maternal intake of cashew nuts accelerates reflex maturation and facilitates memory in the offspring,’’ by Marília Ferreira Frazão Tavares de Melo et al, the conclusion is that maternal consumption of cashew nuts can accelerate reflex maturation and facilitate memory in offspring when offered in adequate quantities. In a study titled, “Cashew (Anacardium occidentale L.) nuts counteract oxidative stress and inflammation in an acute experimental model of carrageenan-induced by Paw Edema Marika Cordaro et al, the conclusion is that cashew nuts possess interesting anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative and analgesic activities. In a study titled, “The role of cashew (Anacardium occidentale L.) nuts on an experimental model of painful degenerative joint disease,’’ by Fusco et al, results showed that oral administration of cashew nuts reduced pain severity, restored the pro-oxidant/antioxidant balance and limited joint inflammation and tissue injury. They may be considered a valuable option to fight osteoarthritis. Before anyone tells you that you should not eat cashew nuts because they are toxic, let me burst the bubble. Cashew nuts themselves are not toxic but they are surrounded by a shell that consists of the toxic oil urushiol and this is why they are not sold in stores with their shells still intact. Roasting or steaming shelled cashews at high temperatures removes any urushiol that may have soaked through their shells. This means that you should not eat raw cashew seeds so that you do not ingest this toxic chemical. If you have kidney stones or are at risk for kidney-related conditions, you may need to avoid the nut because it has fairly high oxalate content. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com