An agro-allied firm, Barry Callebaut Nigeria Cocoa and Chocolate Limited, has expressed its readiness to support the fight against child labour in the country. To this end, the firm has partnered farmers and other stakeholders in Ondo State to tackle the scourge of child labour in cocoa production. Speaking during a one-day sensitisation programme organised for farmers in Oda, Akure South Local Government Area of the state, the Sustainability Operations Manager, Barry Callebaut Cocoa Industry, Mr Adejola Ahmed, said the programme was designed to let farmers know that they had moral responsibility to stop children from working in cocoa plantations. According to him, it became necessary to let farmers know the side effect of pushing children into doing work that is beyond their capacities. He said many children were at the risk of being injured by pesticides, cutlasses and other hazardous materials they were being exposed to while working on cocoa farms. He confirmed that about 30 per cent of children in Nigeria were involved in working on cocoa farms. Ahmed stated, “What brings about this programme is that the company noticed that over the years, there is belief that there is no child labour, but it was later found that there are indicators showing that there is child labour in rural areas of Nigeria “So, we are here to let farmers know and understand what child labour is in their community. The effect of child labour is that children that are supposed to be in school are found in the house and it leads to social vices and also harms the development and the future of the child and that of the country. “Before now, our statistics of child labour in cocoa farming is less than 30 per cent, and there is a kind of misconception, because children are into other things that are not being classified as child labour, which shows that the statistics is wrong. “We have about 300 here and after leaving here, we are going to Ute around Ifon in the Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State and also to Cross River for two days each. “We are looking at 700 farmers in both states, but with the turn out here today, we will be looking at 1,000 to 1,200 farmers. As a company that has the interest of farmers at heart, we are looking into giving the farmers an opportunity to have labour gangs. The farmers will give the labour gangs a little amount of money and it will eliminate the use of children as well.” The facilitator and  Executive Director of Emmanuel World  Children Foundation, Mr Emmanuel Adaramola, said farmers needed to be sensitised on the danger of child labour and what they must do and why they should not engage the children to work on cocoa farms. Adaramola stated, “Children can help in a minor task, they can learn from the parents, but it should be within the ability, the capacity, the age of the child and the mental health of the child. Statistics shows that there are 40.1 million children engaged in child labour in Nigeria out of 200 million children. Nigeria has the highest rate of child labour.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com