A 35-year-old medical practitioner and Information and Technology expert based in California, United States, Mr Ugochukwu Ede, has won the governorship primary of the Young Progressives Party in Enugu State. Ede emerged the winner of the primary election held at a hotel in New Haven, Enugu, on Saturday after polling a total of 17 votes. The Chairman of YPP Enugu State Governorship Primary Election Committee, Dr Frank Nweke, while announcing the result of the election, said 17 delegates, one each from the 17 local government areas of state participated in the election. He stated, “The party adopted the option A4 in the conduct of the primary. We have one aspirant, who contested the governorship ticket of our party. The delegates queued behind the aspirant and after counting, he polled a total of 17 votes to emerge the winner of the primary. “By the power conferred on me, I, Dr Frank Nweke, Chairman of the YPP Enugu State governorship primary election held today, Saturday, June 4, 2022, hereby declare Mr Ugochukwu Bethel Ede as the governorship candidate of the YPP, having scored the highest votes in the primary election and he is hereby returned elected.” In his acceptance speech, Ede thanked the delegates for entrusting him with the party’s gubernatorial mandate and promised not to disappoint them. He said his administration would focus on the education sector with a view to restoring the confidence of young people, which he admitted was currently declining to an abysmal level. The candidate attributed the development to the lack of job opportunities for graduates, who strive to train themselves, noting that education would be his administration’s priority. The US-trained medical practitioner hinted that the vision of turning Enugu into a technological state would remain a mirage if the young population of the state was uneducated, adding that he intends to make the state a technology hub in the South-East zone. According to him, making the state a technology hub will make it possible for the citizens to come up with various innovations that will make it compete with other technology hubs in the world. On industrialisation, Ede stated that his government would work towards industrialising the state by ensuring that an industry was established in all the 17 local government areas with a view to creating jobs for the teeming unemployed population.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com