The Ondo State Police Command has arrested four persons over alleged involvement in robbery in some part of the state. The suspected robbers included Victor Bright, 21, Abdulrahim Mohammed, 22, Friday Emmanuel, 27 and Mohammad Sule, 23 while one Abayomi Abiodun, 20, was arrested for killing a boy. Three of the robbery suspects were said to have been apprehended in Owo, the headquarters of Owo Local Government Area of the state for allegedly robbing a man of his motorcycle and a mobile phone. The fourth suspect was arrested in Akure. The state police spokesperson, Mrs Funmi Odunlami, stated this in a statement on Friday. The statement indicated, “ A case of robbery was reported at ‘A’ Division Owo that on  April 20, 2022, at about 12:30hrs a commercial motorcyclist popularly known as Okada, was robbed by a four-man gang at the back of Complete Child, Owo. One of the robbers, Victor Bright, pretended to be a passenger while his gang members hid in a bush. Unknown to the motorcyclist that the suspect was hiding a rope in his pocket, while on the way, he pulled out the rope and attempted to use it to strangle his neck. They both fell down from the motorcycle while his gang members came out from the bush to rob the motorcyclist of his Bajaj boxer motorcycle, one Infinix phone and a sum of N100,000. “On receipt of the information, detectives swung into action and arrested the suspects. The suspects confessed to the commission of the crime and claimed that their specialty was robbing people of motorcycles, phones and other valuables. They also confessed to have sold the said motorcycle to one Amos Sunday now at large, at the rate 180,000.” The PPRO said the murder suspect, Abiodun was arrested for killing one Mohammad during an argument at Ebute area in Okitipupa, the headquarters of Okitipupa Local Government Area of the state. “An argument ensued between one Mohammed James aged 17 (now late) and Abayomi Abiodun  aged 20 which later degenerated into a fight and the suspect took a knife and stabbed the deceased on his neck and he died on the spot,” Odunlami stated.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com