Dash Me Foundation, an organisation founded by Nigeria’s former Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun, has announced it has been granted a non-profit with tax-exempt status by the United States government. This is contained in a press statement released on Tuesday. The Foundation said it received its new status under Section 501(c)(3) of the US Internal Revenue Code. According to Adeosun, “contributions from both corporations and individuals, donated to the New York-based Dash Me Foundation (US) are now fully tax-deductible” owing to its new status. The status also means that “the Dash Me Foundation (US) was now eligible to apply for government and foundation grants, which will further broaden access to resources and strengthen its ability to raise funds for orphans and vulnerable children, victims of domestic violence and disadvantaged youth,” according to the statement. The statement quoted the ex-Finance Minister as saying, “The Dash Me Foundation US is proud to announce that it is officially a non-profit with tax-exempt status under Section 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code. “The granting of a non-profit status to Dash Me Foundation in the United States is a major milestone for our growing organisation, and we are excited about the prospects it creates.  Attaining recognition of our Charitable Status by the American Internal Revenue Service was a rigorous process and we are proud to have met all the requirements.” Adeosun stated that the US team could now actively mobilise donations and support from its extensive US based diaspora as well as corporations and foundations, interested in supporting indigenous charitable work in Nigeria and beyond, according to the press statement. “Our Donors can now change lives in Nigeria whilst obtaining a full tax deduction in America,” she was quoted as saying. The statement further noted, “Since its launch in Nigeria in June 2021, Dash Me Foundation has raised funds for orphanages, domestic violence shelters and the physically challenged through its Dash Me Store and other activities. “She confirmed that the Dash Me Foundation had mobilised and deployed cash and resources in projects in Lagos, Ogun, Cross River, Kano, Nasarawa, Imo, Osun and Kogi States.” “Dash Me Foundation aims to raise more funding for orphans and vulnerable children, victims of domestic violence and disadvantaged youth in Nigeria with the ambition to cover the West African region,” the founder added, according to the statement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com