The immediate past Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has won the Akwa Ibom North-West Senatorial District primary of the All Progressives Congress days after stepping down for the winner of the party’s presidential primary. The first primary conducted on May 28, 2022, for the senatorial district was cancelled following security breaches. Akpabio emerged the winner by polling 478 votes; Sir Joseph Akpan had only one vote, while a former Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Ekpo Udom, who won the first primary, scored three votes Out of the 540 delegates, 512 were accredited to vote, while 11 votes were voided Speaking on Thursday in Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area shortly after he was declared the winner, Akpabio thanked the delegates for their support and for finding him worthy to fly the flag of the party in the 2023 senatorial election. The ex-minister stated, “I thank the Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District for finding me worthy to be given another opportunity to contest the seat in the Senate. I recalled that when you gave me the first mandate in 2015 to 2019, I recall that there was no senator that did the kind of empowerment I did for you. “I know a lot of projects were done across the 10 local government areas, from markets to water projects, to electricity projects, to building of classroom blocks.” Speaking earlier, the state APC Chairman, Mr Stephen Ntukekpo, said he was directed by the party at the national level to carry out the re-run, and cited infractions in the first exercise as the reason for the re-run. He stated, “There were some infractions in the primary held about some weeks ago and I was directed by the National Working Committee to carry out a re-run. “We had about five aspirants in this exercise. They were all informed and were fully aware. The aspirants are Sir Joseph Akpan, DIG Ekpo Udom, Obong Emem Ekperikpe Ekpo and Senator Godswill Akpabio.” Though the other aspirants were not available during the exercise, Ekpo announced that he was stepping down for Akpabio. He said, “The first primary took place on May 28 and all of you were there. Today, our father has joined the race. I, Obong Emem Ekperikpe Ekpo, a former member of the House of Representatives, a son of this senatorial district, I plead with all my delegates to identify with our father, and I return all the delegates to vote for him. “I don’t think we should do anything to undermine the person God has given to us as a leader. The person is Senator Godswill Obot Akpabio. I call on all my delegates once again to support him. With that, I have withdrawn my aspiration for the senatorial seat.” The five-man committee that monitored the election was led by the Chairman, Sir Sylvester Okonkwo; Secretary, Alhaji Salisu Isa; and the returning officer, Mrs Bunmi Imole, as well as officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com