A Court of Appeal in Abuja, has on Thursday, affirmed Omoyele Sowore as the National Chairman of the African Action Congress. The court held that a 2019 judgment by the High Court which sacked Sowore as the party’s chairman was out of the court’s jurisdiction, adding that it was an internal affair. In 2019, the High Court, in the judgment that was delivered by Justice Iyang Ekwo, said it was satisfied that Sowore who was the presidential flag-bearer of the AAC, was validly suspended by the National Executive Committee of the party. Sowore, in an appeal marked CA/A/812/2019, challenged the High Court’s judgment declaring an expelled General Secretary of the party, Leonard Nzenwa, as the acting Chairman. Sowore also prayed the court through his lawyer and National Legal Adviser of the AAC party, Inibehe Effiong, to set aside the judgment of the lower court and grant all the reliefs sought by the appellant. Delivering judgment on behalf of the three-man panel at the Appeal Court on Thursday, Justice A.J Adah held that the lower court had no jurisdiction to meddle in the internal affairs of the party. The court, hence, struck out the suit filed by Nzenwa which was the basis upon which the Independent National Electoral Commission accorded him recognition as the acting chairman of the party. The court nullified the judgment and affirmed Sowore as the national chairman, and not Leonard Nzenwa. The court subsequently awarded a sum of N200,000 as damages against Nzenwa, to Sowore. A judgment had formerly been obtained by Nzenwa at the FCT High Court on June 19, 2019, to the effect that Sowore had been allegedly suspended as the National Chairman of the party alongside the Deputy National Chairman, Dr. Malcom Fabiyi. In the said case, neither Sowore, Fabiyi, AAC nor INEC was joined as a party to the suit, yet the High Court entered the judgment against Sowore and Fabiyi which was allegedly used by Nzenwa to truncate the petition filed by the AAC gubernatorial candidate against the re-election of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State in the 2019 gubernatorial election. The verdict given by Justice A.J Adah of the Court of Appeal in Abuja, today, has now brought to an end the protracted legal tussle bordering on the chairmanship of the African Action Congress, as the court held Sowore as the substantive National Chairman of the party. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com