A chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Osita Okechukwu, has saluted the 10 Northern governors who supported the zoning of the APC presidential ticket to the South. While describing their act as a patriotic display, the Director General of Voice of Nigeria disclosed that it was more honorable than the ‘Cash and Carry’ victory of the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar. Okechukwu, who issued the statement in a release on Sunday, congratulated the party’s northern governors and political leaders for strengthening Nigeria’s unity by endorsing power shift to the South. He said, “Nigerians have now seen that the Dollar Rain, cash and carry primary that produced His Excellency, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as the PDP presidential candidate was a pyrrhic victory that has nothing in store for the new Nigerian of our dreams. “I am inclined to believe that Atiku’s victory is pyrrhic going by Greek mythology, and may not lead to ultimate victory, especially with the patriotic stance of his northern brothers.” The VON DG further stated that by their unholy attempt to harvest from primordial sentiments, the PDP has not only breached rotation convention in its constitution, but has wittingly or unwittingly dug their electoral grave in 2023 presidential election. He contended that the decision to rightfully rotate power to the South, the northern leaders have upheld the progressive bent of APC and exposed the perfidy and opportunistic tendencies of PDP. “I am very elated. I commend APC Governors and political leaders of Northern belt for their profound patriotic statement, which aligns with Mr President’s idea of consensus.” “I must add that this is national healing balm and bridge-building pedigree of APC Governors and political leaders of the Northern belt, which they anchored on the doctrine of progressivism,” he noted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com