Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has constituted a Judicial Commission of Enquiry to probe alleged corruption in Land allocation and documentation. The governor decided to constitute the commission to review various suspected illegal land dealings in the state in recent times. A statement by the state Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Oluwasina Ogungbade SAN, stated that the commission was set up in line with the administration’s commitment to transparency in government processes, and drive to ease doing business. Ogungbade said the Governor is aware that in the World Bank Ease of Doing Business rankings (EODBR), the legal regime for registering property is a critical indicator that determines how attractive a jurisdiction is for investments. The statement read “as such, the government hopes that the commission would help uncover and redress any practice regarding land allocation and documentation in Ogun State that are harmful to investment or good social order. “The Judicial Commission will be chaired by Honourable Justice S A Olugbemi (Rtd) supported by Adetunji Onabowo Esq, a (Legal Practitioner) and CP Edward Awolowo Ajogun (Rtd), the immediate past Commissioner of Police in Ogun State. “Other members are Odesanya Shakiru Tunde of the Nigerian Institution of Surveyors and Mr Toyin Aluko, an Estate Valuer. “The governor will inaugurate the commission at a date to be communicated shortly, where the Governor will stipulate the duration of the commission’s assignment.” The statement added that the commission’s Terms of Reference would include: a mandate to identify and unravel all illegal land transactions that have taken place between 2019 to date, and to identify all perpetrators and accomplices involved in such the illegal dealings. “Others are to receive and investigate general complaints from the public around land acquisition and documentation in Ogun State, and to make recommendations to curb bottlenecks, delays, and corruption in land acquisition and documentation in Ogun State.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com