Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State has condemned the shooting of The Nation newspaper correspondent, Toba Adedeji, and another by some trigger-happy police officers at Olaiya Junction, Osogbo, on Tuesday. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, Oyetola said the shooting at unarmed citizens was completely unacceptable, irresponsible and condemnable. He added that the sad incident could have been avoided. According to the statement, Oyetola stated that it was unfortunate that the sad incident occurred while the citizens were mourning the death of a loved one. He said such an unlawful act by the police could aggravate an already-tensed situation that could lead to the breakdown of law and order in the state. Oyetola, therefore, called for a thorough investigation of the incident, with a view to ensuring that the culprits are decisively dealt with in accordance with the law of the land. “Shooting at journalists and unarmed citizen is completely unacceptable, irresponsible and condemnable. “The police officers have no justification for this unfortunate and unlawful act. “They could have employed other means rather than resorting to deadly force to disperse the group,” he said. According to him the frequency of these unfortunate and avoidable provocative incidents is a source of concern to us, as a government. “I have directed the State Commissioner of Police to investigate the Tuesday shooting incident and ensure that his officers involved in it are identified and punished in accordance with the law. “We must ensure that this kind of sad and barbaric incident does not occur again in our state. “I wish the Nation Newspaper correspondent, Adedeji, and the other citizen whom I learnt are presently receiving treatment at the hospital, a speedy recovery. “I am also calling on residents of Osun to remain calm and not take the law into their own hands,” he said. He gave assurance that the matter would be pursued to a logical conclusion and the erring officers dealt with accordingly.