Joe Aribo is pleased to see the Super Eagles get off to a winning start in their 2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying campaign despite their insipid display against Sierra Leone at the Moshood Abiola National stadium in Abuja on Thursday, Saturday PUNCH reports. The Eagles came from a goal down to beat the Leone Stars 2-1 behind closed doors. A diving header from Jonathan Morshay in the 11th minute gave the Leone Stars the lead but the Eagles stormed back and were level within four minutes after Alex Iwobi cured in a low drive from the edge of the Leone Stars penalty area. Victor Osimhen sealed the win in the 41st minute for the Eagles but Aribo, who started in the game in the midfield alongside Iwobi, admits there’s still a lot to be done ahead of their next game. “Like you said we could have played better, we know ourselves we could have played better,” Aribo said after the game. “I think it was important that we got off to a win in the first game. We could have played better, we know that ourselves.’’ “But I think with more games that will come. This is the first game with our coach with all of us together as a group. We are working with new tactics, new philosophy so we are going to get better with games to come and get stronger.” The result against Leone Stars handed new Eagles Jose Peseiro his first victory in charge of the Super Eagles in three matches. He was in charge during their recent tour of the USA for friendly matches, where they lost 2-1 against Mexico and 1-0 against Ecuador. Nigeria are currently placed second in their group with three points after Guinea-Bissau defeated Sao Tome Principe 5-1 in the other group game at Stade Adrar in Morocco also on Thursday.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com