Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, and the Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, have yet to withdraw from the presidential race, The PUNCH reports. Also, former Governor of Zamfara State, Senator Ahmed Yerima, has not formally withdrawn from the contest. This is despite the resolution of 10 northern governors and a former governor that all presidential aspirants from the north should withdraw from the race. The PUNCH had reported that the northern governors in a meeting last week endorsed power shift to the Southern part of the country. After the resolution, the Governor of Jigawa State, Abubakar Badaru, withdrew from the presidential race. The primary begins today. The party had postponed its special convention for the presidential primary from Sunday, 29 – Monday, 30 May, 2022, to Monday, 6 – Wednesday, 8 June, 2022 after the Independent National Electoral Commission’s extended the deadline for the submission of the list of candidates by political parties. A member of the APC National Working Committee told our correspondent that “We have not received their resignation on notices of withdrawal.” Director, Media and Publicity of the Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation, Yemi Kolapo, said the northern governors’ resolution is not binding on any aspirant. She explained that the governor is committed to becoming the president and confident of winning. When asked if the governor had resigned, she said, “How can he withdraw, why? He is committed to the cause. He will be the last man standing and the winner. “Only 10 governors met and want to determine the fate of the northern region. What of the remaining five governors. APC has not zoned the presidential race. The resolution not binding on anybody.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com