Despite the decision of his counterparts to zone the All Progressives Congress presidential ticket to the South, the Kogi State Governor and All Progressives Congress presidential aspirant, Yahaya Bello, has affirmed that he is still in the race for the top office. Bello disclosed this to State House Correspondents shortly after meeting the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), at the State House, Abuja. The governor noted that President Buhari supports a free and fair contest, warning that the party may be toeing a perilous path if he is excluded from the list of aspirants at the party’s convention. His visit came barely 24 hours after a group of 13 APC northern governors led by Simon Lalong of Plateau State, met the president to affirm their resolution on a southern candidate. The PUNCH reports that the governors, making good on their word, submitted five names to the president for consideration. Speaking on Channels Television on Tuesday morning, Lalong said the five aspirants presented to Buhari include Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, former Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu, Governors Fayemi Kayode of Ekiti State, Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State and former transport minister, Rotimi Amaechi. Bello said he was at the Presidential Villa to explain to President Buhari why he excused himself from a meeting with the governors on Monday just before meeting the president. He lamented that his counterparts did not consult him before settling on the decision for five aspirants. Affirming that he belonged to the younger crop of Nigeria, Bello, expressed optimism about his emergence as flagbearer if the contest is fair and transparent. Asked if he was willing to step down for a consensus candidate, Bello said only the president can direct him to step down. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com