The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has given reasons for contesting against the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, in the presidential primary of the party. Lawan said he contested with the belief that he had the popularity and experience to lead the country. In a letter on Wednesday, Lawan expressed optimism that APC would emerge victorious in the the 2023 presidential poll with Tinubu as its candidate. Lawan who was also an aspirant in the primary said the outcome of the election process had shown that Tinubu was the popular choice of his party. The letter read, “The Presidential Primary of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), for the 2023 General Election has come and gone. “I am elated and proud that the Presidential primary was manifestly free and fair, and conducted within our APC Family under a most convivial atmosphere. “The success of the event again demonstrates the capacity of our great party to run its internal affairs smoothly and devoid of rancour. “As Your Excellency is aware, I offered myself alongside your good self and other patriotic members of the party to fly its highly coveted flag in the 2023 presidential election. “I did so in the belief that I have the knowledge base, ideas, experience and desire to provide leadership for our dear country at these most trying times. “However, the outcome of the election process has shown that Your Excellency is the popular choice of our party for that assignment. “I do not have an iota of doubt in the wisdom of that decision by our Party’s delegates from across the country. “Your glittering track record of public service, foresight and grit in party building and administration, as well as the courage you continue to demonstrate in fighting for the entrenchment of democracy in Nigeria make you worthy of the high esteem and trust of our party members everywhere in Nigeria as exhibited at the National Convention. “It is on this note that I heartily congratulate you on your well-deserved victory at the primary. “I have no doubt that with your credentials, experience, antecedents and political sagacity, our great party will go into the 2023 contest confident of victory. “As a loyal party member, I remain committed to the party at all times and will always be available to work for its success.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com