Popular Highlife musician, Amb Osayomore Joseph, is dead. Joseph, an indigene of Edo State, passed away on Saturday, June 11, 2022. Until his death, he was a prolific singer and one of Edo State’s prominent sons. Joseph was born in Ugha village near Benin City, Edo State Nigeria. He is one of the early pioneers of African popular Highlife music. His educational, anti-corruption and government critical lyrics sung in Edo but also in pidgin English reached a wide audience worldwide. The Performing Musician Association of Nigeria, Edo State chapter, expressed sadness over the death of the iconic musician. Comrade Willy Eghe-Nova, who is PMAN’s Administrator/Governor in Edo in a press releases said, “Sadly, PMAN on Saturday, June 11, 2022, lost a great member and music legend, Ambassador Osayomore Joseph. “May his creative soul rest in peace,” he added. Also, The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has mourned the passing of music maestro. In a statement, Obaseki described the late Joseph as an enigmatic and versatile musician. He said, “I am deeply saddened by the news of the passing of music maestro, Ambassador Osayomore Joseph, who took the music world by storm with his talent and exported the Benin culture to the world. “Osayomore Joseph was an enigmatic and versatile musician, who spread didactic messages with his soulful and sonorous voice. “His contribution to the creative industry in Edo State is as remarkable as it is transformational. He was a crucial voice in the quest to make society better and more livable with his music which focused on serious issues. “His long music career, which started in the 1970s, was very productive and enriched the lives of many. The boldness and candour enmeshed in his rhythmic melodies earned him local and international acclaim.” “I commiserate with the Osayomore family, fans and friends of the illustrious musician and pray that God will grant all the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com