The Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority has increased the staff strength in its Monitoring and Compliance Unit, with additional strategies to widen the coverage of enforcement activities towards the delivery of its statutory duties. The increase in manpower was also meant ensure that the entire metropolis is covered and that recalcitrant members of the public, who flout relevant laws, are warned to desist from such acts. According to a statement on the website of the state government, the General Manager of LASPPPA, Kehinde Osinaike, disclosed this at a review meeting with the management and staff of the Enforcement Unit, held at its head office on Oba Akinjobi Way, Ikeja. He said, “We have realised that we should not only tell people to do the right things but compel them to do the right things to safeguard their lives and economic well-being, through effective monitoring. “It is in this vein that we have expanded and subdivided the daily enforcement team into groups so they can work simultaneously and ultimately increase their coverage of enforcement on physical structures in Lagos state. Osinaike averred that the agency has also created zonal offices across the State to receive petitions and attend to inquiries, thereby creating more avenues for prompt attention to complaints from members of the public on physical planning issues. While disclosing that efforts are ongoing to have enforcement units in the five zones to enhance the monitoring and enforcement activities of the district offices under each zone, Osinaike revealed that the agency plans to ensure that every structure in the state undergoes assessment in compliance with Physical Planning Permit Laws. He added, “As a test run on these strategies, the enforcement team of LASPPPA, during its monitoring and enforcement activities to ensure compliance to Physical Planning Permit Laws, last week visited Eti-Osa North and South, Ifako-Ijaiye, Somolu and Ejigbo areas of the State. “The visit revealed that owners of most property previously sealed for contravening Physical Planning Permit Laws had broken the seals despite non-compliance with directives issued in the contravention notices served for converting residential to commercial buildings without due recourse to the processes guiding such conversions, among others.” He advised all property owners and developers, whose buildings were sealed, to visit LASPPPA head office or any of the agency’s district offices closest to them with relevant documents for necessary action. He also enjoined the public to volunteer information on illegal and defective structures in their locality, guaranteeing that their identities would be kept confidential. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com