The family and friends of Lawrence Olorungbo, his wife and three children have been thrown into mourning after their decomposing bodies were found at their apartment in the Apapa area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that the corpses were found after several efforts to contact Lawrence and his wife on their telephone numbers proved abortive. In a bid to ascertain how they were doing, a yet-to-be-identified associate was said to have paid the family a visit. However, when the associate got to the premises, it was learnt that the door leading into their apartment was locked. The associate was said to have knocked on the door to get the attention of a family member to open the door, but no one answered. Our correspondents gathered that the friend was wondering why no one responded when a strange smell oozing from the apartment permeated the environment. He reportedly proceeded to the Apapa Police Station to alert policemen to his observation. The policemen detailed to investigate the situation reportedly forced their way into the building and met the lifeless bodies of the family of five. When one of our correspondents contacted one of Lawrence’s associates, Treasure Njoku, she declined to give details of the incident. She said, “The information that you want should be obtained from the family or probably you go to the police to make any inquiry you want. I don’t have anything to say.” Our correspondents gathered that the State Criminal Investigation Department, Yaba, had begun an investigation to unravel the circumstances surrounding the death of the victims. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, confirmed the incident, adding that the police suspected generator fumes as the cause of death. Hundeyin said, “The incident is true; they met the entire family dead and they have been evacuated but the autopsy has not been concluded. An investigation is ongoing. “How the corpses were discovered was that the husband’s number was not going through, so they went to check him at home and the decomposing corpses of him and his wife were found. “Paper works for the autopsy is ongoing, but everything indicates that the suspected cause of the victims’ death was generator fumes. The direction of the generator’s exhaust indicates that the fume emitting from the generator was the suspected cause of their deaths. But the autopsy will be done soon.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com