Nigeria’s Savings and Investment platform, FundBae, has just crossed a major milestone of having 50,000 users. Fundbae, a digital financial service offering powered by Vale Finance Limited, in a statement said it has paid a whopping N14,000,000 in interest, over N2 billion in the volume of transactions and about 40,000 in transaction count since inception. Part of the statement read, “FundBae has always been about User satisfaction, which reflects in its preference for user-centered product development. At the start of 2022, the team got to work; improving service delivery and enriching the functionality of the product to make onboarding simpler and the user journey quicker. “The solution was drafted and the journey to creating one of the most adaptable apps that gratify the evolving lifestyle of our users began. After many weeks of hard but rewarding work, the team is excited to announce our latest version – FundBae 2.5.” Fundbae’s Chief Technology Officer, Segun Ojo, said the new version has a simpler, easier and faster onboarding process. He said, “This upgraded version is one that I am excited about because of the upgraded features. With our improved UI/UX, customers can enjoy seamless navigation, set up their tiering level and do much more. The feeling is great with this new release because Fundbae is solving a real need in the life of its customers. It’s been quite a journey up till this point, but we are excited for what lies ahead.’ he said. “This was done to remove bottlenecks potential customers face when they hop on the platform to enjoy its
amazing benefits. Also, customers can now upgrade their tier or savings level on the mobileapp, giving them the power to do much more. “As part of this latest update, referral links are now easier to use for those who want to make some extra money by
referring their friends and family to the app. There is just something for everyone! “Asides the technological side of FundBae, what’s more surreal is the lives this app is transforming; giving ordinary individuals the power to hit their set saving goals with a feature like FlexBae, without the fear of losing their monies like the common kolo stories we have heard in
recent times. “Also, FundBae has helped people reach their dreams with the Strict target savings plan–Vault. This plan has helped students and every other individual save seamlessly towards achieving their dreams. “FundBae is also evolving with the times and now features a US-Dollar denominated savings plan as well. There are no worries concerning losing the value of your hard-earned Naira with the FundBae dollar wallet which offers you up to 7 per cent interest annually.”