The Nigerian Communications Commission has said the vandalism of telecommunication infrastructure has a negative impact on communities as it reduces coverage area and leads to dead spots on networks which results in poor quality of service and quality of experience by telecom consumers. The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, disclosed this during the second edition of the Village Square Dialogue with a focus on ‘Protection of Telecom Infrastructure for Improved Quality of Service: The Role of Residents,’ which was held recently. This was revealed in a statement signed by the Director, Public Affairs, NCC, Dr Ikechukwu Adinde Danbatta, who was represented by NCC’s Director, Technical Standards and Network Integrity, Bako Wakil, communities must protect telecom infrastructure and allow the installation of equipment and their maintenance or repairs to ensure improved telecom service delivery. He stated that members of respective communities must guard against the destruction of telecoms infrastructure by promptly notifying service providers of ongoing road construction activities by companies or government agencies to avoid service disruption that may arise from damaged infrastructure. He said protecting telecom infrastructure is now important in any community, as the ability to connect and communicate is fundamental to human existence considering its centrality in improving businesses, government services, education, communities, and families to share information through seamless connections. Danbatta stated, “Today, you simply need a computer, smartphone, and the Internet connection to do so many things and telecom infrastructure in your communities provides the critical facilities that support Internet access to these devices and therefore, you are expected to protect the infrastructure.” He added that protecting telecom infrastructure helps to create jobs, promote e-commerce, assist farmers in the villages to connect with potential buyers in the cities, as well as enhance connectivity in both rural and urban areas. He said, “Therefore, as a community, you are expected to report cases of telecoms infrastructure vandalism to the nearest law enforcement agents such as the Police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, and share adequate information received from NCC with your family, friends, neighbours. We believe that together with your cooperation as critical stakeholders in the telecoms sector, we can all work with the law enforcement authorities in protecting telecom infrastructure in your community.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com