A Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday ordered a former governor of Imo State and presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, Rochas Okorocha, to remain in custody until he perfects the conditions attached to his bail. Justice Inyang Ekwo made the order after admitting the ex-governor to bail in the sum of N500m and one surety in the like sum. Admitted also to bail by Justice Inyang Ekwo is his co-accused, Anyim Nyerere, who was sighted in a 17-count that majored on money laundering. For Nyerere, the court ordered that he should continue on the administrative bail granted him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for exhibiting good conduct while on bail. The court ordered that Okorocha’s surety must have a property in Abuja not below N500m and the original title documents of the property must be deposited with the court registrar. According to the judge, the original title document of the property must be taken to Abuja Geographical Information System for verification; thereafter, the registrar would swear an affidavit on the report of his findings. Okorocha’s travel documents, according to the court, must be deposited with the court registrar and he must not travel out of the country without the permission of the court. The Nigerian Immigration Service must be alerted in writing by the court registrar that his passport is in the custody of the court and should not be allowed to travel out of the country with an order of court. Justice Ekwo held that although bail is at the discretion of the court, the circumstances and conduct of the first defendant (Okorocha) would not make the court admit him to customary bail conditions. In the case of the second defendant, the court observed that since he did not tamper or jump his administrative bail by the EFCC, he should remain on the same. Justice Ekwo finally ordered that Okorocha should remain in the custody of the EFCC until the bail conditions are met. The court adjourned trial to November 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11. Following the order of Justice Inyang Ekwo, the EFCC whisked away the former governor. The PUNCH however gathered that the ex-governor had been released as of press time.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com