Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority has taken its enlightenment campaign on voluntary compliance with physical planning laws to residents in the Lekki axis and its environs. A statement made available to The PUNCH on Monday quoted the agency’s General Manager, Kehinde Osinaike, as saying that the exercise was a continuation of a similar motorised sensitisation embarked upon by LASPPPA within and around the Ikeja Division of the state in March. According to the statement, Osinaike spoke while leading the sensitisation on Monday from the agency’s headquarters in Ikeja to Lekki, Eti-Osa, and other neighbouring communities. He said the overall intention of government was to ensure that physical planning activities are carried out lawfully and in a way that would not endanger lives and property of the residents. Osinaike said it was mandatory for those embarking on building construction to approach LASPPPA and obtain approvals as the first step before embarking on construction. He maintained that voluntary compliance with physical planning laws will assist to reduce to the barest minimum the incidences of loss of lives and property, which could have been avoided if proper approvals were sought and genuine professionals engaged for construction work. “After informing LASPPPA of your intention to commence a construction work and upon issuance of a physical planning permit, the applicant will then approach the Lagos State Building Control Agency obtain a  letter of commencement which would be issued by LASBCA after certifying that right professionals would be engaged for the construction works,” he said. He also promised that LASPPPA will not relent in sensitising the populace and in engaging professionals in the built sector until everyone is brought to compliance voluntarily. A Deputy Director with LASPPPA, Olaniyi Musa, during the sensitisation, explained the processes and procedures that must be followed when processing a planning permit and advised applicants for a physical planning permit to visit the nearest district offices of LASPPPA within their areas with all required documents. During the exercise, owners of buildings observed to be in contravention of Physical Planning Permit Laws were served contravention notices, while those that had hitherto been served notices but did not regularise were sealed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com