Residents of Owerri, Imo State capital, on Wednesday lamented the hitches they are experiencing in the registration and revalidation of their Permanent Voter Cards. The aggrieved residents called on the Independent National Electoral Commission to extend the deadline for the exercise to enable more people to register. Those who spoke to our correspondent at the INEC registration and revalidation centres in Owerri, said they had not been able to register after visiting the centres many times for over a week. At the Assumpta Catholic Cathedral in Owerri, which had six registration and revalidation centres, our correspondent saw hundreds of people waiting to be registered. But most of the people said the system was malfunctioning, calling on the electoral commission to deploy more equipment and workers to the place. A woman, who identified herself as Grace Madu, said, “For one week now, I have been coming without being successful. It is either the systems are malfunctioning or the crowd is so much, making it difficult for INEC staff members to attend to all the people. “There should be an improvement, please. I hope this is not a plot to disenfranchise us from the forthcoming 2023 general elections. If it is possible, let the June 30 deadline be extended.” Another resident, Kingsley One, said, “I came all the way from Naza for this registration but the processes are frustrating. I want to have my PVC so that I can vote in 2023. They should extend the deadline if they can’t register all of us before the June 30 deadline.” For a civil servant, Chukwudi Kings, his inability to be captured, having visited the centre for three days, has made him tired of the process. He said, “I am calling on INEC to extend the deadline for this exercise. From what is obtainable, we can’t meet up before the deadline. We have been taking permission from our offices to enable us to get captured but to no avail. Let the deadline be extended.” The Director of Voter Education for INEC in the state, Mrs Emmanuella Opara, told our correspondent that the commission had created more units to enable people to get captured. Opara said from four units, the commission had made it six so as to fasten the process. She said, “We have created two more units to come up to six units at this centre. At the headquarters, we now have eight registration units. “We are doing our best to ensure that many people who are willing to register get captured. We are giving preferences to youths. We are registering as many of them that want to get captured.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com