The Commissioner of Police in Nasarawa state, Adesina Soyemi, has decorated 100-newly promoted personnel of the command with their new ranks. Speaking at the command headquarters in Lafia on Monday, CP Soyemi explained that the 100 personnel who are from several divisions of the command, were promoted due to their commitments in carrying out their duties since they were posted to the state. He commended the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba-Alkali, for recognising the hard work of the personnel and assured that officers of the command will continue to provide security for residents of the 13 Local Government Areas of the state. He said, “The Nasarawa State Police Command is privileged to have no fewer than 100 officers promoted to new ranks. One of the officers, Anietie Eyoh was promoted from the rank of Chief Superintendent of Police to Assistant Commissioner of Police. “We also have 27 personnel including the command’s Public Relations Officer, Rahman Nansel, who were promoted from the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police to Deputy Superintendent of Police. And 72 others were promoted from the rank of Inspector to Assistant Superintendent of Police. “Police personnel in Nasarawa have been doing a lot towards securing the state and I believe that the IGP recognised their efforts, that is why the number of promoted officers is many. So, I am urging the officers to do more for Nigeria so that the country can be safe for all residents.” Speaking to newsmen shortly after being decorated as Assistant Commissioner of Police, Anietie Eyoh who spoke on behalf of other promoted personnel, expressed gratitude to the IGP for finding them worthy of the promotion. He promised that they will put their best to ensure that crime is drastically reduced in Nasarawa state and other states of the country. On his part, the command’s spokesman, DSP Ramhan Nansel said, “Some of my mates in service have unfortunately died and some others could not be promoted due to disciplinary issues but God kept me to see this day. I am grateful to the Nigeria Police Force for promoting me from ASP to my new rank and I promise to serve the force and the people better.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com