A High Court sitting in Port Harcourt has struck out a bail application filed by a governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party in Rivers State, Hon. Farah Dagogo. The bail application was struck following another motion of bail application filed at the Court of Appeal in Port Harcourt which was said to be an abuse of the court process. The proceeding was adjourned for a motion on bail application, but the prosecuting counsel, Chidi Ekeh, called the attention of the court that there was an application of bail filed at the Appeal Court. While the counsel to the defendant argued that the motion on bail application was first filed before the present one, the defense counsel tendered a letter that the defendant has relieved the counsel Innocent Ekwu who filed the case at Appeal Court. The presiding judge, Chiwendu Nworgu, after listening to the counsel, struck out the bail application filed by the defense on April 12, 2022, stating that the court could not preside over the Appeal Court. Speaking to journalists outside the courtroom, Emmanuel Rukari, one of the counsels representing Hon Dagogo who represents Degeme-Bonny Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, said a next step would be taken, since the application was struck out. However, Chidi Ekeh, principal prosecuting counsel representing the state, said the case was struck out due to abuse of the court process. Ekeh further said the hearing on the case would continue on the next adjourned date. In a separate development, a Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt has granted an order of substituted means of service on the candidate of the PDP for Khana/Gokana Federal Constituency, Dumnamene Dekor, and hearing notice to INEC. A PDP aspirant for Khana/Gokana Federal Constituency, Legborsi Yormabana is challenging his disqualification by the party. Justice Phoebe Ayua granted the order after the counsel to Yormabana, F. Warmate filed a second motion ex parte due to transfer of the matter from the Federal High Court, Abuja to the Port Harcourt Judiciary Division for the determination on the orders of the by the Chief Judge of Nigeria. The matter was however adjourned to July 7 for hearing. Reacting to the development, the aspirant, Yormabana said he would follow the matter to a logical conclusion, even as he expressed confidence in the judiciary, saying, “Victory was around the corner.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com