The All Progressives Congress presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, Thursday, paid an unscheduled visit to Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi. The meeting, which was held behind closed doors in the early hours of Thursday at the Abuja residence Umahi, was part of the moves by the APC flag bearer towards reconciling all the aspirants who contested the party’s ticket with him. It was also aimed at seeking support and addressing salient issues arising from the just concluded presidential convention. The PUNCH reports that the presidential candidate had also on Thursday paid visited the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. Asiwaju had earlier visited the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) at his residence in the Presidential Villa and afterwards decided to make a surprise call on the VP. He was accompanied by the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. A statement made available to journalists, on Thursday night, by Umahi’s Special Assistant on Strategy, Hon. Chuks Okoh, qouted Tinubu as describing the governor as “a dogged fighter who threw in everything during the contest and a man with proven track records and capacity to do well in any position”. “Umahi has become a rallying point for Igbo integration in the mainstream national politics. “My administration, when elected, would carry all parts of the country along irrespective of gender, tribe and religion and address issue of marginalisation and all forms of injustices.” Responding, Governor Umahi who doubles as Chairman of the South-East Governors’ Forum, assured him of his support and that of all members of the APC in the entire region. Governor Umahi, who had earlier congratulated the APC flag bearer, said, “The country needs to unite under the party to consolidate on the already achieved success of the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (rted). I have absolute confidence that the country will take a further leap under the leadership of Alhaji Tinubu.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com