The Nigeria Governors’ Forum, on Monday, paid a condolence visit to Ondo State to commiserate with the Catholic diocese of Ondo over the Sunday attack at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo by some terrorists, who killed several worshippers. The chairman of the forum and Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi paid the visit in the company of the senator representing Ogun Central Senatorial District, Ibikunle Amosun. Both of them were said to have left the ongoing presidential primary of the All Progressives Congress in Abuja, for Ondo over the condolence visit. The visitors were led to the residence of the Bishop of the Diocese of Ondo, Jude Arogundade, by Ondo State Governor, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu. Fayemi described the ugly attack as least expected. The Ekiti Governor announced the donation of a sum of N50 million to the church on behalf of the NGF. He said “It is a serious and unusual attack on the people who can’t go out and farm or worship God in peace. We are all shocked. Just like Governor Akeredolu said, these people shall not go unpunished. They will be hunted down and brought to book. But this can not save the lives that have been lost or save the wounded from discomfort. “As leaders of the people, we will redouble our efforts. This is happening across the county and we are concerned. We know how troubled you will be. And we know that this is something that troubles our minds. For now, the government at the state and federal levels is working to bring the perpetrators to book. My colleagues in the Governors forum have asked me to donate N50 million to the Catholic church to ameliorate the condition of the families of the victims. This is a crime against humanity.” Responding, Bishop Jude Arogundade, who described the attack as evil, urged the governors to ensure that those behind the killing and their sponsors were brought to book. “I appreciate your coming and comment. How did we get here? Have we lost our minds and humanity? Even in a war situation, nobody kills children and women. Nobody attacks the church. “I am calling on you the leaders of the country, I think we need to talk and we need to be frank with ourselves. This can not happen without the backing of some powerful people. Those behind this no matter how powerful they are must be brought to book.
How are we presenting ourselves as primitives? Ondo State doesn’t deserve this. Humanity doesn’t deserve this. This doesn’t present us well. People are laughing at us,” the cleric stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com