Workers, under the aegis of the National Union of Electricity Employees, have faulted the process leading to the inauguration of the board of the Transmission Company of Nigeria, TCN. In a statement titled “TCN Board; Dead on Arrival,” the workers said the board lacked the robust composition required to bring about desired positive changes in the transmission sector. The workers also accused the Minister of Power of not doing enough in terms of liaising with them in order to understand the challenges facing the sector. The statement read in part, “Our attention has been drawn to the recently inaugurated Board of Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). The Board, as currently constituted, lacks representation from the workers and does not enjoy robust composition required to bring about desired positive changes in the Transmission Sector. “The Honourable Minister of Power who is supposed to supervise the Board; since his appointment, has not had any interface with workers’ representatives with a view to appreciating the challenges facing the sector and proffering solution to these perennial crises.” According to NUEE, in inaugurating a board for TCN and the need to revamp the ailing power sector, it was pertinent to enquire what the terms of reference issued to them were. They noted that several failed/ uncompleted projects in the past, particularly the Siemens project, which had been flagged by the union, had remained one that did not yield a positive impact till date despite the enormous resources thrown into it. The statement further read, “This brings to bare numerous questions begging for answers concerning the composition of the TCN Board. Is this a Professional Service Board or Political Reward? Can they deliver in terms of investment attractiveness, economy of scale,  and effectiveness? Is there any academia with  specialisation in electronic movement design on this Board?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com