The London Stock Exchange on Wednesday recognised the many achievements of the pioneer Chairman of Seplat Energy Plc, Dr ABC Orjiako. Seplat Energy, which is listed on both Nigerian Exchange Limited and the London Stock Exchange,  is seeking to drive the country’s energy transition towards cleaner, more reliable energy. Orjiako had retired last month after 13 years as the board chairman of the energy company. Orjiako in his reaction at the event in London, was quoted in a statement as saying, “It is the magnanimity of the London stock exchange and LSEG’s Africa Advisory Group that made it possible for us to be here today. It is not an easy thing to ring the opening bell of the LSE, for me to use this to mark my exit as the chairman of Seplat brings very old memories to me starting from 2014 when we first rang the bell to list our security in this market.” The Chief Executive Officer, LSE Plc, Julia Hogget, was quoted as saying, “I have had the opportunity occasionally to meet members in person, but this is really the first opportunity. Not all of us, but a lot of us have managed to come for this important occasion and to acknowledge the many achievements that you (ABC Orjiako) have had in your career.” Speaking further at the event, she said, “Seplat was also the first Nigerian company to list ordinary shares simultaneously on the London Stock Exchange and NGX and $535m was successfully raised during that initial public offering, which was both oversubscribed and the largest IPO in subject,” Hogget noted. “It says a lot about the people at the London Stock Exchange that one of the things that they wanted me to make sure I equally referenced, apart from the IPO was the financial innovation that took place following the listing in terms of the cross border settlement mechanism. It is a really important point. It is also that innovation that enabled the seamless transverse shares between the UK and Nigerian share registers.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com