The Peoples Democratic Party in Ogun State has urged two aggrieved governorship aspirants to go to court and seek redress if they are not satisfied with the outcome of the recently concluded primary. Speaking at a press briefing held at the party’s secretariat in Abeokuta, the state capital, the Ogun State Chairman of the party, Sikirulahi Ogundele, urged the two aspirants, Segun Showunmi and Jimi Lawal to “put the interest of the party at heart.” Ogundele, however, declared that the aggrieved aspirants who were claiming victory in the parallel primaries were living in fool’s paradise. He said the only governorship candidate elected by the PDP in Ogun State remained Oladipupo Adebutu and no one else. Showunmi had on May 25 conducted a primary election where he was elected a factional governorship candidate. Lawal, who participated in the primary that produced Adebutu had however, called for the cancelation of the governorship primary in the state, alleging that the delegates list used for the election was fake. But the PDP said it never conducted anything close to parallel congress anywhere. Ogundele, said “anybody or group of persons hiding anywhere, claiming to have emerged as the PDP candidate at any level of the party primary is merely living in fool’s paradise.” Ogundele, whose speech was read by the State PDP Secretary, Sunday Solarin, maintained that the opposition party in Ogun State “now co-habit in total harmony under my able chairmanship.” Ogundele said the party recognised individual’s right and liberty to proceed to court and seek legal redress against the party, saying “however, they should take good cognizance of the interest of the party.” His words, “On the directive of the National headquarters of our party, the party conducted its primary elections, from the State House of Assembly all through to the gubernatorial primary, which was held at Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, OOPL, as approved by the National Office on May 25, 2022. This primary produced only one candidate for our party, and that is Hon. (Dr) Oladipupo Adebutu who emerged with 714 votes. “On the strength of the above, I dare say that all party primary elections took place at the party’s approved locations/venues and same was duly monitored and observed by officials of INEC, officers of the Nigeria Police Force and of course, other security agencies. By this, it goes to say and confirm that the PDP in Ogun State never conducted anything close to parallel congress anywhere. “Anybody or group of persons hiding anywhere, claiming to have emerged as the PDP candidate at any level of the party primary in merely living in fool’s paradise. PDP, like I said earlier, now co-habits in total harmony under my able chairmanship. “Ogun State, in particular, that the PDP is the only democratic platform that enjoys unflinching support, solidarity of the good people of Ogun State who have suffered all manners of agony and avoidable misery from the current misrule of the ruling All Progressives Congress government. “Before I conclude, we must say that we recognise and appreciate individual’s right and liberty to proceed to court to seek legal redress against the party, I choose to advise them to take good cognizance of the interest of the party. “Having concluded the party’s robust national convention, the party shall, in no time, present to the members of the public the list with detailed particulars and information of all its candidates for all elective positions and same shall be submitted to INEC and other relevant bodies for further actions.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com