One person was killed on Friday night while two others were injured when gunmen opened fire in Kuru community,Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau state . It was gathered that all the victims were students of a boarding school within the locality. The affected students were said to have gone to charge their phones at a filling station close to the school when the gunmen opened fire on them, killing one on the spot, while two others sustained injuries. A community leader in the area, Sunday Gyang, who confirmed the attack to The PUNCH in Jos on Saturday said the incident occured at about 7:30 pm on Friday Gyang said, “what happened was that yesterday afternoon (Friday) some Fulani herdsmen who were staying at a location in the community using their cows to destroy farm lands of the native community were driven away. So, last night (Friday), they sent terrorists to attack the community. “Unfortunately, around Science School Kuru, by Emmy fuelling station opposite Assemblies of God’s Church closed to the school, the bandits who came in J5 vehicle opened fire on people. “A few of the students of Science school kuru who went there to charge their phones were affected. One of them who was shot in the neck by the gunmen died immediately while two others who also sustained injuries were rushed to the hospital. “The attack on the community would have been more devasting if not that luckily, the gunshots fired by the terrorists attracted some security escorts on transit who also responded and chased the terrorists away.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Alabo Alfred, when contacted said the command was aware of the attack and would soon issue a press release on the incident. The command was yet to do so at the time of filling this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com