A non- governmental organisation, Pastoral Resolve has trained over 200 farmers and herders in Plateau State on peace keeping and conflict reduction. The PUNCH reports that several communities in different local government areas of the state have recorded more crises between herders and farmers in the last decade Hundreds of persons were killed and properties destroyed in the crises which have reoccurred countless times, particularly in Barkin Ladi, Riyom, Bassa, Bokkos and Mangu LGAs among others Speaking on Saturday during the training which attracted herders and farmers from various  communities  in Barkin Ladi and Riyom local government areas, including Shong, Karkuruk, Bangai among others, the Programme Manager of the NGO, Muhammad Sanusi, said the training was aimed at building the capacity of the farmers and herders to understand the key drivers of conflict which would help them to resolve any contending issue and keep peace in their communities . Sanusi lamented that the crisis among the people leading to insecurity had slowed economic activities in the affected communities which he said should not be allowed to continue “So far, we have trained over 200 farmers and herders from identified communities that are prone to conflict in local government areas of Plateau State, including Barkin Ladi, Bokkos, Riyom among others. “What we do is to bring conflict groups together to see how they can come up with strategies in addressing key drivers of conflict. We are at a stage where we want to see them drive the peace process themselves. It is a process you cannot achieve in one day,” he said. The village head of Bangai community, Joseph Danladi, identified land encroachment as a major problem and called on the Fulani herders to monitor their child-herders and expose those involved in the act and destruction of their farmlands.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com