The Tinubu Campaign Organisation has said the manifesto of the presidential candiate of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, will be ready before the commencement of campaigns in September. This was disclosed in a statement signed by the organisation’s Director, Media and Communication, Bayo Onanuga, made available to newsmen on Sunday. According to Onanuga, a viral document prepared by some associates of Tinubu is currently being circulated as his manifesto. He said the former governor of Lagos State had nothing to do with the manifesto as he was yet to endorse and accept it. Onanuga said the APC presidential candidate was consulting experts in various fields and a broad section of the populace towards arriving at an all-embracing manifesto that will be presented to Nigerians. He said, “I want to place it on record that the manifesto being circulated via social media platforms and already published by a section of the mainstream media is not the official Manifesto of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and All Progressives Congress for 2023 general election. “While our presidential candidate appreciates the spirit and efforts of his associates that produced the document being passed around mostly on WhatsApp, we want to clearly state that the document is an unofficial document and Tinubu cannot be held accountable on any of the issues raised in the document. “The presidential candidate and APC are currently working on an all-embracing manifesto that will inspire the confidence of Nigerians. When the official policy document of Tinubu is ready it will be formally presented to Nigerians and our candidate will be in a position to defend every word that will be contained therein. “We appreciate the interest and enthusiasm of Nigerians to know about the programmes and policy options Asiwaju Tinubu will pursue in government when elected. “He is a tested and experienced leader who will bring his knowledge and expertise to run a government that will meet the aspiration and yearnings of our people across every sector.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com