Globally, food prices have experienced a record high in the first quarter of the year. This is amid the World Health Organisation’s World Food Safety Day slated for Tuesday with the theme, “Safer food, better health’’ to draw attention and mobilise action to prevent, detect and manage foodborne risks and improve human health. According to a United Nations price index of food items, March witnessed a 12.6 per cent increase and was recorded as the highest so far since 1990. Grains such as wheat and corn and oil products as sunflower oil and soybean oil topped the biggest price gain. The reason for the development is tied to the over 100 days invasion of Ukraine by Russia which has led to the death of more than 243 children, thousands of civilians and many others fleeing to neighbouring countries for safety. The level of destruction caused by the invasion has led to the “shocking destruction in Mariupol, Kharkiv, Kyiv and Sumy, including homes, hospitals and a theatre,” Washington Post reports. Since Ukraine and Russia export 30 per cent of global wheat and 80 per cent of global sunflower, the ripple effect of the invasion on the world is the disruption in the supply of staple food items. In Nigeria, a recent report by a management consulting firm, Boston Consulting Group, revealed that Nigeria and 44 countries suffered the direct and indirect impact of the “war-induced food crisis.” The report further listed heavy reliance on food imports, high import bills, high inflation, high debt burden, climate risk and civil unrest as additional factors worsening the food crisis. The implication of these combined factors would be a humanitarian crisis with a gross inability of people to feed themselves. The PUNCH quoted the Managing Director and Partner at BCG, Stefano Niavas, as saying that, “The impact of the Ukraine war on our food systems calls for critical and immediate review of our budgetary allocation. “Currently, Nigeria spends over 27 times of its agriculture allocation to service its debt. Compounded with the Ukraine war and the lingering challenges of COVID-19, the average debt-to-GDP ratio across the continent is expected to rise from 60 per cent to 70 per cent. “To minimise the impact of the crisis on Nigeria’s food systems, the government and all critical stakeholders should ensure stabilising the rising cost of food and fertiliser by the provision of viable seedlings, supporting the growth of alternative nutritious grains, driving the adoption of innovative farm practices. The introduction of alternative sources of fertiliser will help reduce the country’s reliance on food imports.” The United Nations in 2019 warned of food insecurity in the North-East stating that women in affected communities had complained of children crying through the night due to hunger. The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations stated that the Commissioner for International Partnerships, Jutta Urpilainen, said, “Russia’s invasion of Ukraine jeopardises global food security. The international community must act to avert the largest food crisis in history and the social, economic, and political upheaval that could follow.” Also, the United States Treasury Secretary, Janet Yellen, on May 16, said that the world was currently facing a food crisis due to the ongoing war in Ukraine. Commenting on the issue, an Agribusiness coach/consultant, African Farmer Mogaji, said that Nigeria was likely to experience higher food prices, stating that the solution to averting such was to sensitise and woo the private sector to provide deliverable results. Mogaji added that despite the increase in food prices, many states had lots of food wastage, stating that tax waivers should be given to private owners of vehicles to ease the transportation of produce to urban areas. The agricultural expert also said that over 80 per cent of staples were locally sourced, adding that instead of dependence on imported wheat, farmers should leverage available products with a projection of diversifying in the nearest future. Mogaji said, “We don’t have a comparative advantage to grow wheat but we can grow wheat. I used to produce wheat in Jigawa and almost every northern state in Nigeria produces wheat. Wheat does best in the dry season but some may prefer a cold temperature. The northern part of every state can grow any variety of wheat. Russia and Ukraine, due to the ongoing war, have lost the time to produce. Nigerians can still produce wheat because we are yet in the planting season. However, the cost of production is the challenge here. A Fast Moving Consumer Goods planted a variety of wheat in Gombe and it did well when they took it to the lab but they needed to improve on it to get the desired results.” He added that farmers should be encouraged and given the tools to boost productivity. Also, a professor of Agriculture Economics at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna State, Benjamin Ahmed, said that the increase in food prices was not restricted to Nigeria, noting that the Russia-Ukraine war which had led to a shortage in grains would continue for some time. He added that “In the interim, we have to rely more on what we have, that means we should consume more of our locally grown foods and grains.” On what Nigeria can do to avert a further increase in food prices, Ahmed said that farmers should be encouraged and supported continuously to produce the needed foods. He said, “First, the government should support local production by subsidising fertilisers for farmers in particular. Also, there must be a buy-back mechanism in place like NISARL (Agro Geo-Cooperative mode) was trying to do but failed because of the lack of political will and abuse by the agency. Lastly, the bulk of food production and industrial crops comes from the North but insecurity has sent farmers off the farms. Government must decisively take steps to restore security confidence in the middle belt and other northern states.” On his part, a professor of Agricultural Economics at the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto, Ahmed Ala, said that apart from the global increase in food prices as a result of the Ukraine war, the situation in Nigeria was driven by other factors such as macroeconomic variables involving exchange rate and insecurity. On how Nigeria can drive an increase in local production and avert the looming food crisis predicted by Yellen, Ala said that the government needed to subsidise the prices of fertiliser. Ala stated, “Everywhere in the world when you have this kind of problem you must find a way of subsidising the inputs, especially fertiliser. But when we subsidise it, it is not always available to the farmers. It is only those close to the government that get them and sell them to black market. Also, if they maintain the cost of production, the government can give them some tax holidays to reduce the price of fertilisers.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com