The National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress on Wednesday wrote an open letter to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), urging him to resist the temptation to foist a successor on the party. This is even as the NWC warned that anything short of providing a level playing field to all the 23 screened presidential aspirants would prove ‘democratically risky’ for the party. Buhari had told the APC governors when he hosted them on Tuesday that he needs their support in choosing his successor. The APC National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, was also at the meeting, which held at the Council Chambers of the State House, Abuja. The development is coming six days before the rescheduled presidential convention slated to hold at Eagles Square on June 6. In the open letter signed by APC National Vice Chairman (North-West), Mallam Salihu Lukman, the NWC disclosed that it will be highly risky to adopt the same succession framework that birthed poorly imposed political succession arrangement in the country. “The temptation for leaders to choose their successors is democratically risky and very costly. If in 2013/2014, Your Excellency, could submit yourself to internal democratic process, it is important that your successor also follow the same process. “Notwithstanding, however, there is the overriding requirement to appeal to you to kindly resist the temptation. I would have wished we have enough time for open debate within our party. Unfortunately, as things are, we have less than one week to settle this matter. “Like in the case of December 10, 2014 APC National Convention, everything will be done at this year’s APC National Convention to guarantee level playing field for all aspiring Presidential candidates of our party. Any recommendation to the contrary will be inimical and injurious to the electoral fortunes of our great party, APC,” he said. According to him, a major disadvantage with succession arrangement with governors choosing their successors is that it negatively affects relationship between the successor and the predecessor. Lukman recalled the unfortunate third-term agenda of former President Olusegun Obasanjo and how it eventually eroded all his achievements as a leader, warning that it is necessary to caution against any transition initiative that risked being unpopular. He stated that any initiative that potentially took away the rights of party members to elect candidates would potentially mobilise Nigerians against the party and rubbish Mr. President. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com