Residents of Jenew Estate in the Federal Capital Territory have denied reports that their estate was attacked in the early hours of Monday. Many media outlets (PUNCH not included) had reported that suspected bandits in the early hours of Monday attacked Genuine Estate in Gwarinpa area of the Federal Capital Territory. The reports claimed that the gunmen operated on the estate between 1 am and 4 am and abducted a yet-to-be-identified number of residents. However, the chairman of the Estate, Ojeh Akpoborie, told our correspondent that gunmen didn’t attack the estate. He said, “Nobody has reported to us that his or her house was attacked. We have also not heard from anyone whether their children, husband, or wife is missing. Let me also say we have armed policemen in the estate, they have not reported any gunshot to us. I have been receiving phone calls too but I have taken my time to tell them nothing of such happened here.” Also, the Estate Manager, Soroibe Nwabara, said he read the news but said it was far from the truth. According to him, he went around the estate this morning to verify the news but there was no attack on the estate. He said, “The news is fake. Nothing of such happened here. We have gone round the estate when we started hearing the information we could not find any. The police have called me, I also told them the estate was not attacked.” The Chief Security Officer of the estate, Abraham Johnson, also said they had contacted everyone in the estate, adding that no one was attacked. He said, “We worked overnight and I can confidently tell you nothing happened in this estate. We have contacted the residents, no one was attacked.” When contacted, the FCT police spokesperson, Josephine Adeh, also confirmed there was no attack on the estate. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com