The Rivers State Government has described the stampede, which claimed several lives during an outreach programme by a new generation church at the Polo Club in Port Harcourt recently, as a tragedy. The government said it would remain proactive and put necessary measures in place to forestall potential disastrous situations. Governor Nyesom Wike stated this while playing host to the Director-General of the National Emergency Management Agency, Mustapha Ahmed, at the Government House, Port Harcourt. Represented by his Deputy, Dr. Ipalibo Harry-Banigo, the governor said nobody prayed for disaster, stressing that the fatal stampede that took place at the Polo Club in Port Harcourt on May 28 at a programme organised by the King’s Assembly was unfortunate. This was contained in a statement issued by the Head of Press, Deputy Governor’s office, Owupele Benebo, and made available to journalists. He said the Ministry of Special Duties had visited the church and the victims in hospitals, adding that those who were admitted had been discharged. “We are very sorry; it is a real tragedy, particularly for those who lost their lives, and families who are bereaved. We will make sure that nothing close to that happens again; we are grateful to NEMA and we are happy that the Federal Government has responded to us,” Wike stated. He advised non-governmental organisations, churches and well-meaning individuals, who want to conduct similar programmes to work with the Department of Emergency in the Ministry of Special Duties. He said during the COVID-19 pandemic, Rivers State was the first to enforce a lockdown to ensure that “we curtailed the incidence within the borders of our state to greatly prevent the degree of the epidemic not just in Rivers State, but all over the country.” “We will always take the lead when it comes to managing such issues; we are conscious of it and as patriotic Nigerians, we always want to make sure that we safeguard the lives of all those who work and do business in Rivers State,” the governor added. In his remarks, the NEMA director-general said the agency was established in March 1999 by Act 12 as amended by Act 50 of 1999 to manage disasters in all ramifications. Ahmed said in fulfilling its mandate, NEMA had developed several plans and guidelines, including the National Disaster Response Plan, the Search and Rescue/Epidemic Evacuation Plan, the National Nuclear and Radiological Plan, and the Early Warning System on Epidemics, among others, adding that over the years, the agency had encountered challenges and learned lessons in the implementation of the plans. The statement said NEMA donated many items to victims of the stampede.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com