The Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, on Monday, swore-in four new judges for the State High Court and a Khadi of the Sharia Court of Appeal with a charge on them not to allow frivolous consideration to affect their decisions, but to ensure the people of the state get justice. While performing the swearing-in ceremony at the New Government House, Little Rayfield, in Jos, the governor said their appointments were based on merit and in recognition of their excellent service to the state and Nigeria over the years. He said going by their antecedents, he did not doubt that they would take the Judiciary to higher levels and enhance the cause of democracy, good governance, and the rule of law. Lalong said “Since your calling as Judicial Officers gives you the rare privilege of making decisions that affect the lives of the people and sometimes bordering on life and death situations, you must never take this assignment lightly or allow frivolous considerations to influence you. Consider this duty as a Public Trust given to you by God to represent him in the affairs of men. “Endeavour to stay true to your Oath of Office and discharge your duties with the fear of God and without fear, favour, affection, or ill-will. Failure to do so will not only erode your integrity but also put the entire society on the path of chaos and anarchy. When people cannot get justice, they may be forced to resort to self-help and other unconventional means to resolve issues. This will not augur well for the well-being of the society.” The governor reassured the Judiciary of his support and that of the Executive Arm of Government as well as the Legislature towards making sure that they operate in a conducive environment. He said the new High Court Headquarters complex which was at the furnishing stage would soon be commissioned as well as the Multi-Door Courthouse which had also been completed. The governor also advised them to be wary of politicians that would like to induce them so as to get an undue advantage ahead of the 2023 general election. “At times like this, there is a high tendency for enormous pressure to be mounted on judges by politicians who want to get an undeserved advantage at all costs. I know you have the capacity to resist attempts to corrupt, confuse, intimidate or blackmail you towards participating in unethical conduct. Please stay focused on the oath you have taken and discharge your duties according to the laws of the land and the dictates of the legal profession,” Lalong said. The judges sworn in were Hon. Justice Ladi Agyer Madaki, Hon. Justice Elizabeth Angai, Hon. Justice Longden Danladi, Hon. Justice Dasplang Samchi and Khadi Mohammed Kanam of the Sharia Court of Appeal. Justice Ladi Madaki, who responded on behalf of his colleagues said they would do their best to serve with equity, fairness, and justice as well as ensure that they lived according to the oath they had taken. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com