The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Wednesday in Madrid, Spain, signed at least nine agreements and Memoranda of Understanding with the Spanish Government. According to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the agreements included Treaty on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters; Transfer of Sentenced Persons; Extradition; Economic and Commercial Cooperation; Tourism. Others were on sports, health; the fight against COVID-19, as well as science and innovation. The statement was titled ‘President Buhari calls for global cooperation to avert looming food crises.’ In a meeting with his Spanish counterpart, President Pedro Sanchez, Buhari said his country looked forward to increasing bilateral relations between both nations. He commended Sanchez for his leadership qualities and contributions to the war against terror in Sub-Saharan Africa, especially in Mali, and looking forward to cooperation in the area. Both leaders also discussed areas of cooperation on which the agreements and MoUs were signed. President Sanchez emphasised that, as a major partner of Spain in Africa, Nigeria is a country that his people really want to have a stronger partnership with going forward. He commended Buhari for his leadership roles in Africa, especially in the area of strengthening of democratic ideals. Currently, Spain is the largest importer of Nigerian gas and the third-largest importer of Nigerian crude, and with the visit, the two leaders hoped for bigger trade relations. In a separate meeting with King Felipe VI at his Royal Palace, Buhari harped on the need for world leaders to cooperate and strategise on ways to avert the looming global food crisis triggered by several factors, including the Russia-Ukraine crisis. Adesina’s statement read, “The two leaders canvassed a global action to stem the food problem especially in wheat production occasioned by the ongoing war in Ukraine, urging world leaders to take concrete actions to avert the crisis. “The King said Nigeria was an important country and looked forward to an opportunity to visit the country, especially against the background of stronger cooperation being forged by the two countries. “President Buhari thanked the Spanish Monarch for the invitation and hospitality extended to him since his arrival and updated him on happenings in Nigeria especially as the country gears up for general elections.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com