Nollywood actor, Yul Edochie, has described how embracing polygamy brought him blessings and elevated his two wives, May and Judy. In a lengthy Instagram post on Thursday, the father of five noted that God used the polygamy situation to bless him and his wives. Likening himself to David in the Bible, Yul noted that he communicated with God every day. Yul said, “God works in mysterious ways. Marrying a second wife has brought me blessings and also elevated my two lovely wives. “Sometimes it takes the things we see as disappointments to happen for elevation to come. It happened many times in the bible, just like the case of Joseph. “I’m a man after God’s heart. I’m like King David in the bible. I communicate with my God and He guides me everyday. “I wronged my wife May from the way I went about it, and I have apologised to her sincerely from the bottom of my heart, but in the eyes of God things are different.” Detailing how polygamy elevated his wives, Yul said, “My wife, May, just signed her first endorsement deal. Something that never happened all these years. And this came from what many saw as a disappointment. “I have realised that God’s ways are different. Many more deals will still come to her because she’s a wonderful person. “So is my wife Judy. She has also been elevated. Now widely known, her career is bigger with a whole lot going for her as well. “Let me not even talk about myself. My stardom has tripled. My name is being mentioned in places it never got to before. My children are blessed.” The actor caused a stir on social media after he announced his marriage to Judy in April, adding that she already had a child for him. His first wife of 17 years, May, has four children from the actor. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com