Governor of Anambra State, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, has ordered the repeat of the online recruitment examination teachers which took place on Saturday, June 4. There have been criticisms about the examination by some candidates owing to network failure as the website failed for about 30 minutes into the one-hour exam. About 31,000 candidates had applied to sit for the examination to fill the 5,000 available vacancies. A majority of the candidates had complained that the system broke down even before they could log in for the examination due to network failure. The situation forced the participants and other stakeholders to allege that it was a deliberate attempt to shut them out of the exams for preferred candidates to be picked. Although, the Commissioner for Education, Prof. Ngozi Chuma-Udeh, had immediately debunked the allegations stating that 6,000 candidates had successfully completed their final logging in. But in a press statement on Tuesday, Soludo announced that the examination has been cancelled and that a repeat exercise will hold to accommodate all. The statement signed by the Governor’s Press Secretary, Christian Aburime, said, “In line with his objective of ensuring transparency and fairness to all, Anambra State Governor, Prof Charles Chukwuma Soludo, has directed a repeat of the online recruitment exam for teachers in Anambra State. “Soludo has, therefore, graciously directed the Commissioner for Education, Prof. Ngozi Chuma-Udeh, to conduct a repeat of the exercise to make up for the shortfall in the Saturday, June 4, preliminary Teacher’s Recruitment Examination. “He has further directed that all expenses for the test be covered by the government.” Aburime said against the proposed 5,000 qualified applicants to be shortlisted for the CBT exam, the governor had directed that all the over 31,000 listed applicants should be given an equal chance to participate in a preliminary online exam, before shortlisting the successful applicants for a second CBT exam. He said the mix-ups arose from the online examinations website crashing. He stated that it was not intended as many had insinuated. “It is in a bid to make up and ensure that all eligible candidates are carried along, that the governor has approved a repeat of the exercise. “He assures Ndi-Anambra that there their interest will be protected at all times by his administration,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com