June 1st every year is usually one for the books in the dairy community; a special day set aside to celebrate the wonders of dairy via the themes of good food, health, livelihood, and sustainability. It’s a day when all true milk lovers come through! As an advocate for milk and all its goodness, Dano Milk Nigeria definitely comes through as an ardent supporter of all things World Milk Day, championing celebrations both digitally and offline. This year, the affair was themed Milk it to Enjoy it and the brand kicked off by sharing fun milk facts with the audience.  Dano Milk Nigeria also took use of the occasion to educate the audience on dairy sustainability and good practices for making the world a healthier place. Tips on how to avoid waste by properly storing dairy products; enlightening people about the advantages of reusing used containers to reduce littering in the environment are just a few of the sustainable measures they emphasized. The audience was also encouraged to bring their creative imaginations alive by recycling old items and finding new uses for them around the house.  To take the celebration to the next level, the brand started the Dano Sip Challenge where fans were asked to answer random questions about their lives and milk consumption habits by sipping from a glass of milk for a chance to be rewarded.  On 1st June, 2022, Dano Milk Nigeria kicked off the World Milk Day celebration on digital with the promise of lots of prizes for winners of the World Milk Day Spin the Wheel challenge. The brand also put out a video featuring recent AMVCA best actress winner, Osas Ighodaro and Big Brother Naija Season 6 winner, Whitemoney, showing how much of a role milk plays in even the simplest of things in our lives. Folks offline were not left out of the World Milk Day celebration as there were market activations around the country and Dano corners at various modern trade centres in Lagos. Throughout the day, Arla Dano staff were also active in various charity initiatives, giving out cartons of milk to underserved communities and the less privileged.  With all of these, the 2022 World Milk Day celebration came to an end on a high note for Dano Milk Nigeria. Many milky cheers and a toast to more years of enjoying dairy! For more on World Milk Day, Dano Milk Nigeria and dairy, visit www.dano.com.ng