Barely 24 hours after the convention, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Abdullahi Adamu, and members of the party’s National Working Committee on Thursday paid a congratulatory visit to the winner of the presidential primary, Bola Tinubu. The visit, which took place in the afternoon, also had APC National Youth Leader, Dayo Israel, in attendance. After the roundtable, Adamu and his delegation said the visit was to assure Tinubu of their support. He said, “For us, action speaks louder than words. We are here to join our brother, to congratulate and assure him that we are together. This is our project. By the grace of God, we will deliver him as the president of Nigeria.” The APC national youth leader also took to the official Twitter handle to explain the purpose of their visit in a series of tweets. “Our National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, today led us on a courtesy visit to our Presidential Candidate Bola Ahmed Tinubu this afternoon. The full NWC are behind our Candidate. “Hon. Dayo Israel, together with every NWC member has proven to Nigerians that fair play and the rule of law are well tenable in our great party, the APC. “This commitment has paid off with the emergence of Tinubu as our party’s flag bearer.” Tinubu, who polled 1,271 votes to clinch the APC presidential sole ticket, defeated 13 other aspirants at the end of the Special National Convention of the party on Wednesday in Abuja. The aspirants included Chukwuemeka Nwajuba, Pastor Tunde Bakare, Chief Ikeobasi Mokelu, Senator Rochas Okorocha, Mr Tein Jack-Rich and Governor Ben Ayade. Others were Governor David Umuahi, Senator Ahmad Yarima, Dr Ahmed Lawal, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, Governor Yahaya Bello and Mr Ogbonnaya Onu. The race for the presidential flag bearer started with 23 aspirants, but nine withdrew shortly before the commencement of voting at the convention. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com