The Indigenous People of Biafra has accused the Federal Government of plotting to plant explosives in various parts of the South-East, through the security agencies. The group said the move is the Federal Government’s latest tactics in pursuance of its alleged “agenda to commit mass murder in Biafranland in its desperation to indict IPOB and the Eastern Security Network”. In a statement on Sunday, the group’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, said rather than dialogue with the group as stated by the international community, the FG is flooding the South-East with the military, immigration, customs, DSS, and other paramilitary agencies. Powerful said the security agencies are fully armed to the teeth with “guns and bombs which they now plant at strategic locations only them know about”. Powerful said, “The Nigerian army has now resorted to planting bombs in Biafraland in pursuance of its evil agenda to commit mass murder of our people. “It is on record that IPOB, ESN, volunteers and members have no business with IEDs because we do not need IEDs to drive Fulani terrorist Herdsmen from our forests and farmlands.” He alleged that the Nigerian army has recently been populated by “Boko Haram and ISWAP members who are using IEDs because of their unquenching taste for innocent blood”. The statement read in part, “The Federal Government in their desperation to diminish the outstanding global reputation of IPOB and of the ESN at home, has fully institutionalised kidnapping in the South East as a secret revenue machine of the Federal Government against the Igbo and the South. “They are no longer satisfied with the Army and police road blocks on every kilometre on our roads which extort billions of dollars from Biafrans yearly. Now they have notched it up a bit with kidnappings through the instrumentality of their security agencies and its militia the Fulani terrorist Herdsmen. “It’s unfortunate, absurd, disgraceful, humiliating, scandalous and cheap that the Federal Government, instead of simply heeding to the call by the International community to dialogue which IPOB leadership has rather insisted as the viable solution, is flooding the South-East with the military, armed to the teeth with guns and bombs which they now plant in our land at strategic locations that only them know about. “These IEDs they can activate, deactivate and exhume at will in the company of government-accredited media house members and staff for disinformation documentary and campaign against IPOB. “IPOB will only accept and do anything that will guarantee us freedom from Nigeria, this is not to say that our ingenuity, abundant talents and competencies are in doubt should the push come to shove. “Nigeria army burying explosives in the land of Biafra is to let our people know that the Federal Government and its compromised security agencies especially army and DSS will like to kill every single person moving around in Biafraland and make a clear way for Fulani to take over our ancestral lands. “The international community knows that IPOB does not engage in explosives as Nigeria security agencies especially DSS and army personnel want them to believe but it important that we restate this fact that our struggle has no need of bombs and IEDs.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com