The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union has distributed relief material to victims of terrorists attacks on four communities of Maikori, Dogo Noma, Ungwan Sarki and Sabo Gida in Kajuru Local Government Area of the State. The attack, which the villagers allegedly claimed were aided by a helicopter, led to the death of no fewer than 32 lives across the communities. The state government through its Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, confirmed the attack but debunked that the helicopter aided the terrorists to attack the villagers, saying that the helicopter was out to repel the bandits. SOKAPU National President, Jonathan Asake, while addressing journalists shortly before the commencement of the distribution of the relief materials on Saturday, expressed concern over the incessant killings of the southern Kaduna people by bandits. According to him, the continued killing is clearly a genocide targeted at wiping out the entire Southern Kaduna race. But he praised Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, for assisting internally displaced persons across the entire state, adding that it was from part of money donated by Wike that relief materials were being bought and taken to IDPs in Kajuru and others in Southern Kaduna. He said, “We are worried over the continuous attack on our communities by Fulani herdsmen terrorists, destruction of our farm land and massacre of our people, mostly women and children, destroyed our food stuff, burnt down our homes, pushed our people out of their own land into Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps. “On Sunday, the 6th of June, 2022, an attack took place in four communities of Maikori, Dogo Noma, Ungwan Sarki, and Sabo Gida, all in Kajuru local government area, in Southern Kaduna. “At the end of this attack no fewer than 32 persons were killed, and the entire communities were razed down including two ECWA Churches and the people have been phased out, they are scattered in different places of IDPs within the local government area. “When this attack was going on, I received different calls and information about the nature of the attack. Up till now we still have so many people uncounted for within the communities. “And some of these displaced people have reached us here in SOKAPU for humanitarian intervention, they came with their leaders and Representatives. The Pastor of the burnt ECWA Church in Maikori and a youth leader came to us for intervention. “It may interest you to know that these communities, especially Dogo Noma, were attacked in 2019 where 71 people were massacred. And other communities around had also suffered similar fate, serious attacks. But they have not in any way received any help from the government, whether food stuff or medication. “So there is a very huge humanitarian situation in these communities. These people have come to us for help.” Meanwhile, a Pastor with the Evangelical Church of Winning All, ECWA, Dennis Sani, told journalists how the church was razed by the hoodlums. Sani said that apart from the 32 natives that were killed by the attackers, many people were still missing after the attacks. “As at the time of the attack 32 people were killed. But as I speak many of our people are still missing. We are begging SOKAPU to come to our aid, because the government has not helped us since this thing happened. No security operatives in the communities. “We are however grateful to SOKAPU for coming to our help with these relief materials including food stuff and other materials,” the cleric said. A youth leader, Chris Jonah while speaking at the event, appealed to the government to ensure that the incessant attacks by terrorists on their people was stopped. This is just as he commended the SOKAPU for coming to their aid in time of need, saying, “Only God can reward our union.” “Government should begin to consider establishing security outposts like Mobile Police barracks in our communities to assist in curtailing insecurity that appears unending,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com