Determined to improve quality delivery of private security in Nigeria, the American Society for Industrial Security, Lagos Chapter 206, has unveiled an operational guide and standards for the industry in Nigeria. The event tagged, ‘Good Practice Guidelines for Private Security Operatives in Nigeria’, which is the first of its kind for the private security industry in Nigeria, is designed to provide operational, service and safety parameters for all Nigerian companies operating in the guarding and security sector. Speaking at the 2022 retreat at the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture Ibadan, the Lagos chapter Chairman, Mr Peter Okolo, noted that the issues of service standards were key to quality service delivery in the private security industry. “We are very particular about this, which is why we have come up with this operational document. This is the first time we are putting this together to ensure and guide our service delivery to our clients.” Okolo assured that the new guidelines for private security operatives in country would have a remarkable impact on productivity and services in the industry when fully adopted by stakeholders in the industry. Earlier, a general, Garba Ayodeji Wahab (Rtd), had noted that the private security industry in Nigeria was better positioned to support various national security agencies due to their numbers and strategic outlook. On his part, the Lagos State Commandant, of the Nigeria Security & Civil Defence Corps, Edenabu Okoro Eweka, who was represented at the event by the Deputy Commandant Administration, NSCDC, Paul Oladapo Somide, said, “It is exciting witnessing robust thought leadership sessions by ASIS with input from Association of Licensed Private Security Practitioners of Nigeria. It is good seeing them formulating a standardized platform that will enable all stakeholders in that sector to know what is expected of them.” Dr. Wale Adeagbo of the Halogen Group and chairman of the organizing committee of the leadership conference noted that the key to the success of the four-day retreat was a genuine quest for a value-driven industry ready for an outcome-based integrated private security practice.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com