Coscharis Motors has launched the Bronco into the Nigerian market. The Bronco is Ford’s all-new outdoor brand featuring ‘Built Wild’ 4×4 adventure vehicles. The all-new Bronco family includes a Bronco two-door, first-ever Bronco four-door model and all-new rugged, small SUV, Bronco Sport, which can all be ordered in Nigeria. Speaking during the launch at the Lagos Motor Fair, the General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde, said, “The Bronco has come home to stay in Nigeria. Given the adventurous nature of our people and the challenging topography of some of our communities, the Bronco will soon become a must-have for everyone who can afford it. “The Bronco is engineered to deliver thrilling and confident off-road experience, building on the DNA of the original 1966 Bronco and its racing heritage. It gets even better with ingenious new updatable technologies and adventure-ready attributes created for today’s outdoor enthusiasts.” The Bronco is said to offer lots of off-road safety and comfort features as it is engineered with capability to deliver confidence on any type of terrain. According to the Deputy General Manager, Ford Sales, Coscharis Motors, Justin Ngini, “The Bronco Wildtrak you are seeing today assures of value for money as it comes packed with a 2.7L Ecoboost Engine, 10 speed Automatic Transmission, 17 Inches Black Gloss-Painted Aluminium Wheels, Sound Deadening Headliner, six Speaker Sound System, SYNC4, Navigation System, Leather Trims, and many other comfort and safety features to help you navigate through any kind of terrain your journey throws at you.” Ngini also noted that Coscharis Motors could help to arrange finance options to any enthusiast who purchases a Bronco from the company. He said, “We are easily accessible, with presence in the six geopolitical zones of the country. Coscharis also offers trade-in opportunities for customers who wish to exchange their old Ford vehicles for a new Bronco or any other Ford variant. We can also help to arrange finance options for interested customers who want to buy now and spread payment over a period of up to 5 years.” Ford’s off-road SUV expertise traces back to World War II, when the automaker was part of a government competition to build rugged carry-all utilities for GIs in the battlefield. Ford’s entry was called the GP, with the company building more than 270,000 of these “general purpose” vehicles for Allied forces. GIs returning home bought Army surplus GPs for work and play, but they were too small and uncomfortable for civilian life, according to Ford research from the early 1960s, so Ford developed a more refined, spacious, yet durable off-road vehicle to meet this need – Bronco. The original Bronco was nicknamed G.O.A.T. by Donald Frey, the Ford president who championed both Mustang and Bronco nameplates and challenged engineering teams to deliver “go anywhere roadability.” An agile, sports-oriented off-road 4×4, Ford dubbed the original 1966 Bronco “a completely new line of sports-utility vehicles” at its reveal August 11, 1965 – the first reference to “SUVs” from an American manufacturer. Early Broncos had a rugged body-on-frame design with short front and rear overhangs, high ground clearance and a short wheelbase for maximum off-road capability. Bronco’s toughness and agility at high speed enabled racers like Rod Hall and Larry Minor to capture an overall win at the gruelling 1969 Baja 1000 – a victory no other production 4×4 has replicated in 50 years. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com