The Anambra State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has congratulated the former Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu, on his emergence as the party’s presidential flagbearer. A statement signed by the State Publicity Secretary of the party, Okelo Madukaife, on Friday, said Tinubu recorded a “resounding victory in the just-concluded APC Presidential Primaries in Abuja.” Madukaife described the former governor as the next President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He said with 55 per cent delegates’ votes to his credit, “Tinubu holds an overwhelming majority of the party faithful’s mandate, a rare feat in primaries of political parties in Nigeria’s Fourth Republic.” He added that the experience of Tinubu is too deep, too wide and too great for Nigeria to miss. He said, “When in 2003, Bola Tinubu survived a PDP guile in the South-West as an orphan governor of the defunct Alliance for Democracy and together with like-minds nationwide founded the Action Congress, a little movement with a great future had started. “One recounts in comparison that the only competitor in the Presidential race did not have the privilege of nominating their regionally skewed candidate with majority votes, even with far less number of aspirants. “We can only owe this to the colossus stature of our brand-new candidate, in terms of making quality contributions to governance at various levels, political developments in many spheres and concrete ideas that built the starting blocks of many political platforms. “Similar congregation of ideas and allies have since led to Nigeria’s first merger, the APC, which having defeated incumbents for the first time at the Federal level have been painstakingly recovering Nigeria from the doldrums.” The statement also said the people expect a high level of superlative reference under a country presided over by Tinubu in the future. “Added to the firm belief that Nigeria should undergo major geographic and economic reforms held before, during and after governance as two-time governor of Lagos State, we expect Nigeria under a future President Tinubu to be a superlative reference in the comity of nations. “Our dynamic chapter, blessed with a leadership that shares the same vision with Tinubu and has featured strongly in the annals of the APC history, will labour day in, day out for Tinubu’s victory as a consolidation of the gains of the APC under President Muhammadu Buhari. “Once again we congratulate Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on emerging the presidential candidate in the most organised and orderly presidential primary of 2023 elections and look forward to a definitive victory in the February 25, 2023 polls,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com