A group, under the aegis of Oodua Youth Coalition, on Monday, condemned the killing of worshippers at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa, Owo, Ondo State, by terrorists, asking that the government must bring the perpetrators to face the law. In a statement titled ‘Oodua Youth Coalition Condemn Killing, Task Government To Bring Perpetrators To Book’, signed by the President of the group, Oluyi Tayo, it described as unfortunate, the event that took the lives of worshippers who left their various houses to commune with God. “The statement partly read, “It was another sign that Nigeria is drifting towards being a failed state, and government at all levels must rise to salvage the horrible and recurring decimal before citizens resort to self-help. “The horrible scene of the event as seen in pictures and the report that the attack couldn’t be resisted by security agents due to lack of vehicles to mobilise their men to the scene speaks of how the security of lives and properties of the citizens has been trivialised and no longer a serious business as it ought to be. “We charge the state security apparatus to do everything in their capacity to bring the perpetrators of this evil to book as the heinous display of terrorism must not go unpunished.” The statement read further, “While we commiserate with people of the Ancient Kingdom of Owo and the Government of Ondo State, we call on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in his capacity as the Grand Commander of Armed Forces to as a matter of legacy rise to the deteriorating security situation across the country by displaying his disapproval of the killings with strong security resistance statement.” “Crime has no ethnic and religious affiliation, blood-thirsty criminals must be treated in the language of terror they understand,” it added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com