Ibrahim Mohammed, also known as Danburam, has been nabbed by some residents of Yerima quarters, a community in Akko local government area of Gombe State for attempting to encroach into a filled burial site. According to the community, the cemetery was shut down due to lack of space for members of the area to bury loved ones. Speaking further, a member of the community, Ibrahim Inuwa, disclosed that the residents sighted the suspected land grabber digging and allotting parts of the cemetery for allocation for sales. Inuwa said, “Mohammed was apprehended by the residents because he was digging out some old graves in the cemetery as parts of the plots he earmarked for sale.” While calling on security agencies and other relevant authorities to intervene, Inuwa urged members of the public to be vigilant, “to avoid conflicts, we have been making use of the cemetery in the past 20 years for burial,” he revealed. Also speaking, Abubakar Adamu lamented the audacity of the suspect, adding that they saw Mohammed digging out bones and skeletons of dead people from the site. He said, “One month ago, my daughter was buried in the graveyard, the action of the land dealer was a disrespect to the dead people lying in the graveyard.” According to him, if not for the intervention of the community leaders, irate youths of the area would have beaten him up saying everyone in the area was annoyed to see that the graveyard was being trespassed by suspected land dealers. “The graveyard was closed last month after the burial of my daughter. It was closed because it is now full. However, it is improper for anyone to encroach it because the graves still contain the bones of dead people,” he added. On his part, the suspect, Mohammed, denied digging the graves, he narrated that the ‘old cemetery’ was donated to an Islamic group known as the ‘Da’awa group’ in the Yerima community to serve as a cemetery. He also said that the donor gave the plot to the group for the construction of an Islamic school, adding that he was clearing the place for that purpose when members of the community nabbed him. When contacted, officials of the ‘Da’awa’ group denied knowledge of the donation of the land. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com