The governorship candidate of the Young Progressive Party, Sonny Ofehe, has challenged the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, of the All Progressives Congress and the incumbent speaker of the Delta House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori, to a debate. Ofehe, who emerged as the YPP candidate, challenged the duo while speaking with our correspondent on Sunday in Asaba, lamented the underdevelopment of Delta State despite the huge resources accrued to the state. He said, “What we have lost in 24 years of maladministration resulting from the unpatriotic spirit of those who laid the foundation of our pitiable state amidst plenty. “We will gain within two years of our administration. We will tell the world how much we can do within the next four years. We will recreate the Delta State of our dream not just relying on federal allocation, but on the various solid mineral deposits in the state. “Delta is abounding in crude oil resources and natural gas that are already being managed and wasted by the Federal Government. We will ensure a paradigm shift from the manners these God-given resources are tapped and utilised. “We are blessed with untapped natural resources. Our state has industrial clay, silica, lignite, kaolin, tar sand, decorative rocks, limestone and several agricultural resources that we will develop through direct investment. The 49-year-old environmental activist said the government would not slogan infrastructure or hype school infrastructure development as though it had done something tangible for the people as these were constitutional and customary duties of every government. He urged the electorates to reject those leaders who think their votes do not matter, adding that the new Electoral Act will disgrace the APC and PDP. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com