A United States-based Non-Governmental Organisation, MiracleFeet, has said that Nigeria records an estimated 9,000 new cases of clubfoot every year. The Chief Executive Officer and Founder of MiracleFeet, Chesca Colloredo-Mansfeld, said this on Friday at the collaboratory event between the NGO and the Federal government to offer free non-surgical free treatment for over 1,000 children with clubfoot in Nigeria’s capital city, Abuja. She noted that every June 3 is World Clubfoot Day. Clubfoot is a birth defect that causes one or both feet to turn inwards or outwards, is not that rare. It reportedly affects one in every 800 children worldwide. MiracleFeet which is also partnering with Health and Development Support Programme in Nigeria said the free treatment takes place at the Asokoro District Hospital in Abuja. Colloredo-Mansfeld said Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa with an estimated 9,000 new cases of clubfoot every year. Most of these children face discrimination and sometimes drop out of school and cannot secure suitable jobs. The causes of this condition are not known but evidence suggests that it has a genetic link. Although these conditions are easily corrected between the ages of birth to eighteen years old, early detection and intervention are encouraged for best results. Colloredo-Mansfeld said, “June 3 is not only designated as World Clubfoot Day only to celebrate the life and contributions of Dr Ponseti, but we help further his belief that every child born with clubfoot is entitled to treatment using this low-cost, non-surgical approach.” According to her, they seek to unite those affected by clubfoot so that they can inspire and encourage one another. A variety of events are usually held on this day that enables families affected by clubfoot to meet, connect, and support one another. Many hospitals, clinical specialists, and healthcare organisations also hold educational seminars and presentations. The Country Representative for Miraclefeet, West and Central Africa, Dr Ekene Isikaku, also said that the goal of World Clubfoot Day is to spread the news that clubfoot is treatable. Isikaku said, “If full correction is not achieved through manipulation and casting alone then a minor surgery called tenotomy is done on an outpatient basis and the patient goes home the same day. After correction, the feet are maintained in a brace. The child uses the brace 23 hours a day for three months, then for nights only until the child is 4 -5 years. “It is important to note that recurrence is very high if parents do not comply in bringing their children for follow-up until they are finally discharged from the clinic after completing the maintenance phase successfully. “As we celebrate this day, we encourage parents and relatives whose children/wards have benefited from this service, all our staff and everyone present here, to spread the ”gospel” of Ponseti method of clubfoot management. The message is that clubfoot is treatable.” Also, the Secretary, Health and Human Services Secretariat, Federal Capital Secretariat Administration, Dr Abubakar Tafida, said it is a welcome development to partner with the organisation to ensure that all children born with this deformity are cared for and handled as early as possible. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com