The Association of Tourists Boat Operators and Water Transport of Nigeria, said its industry recorded a 20 per cent passenger increase in the first quarter of 2022 due to the persistent traffic congestion on Lagos roads. The President of ATBOWTON, Tarzan Balogun, said this in a telephone conversation with our correspondent in Lagos on Monday. He lauded the government for their support even as he charged them to pay more attention to the sector. Balogun disclosed that more investments were coming to the sector. “They are trying their best. You know Rome was not built in a day. The government needs us but they have to put infrastructure in place. I will say that we have about 20 per cent increase in passengers that use waterways than what we used to have before. There are more boats and investors and the government should also encourage people to invest.” Balogun said that there should be more jetties on the waterways the way there were bus stops on the roads. “The government is trying, but we need more jetties just like we have bus stops on the roads. We need more jetties. We have a good relationship with Lagos State Waterways Authority and the National Inland Waterways Authority. You know, a lot of people are making use of the waterways now because of the traffic situation on the roads. So, the more the government invests in the roads, the more they should also invest in the waterways.” In his response, the General-Manager, LASWA, Emmanuel Damilola, said that the state government had commenced the rehabilitation of 15 jetties across the state. He said that the project, which started last year, would be 70 per cent completed before the end of this year. “The state government is currently rehabilitating 15 jetties and terminals across the states. They are at different stages of completion. The state government commenced the rehabilitation exercise last year and it is going to be on until end of 2022. Before the end of this year, not all of them will be completed but I am sure that at least 70 per cent of them should be completed and others may be finished by the first quarter of next year.” On their plans towards ensuring that the jetties operate at the required standards, he said that the state would not license a jetty that did not meet with the set standards.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com