The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, on Friday in Abuja said he would throw his weight behind the All Progressives Congress presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu; urging his support groups to follow suit. This was as he said despite not clinching the party’s nomination at the just-concluded primary election, the movement for a new Nigeria must remain strong and firm. According to a statement signed late Friday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, Osinbajo spoke at the campaign office of The Progressive Project, a coalition of support groups that backed him for his presidential bid. The statement is titled ‘Our movement for a new Nigeria must remain strong, firm – Osinbajo.’ In his address to the crowd of supporters, the Vice President said, “This movement is a movement within a party. Also, we are not doing something that has not been heard of before. What is new is that we have a firm belief that a new Nigeria is possible and it is possible through us who are here. “We went to the convention, and the results showed us clearly that we lost, but it is only a battle, it is not the war. There are battles ahead, but we will win the war for a new Nigeria. I have no doubt in my mind that we will win that war for a new Nigeria. “That is why our movement for a new Nigeria must remain strong and firm. And we will do everything to keep our movement strong and solid. “No matter what those results may be, we abide by them because there is only one process for democrats, whether that process is good or bad, there is only one, and we have gone through that process. “And in that process, a winner has been adjudged, but that does not kill the dream of the great future. We will support our party; we will support the flagbearer of our party because we know that the other side is not even worth considering. So, we will support the flagbearer of our party, we will do everything we can.” Also speaking, some leaders of Osinbajo Support groups such as Dr Ahmed Badanga and a leader of the Coalition of Women for Osinbajo, Rabbi Dauda and Diana Mary all lauded the Vice President for being a true leader and inspiration to millions of Nigerians.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com