Governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Wednesday described Bola Tinubu’s victory in the All Progressives Congress presidential primary as a reward for his selfless services to Nigeria. Oyetola, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, noted that the emergence of Tinubu in the hitch-free electoral process was also a clear indication that the country was on the verge of democratic rejuvenation. He then expressed confidence in the competence of Tinubu to deliver victory for the APC in the 2023 presidential election, adding that the former Lagos governor would deploy his administrative acumen to take the country to enviable heights ever known in history. Oyetola said, “Your emergence at the just concluded Presidential Primary of our great party is indeed a reward of your tireless efforts and selfless services to Nigeria and Nigerians and of course, humanity as a whole. “You are not just a leader of leaders but a finest politician who had used his God-given wisdom and wealth to build humanity and advance the socioeconomic fortunes of our dear country. “With your antecedents coupled with your outstanding credentials in both private and public sectors, I have no doubt in my mind that your emergence will deliver victory for our party in all elections as this will further justify the quest to elect a candidate with unimaginable qualities that cut across spheres of life.” Similarly, a group, Bola Ahmed Tinubu Our Choice 2023, has said the APC presidential candidate, possess political pedigree and other qualities to successfully manage the affairs of the country. The group in a statement by its Director of Media and Publicity, Mr. Abimbola Tooki, also commended the manner in which the primary was conducted, and called on the aspirants, and Nigerians to support Tinubu to enable him win next year’s presidential elections. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com