Party primaries have come and gone but the political economy of the effects is just beginning to manifest in post-election conversations with and by candidates. The big parties have clearly shown that they are big in names and conduct as their primaries were grandiose just as the costs of their forms were thoroughly disconcerting. The way we showed interest in the processes and outcomes of the primaries of these parties was indicative of the premium we placed on their affluence and influence. People are already talking about Abubakar Atiku versus Bola Tinubu and, when they want to add ethnic colouration, they remember Peter Obi of the Labour Party. The other parties must start impressing it on the citizens that they exist. They must be competitive to give us choices rather than be restricted to three parties. Many delegates of those big parties are still counting their gains. The naira and dollar rains have transformed some homes and changed some lifestyles. Given the reports, partly exaggerated and partly true, people who are touching the dollar for the first time in their lives are still wondering whether to change the money to naira and start spending or lock it up until after the general election, while those who were seeing or touching a million or millions of naira for the first time are afraid of visits by armed robbers and kidnappers should they start spending now. For many, particularly those that operate at the presidential level, it was like a dream come true but the feeling of insecurity is restricting the joy of being rich, temporarily or permanently. I plead that they should let the party begin now. Money held in hand adds zero value to an economy while spending money has multiplier effects, particularly if the amount is huge. I can imagine 2000 people going to change $10,000 each, in the first instance and at the current black-market rate of around N550 to $1, then offloading the naira equivalent into the commodity market and another set of 2000 going to the same Nigerian commodity market with fresh N10 million to purchase durable and consumable goods. The economy would witness some transformation and employment generation, especially if the products are made in Nigeria. Those are the expected immediate outcomes of party primary election inducement. Or, is it election corruption? Let us now go to the business of the day. Very soon the electoral umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission, will declare open the campaign for the 2023 general elections and it is important to start asserting the agenda for discussion. There are lots of issues begging for solutions. Some have been there since 2015 and even become more complicated while others are byproducts of the older ones. One major issue of doubtful recurrence for discussion is corruption which was a catchword in the 2015 election though less so in 2019 because citizens have witnessed increased or progressive corruption under this regime that professed anti-corruption to win election. Notwithstanding, we cannot sweep corruption under the carpet because it is fighting back and we cannot trust again anyone campaigning on the strength of curbing or eliminating corruption. We can look around the world for various models of tackling the scourge and pick one or combination of models to deal with it without a promise. We have laws, rules and regulations, which are neither obeyed nor enforced. When enforced by the court, the politicians, including the presidency, trivialise the implementation through either plea-bargaining policy or premature release of jailed thieves. A presidential candidate can give us lists of property and funds he acquired fraudulently with a note of forfeiture of all as a sign of seriousness in fighting corruption. That could be a right step in the quest for winning the presidential ticket. We need to recall that General Murtala Muhammed decided to forfeit such part of his property when he became the Head of State in 1976. When a campaign begins, the candidates are not expected to identify issues and give blanket ways of providing solutions but must be specific in ways of solving the problems. Local and national security issues remain a major reference sore point since 2015. The situation has since worsened and any governorship or presidential candidate that cannot prescribe practical solutions to security issues in Nigeria should not be taken seriously. There have been arguments as to whether insecurity was caused by worsening economic conditions, vice versa, or the thrust for political domination in the country. Each candidate should be able to identify the causal factors of insecurity, for example, and proffer multiple solutions. Each candidate must tell us what he has to do with electricity. Like other national problems under this government, the electricity infrastructure seems to be crumbling every day resulting in a higher cost of production with the use of generators and operating inputs which prices have been rising astronomically. The high cost of production has resulted in inflation, or higher cost of living, bringing down demand for goods as a precursor to higher levels of unemployment. While Nigeria, the number one economy in Africa, has the capacity to generate 11,165.4 megawatts with its 23 power generating plants connected to the national grid and is presently battling to reach 4000 megawatts of electricity, the Republic of South Africa is currently heading toward 60,000 megawatts (58.095 megawatts). That is why it is an industrial economy belonging globally to the G20 economies and we remain in the category of developing economies or the ‘rest of the world’. If we get the electricity infrastructure right, it will catapult us into a truly emerging economy. So, each aspirant to the presidency of this country must give a model of electricity infrastructure that will work for us. That brings us to the issue of investments and industrialisation and by extension, the fuel subsidy challenge. The fuel subsidy removal was part of what endeared retired Major General Muhammadu Buhari’s party to Nigerians in the 2014/2015 campaign period. Today, the subsidy does not only exist in triple costs but has become an implicit part of the reasons for borrowing from domestic and international markets. What will the potential president do about this in the short, medium and long term? What is to be done to the aged refineries whose spare parts are no longer in the markets but are being recorded as maintained and repaired without outputs and with full complements of staff? What is going to be the investments and industrial policy going forward? In an enlightened society and with party delegates whose minds and souls have not been dollarised, Governor Ben Ayade of APC and Governor Udom Emmanuel of PDP would have scored respectable votes in the election for their efforts at industrialising their respective states. They should keep up the good work, as it will pay off in future. I hope they have States Plans approved by the legislature to promote continuity after their tenure. What is there for education and health besides waiting for labour unions in the sectors to make noise and go on strike before attending to the sectors? What will be done to improve the quality of education from primary to tertiary? How are we going to raise the quality of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, which drive the advanced economy where we aspire to be and where we should be now? Quality of education has gone down because the quality of educators has also fallen drastically. We have science teachers who cannot teach practicals to students because they were not taught when they were in tertiary institutions of learning. They were taught ‘theories of practical’ or ‘practical by description’. That is why our medical graduates, who migrate to Europe and other countries, have to go through internships again before permanent appointments! Nigeria used to boast of skilled manpower, but not anymore. We have growing educated youths without skills. What is Mr Potential President going to do? The country’s debt burden is very heavy and threatens the fabric of economic development. A large proportion of revenue goes into servicing external debts with little or nothing for development. We even import food and drugs just as we import all sorts of exotic drinks, cars, clothes, et cetera. Those things we used to produce and can produce here are imported thereby encouraging capital outflow on frivolities. National productivity is low for obvious reasons. Whoever is aspiring to be our President must talk to us on these issues. Anyone who is not ready to participate in Presidential Debate, this time around, should be rejected at the poll. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com