The National Association of Nigerian Students, South-West zone, and other student bodies have joined a host of Nigerians to condemn the terrorist attack at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State, that left scores of people dead. NANS, in a statement issued Monday, signed by its zonal Coordinator, Deputy Coordinator, and Secretary; Adegboye Olatunji, Alao John and Awoyinfa Opeoluwa, respectively, said the attack was a threat to the lives of citizens of the state and was highly condemnable. The statement partly read, “How could this sardonic event have happened without a singular apprehension of the terrorists, even in a state known to be one of the majors in having the security operatives called Amotekun. “Everywhere is full of danger and now unsafe, for such disastrous event to have happened in a religious environment which is meant to be a place of purity and peace. “Repeatedly, there has been the preaching of change from our political groups, particularly the ruling party, yet the level of insecurities and banditry is on the rise. “Clearly, no change has been effected, which is really disappointing to the citizens of the country. NANS charged the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, to take responsibility for the security situation of the country and the state. “Equally, we charge the government of the federation and state, President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR, the State Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu SAN, respectively, to promptly rise into action to get the assailants hunted without leaving any stone unturned,” the statement said. Also, the Students’ Union of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, condemned the killing and charged the Federal Government to take proactive measures on the security situation of the country where killings were now becoming prevalent. The statement on Monday jointly signed by the Union’s President, Secretary-General and Public Relations Officer, Olayiwola Festus, Odewale Samuel and Ogunperi Taofeek respectively, partly read, “The killings are similar to many extrajudicial killings which are now prevalent in the country, showing the unbearable level of degeneration of the security system in our country. “It is catastrophic that the country is at this point where worship centres that people hold sacred are now war zones where bandits walk in freely and fearlessly to harvest innocent lives. “The manners in which the government has handled the security issues have not been encouraging over the years. These have emboldened bandits, and kidnappers to carry out their acts even in broad daylight without the fear of being confronted or apprehended. In bettering the security system of the country, therefore, the government must be serious with effecting punitive and restitution measures.” The Union charged the government to take urgent action, adding that condemnations and condolences were not enough. On his part, the Director of the Law Students’ Association of Nigeria, South-West Zone, Richard Solomon, said, “The incident was an unfortunate one and has shaken the country. The LAWSAN South-West Zone has found it important to extend its heartfelt support and sympathy to grieving citizens and indigenes. We pray that such would not occur again. “Consequently, we would like to admonish the Ondo State Government to intensify their search and eventual apprehension of the perpetrators of the horrendous act. Bearing in mind that “justice delayed is justice denied”, we believe that there should be no hesitation to bring these culprits to justice. “As we mourn the loss of our fellow citizens, it is trite to note that hope is not lost and we can only bring true change together. We must keep focusing; keep doing the right things for our country. We must do all we can to escape the condemnation and damnation of history and posterity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com