Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State has debunked reports that he had stepped down from the presidential race The governor’s campaign organisation clarified on Sunday that Umahi remains in the race. Umahi is one of the aspirants seeking the All Progressives Congress presidential ticket. The statement, which was signed by Ebonyi State’s Commissioner for Information and State Orientation,  Orji Uchenna Orji, was titled, ‘Fake news that presidential hopeful, Governor Umahi stepped down is the handiwork of desperate and satanic politicians’. The statement read, “The attention of David Umahi Campaign Organisation has been drawn to a piece of circulating fake news propagated in media platforms purporting that the Presidential Hopeful and Governor of Ebonyi State, His Excellency Engr Chief David Nweze Umahi FNSE FNATE (Akubaraoha) has stepped down his Presidential Aspiration for His Excellency, Senator Ahmad Lawan, Senate President of Nigeria’s National Assembly. “Members of the public are enjoined to disregard the fake news as cheap blackmail and absolute falsehood by desperate politicians who are apprehensive of the acceptable political profile of the Governor of Ebonyi State and Presidential hopeful and whose track records have endeared him to the heart of the APC leadership. “Umahi never stepped down, but that  His Excellency Ahmad Lawan only returned a consultation visit previously accorded to him by  Governor Umahi and that both of them pledged to support each other in event of any of them emerging as the presidential candidate of APC. A statement from Lawan’s media team, signed by Danladi Bako, had claimed Umahi restated his commitment to support Lawan’s quest to emerge as the APC presidential candidate at the primaries scheduled for June 6 to 8. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com