Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, on Thursday, accused the Federal Government of not going after herdsmen causing insecurity in the country. But a security expert, Ben Okezie, said the governor’s comment was based on the grouse he has with the Federal Government. Ortom, while speaking at the inauguration of three new judges in Makurdi, cited the abduction of the Prelate of Methodist Church, Samuel Kanu-Uche, as a proof of the nation’s insecurity. He said, “The Presidency and the Federal Government are part of it. They are interested in what is happening. I want to tell those of you who are here and Nigerians that as long as we are quiet and continue to fold our arms, one day is coming. We will cry and there will be nobody to help us. “How can you tell me that the Prelate of Methodist Church was kidnapped in far away Abia State in the South East by Fulani men, and soldiers, security men were there? They go after IPOB and Nnamdi Kanu but not after Fulanis who are terrorising the people. This is not fair; the rule of law is not being practised.” The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, could not be reached for comments as he did not take his calls. Also, the Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, could not be reached for comment. Calls to his line indicated it was not reachable. He had not responded to the message sent to him as of the time of filing this report. But Okezie, in an interview with The PUNCH, said Ortom’s comment was based on the grouse he has with the Federal Government. He said, “Governor Ortom had his own grouse with the Federal Government and most times, he gets beclouded by what he perceives of the government. “The truth is that there is no security agency that will allow its personnel to be found complicit in negating the constitutional mandates given to them. “They all swore an oath to protect Nigerian citizens and properties. It will be unfortunate when it gets to a stage that Nigerians no longer have confidence in their security personnel and institutions.” On his part, another security expert, Jackson Ojo, said the government and security operatives have not been decisive on terrorists and other criminal elements in the north. He said, “A lot of Nigerians will see the comment of the governor as a political statement but to me, it is not. “The response of the government to the issue of IPOB is different from that of the bandits in the north. “You will recall that the FG was quick to declare IPOB a terrorist organisation before they started doing all the killings and kidnappings they are doing and the security operatives went all out for them. “In the case of the bandits, the FG would not have but for public outcries. How decisive have the security operatives been with these bandits?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com