Some property owners along Old Garage, MDS and Fakunle areas of Osogbo, Osun State capital, on Tuesday, staged a peaceful protest over non-payment of over N1bn compensation after the state government had demolished their property. The protesters, who blocked MDS Road in the state capital while the protest lasted, wielded placards with inscriptions such as ‘Osun govt, pay our compensation;’ ‘Oyetola, you are a man of your words, fulfil your promise;’ ‘Oyetola, pls save our souls;’ amongst others. They said the State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, promised to pay their compensation in instalments when he assumed office. Speaking on behalf of the affected property owners, the leader of the protesters, Funke Afolabi, said over 600 shops belonging to them located along Old Garage/Fakunle axis in Osogbo, were demolished by the state government in 2013 for the expansion of road. She said, “Enumeration and valuation were carried out by officials of the Ministry of Lands and Physical Planning for payment of compensation.” Unfortunately, the compensation was not paid by the Aregbesola-led government in spite of a series of letters of reminder and visitations to him. “On assumption of office of the Governor of Osun State, Alhaji Isiaka Oyetola, in 2019, a courtesy visit was paid to him by all the affected claimants. At the meeting, the governor stated that compensation would be paid in tranches to all the claimants. “It is disturbing to note that approval has been given for compensation to be paid to a section of the claimants with the exclusion of claimants from Old Garage, MDS, Olaiya Junction and Fakunle Area. This development negates the principle of equity, justice and fairness. Over 600 shops were affected and we are being owed about N1 billion compensation, “Afolabi said. She then appealed to Oyetola to revisit the issue with a view to compensate the property owners for the losses they incurred.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com