14-year-old Hafsatu Abdullahi from Damaturu, Yobe State had her two hands and right leg amputated after being electrocuted in 2012 by a high tension cable. Recently, the court awarded her N200m damages for her loss. Her father, Mallam Chumbusko Abdullahi, tells BITRUS DOGARA about the accident and the court victory Briefly tell us about yourself. My name is Mallam Abdullahi Chumbusko. I am 49 years old; I was born in 1973. I am married to two wives and I have 18 children but only 12 are alive now. Hafsatu is my seventh child. Her mother is dead. She died of shock after Hafsatu was electrocuted, leading to the amputation of her two hands and her right leg.  The mother couldn’t stand the trauma, so she gave up the ghost. After the death of her mother, I married three other wives but they all left because they could not take care of my daughter. They kept complaining of the stress of caring for her and they eventually left. At some point, I hired a nanny, who I was paying N4,000 monthly. She was an old woman; she died along the line and I was left with my amputee daughter and her siblings. The court recently ordered MTN and the Nigeria Electricity Liability Management Company to pay your daughter N200m as damages for being electrocuted. How did you receive the news? It wasn’t a surprise to me but what would N200m do in this present economic reality in Nigeria? I have spent a huge amount of money to manage her health and the awarded N200m is not commensurate to the damage done to my daughter. Right now, she cannot do anything by herself. Can that amount restore her leg and two hands? Can it return her to her normal self? How about her mother that died as a result of the incident? Were you always confident that you would win the court case? The case lasted for 10 years but, I never doubted that we would get justice because we took the girl to the court and the judge saw her in her condition, which was and is still a pathetic sight to behold. I have always known we would get justice but the amount awarded to us is not commensurate to the damage done my daughter. When was your daughter electrocuted and how did it happen? The incident happened in 2012 during Salah. On that fateful morning, we bathed and dressed her up in her new clothes and then she went outside the house and within a short moment, we heard her scream and I, along with her mother, rushed out to see what was happening and then we saw her dried up from her right side. Asking questions, we were told that a high-tension cable that was lying loosely on the ground after it was disconnected from the MTN mast in front of my house touched her and she got electrocuted. We rushed her to the hospital in Gashua and it was confirmed to us that her veins were dead and destroyed. They said her two hands and her right leg would have to be amputated. This is 10 years after. She was four years old when the incident happened; she is 14 years old now. We went through hell trying to save her life when she got electrocuted we took her to the hospital and we spent so much money, even though we don’t have much. We spent six months with her in the hospital in Niger Republic and it was in that period that she was amputated in 2012. Was she attending school prior to the incident? My daughter has never been to school; not because she doesn’t want to go to school but because there is no school in our village. She has only been to the Islamiya school in the village to learn the Quran. My village has no school; no government presence, no basic amenity, yet, we have a local government chairman, a House of Assembly member and a commissioner. When this thing happened, I approached all of those people but they refused to assist, either with money or support to ensure MTN and PHCN take responsibility. They all kept quiet as if nothing happened. So there has never been a talk about her having an ambition in life. How did MTN and PHCN react to the accident when it happened? On the day the thing happened, we alerted the security man guarding the MTN mast and he called their officials. On several occasions the MTN officials came to the area to supervise the terrain but they didn’t say anything to us and they didn’t give us anything. Our lawyer wrote to them and they replied by saying it was not their responsibility, that they had paid PHCN all their dues, as such it was the responsibility of PHCN to foot the hospital bill and compensate my daughter. As for PHCN, they refused to comment or even come to see what happened. We wrote several letters to them through our lawyer but they refused to reply to even one of the letters until they were informed that the court would give judgment on the matter; that was when they came, saying they wanted to make a presentation in court. You said it took 10 years before the court gave judgment in the case. Can you estimate how much money you spent pursuing the case? The lawyer’s services were pro bono; we didn’t pay him a dime. The only thing that cost us money was transporting ourselves to the court in Damaturu from our village. And we did that for the 10 years that the case lasted in court. The case started in 2012 when the lawyer came and met me after my daughter was amputated. The lawyer (Ahmed Igoche) told me the case was a rare one and that the facts were there to present before the judge to see. Though my daughter is alive, she has been permanently incapacitated and no judge will see her and not be moved by her condition. She walks with the aid of a stick. She cannot eat or drink water by herself; she cannot hold anything. Sometimes she tries to use the phone but she cannot. As a father, I am heartbroken watching my daughter now permanently incapacitated as a result of the negligence of a company. The pride of every parent is to see his daughter marry and have children in a husband’s house but my daughter cannot have that opportunity because of her condition. She has become a full-grown woman with breasts on her chest. How does she relate with other children in the neighborhood? At the moment, she doesn’t go out, she doesn’t have friends; children in the neighborhood don’t play with her except her siblings. She is always in the house. The children don’t even come close to her at all. Has MTN and NELMC reacted to the judgment? It was after the judgment was pronounced that my lawyer called to tell me that MTN had filed stay of execution; that they are going to appeal the judgment because, according to them, the case does not involve them. They are arguing that it is PHCN that should be sued.  My lawyer called me last Friday to inform me.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com