An aggrieved All Progressives Congress aspirant in the House of Representatives primary of Ekiti Central Federal Constituency II, Dele Philips, has urged his supporters and constituents to continue to work for the election on June 18 of the party’s governorship candidate, Biodun Oyebanji, in the interest of the party and development of Ekiti State. Phillips, who insisted that no election was held in the federal constituency and hence nobody could be declared winner, however, called for calm among his supporters while awaiting the decision of the party’s leadership. The Reps aspirant, who addressed his supporters at a political event to drum support for the governorship candidate at Aramoko Ekiti, said that the primary for his federal constituency was inconclusive. He dismissed insinuation that a winner had been announced, saying such would amount to the murdering of democracy and sheer travesty. While expressing optimism that the party leadership’s decision on the outcome of the primary disrupted by hoodlums would be favourable, he, however, said that he would abide by the decision on the matter, saying that the party was bigger than any individual’s political aspiration no matter how highly placed. He said, “We are here today to call on my supporters and APC members to remain calm. APC is a peaceful party and peace is eminent. Now, the youths, elders, and people of this constituency should come together as one and vote for our governorship candidate, Biodun Oyebanji, in the June 18 governorship poll. “We have our matter being looked into. There are no winners and losers yet. The party’s leadership is speaking to us and we are listening. We expect to come back to our people very soon to tell them that we have a solution to what we think is a crisis. It’s not a crisis. No result yet. We are all together. Unity is what we must achieve together,” Phillips said. He said that the party’s in-built internal mechanism would be adopted to resolve the controversy, hence, there was no cause for alarm and agitation as the botched election was being looked into. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com