The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said his administration will collaborate with the National Transport Commissioners’ Forum under the umbrella of the Federal Ministry of Transportation to reform the state’s transportation sector. The governor disclosed this, according to a statement made available to journalists on Thursday, during a conference organised by the state and the forum in Lagos. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Folashade Jaji, noted that the administration had planned to synchronise the modes of transportation in order to make it safer and affordable for citizens. He said, “The goal of the Lagos State government is to synchronise all modes of transportation to reduce travel time in a safe and affordable way for the citizenry. “This administration has remained resolute in completing existing mass transit line project to cater to the growing population. “Innovations, such as the Cowry card, were created to synergise connectivity of the modes via centralised payment to simplify access to all mode intervention and harness economic advantage and we are open to collaboration that can aid successful reform in the transport sector.” The outgoing Chairman of NTCF, Rahmatu Muhammed, explained the impact of technology in the transport sector as a means to generate revenue in the country. “Technological innovations have made a profound impact on the effectiveness and development of other economic sectors in developed and developing nations. “However, the transportation sector has only scratched the surface of the rapidly emerging technologies which could enhance the primary objective of safety and security, as well as revenue generation at both state and federal levels: hence this bespoke conference to showcase these products, to adopt these services and to improve our sector starting at the grassroots level,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com