The Chairman of the Lagos State Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit, Sola Jejeloye, in this interview with OLAMIDE FAMUWAGUN, speaks on the ban on commercial motorcycles, popularly known as okadas, and responds to allegation of high-handedness levelled against the agency Lagosians believe the task force uses unconventional means to do its job, including brutality and high-handedness. How do you respond to this? Brutality has never been our modus operandi in the task force. If it was, we would have had so many court cases by now. Our operations are always carried out during the day when we are seen by all eyes. We don’t operate at night and we are not faceless. The media are also granted freedom to capture us and give the public a fair view of what goes on within us. The reason there is this belief that at any time we are recorded in the course of our duties, such recordings are usually given a misconstrued caption that sends another message to people. There is nothing unconventional about our mode of operation. I am a policeman; policing is a regimented organisation whereby we have our dos and don’ts; we have limits and cannot do anything outside our constitutional responsibilities. We make sure to avoid anything that would cause a backlash. At all points in time, we always ensure that we are good ambassadors of this country because the culmination of everything boils down to the fact that we are working for this nation. Whether it’s the task force, the police, or the paramilitary, we are all working towards the same goal. What risks do your men face in the course of enforcement? Any recent cases of death and injuries? No, there has been none. We cannot rule out risks at any place of work; risks are an integral part of life. However, we take calculated risks and develop strategies. Before we move out on operations, we check the risks involved. We put it on the drawing board and assess it. This is to ensure safety as no operation is worth a human life. We have faced a lot of threats and attacks, but because of the strategies we’ve put in place, we have been able to overcome them. There is no kind of threat or risk that I believe is insurmountable. We have other agencies that are aware of our plans as well. So, we are not alone. God has also been our master strategist, keeping all of us safe and protected. The enforcement of the ban on okada has started. What should the public be expecting? The enforcement of the Okada ban has come to stay. The first phase started in February 2020, this is the second phase and the announcement of this second phase does not invalidate the first phase which started last year. If we started 2020 and we’re still on, nothing will stop us from putting our efforts to ensure that there is light at the end of the tunnel. All hands have been on deck and anyone moving around Lagos now can attest to the difference. I can see that the roads are peaceful and everyone is orderly. It is the same number of people that are still coming out for their lawful businesses, but the modus has changed; if we can keep this flag flying, we’ll see the THEMES agenda of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu being achieved. This is what the public should look forward to. It’s already two days since the enforcement started. How many bikes have been seized so far? We have seized 235 motorcycles so far. On Friday, June 3 (today), we will be crushing over 2,000 bikes at Alausa, Ikeja. Commuters have lamented that they are stranded due to the ban, what would be your advice to these Lagosians? If people are patient, they shouldn’t encounter any difficulty or be stranded. The basic rule is that you have to wait a while for a public bus to come and take you to your designated location. Impatience is what people term as being stranded. In some areas where the ban doesn’t affect, you can still take bikes and wait for a bus on the main roads. The problem is that there is a population surge in Lagos. The landmass in Lagos is not expanding, but the population is soaring high daily. How will we not have these challenges? We envisage it. Lagos is densely populated; some countries aren’t even a fraction of Lagos. However, Lagos remains a place you can get around quickly if there is no traffic. For example, you can move from Badagry to Epe to Ikorodu within 1 hour and 20 minutes. What would you consider the biggest achievement of the task force this year? I can’t evaluate that right now. However, in our given assignments, we are trying our best to deliver. Where we cannot move ahead of time, we move with time. We cannot be counting achievements; what we aim at is to have a sane society. We may not tag any of our duties as an achievement because all we are doing are our given tasks and calling.  A policeman will police the society where he is, a teacher will teach, and just like these individuals, we are only performing our defined roles. It is just a duty call and responsibility. What’s the relationship between the task force and other agencies like LASTMA (Lagos State Traffic Management Authority), LASEMA (Lagos State Emergency Management Agency) and the police? Our relationship with LASEMA, RRS, LNSC, the police, and other security agencies is very cordial and strategic. They are all our crucial partners, so we have a very robust relationship. This is because we all let our official interests supersede our interests – that is the reason behind our cordial relationship. Where there may be misunderstanding, we do not allow it to show in the way we carry out our professional duties. The task force has never had problems with any of these agencies; we have a very good and robust relationship that we have been maintaining and we don’t have any option but to let it be this way because, without this good relationship, there would be an operational lacuna which must not happen. What challenges do you face in the course of your assignment? Our challenges are enormous because a lot of people do not take to correction; these people are very impervious and rigid to correction. The discipline itself works in two ways, there is self-discipline and imposed discipline. Imposed discipline is what we as the Lagos State Task Force do. If people were more self-disciplined, it would make our job easier as there won’t be any trouble in the environment; everyone would do the right thing at the right time. Where there is no self-discipline, imposed discipline comes in. On the other hand, what others count as challenges, we see as just doing our daily activities. Yes, our tasks are enormous and unfriendly and you can tell from the name, task force, that we have been assigned a specific task and that task is to correct all wrongdoings in the society, which is what we do as an enforcement agency. This agency which was created under Lagos State Environmental Law is a means to eradicate environmental degradation, lawlessness, traffic disorder and the likes. Some nefarious individuals have made committing offences their lifestyle, hence the need for this agency. We are also being supported by a mobile court, which has the last say on anyone who is arrested and charged with an offence. This mobile court is the legal arm, while the task force is the enforcement arm. In what areas would you want support from members of the public? We need them to understand that no one is perfect; where we have shortfalls, they should understand. In other areas where we have done well, if they can’t praise us, they shouldn’t condemn us out rightly. However, these criticisms are sometimes permitted to help us improve, acknowledge mistakes and correct them. I see it as a corrective mechanism for us to do better. They can also help in giving relevant information that will enable us to go into every nook and cranny of Lagos. When we receive this information, we’ll assess it and swing into action when need be.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com