To celebrate the World Milk Day this year, Peak Milk says it plans to revive the declining breakfast culture of Nigerians, drive good dairy nutrition knowledge and debunk breakfast myths with its World Milk Day #BreakfastPolice rally. A statement by the company said the brand would engage its consumers across different touch points on World Milk Day through a disruptive digital experiential campaign tagged, “Missing Breakfast is a Crime,” a creative way to drive the importance of milk and breakfast as the ultimate meal of the day. The campaign and celebration will start on May 23rd as the National Breakfast Week and lead up to the World Milk Day on June 1. According to the statement, the Peak Breakfast Police, a fictional character of authority, will dramatize the “Missing Breakfast is a Crime” campaign with a mass arrest of breakfast defaulters across different locations. The arrested defaulters are expected to bail themselves with a nourishing pack of Peak Breakfast each and a pledge to never miss breakfast again.The campaign targets over 10,000 Nigerians to pledge to enjoy dairy with a Peak breakfast every day for the right nourishment. Brand Manager, Peak Milk, Omotayo Olaobaju said, “There are many health benefits you derive from eating breakfast, as it improves energy levels and ability to concentrate in the short term. Despite these benefits, many people still skip breakfast for a variety of reasons, including myths and their busy lifestyles as excuses. “But this eventually affects their performances because the required level of energy and nourishment needed is missing. The good news, however, is that there are now many ways to fit breakfast into your day. The National Breakfast Week and World Milk Day will provide an opportunity for Peak Milk to drive the awareness of dairy consumption for the enhancement of mental and physical performance” Banjoko said. According to the statement, on World Milk Day, the brand will drive massive engagement among its consumers across the country by serving them nutritious breakfast meals while urging them to take a pledge never to skip breakfast. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com