The Federal Government has said it will sanction oil and gas companies that fail to comply with the Human Capacity Development provisions contained in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development Act. The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board, Simbi Wabote, made this known on Wednesday while delivering a keynote address at the second edition of the virtual stakeholders workshop for Human Capacity Development in the Nigerian oil and gas industry. Speaking on the topic, ‘Human Capacity Development: The Pillar for Nigeria’s industrialisation’, the NCDMB chieftain warned that the board would enforce periodic forensic audit for HCD programmes and companies found violating the NOGICD Act 2010 and the ministerial regulations in executing cost intensive Capacity Development Initiatives as mandated by the Act, would be sanctioned. He said, “It has come to the attention of the board that some operating companies and services companies are reluctant to implement the HCD programmes as directed by the board. Most of the companies are testing the mettle of the board and I want to use this opportunity to inform erring companies that the board will meet appropriate sanctions to them as prescribed by the Act.” He added that the board was mandated to ensure that the industry derives maximum benefits from huge investments and also ensure beneficiaries of the HCD training programmes find gainful employment in the sector. Stressing the importance of human capacity development, Wabote said, ”With the rapid advancement in technologies used in the oil and gas industry, our industry will continue to be manned by foreigners and expatriates if we do not keep pace with the spate of technological development by developing the human capabilities required for the challenges of modern industrial technologies.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com