The Nigeria Police Force Federal Capital Territory Command has said that it is investigating the blasphemous killing that occurred on Saturday in the Lugbe area of Abuja. This is as the law enforcement agency identified the victim as Ahmad Usman who was said to be a 30-year-old man. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, Josephine Adeh, confirmed the development to our correspondent on Saturday, adding that the command has commenced investigation into the killing. She said, “Normalcy has since been restored to the area concerning the situation while monitoring, and surveillance of the area continues. “Residents are, however, urged to go about their lawful duties without fear or apprehension of any kind from any quarters as discrete investigation continues to unravel facts surrounding the ugly incident and to effect the arrest of the perpetrators therein. “We understand that one Ahmad Usman a 30years old member of the local vigilante around Tippa garage at Federal Housing Estate in Lugbe Area of the Federal Capital Territory got into an argument with a Cleric (Mallam) whose name is yet unknown from the same area. “The heated argument degenerated into an outbreak of violence that led to the murder and setting ablaze of Ahmad Usman by the enraged mob mobilized by the clergy numbering about two hundred”. The police also stated that its officers intervened and that they were able to stop the violence from escalating. “Upon the receipt of this information, a quick intervention team comprising of The Surveillance and Ambush team of the Command attached to the Lugbe Divisional Police Headquarters was drafted to the scene where the enflamed victim was rescued suffering severe degrees of burn and taken immediately to the hospital where he was confirmed dead by a Doctor on call. The Commissioner of Police, Babaji Sunday, who also spoke to our correspondent, warned against the indiscriminate resort to jungle justice. He said, “We’re outrightly against jungle justice. The law is against, and adequate sanctions will be meted on subscribers of this crude and dastardly act.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com