The All Progressives Congress candidate for the Eket Federal Constituency in the just concluded primary in Akwa Ibom State, Honourable Eseme Eyiboh, has challenged his opponents in the race to show evidence of their claims to victories during the primary in the state. The APC primary which was conducted on May 27, 2022, for the constituency, produced different outcomes as two other aspirants had also laid claims to victories following parallel primaries conducted in the constituency. But speaking while addressing members of the Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists in the state on Wednesday, Eyiboh, who was declared the winner in the contest, challenged those laying claims to his victory to show which of the election committee panel conducted their primary. He told his opponent that elections were not conducted with a piece of paper but with sensitive materials and ballot papers which were used in determining the authenticity of who was doing what. He said, “There was a panel constituted by the APC to go and conduct the primary, where was the panel? And I hear people saying that there was a parallel primary, who had the team of the panel that came to conduct? That is the number one question and it’s not a rhetorical question, it must be answered. Number two, who were the other people that conducted the other primary? “Do people just take a piece of paper and go and conduct primary? No! There are sensitive materials where results are recorded and announced. These are things you use in determining the authenticity of who is doing what. “The panel who produce the results and the other sets of people who were holding a convention of undisclosed purpose, you don’t even bother to find out what is the result of what they did, who conducted it, let them announce it and put the names of the panel that disclosed it. These are the things we need to be aware of. There is one APC, there was one primary conducted and there was a result.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com