The Vice-Chancellor, Federal of University of Technology Akure, Prof. Adenike Oladiji , has said she will ensure students receive quality education. A statement signed by the university added that students were the most relevant part of the university system while welcoming executives of the Federal University of Technology of Akure Students Union who paid her a courtesy visit to formally welcome her as the new Vice-Chancellor . She said, “Students are the people who give the university an identity and utmost care must be taken to give them a rich learning experience to encourage give back upon graduation from the university. Students are the most relevant part of the university system  and must be treated as unique individuals with respect to teaching, learning and research.’’ Oladiji said one of the cardinal focuses of her vision was to enhance students’ learning with a commitment to ensure that students had an excellent tertiary education experience while in FUTA. “I desire a conducive learning environment that will promote premium give back from alumni who had a worthwhile experience while in FUTA. We must make students part of the university family by giving them a sense of belonging that will make them happy to give back to the University after leaving,”she said. She added that the students, as a vital part of the university community, had a role to play in promoting peace and stability. She assured the students of the support of management in carrying out their functions as students’ leaders. In his response, the president of FUTASU, Mr.Ibiyemi Abiodun said the students would cooperate with tOladiji to achieve her vision and mission. Earlier, the Dean of Students Affairs, Prof. Gbenga Onibi, who was accompanied by the Students Affairs Officer, Mr Feyi Adetula , said FUTA had well-cultured students who had continued to demonstrate excellence and have become good example for students of other institutions. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com