The winner of the All Progressives Congress presidential primary, Bola Tinubu, has said that Nigeria can build a nation like Morocco. Tinubu said this as some of the things he can achieve if he becomes the president of the country. Tinubu, who emerged as the presidential candidate at the just concluded primary at Eagle Square venue of the APC convention, Wednesday, said this while giving his speech. He said, “Yes, we face serious problems. But I believe that we have it within us to reach our finest destiny. With help from God, we shall make this nation better for the generations to come. “The President, Major General Muhamamdu Buhari (retd.), has already laid a solid foundation in security, economy, and anti-corruption. We will build upon this for the salvation of our people. “We can build a nation like Morocco.” The former Lagos State governor garnered 1,271 votes to clinch the party’s presidential ticket ahead of next year’s election. The Chairman of the Convention Election Management Committee, Governor Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State disclosed this at Eagle Square, venue of the special convention after the votes were sorted and counted. Tinubu also appealed to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for keeping him waiting since Tuesday, adding that it was necessary as he had also been kept waiting by the president at one time or the other. “I also offer my sincere gratitude to President Buhari for his calm and prudent leadership throughout this process. I thank him, also, for his steadfast determination to ensure a level playing field and a free and fair primary process for every aspirant. Without him, I would not be standing here today as the new flagbearer of Nigeria’s party,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com