Big Brother Naija ex-housemate, Khafi Kareem, has expressed grief as she marks the second year anniversary of her brother’s death. Her brother, Alexander Kareem, was shot close to his family house in Shepherd’s Bush, West London by a yet-to-be-identified person in 2020. In an Instagram post on Thursday, the reality TV star shared a song by her other brother, @kabiz_k which he wrote as a tribute to the deceased. Khafi further called on persons who might have information on the shooting to come out and help in identifying the murderer. “Today marked two years since my brother Alex was murdered in cold blood on the streets of London. It feels so wrong to commemorate this kind of anniversary; wedding anniversaries, birthdays, etc. are things that should be celebrated and remembered, not a day of death. But two years on and still his murderers have not been found. “This is NOT OKAY. It hurts me every day and is not getting any easier, I just find better ways to suppress my grief as time goes on, but every time it arises it is like a dagger to my chest afresh. It has made me so sensitive to any news of death, especially shootings like those in Owo, Uvalde, and particularly news of young black boys dying needlessly. They trigger so much for me. “So I was dreading today. And if I had it my way I would have buried my head in the sand and pretended this isn’t my reality. I had 3 brothers and now I only have 2. And the people responsible are still walking the streets. “It makes me so so angry. But my brother @kabiz_k wrote this song (full song in my bio) and it expresses so much of how I feel, I couldn’t share it. Please listen, in memory of my brother Alex and all the fallen. Their deaths will not be in vain. And if you have any information on Alex’s death, it is not too late to speak up,” she wrote in the caption. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com