The Governor of Delta State, Ifeanyi Okowa; Chairman of Platform Capital, Akindele Akintoye, and Group Chief Eexcutive Officer; United Capital Plc, Peter Ashade have been declared winners of the African Business Leadership Awards. According to the convener of the award, The African Leadership Magazine, winners, and runners-up will be presented with an award trophy at the 7th Africa Summit in London in July. It added that the winners of its 13 categories award were selected from over 370, 000 entries. It said, “The winners emerged through a keenly contested 3-step points-based selection process that included a call for nomination; a call for online voting for shortlisted nominees; and the editorial board’s final review of the nominations and voting submissions – using supporting evidence and voting considerations in their final decisions to decide the African Business Leadership Awards 2021 winners. “Voting was responsible for 65 percentage points and supporting evidence responsible for 35 per cent in the final selection process for the 2022 winners.” The organiser of the award revealed that Akintoye won the African Business Leader of the Year, Ashade won the African CEO of the Year, and Okowa jointly won the Business Friendly Governor of the Year Award with the Governor of Mombasa County, Kenya, Hassan Joho. It added that Heritage Bank Plc, was the frst runner-up for the Africa Business Integrity Leader Award. According to it, other winners included Group Chairman, Matekane Group of Companies, Lesotho, Sam Matekane, who won the Lifetime Achievement Award; Chief Executive Officer, Airports Company South Africa, Mpumi Mpofu, who won the African Female Business Leader of the Year, and Governor, Bank of Tanzania, Florens Luoga, who won the Central Bank Governor of the Year Award, among others. Commenting on the award, Akintoye, said, “This award is for every young person from Cairo to Capetown, Mombasa to Marrakesh, and every entrepreneur.” He also announced the launch of his co-authored book, ‘A Love Affair with Failure: When Hitting Bottom Becomes A Launchpad To Success’ in July. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com