A group, under the auspices of Southern Kaduna Coalitions for Sustainable Governance, has on Tuesday, vowed to mobilise two million votes for Senator Danjuma Laah if any party decided to give him ticket. The incumbent senator had lost in the primary election to a former House of Representatives member, Sunday Katung. According to the group, Laah losing the PDP senatorial ticket would definitely spell doom for the party and the progress of the southern Kaduna region. The group stated this in a press statement issued to newsmen in Kaduna and signed by its National Chairman, Danjuma Gankon, and Secretary, Ahmed Tijjani. The group explained that the southern Kaduna had been a home for the PDP and we have consistently supported and voted for the party since 1999 and that was why the region could boast of rapid development. “The gang up by the elites to deny Senator Laah the region’s ticket, who has worked tirelessly to attract development more than any senator since 1999 would affect the chances of the PDP in the 2023 general election. “We’ve concluded arrangement to go nooks and crannies of the region to mobilise our people and garner tremendous support if he decides to join any party. The southern Kaduna-based group also said it had studied all the candidates who signified interest to contest in all the parties and discovered that only senator Laah was a unifying factor and visionary leader that had the capacity to address the problems facing southern Kaduna at the moment. “Senator Laah has entrenched true democracy in our region, so, we can no longer afford to continue to endure failed leadership, while God has blessed our region with arable land and resources that if properly harnessed, would have addressed the problem of the dwindling economy; challenges of insecurity, food scarcity, unemployment, industrial growth, and development. “This is the time to speak out and mobilise voters to elect the right and focused leader with proven track records of performance in the area of governance who could resolve the complex problems confronting the country. “It was resounding evidence that senator Laah is not only competent but also has vast knowledge about the economy and solutions to a plethora of problems militating against the growth of our region over the years.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com