The Independent National Electoral Commission has deployed additional voter enrolment machines to Lagos, Kano, and some southeastern states. According to INEC, this is in response to the upward surge in the number of citizens that wish to register as voters. In a statement issued by the Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee of INEC, Festus Okoye, on Friday, titled “Press Release; Ongoing Continuous Voter Registration Exercise,” the electoral body noted that it released additional 209 machines mainly to the five southeastern states, Lagos and Kano where the pressure was most acute. The statement partly read, “The Independent National Electoral Commission has received reports from our states indicating an unprecedented surge in the number of citizens that wish to register as voters and the challenges they face across the country. In some states, the sudden turnout of prospective registrants is overwhelming. “Consequently, the Commission convened an urgent meeting with all the Resident Electoral Commissioners yesterday Thursday, June 9, 2022, to review the situation so that eligible Nigerians who wish to register are able to do so. The necessity to urgently deploy more voter enrolment machines to ease the congestion at the registration centres was identified as a priority. “In response, the Commission has immediately released additional 209 machines deployed mainly to the five South Eastern States, Lagos, and Kano where the pressure is most acute. “The Commission will monitor the situation over the next few days. Thereafter, it will meet to review the progress of the exercise. “Every step will be taken and all options will be explored to ensure that eligible Nigerians are given the opportunity to register as voters.” The Commission further appealed for the patience and understanding of Nigerians, adding that every Nigerian who is 18 years of age and above has the constitutional right to register and vote in any part of the country he or she resides in without let or hinderance. “The sudden surge is an affirmation of the increasing confidence Nigerians have in our electoral process. The Commission will continue to ensure that this confidence is sustained,” the statement concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com