The Catholic Bishop of Ondo Diocese, Bishop Jude Arogundade, speaks with PETER DADA about the massacre of worshipers at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, by terrorists last Sunday As Catholic Bishop of Ondo Diocese, how exactly do you feel about the Sunday invasion and killing of worshippers at St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo by gunmen? If you want to know, I’m very disappointed, very, very angry and humiliated. In a country that has a history of cohesion, unity and collaboration among citizens, in a country that we have lived together for more than 60 years as a nation and having built this country together, all of a sudden we are experiencing an unprecedented division to the point that tribes no longer trust one another. Just within these few years, one tribe is trying to dominate others, one religion is trying to dominate one others and the passion with which a group within the entire nation is working to overrun other parts of the country is quite troubling because we all came together and voted the APC (All Progressives Congress) government into power. So, I feel disappointed that those we elected into power in Nigeria are not carrying out their primary responsibility. Their number one responsibility is to protect the lives and property of Nigerian citizens. Since the day of the incident, you’ve been receiving visitors, particularly those in authority who made some promises that the perpetrators will be arrested and be made to face justice. How confident are you that the criminals will be arrested and justice will be served? Again, how can we trust this kind of government? They promised they would rescue the kidnapped Chibok girls (in Borno State)… empty promises; that’s what they make every time. This is the seventh year that promise was made but nothing has been done. They promised to arrest these terrorists and some of those arrested, they claimed they have rehabilitated them and we know the result of their rehabilitation but nothing has been done to resettle those whose villages and lands have been taken over. And if what we are hearing in the press is true, that these villages have been renamed by this group of people trooping into the country, how can we just sit down and feel that everything is alright? Everything is not alright in Nigeria. It was said that while the attack on the church was ongoing, calls were made to security agencies but none showed up, making the hoodlums to operate unchallenged for about 30 minutes before they eventually left. Are you disappointed by this? It is the same story all over Nigeria. When it happened, we called the military, the police went there. I have never seen such unprofessional set of security agents. I’m a priest of the Catholic Church, but I think that I’m even better than they are; I’m sorry! I was the one even pointing to the straps of bullet that were on the floor, and they picked them up and left. That night there was no security men at that compound. After all this happened, everybody was behaving as if they did not understand the basic principle of security and professionalism that goes with it. In my little experience, when you have a crime scene, you have to secure the place rather than allow the crowd to mess it up. So, our police cannot secure a crime scene and do proper investigation? Do you know that it was God that saved us that day?…But I don’t want to say more because it will embarrass the whole nation. The police said they later discovered undetonated explosives on the church premises after the attack. What do you make of this? I went with the governor to the church; the police were with us, the highest level of security outfits in Nigeria were there. We went through the entire compound and left. But later the anti-bomb squad came in and just where we had earlier stood, they discovered that there were two explosives there and the police could not recognise that we were in danger! God forbid, if the explosives had exploded, what would have happened? This is what I’m saying; there is a crisis in our country, and that crisis is begging to be tackled urgently, for experts to come in and take hold of the situation. There is no other country where people behave like this. What other things do you think the security agencies could have done better? I understand when people behave professionally and when people play dumb. We grew up in this country; Nigeria is a regional power; Nigeria settles war. We went to Sierra Leone, Liberia; we went all over the places to settle disputes. The same Nigeria that other countries turned to for help, all of a sudden, a group of thugs, criminals, who infiltrated our country, are overriding the Nigerian military! This is unacceptable! There is a feeling that the attack has a political undertone, particularly because the attackers chose the home town of the governor. Is this a view you share? Whatever reason those attackers had, they didn’t have to do it in a church. Even in war situation, dirty war, people try to avoid the churches and the mosques. In war ethics, when an enemy runs into a church or mosque you leave him. You can surround the church and the mosque and wait until he comes out. In Yoruba land too, it is part of our tradition that when a father is chasing his child to punish that child for a wrongdoing, once that child runs to another elderly person for protection or refuge, the father dares not touch him. We have it in our culture; it is a way of showing honour and respect. It is the same way that once someone runs into the church to seek refuge in the presence of God, you should not touch them, no matter the level of anger. During war, you don’t even kill a priest; priests go to battlefront to administer sacraments. Two enemies will lay down their guns and allow the priest to attend to them. When the priest leaves, they can resume their fight. This is part of war ethics. In a war, you do not kill children. If you go and watch all the movies in this world, no matter how dirty the movie is, a child may even carry gun and shoot a General and when the child is no longer armed, you take the child. But here, without provocation, without any form of political agenda that the church has in this environment, somebody will come from nowhere to attack the church in order to make a point! What point is there to make? What do they hope to achieve by this action? Whatever they hope to achieve, they never achieved anything. Has the Catholic Church in Nigeria met on this matter? The Catholic Bishops’ Conference has been issuing communiqués upon communiqués about the situation of Nigeria. We have even threatened, we have issued all kinds of strong statements and what we get is just cold silence. Even the entire country has screamed that it has never happened before for all the military and paramilitary outfits in Nigeria to be headed by people from one tribe. The President just ignored everybody. What kind of thing is this? Do we still belong in this country? What is this agenda about? I have called on the international community, I have called on anyone that cares to listen and I have called on Heads of States all over the world to please ask the leadership of Nigeria what is going on. Ask our President, sit him down and ask him. This is not the Nigeria we used to know. When some governors visited you, you told them that the attackers have the backing of some powerful people. What do you mean by this? Everybody knows that, even the government knows that. In the newspapers sometime ago, we read that UAE had submitted the names of the persons behind these attacks to Nigeria. Some Nigerian Generals have come out that they have identified those behind this evil and gave their names to government. But what do we get? Cold shoulder was turned to them. And that is why I’m asking: What is going on? What is the church doing about the casualties, including the injured ones in the hospital? We are making all efforts at this point. We have started to reach out to them to make sure that everyone has whatever they need. Our hospital here in Owo is all packed and we are doing everything to make sure that we meet the needs of everyone in the shortest time possible. Their treatments are going on, surgeries have been done and nobody is going to be charged for anything. The church, and probably the government –  I don’t speak for the government –  will make sure that every bill is paid. You’ve criticised the security architecture of the country; what amendments would you advocate? Nigerians no longer trust their government and we have no confidence that the government can protect anybody. In that kind of situation, you protect yourself. What happened in Owo is a challenge. I’m challenged by the Nigerian constitution; I’m challenged by the system. When the system does not work for me, I look for a way to work for myself and that is not against the law; self-protection is not against the law. We will protect ourselves and we know how to do it better. What is your message to members of the St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, given the lingering fear and tension in the community following the deadly attack? My message to the entire Catholic Church members in Ondo Diocese and all over Nigeria is that persecution is not new to the church. Persecution has been right from the time of Christ who founded the Church; persecution is part of the history of the Church; persecution doesn’t weaken the Church, it strengthens the Church the more. So, that is my message.  They should all be strong; we will come out of this stronger and more vibrant. How will the incident affect programmes across Catholic Churches in the state in the area of security? We cannot even rely on the security agents because nobody trusts them anymore. Any moment from now, we will start to call on community leaders to begin to try to protect themselves, protect our churches. Yes, we do not have sophisticated guns like these people but we will do everything within our own ability to secure our environment. What are the Church’s major takeaways from the Sunday attack? There is no lesson to learn from evil but the Church has always matched evil with goodness. The Church has always confronted darkness with the light. So, the lesson that I want all of us to take away is that we should all protect ourselves. Our people should do whatever they can to secure their lives so that our place doesn’t become like Zamfara and other places where the local natives have been displaced to give way for other people who are coming in; because that is the agenda, and I want the government to come out to disprove that. This agenda will not work because it is now very real and very clear to everybody.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com