The Abia State Government has described the recent abduction of Professor Uwadinachi Iweha as barbaric and unfortunate. In a special announcement, the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Eze Chikamnayo, said the state governor, Okezie Ikpeazu “is particularly pained by this dastardly act given the age and fragility of health of this distinguished Abian”. Prof Iweha, a 74-year-old fellow of International College of Surgeons was kidnapped a week ago at his country home in Umuajameze Umuopara in Umuahia South Local Government Area. He had served the state as the Chief Medical Director of Abia State University Teaching Hospital as well as the CMD of Abia State Specialist Hospital and Diagnostic Centre. Last Friday, the Nigeria Medical Association, Abia State led by its Chairman, Dr. Okwuonu staged a protest to the Government House, Umuahia, calling on Ikpeazu to help rescue Iweha. In response, the commissioner said in a statement, “We identify with the Nigerian Medical Association, the family and other Stakeholders at this critical time and urge all Stakeholders to work quietly together at this stage towards guaranteeing the safety of Prof Uwadinachi Iweha and other citizens in the custody of these evil men. “By the grace of God, as a responsive Government charged with the responsibility of Security and welfare of Abians everywhere, we are currently deploying all necessary measures and resources to secure the release of Prof Iweha. “We, therefore, appeal to all citizens to remain calm and maintain the peace while we diligently do the needful”. Meanwhile, following the kidnap and release of the Methodist Prelate, Kanu Uche, last week in Umunneochi axis of the state, and in furtherance of his determination to stamp out the menace of Kidnapping and killings by terrorists in and around the Umunneochi LGA, the governor has authorised the immediate constitution of a Special Security Situation Room for the Area. According to Barr Chris Ezem, the Secretary to the State Government, this was “to give immediate effect to the decisions reached after his wide consultation with Stakeholders in the area”. He added, “Members of this committee are to liaise with the Security Agencies and all other necessary institutions to provide succour to the citizens of our Dear State resident in Umunneochi and ensure proper monitoring and implementation of Government Directives in that regard”. The 11-man committee has His Royal Majesty Eze Okechukwu Chukwuji as its Chairman, while Barr Eze Chikamnayo, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy is the Secretary. The State Commissioner for Homeland Security is also a member of the committee. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com