A former presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party and ex-president of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, Sam Ohuabunwa, shares his views, in this interview with DEBORAH TOLU-KOLAWOLE and SOLOMON ODENIYI, on the PDP presidential primary and the state of the economy Nigeria is regarded as the world’s poverty capital. What do you think can be done to erase this? Our greatest challenge in Nigeria is poverty. 71 per cent of Nigerians are regarded as poor by World Bank statistics. The causes are low productivity, low outputs, and low purchasing power because of low per-capita income. Coming from a business perspective, there is a need to grow the wealth of the country and that of Nigerians individually across all regions. This can be done in many ways; first, by making Nigeria an investment-friendly nation so that it can attract foreign Investments and motivate local investments. Investments are critical to achieving any economic success. Investments create businesses. It is the programmes and projects that create jobs, jobs create wealth and wealth drives away poverty. So whichever way you choose to grow your economy, you must include investment inflow. The moment investments come into your country, business is happening. As long as businesses are happening, jobs are created, wealth is created and poverty is reduced. We should also focus on four key things.  Nigeria is a very potent agricultural nation but we are not doing much. It was what kept us before oil discovery; commercial farming, mechanisation, combined partnerships with co-operative. As we are making our agricultural activities grow, we are also establishing processing industries in the background. As we are harvesting our fruits, we are taking them to processing plants. We will be exporting raw and processed goods (value-added) thereby bringing a change to our agriculture. That will help foreign exchange to be high. In the North, for example, establish ranches and ensure that animal husbandry and cattle rearing are done in a modern way. Another area is the solid minerals. Every state in Nigeria has these.  Get professional solid minerals miners, either local or foreign and bring them to the community. The federal, state and community will agree, mine and share the output. Third, reduce importation because our country can produce at a cheaper rate. Lastly, we need to invest massively in our human capital starting from drama, dance, art and culture, artefacts, sculpture, and painting among others. We need to look at the creative side, ICT, and software.  We should be training and producing skilled manpower for the domestic and global markets; exporting human capital not as slaves but as solution providers in other countries. If you were to assess the performance of the ruling All Progressives Congress in its last seven years, where would you say the party has done well? I can only measure them based on what they have done. President Buhari said he would focus on three things, security, corruption and the economy. For the economy, what do we have now? The rising rate of unemployment and inflation is double-digit. Is that a pass mark? Let’s go for corruption, Transparency International shows that we are worse from 2015. See the Accountant-General looting about N80bn under an administration which claimed to be fighting corruption. Is there any evidence that they are fighting corruption? Security, do we need to ask? It’s just crazy. This country is not being governed but abandoned. With this, do you think they should be given another chance to do better? They do not deserve another day after May 29. If they can leave before then, Nigerians will appreciate it. They have not done well for Nigerians to keep them in power with their votes. Who Nigerians need is someone who can bring positive transformation to the country. Are you satisfied with the form of primary being used for the presidential election? I would have preferred direct primaries. Even if you want to bribe, you cannot bribe all of them (party members). There are those you cannot bribe. So people can vote their conscience. This 774 delegate system is not the way. It is subject to manipulation. You lost the election. What is your next move? I have the heart for service. All my life I have served Nigeria. That’s why I have three national honours. I was awarded a Member of the Order of Niger in 2011 by former President Olusegun Obasanjo. In 2015, Goodluck Jonathan also honoured me and in 2018, I received another national award from Buhari. Do you think it was fair to have given the PDP presidential ticket to the North? It is unfair treatment in our perspective. What can we do if the adult has stronger power? All we can do is cry. Every zone in Nigeria should be given a fair chance. If you go to Katsina now and you said you want another president from Katsina that life can be better. Do you think they will answer you? The Academic Staff Union of Universities has been on strike since February.  How do you think the impasse can be resolved? They should have involved the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association. NECA is an association of all employers and I am involved in employee-employer relations.  One of the issues is infidelity to agreements. They are bound to honour it except if things have become so bad that the employer cannot meet the conditions. If we agree on N1million and now we’re earning N800,000, If I run a transparent policy, ASUU can understand what is happening. Every government official has a fleet of cars, leads a luxurious lifestyle and you want them (ASUU) to believe there is no money. But if they can reduce their spending and luxurious life, then maybe the government should pay ASUU. If they cannot pay, they can negotiate amicably and cut off their expenditures. Show them why you cannot pay. Why do you think you lost at the PDP presidential primary? Naturally, it is disappointing that money seems to be a major consideration. Sincerely speaking, I was hoping issues like ideology, competence, and qualifications would be on the front burner. I am disappointed that it was not. Looking at what transpired at the PDP primary; do you think efforts to stop vote-trading in the 2023 election would be fruitful? It is only the decision of the government that can stop this. If the government decides they want to stop this buying of conscience, sometimes it is a demand and supply thing.  The politicians may be the victims in some cases but there is also supply and demand depending on which one precedes the other, but often they say demand precedes supply. I think the only way to end this is the determination of the government, not through advocacy or enlightenment or sermon. It is by enforcing a rule. But now, it seems it is nobody’s concern. We have forgotten the world is watching us. We can use a lot of criteria to elect people but not by inducement. Even if the best emerges, he would become a suspect. What was more painful to me was that people were being induced with foreign currency in a country where we have our own currency. This pains me a lot. Heading to the primary election, there were agitations that power should return to the southern part of the country and Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, said he was betrayed. Do you feel the same way? The agitation was not just that power should come to the South, but the South-East. We are the people crying more but that wasn’t shown with our pattern of votes. We will have to help ourselves before others can. It is a very painful development that the South-East neglected their people. It is not just about me, assuming I am not the preferred person. What about others? If they had voted massively for one of us in the race at least they would have made a point but they instead voted for other people and tomorrow they would come out to say they are being marginalised. As I told someone earlier that for once religion and tribe didn’t count only money counted this time round. If it is the common denominator that would unite the country let us see how it would work. The EFCC said it stormed the PDP primary venue to curb inducement, don’t you think we are on the path of curbing inducement with this step? We are just hypocrites.  Of course, EFCC knew money would be shared in large quantities before the convention. They have intelligence except they don’t, they should know that the money was shared at the various hotels these delegates were. It is not a new thing, the same thing happened in 2019. It is a national malady. Let us face the truth, anytime we are ready to deal with the matter, we will. Let us not play into the gallery. When the EFCC came, how many people did they arrest? To me, Nigeria is not ready to fight this endemic corruption. Someone must change the system and that is one of the reasons I admire the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, the electoral system that brought him was flawed. He worked on reforms before he died. Where in the south should your party’s running mate come from? I don’t have a view on that. It is left for the party and its candidate to decide where they want to pick the Vice President from.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com