One week after the deadly terrorists attack on St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State, many churches in the town witnessed low turnout of worshippers during their services on Sunday, The PUNCH reports. The PUNCH reported that the church, located in the hometown of the state governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, was attacked last Sunday during service, leaving about 40 persons dead and some others still hospitalised. The state government had declared seven-day mourning period over the incident while it also cancelled the annual Democracy Day celebration to honour the victims. The attack, it was learnt, created fear in the minds of many Christians in the town who decided to stay away from their churches on Sunday. That was just as authorities of many of the churches in the town also beefed up security around them to forestall a repeat of the last Sunday attack. Our correspondent who monitored activities in the town on Sunday reported that only a few churches opened for usual Sunday service. The churches that opened for service were said to have recorded low attendance. When our correspondent visited St. Francis Catholic Church where the Sunday attack occurred, the premises was shut while a few members were sighted. No church official was available as of the time. It was however gathered that some members of the Christian Association of Nigeria later converged on the church premises to offer inter-denominational prayers. Churches in some areas of the town like Iselu, Ijebu, Oke-Ogun, Okedogbon, and other parts of the community witnessed low attendance. In Akoko area , it was gathered that men of the State Security Network also known as Amotekun Corps, the police and other security agents were seen moving round churches to forestall any attack. A pastor of Christ Evangelical Apostolic Church in Akoko, Michael Olorunda, told The PUNCH said that the security measures were parts of proactive measures to secure places of worship in the state. “Every church now has a way to beef up its security so that we won’t experience what happened last Sunday,” he stated. The cleric commended Akeredolu for making security of lives and property priority in the state and for establishing state security outfit. An Assistant Pastor with the Redeemed Christian Church of God, His Praise Parish, Oke-Ogun, Owo, Kehinde Ogunkorode, said his members were in the church on Sunday, saying they were not afraid of anybody. “You can see us here in our large number, we are not scared,” the pastor stated. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mrs Funmilayo Odunlami, said efforts to secure lives and property in the state were being intensified, stating that the command had re-strategised. “We can’t discuss our strategy in the media but there is no cause for alarm, we are battle-ready, we have re-strategised, no church would be attacked again,” she said. Also, the state Commander of the Amotekun Corps, Adetunji Adeleye, said he had deployed his men around the state to ensure adequate security. He said, “We have deployed our men to everywhere. All strategic places are being manned. We have been on 24-hour patrol. “We are on serious surveillance, especially in our markets, all big churches are already manned. People should call our distress numbers in case there is anything. We are on ground at the 18 local government areas of the state.” In his comment, a community leader and Akowa of Iloro Owo, Chief Sydney Ogunleye urged the people of the town to go back to their normal business and spiritual activities, saying the government is on top of the situation. He said, “The government is on top of the situation, the community too is on top of the situation, the people should go about their normal business, only that everybody should now be security conscious, not only in time of crisis. “It has never happened before in this community, it has now happened. Do we continue to hide in our bedrooms? We cannot. We, the community, the Olowo and the chiefs, are on top of the situation, such will not happen again. People should go back to their business; they should go to their churches. The church is the sanctuary, where people run to in time of crisis. Where will the people run to now?  My advice to churches now is to think about security. Let people secure their places of worship, residential areas, market places and public assemblies. Nothing of such will happen again.” Meanwhile, Akeredolu has called on churches in the state to install Closed-Circuit Television as part of security measures to prevent criminal activities on their premises. The governor stated this on Sunday at a special interdenominational prayer service organised by CAN, Owo chapter, and held on the premises of the St. Francis Catholic Church where 40 worshipers were killed last Sunday. According to him, the attack was meant to create fears in the mind of the people. He said, “Lot of lives have been lost to this attack and it is very sad. We have failed in providing security for you as electorate and we will make sure we retrace our footsteps and do better. “Every church should endeavour to get a CCTV camera for security and monitoring. Those who could not afford CCTV can request the service of vigilantes during church service.” In his sermon, the Bishop of Owo Anglican Diocese, Stephen Fagbemi, expressed shock over the attack, saying the church should be a place of safety, urging the Christians not to entertain any fear, saying God will continue to be with them and give them victory. “Despite the fact that some people have allowed themselves to be used by the devil, Jesus is still alive and will continue to protect and be with His people,” Fagbemi said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com