In this age, almost everything is technology-driven and this is because the tech industry has opened an abundant space across every sector including in agriculture. Many years back, before technological developments, farmers made use of a large labour force which most times included every member of their family to cultivate farmlands. But the narrative has changed with the advent of technology. There are now farm tools and appliances such as tractors, harvester, and ATV or UTV used in place of human labour to cultivate, harvest and make ridges. However, despite these advancements, there are still some farming activities that require human labour which the most recent technological advancement seems to address. In more recent years, technology started advancing in artificial intelligence which allows robots controlled by a computer to do tasks associated with humans because they require human intelligence and discernment. Now, there are different robots that have been developed to replace tasks done by humans on farmlands. Labour shortage is a major problem facing farmers and this is amplified in the case of large field operations requiring a large number of human labour. So, agricultural robots are being manufactured to assist farmers with numerous farm operations, including fruit-picking, harvesting, planting, transplanting, spraying, seeding, and weeding. Farmers are increasingly relying on robots to automate repetitive tasks in the field. They deploy smart agricultural machines, such as GPS-enabled autonomous and semi-autonomous tractors for harvesting. Tractors also come with auto-steer technology for easier navigation across the field. Moreover, robots are used in automated systems in livestock management as well. This includes automated weighing scales, incubators, milking machines, auto feeders, and many more. Robots allow farmers to focus more on improving overall productivity, without having to worry about slow farm processes. They also prevent human-induced errors and provide convenience through automation. Ecorobotix is an example of a robot built to aid farmers on their farms, the robot is built with an autonomous drone which has the ability to use its solar power to run all day. This robot is designed with its camera system to target and spray weeds on a farm. The robot based on its wide arms uses 90 per cent less herbicide, making it  30 per cent cheaper than traditional treatments. A fleet of these robots could easily replace human farm labour down the road. Naio Technologies on the other hand is another robot built to weed, hoe, and assist during harvesting. These among others are robots that are invading the agricultural industry and seem to be a game-changer for the entire industry. Several studies have shown the huge effects of technology in agriculture from soil sampling, seeding, crop mapping to harvesting. A maize farmer, Abdulakeem Isiak noted that the invention of robotic technology was truly an amazing development but scared by how costly it would be to possess one for a Nigerian farmer struggling to make profit. He said, “Imagine if I’ll be needing hundreds of thousands and close to a million or more to buy a robot? The profit I made on maize in the last year isn’t up to a million naira so convincing me to buy a robot that costs more than my profit will be hard.” Abdulakeem also noted that it might be easy for large scale farmers to acquire the robots, adding that a farmer using an acre for farming like himself might not have the wherewithal to do so. He stated, “If the government will lead the cause by making provision for the robots then we make the payment back to them, I can assure you that many of us would take it and we would also find a way to ensure that we maximise the opportunity the robots bring to produce more.” A professor of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence at Babcock University, Ilishan Remo, Ogun State, Awodele Oludele, noted that sectors of the world’s economies both developed and developing countries, had adopted technology to enhance productivity. He said, “AI is a way of replicating what can be done by humans through the building of intelligent systems that mimic the human level of reasoning and capabilities.” Awodele emphasised that the world was going digital, saying that digital agriculture was the new norm by building automated systems to assist farmers to handle extremely difficult tasks in different aspects of agriculture. He said, “Bringing AI into agriculture isn’t only because of its efficiency, it will enhance productivity and food security. It will ensure that farmers are able to produce as much food as possible to boost food security to serve the population. Machines don’t know about fatigue, so the fatigue that sets in for farmers will be a thing of the past. Also, the machine doesn’t make errors so it’ll do exactly what they have been programmed to do without mistakes.” On the attendant job loss due to the use of robots on farms, he said, “for those who aren’t ready to go in the right direction of integrating the right systems and accepting technology into the agricultural processes, they will likely lose their jobs. But for those willing to accept the change, definitely it will be a blessing.’’ Awodele, however, noted that some problems might be encountered in transitioning countries. He said, “Are we ready for this in Nigeria? Not too much effort has been made in this regard on the part of the government and other stakeholders. “There’s a need to prepare a platform upon which this operation will be deployed. Apart from being expensive, we need to understand that it requires a lot of things; power is another issue, and some of these robots also require the internet of things –IoT. Some of the infrastructures to enhance the usage of these robots are not readily available. “First, we have to ensure that it is widespread, well adopted, then the government has a whole lot of roles to play and that is why the stakeholders and those involved need to collaborate and synergise and see how the farmers can be aided.” Also, a Professor of Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology at the Faculty of Agriculture, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Olanike Deji, observed that Nigeria was not ready for full-scale adoption of robots for farming in the country. Deji explained that in a country like Nigeria where there were many unemployed youths, it would be unwise to adopt full-scale robotic farming. Arguing that many Nigerian farmers had already adopted AI or other forms from a series of researches conducted, the lecturer noted that robots were a high level of AI which the country was not ready for. She said, “Just because there are some obstacles like the internet, and power doesn’t mean the usage of these robots will not be feasible in our environment. Look at the mobile phones we use today, when it started, many thought it would not have a widespread utilisation in Nigeria. But look at today, even the least literates are making use of it. “For us in Nigeria to be able to fully make use of it, some major stakeholders in agriculture must be carried along. For instance, agricultural extension professionals are key to integrating AI into our agricultural system. The majority of farmers in Nigeria are low literate and even when the technologies are available, they may not be able to operate and use it maximally due to their low level of literacy. This reason is the need for extension agents to be brought in and empowered to serve as middle agents that would make farmers also benefit from AI.’’ She further noted that there were some cost-friendly AI forms that could be easily adopted by farmers in the country.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com