Eight years after the Prisoner Transfer Agreement between the United Kingdom and Nigeria was signed, no inmate has been transferred by either country to serve the balance of their jail terms in their home countries. Findings by Sunday PUNCH showed that the initiative had yet to take off due to the failure of the Federal Government to meet certain requirements set out in the bilateral agreement. The UK and Nigeria signed the agreement in 2014 to allow the transfer of prisoners. It means citizens of one country, who commit crimes in the other, will serve sentences in their homeland. The UK government had said this would enable inmates to be properly prepared for release into the community in which they would live following their release. The UK-Nigeria agreement was one of the objectives outlined by then UK Prime Minister, David Cameron, and President Goodluck Jonathan following a meeting in 2011. As part of the agreement, the British government funded the construction of a new wing at the Kirikiri Custodial Centre, Lagos, so that it could transfer Nigerian prisoners there. The 112-bed wing, which cost £700,000 ($973,000) and is compliant with the United Nations standards, will make it easier for Britain to comply with the transfer agreement. The agreement also stipulates the building of modern correctional facilities to decongest the ageing and dilapidated prisons across the country housing no fewer than 70,000 inmates, many of whom are awaiting trial. There have been increased jailbreaks across the country due to congestion and terrible conditions in the custodial centres. No fewer than 2,000 inmates, who escaped during jailbreaks in 2021, have yet to be re-arrested. To address the situation, the Federal Government inaugurated new prisons in Abuja, Kano, Lagos, Port Harcourt and 3,000-capacity custodial centres across the six geo-political zones to tackle overcrowding. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior official said, “There are some conditions that must be met before the prisoners’ transfer can take place and efforts are still ongoing to meet those conditions. I’m not aware of any prisoner being transferred based on the agreement that was signed in 2014. “The conditions include improvement in the conditions of our custodial centres to meet international standards and framework for early releases. They (UK) are looking at the rehabilitation and reformation programmes as well as the consent of those that are to be transferred, which must be sought and obtained. “In the past couple of years, there have been increased efforts to upgrade our facilities and new ones are coming up; there is a massive improvement in the existing ones to improve their standards, not necessarily because of the standards requested by the UK government; it is a deliberate effort by the government to improve the standard of living of our inmates. It is part of the requirements that are contained in the agreement that was signed.” The British High Commission spokesman, Dean Hurlock, promised to provide an update on the prison exchange programme during the week. Also, the Nigerian Correctional Service Public Relations Officer, Umar Abubakar, said he would give a progress report. But commenting on the delayed implementation of the agreement, a lawyer and the Project Director, Access to Justice, Deji Ajare, said, “I have read that this bilateral agreement has now been backed by local legislation. However, since it appears that the bane of the implementation of the programme is the condition of the Nigerian prisons, it is just a reminder of the stark reality we are faced with. “Our prisons, contrary to the stated intention, are certainly not rehabilitative. I don’t see the programme taking off soon; it will therefore be counter-productive, seeing that the basis of the UK government entering into the agreement will mainly be to decongest their prisons and allow the prisoners to acclimatise with the environment they will eventually go back to when they are released. “It’s a reminder that the government must give better attention to the state and condition of prisons and prisoners, beyond mere rhetoric and name change.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com