The relations of one Lawrence Olorugbo have decried the slow pace of investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of their son and his family members. The decomposing bodies of Lawrence, his wife and three children were found in their apartment in the Apapa area of Lagos. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, who confirmed the incident, had disclosed that the police suspected generator fumes as the cause of death. Hundeyin, however, stated that the corpses had been evacuated for autopsy to determine the true cause of their death. But speaking with our correspondent in a telephone interview, a member of the family, Joseph Olorungbon, said the relations had earlier appealed to the police and the morgue, where their corpses were deposited, to hasten up. He added the delay was compounding the pain of the family. Joseph said, “We have expressed our displeasure over the slow pace at which the authorities involved are going about the matter. “A passionate appeal was made to the Nigeria Police ‘B’ Division Apapa, Lagos, and the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital to expedite action as to unravel the circumstances that led to the tragic loss. “We want them to know that the prolonged keeping of the corpses in the morgue will aggravate the pain of the family.” Another member of the family, Joel Aladuge, described the processes the family were being subjected to as strenuous. He said, “Our grievance now is that we are not satisfied with the slow pace of investigation. “We are making a passionate appeal to the Nigeria Police ‘B’ Division in Apapa that the unending procedure is strenuous.” When contacted, Hundeyin said the police were working with the resources available to them, adding that the investigation could not be faster than the way it was being carried out.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com