The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, on Thursday, said 17,374 police personnel would be deployed to provide security cover for the June 18 governorship elections in Ekiti State. This is apart from personnel from the National Security and Civil Defence Corps and other security agencies. Baba disclosed this to State House correspondents at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He said, “As for how many policemen are deployed to Ekiti or Osun, I can say for the police, just like the minister said, other security agents followed. But as for the police, we are deploying 17,374 policemen. “On the issue of the kidnapping of the Methodist Church Prelate, no arrest has been made in terms of suspects, but we are still on it.” Meanwhile, Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, said on Thursday that the All Progressives Congress would use its expected victory in the June 18 governorship election to open winning doors for the party’s presidential candidate in the 2023 election, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Fayemi said the APC was resolute to ensure the party’s continuity in Ekiti State by ensuring that its governorship candidate, Biodun Oyebanji, wins the June 18 gubernatorial poll. The governor spoke in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State capital, during a welcome rally organised for him after his APC presidential ticket bid. “Let me assure you of this, those opposition party members pretending to have what it takes to govern Ekiti State will meet their waterloo on June 18,” the governor said. He added, “By Tuesday next week, the presidential candidate of our party and incoming president, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and the President, Muhammadu Buhari, governors and bigwigs in APC will be in Ekiti during the grand finale of APC governorship campaign to mobilise for Oyebanji.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com