A former Chief of Staff to the Ekiti State Governor and All Progressives Congress chieftain, Biodun Omoleye, has cautioned party members against allowing any disagreement among them to affect the election on June 18 of the candidate, Biodun Oyebanji. Omoleye enjoined the party faithful to eschew politics of bitterness and embrace peace in the overall interest of all, saying, “There will always be reasons for disagreement within a political family. However, no disagreement should be allowed to become monstrous to the point of tearing the family apart.” The former CoS, who spoke in Ado Ekiti at a media parley organised for Oyebanji’s election as the next governor of the state, pleaded with aggrieved members to sheath their swords and focus on the bigger picture. “Politics and political patronage are turn-by-turn. When it is your God-appointed time, no one can stop you; and when God says yes, no one can say no,” he stated and called on all party faithful within and outside the state to remain united to achieve victory. Omoleye also urged Ekiti people to support Oyebanji’s candidacy “to continue to build on the remarkable achievements of the present administration.” He stated, “One of the beauties of democracy is that we oftentimes disagree to agree in the best interest of our common goal. “Differences are not a failure of humanity; differences are a test of our humanity. On this premise, I urge all APC members in Ekiti State to let us unite more than ever and leave no stone unturned to ensure victory for Oyebanji, popularly known as BAO, and our great party, the APC, in the June 18 governorship election. “BAO’s governorship is our collective project and it is bigger and more important than every other personal agenda. It is through BAO’s victory that we can guarantee the continuity of the good work of Governor Fayemi, which is the best for Ekiti people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com