AT3 Resources, a specialised communications and events consultancy, says the recently held Brand Africa Awards in Lagos, will cause a reawakening in the advertising industry. The company had partnered with Brand Leadership and Open Squares to hold the event. According to a statement, the event which was held in Lagos on Africa Day (May 25, 2022), had in attendance corporate and industry leaders to celebrate Africa’s Best Brands 2022 rankings of the top 100 most admired brands in Africa. Now in its 12th year, every year on or around Africa Day, 25th May, Brand Africa releases the results of the survey conducted by Geopoll and Kantar, on the most admired brands in Africa based on a survey across 29 countries; this represents approximately 85 per cent of the continent’s GDP and population.  The 2022 survey was conducted between March and April 2022 and yielded over 80,000 brand mentions and over 3,500 unique brands. This year, brands like Dangote, MTN, GTbank, Coca-Cola, Glo, Jumia, and Nasco were among the Top 100 brands in Africa. However, DStv, consolidated its position as the #1 African media brand while Channels TV led as the #1 Nigerian media brand in a category that is fast going digital and mobile. Meanwhile, Coca-Cola, which has been in the top five for 10 consecutive years, is the #1 most admired brand in Nigeria. Overall, South Africa’s MTN, emerged as the #1 African brand while GTBank emerged as the most admired financial services brand for the third consecutive year. The Founder and Chairman, Troyka Group, Dr. Biodun Shobanjo, and GTBank’s Group CEO, Segun Agbaje, were awarded the inaugural Africa Brand Leadership Excellence Awards for inspiring brand-led excellence that drives the growth of made in Africa brands. Giving a keynote speech during the event, Shobanjo said the event would change the landscape of the advertising industry. He said, “It’s an honour to be recognised by the organisers of this credible award event. It is also a delight to have ventured into this rewarding profession and to have led the best consumer campaigns that have provoked consumers to act and enhanced the reputation of brands in Africa. The CEO and Founder, AT3 Resources, Tosin Adefeko, said, “Today presents an opportunity to celebrate African brands, African Leaders, and African corporates who continue to contribute their quota to the economy via a brand-led agenda. I am excited that African brands are now taking charge towards fulfilling the African Union agenda for a peaceful and prosperous Africa. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com