There was tension at the New Garage, Challenge area of Ibadan on Friday, as policemen launched a manhunt for drivers who were alleged to have deliberately crushed a traffic warden, Oluniyi Bamidele, to death. Our correspondent gathered on Friday that Bamidele, who was on duty in the area, stopped a taxi driver for allegedly violating traffic rules. The driver and some of his colleagues were said to have swooped on the traffic warden and the situation led to an altercation. The drivers were said to have attacked the traffic warden and they reportedly pushed him to the path of a speeding vehicle which knocked him down and another speeding vehicle crushed him to death. The death of the traffic warden was said to have triggered panic as traders and passersby hurriedly deserted the area. Armed policemen were said to have been deployed in the area to arrest the suspects and to prevent a possible breakdown of law and order. Contacted, the state police spokesperson, Adewale Osifeso, confirmed the death of the traffic warden. He later issued a statement, stating that the driver deliberately crushed the traffic warden to death. The statement read, “Preliminary investigation reveals that on Thursday at about 8:30pm, a traffic warden  with A/P No. 16860 STW Oluniyi Bamidele ‘m’ attached to the Challenge Police Divisional Headquarters, Ibadan while on legitimate traffic duties was attacked by commercial vehicle drivers (Micra) after one of the drivers contravened for serious traffic offences. “Acting on the false alarm raised to his colleagues, other commercial vehicle drivers  attacked the deceased and pushed him towards the path of  another oncoming commercial vehicle speeding and he was knocked  unconscious before another Micra driver deliberately drove over his helpless body which eventually led to his death at the spot. “The command has immediately commenced investigation into the incident as the Deputy Commissioner of Police in Charge of the Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department has been directed to leave no stone unturned in apprehending those responsible for the cold-blooded murder of the traffic warden for investigation and prosecution in accordance with the law.” The spokesman for the Park Management System, Alhaji Emiola Jelili, could not be reached on the telephone by our correspondent to comment on the matter. He was also yet to respond to the text messages sent to him as of the time this report was filed.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com