Former Big Brother Naija season 6 housemate, Emmanuel Umoh, has denied cheating on his estranged lover, Liquorose, during their trip to Dubai. In the reunion show which aired on Friday night, Emmanuel told his own part of the story concerning the mystery lady Liquorose found in his room. Liquorose, in the previous episode, stated that she walked into Emmanuel and another girl in Dubai in the early hours of the morning. The 27-year-old dancer gave a graphic picture of how she met Emmanuel with another girl during their trip to Dubai. She added, “The light was off, the music was playing, the bed was rough, and the girl was sitting at the edge, and she covered her face with a face mask”. Emmanuel, in the latest episode, noted that nothing happened between himself and the girl, whom he revealed was an old friend. He stated that he had met the girl on one of his earlier trips to Dubai and having met her again, the girl wanted to come and catch up with him in his room. Emmanuel said, “Meeting a friend after a long time should not be a problem. She came around early hours and I was like, this is quite early. “She said, ‘I was out late and since I stayed around, I wanted to stop by’.” Emmanuel noted that after exchanging pleasantries with her, he laid down on the bed and they kept chatting till he slept off. He stated that he woke up to Liquorose’s knock after his visitor tapped him. Emmanuel said he didn’t want to open the door because it wasn’t a good situation for Liquorose to find him in but after her calls, he decided to open the door. “At that point, I said I should just open and she’d understand that nothing happened because nothing went down,” Emmanuel said. Liquorose and Emmanuel also officially announced the end of their friendship and relationship to their fans. Asking them, “Is this done?”, the show host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, got responses in the affirmative. Liquorose said, “Yeah, it’s done. I don’t need his friendship. It comes with disrespect.” Emmanuel said, “It’s not working for both of us.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com