A consortium of Civil Society Organisations in the country have asked the  President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) to order an investigation into the alleged collaboration between criminal elements and some military personnel. The groups said this was necessary following the revelations by protesting youths and people of Umunneochi Local Government Area of Abia State, the abducted Prelate of the Methodist Church of Nigeria, Bishop Samuel Kanu-Uche and a comment by the Commander of the Rapid Response Squad, Abia State identified as Johnbull, all accusing military personnel of colluding with criminal elements. These were contained in a joint statement signed by the Rule of Law and Accountability Advocacy Centre, Lagos, and 21 other Civil Society Organisations. The statement read, “Civil society organisations in Nigeria are seriously concerned about growing insecurity, killings, and allegations about the likely involvement of personnel of the armed forces in violent crimes. Our attention has been drawn to the “protest by the youths and people of Isuochi in Umunneochi Local Government Area of Abia State demanding the removal of military checkpoints in the area since the presence of the military has not improved security in their area but rather seems to provide cover for the criminals. “We are alarmed by the revelations from the prelate who was kidnapped along with his two colleagues and released after paying huge sums in ransom. But we are even the more alarmed by the revelation from security sources and the victims themselves suggesting that the military is likely to be complicit in the increasing cases of crime in the Okigwe axis. In one of the videos in circulation, a senior police officer identified as CSP Johnbull, Commander of the Rapid Response Squad, Abia State also expressed frustration at the role played by personnel of the Nigeria Army in sabotaging the efforts of security forces to combat kidnapping in that axis. “We call on President Buhari to wake up and to order an investigation into these rather scandalous revelations.” The groups, however, condemned the decision of the police hierarchy to subject CSP Johnbull to harassment or disciplinary action instead of acting on the intelligence information to improve their operations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com