Come November 2022, Nigeria shall host the world for this year’s World Toilet Summit. Considering that we have a narrow window—between now and 2025—to make our country open defecation free, this is an opportunity we cannot afford to squander. India’s environmental story changed after it hosted the World Toilet Summit in 2007 and, again, in 2015. The Asian country used to be the open defecation capital of the world. Now, Nigeria is, with more than 40 million citizens defecating in the open. Perhaps, after November, we shall begin to rapidly erase this ignoble title that hangs on our neck like a deadweight. When the founder of the World Toilet Organisation, Jack Sim, made the announcement last February, players in the environmental sector understood that a chance has emerged for us to change the narrative. For long, we have been crawling with abysmal sanitation indices even after the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), signed the 2019 Executive Order, which spawned the current Clean Nigeria Campaign. So, this summit is a great opportunity for members of the WTO to come to Nigeria to address its sanitation challenges. Nonetheless, we must also commend the government for prioritising water, sanitation and hygiene because it seems this is what attracted the attention of the global community. And it is crucial that we go the way of WASH because our example shall inspire other African countries to follow suit. The truth is that sanitation was at one time not discussed and completely forgotten about in most countries of the world, especially in the developing regions. This is why it was not surprising that Nigeria’s Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, stated that the selection of Nigeria as the host country for the 2022 World Toilet Summit comes at a time when Nigeria has made concrete plans to exit from the comity of nations practising open defecation. The World Toilet Summit is the only toilet and sanitation focused conference in the world. Organised annually in different countries, the summit aims to empower delegates, exhibitors and sponsors to share best practices in the water, sanitation and hygiene sector. Each year, the WTS marks the presence of national and global attendees across several WASH sectors. The participants come from the national and state governments, industry and technology experts, corporate organisations, social enterprises, academia and business enterprises. Certainly, the convergence of these global players in Nigeria would be a milestone in our ecological evolution. The other thing that is going for us is that it is in this same year that good things began to happen in the WASH global governance system. For instance, the 2022 Sector Ministers’ Meeting hosted by the Government of Indonesia, which took place on 18-19 May in Jakarta, opened a critical opportunity to link with other sectors, with a view toward increasing the prioritisation of WASH across national policies. For the first time in a Sanitation and Water for All high-level meeting, the 2022 SMM brought together ministers of water, sanitation and hygiene, and their counterparts responsible for climate, environment, health and the economy. It provided a space for leaders around the world to meet and find innovative ways to work together to increase the political prioritisation of water, sanitation and hygiene and ensure the integration of these services in national climate, health and economic policies and strategies. Now, what can we do to make the upcoming toilet summit a success? We must mobilise high-level political support, resources and the entire populace towards making it a memorable one; this is a national call to service. Nigeria must be talked about even years after the event. I believe that the way and manner we mobilise and enlighten the populace for the summit would become the foundation on which to build a new culture of safe sanitation in our clime. This will not only help our environmental health life but also help us achieve the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals in the critical sectors that are related to water, sanitation and hygiene. With eight years remaining for the world to achieve the SDGs, there are opportunities to accelerate progress in reaching SGD 6 on universal access to water and sanitation. The experience and exchanges of past WASH events have shown that there are viable ways forward to deliver on these commitments. Thus, delivering on universal access to water and sanitation will unlock important potential for progress across the entire SDG agenda. Although the context is challenging in many places, and there have been setbacks, leaders in the sector are persuaded that the SDGs are within reach if we approach the next eight years with strong leadership and sector reform, as well as increased efforts and investments. Furthermore, it is very important that indigenous civil society organisations, whose work revolve around WASH, deploy their strengths and structures to work together; not only that but commit to greater collective action in order to build a brighter future with sanitation and water for all, always and everywhere. They have to especially increase efforts in following up and monitoring the various stakeholders in the WASH sector including those in the health, finance/economic recovery and climate change at both national and sub-national levels. Therefore, the work of the Society for Water and Sanitation is cut out for them. The NEWSAN is a coordinating network of over 300 civil society organisations working in the field of WASH. In a recent interactive session with journalists, the national coordinator of NEWSAN, Attah Benson, clarified that the civil society is working with the Federal Government, the organised private sector and other stakeholders to make the summit a fruitful national venture. “Yes, we are officially and actively part of the stakeholders preparing to host the world in Nigeria. I have to say that we are very excited that the World Toilet Organisation chose Nigeria to host the summit. This is an opportunity for the country to explore other avenues to support the implementation of WASH and get ideas and investments from outsiders. It is also an opportunity to open up our water, sanitation and hygiene sector to the world, and show investors where to choose to add value in our nation. It will also create jobs. But most importantly, it will help us achieve the open defecation free target by 2025.” It is also my view that Nigeria’s critical stakeholders in the WASH sector must not fail to domesticate the outcome of the Sector Ministers Meeting in Jakarta. The first is political leadership across different branches of government to prioritise water, sanitation and hygiene within national, regional and global agendas, as part of achieving overall social and economic development. Secondly, reforms to support a stronger enabling environment which contributes to recovery as well as expanded and improved access to water and sanitation, and foster long term resilience as well as financial attractiveness and efficiency. Thirdly, innovative ways to secure resources to cover the costs of the pandemic while kick-starting economic recovery and a green economy, and simultaneously supporting increased investments in water and sanitation to mitigate and adapt to the impacts of climate change. Fourthly, accountability as a central tenet for accelerating sustained progress, strengthening collaboration, reinforcing inclusive participation and building resilience; especially through sharing information and ensuring transparency to meet commitments and obligations. I also call upon the Nigerian media to beam their light on WASH, because working hand in hand with the civil society organisations, they can ascertain the extent to which WASH is being prioritised in the implementation of health, economic recovery and the fight against climate change. Nigeria needs all necessary support not only to ensure that the ODF campaign gains traction but that the world hears our voice as a nation determined to go green.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com