Actress, Regina Chukwu, is of the opinion that entertainers can influence the choice of voters in the forthcoming 2023 general elections. She told Saturday Beats, “Entertainers influence people. Or, why do you think business owners pay entertainers to influence the sale of their products? Let’s not be biased. We (entertainers) have some die-hard fans and they would support whichever politician we are behind.” The actress also stated that she felt deeply saddened by the killings at St Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State, last Sunday. She said, “I was highly emotional after the killings in Owo. It is high time we (entertainers) change our attitude towards campaigning for politicians. “I know it is a personal decision. However, we have been doing the same thing over and again, so why don’t we do it in another way this time around? I believe people should be allowed to vote for the leaders they desire for themselves. “It is not like we are doing it for the love of the country. After collecting all these monies, what do we gain after the elections?” Chukwu also maintained added that she has never collected money to campaign for any politician. She said, “I have never collected money to campaign for any politicians. But, people will categorise all entertainers as the same. One cannot even talk about Nigeria again without people bashing one from nowhere. I am so pained. Our government is not working. “If we reject money from these politicians, they (politicians) will start to see us as serious people. I will start campaigning on my page, imploring people not to sell their votes.” On her contribution to encourage citizens to participate in the forthcoming elections, she said, “I have been encouraging my followers on social media to get their permanent voter’s cards. Voting is the right of every adult citizen. I believe we can eventually get things right.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com