The directive of the Anambra State Governor, Chukwuma Soludo, that all kidnappers and other criminal gangs’ hideouts be raided and buildings harbouring them be destroyed has been carried out in Oba, Idemili South Local Government Area. In a demolition carried out by men of the state Joint Security Task Force on Friday, an old bungalow at Oba, Idemili South Council Area, belonging to the kidnappers was demolished. The exercise lasted over five hours. In the hideout earlied raided, exhibits such as locally made pistols, shrine, charms, concoctions, indian hemp, among other incriminating materials were recovered at the building and some arrests were also made. According to a statement on Saturday, the Press Secretary to the Governor, Christian Aburime, quoted Soludo as commending the efforts of the task force men, saying the demolition exercise would serve as a deterrent to other criminals. Soludo was said to address only newsmen from the state broadcasting service, later at the Governor’s Lodge, Amawbia. The governor warned criminals terrorising the state that they will have no place to hide again as security operatives have been empowered to fish them out wherever they are in the state. The governor explained that it has been established that the building demolished was being used as a den for criminal activities, stressing that the government policy does not allow any criminality to reign in the state.
He warned that henceforth, in line with the law, criminals will have no place in any part of Anambra State. He assured that his government is fully determined to ensure that the state is safe for everyone, and that people can move freely around without fear or molestation Soludo said, “Any building being used for any criminal activities will be brought down and confiscated by government. I appeal to the people to be security conscious at all times and report strangers and criminals operating in their communities to security agencies.” However, it will be recalled that a gang of kidnappers were traced to the hideout by the Police, following an attack and subsequent kidnapping of two persons at Oko, Orumba North Local Government Area, and another two persons in Ekwulobia, Aguata Local Government Area. The gunmen had entered Oko through Nanka for a kidnap operation and were on the verge of succeeding before the prompt intervention of the police special force acting on a tip- off and subsequently engaged them in gunfire. One of them was killed, but others escaped with various degree of injuries. The gunman killed at Oko, whose video went viral on some social handles, was identified as a former vigilante who was part of a four-man gang who have been involved in high profile killings and kidnapping within that vicinity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com