A Professor of Neurology, and Dean, Faculty of Clinical Sciences, University of Ibadan, Prof. Mayowa Owolabi, has said no less than 50m Nigerians are suffering from hypertension. In a statement made available to The PUNCH, Owolabi noted that this was largely complicated by a poor decline in diagnoses, treatments, and control of victims. He, thereby, charged Nigerians to live a healthy lifestyle to curb the growing rate of hypertension cases in the country. According to the scholar, the rise in cases of hypertension may be due to people’s habitual unhealthy diet, which includes a high intake of red meat and salt, low consumption of green leafy vegetables, sedentary lifestyle, obesity, smoking, diabetes, air pollution, urbanisation, and deforestation. Owolabi noted that the increase in complications was due to the low proportion of individuals with hypertension who were diagnosed, treated, and controlled, adding that in Africa, about 93 per cent of those with hypertension were unaware, untreated, or uncontrolled. He attributed uncontrolled hypertension as the leading risk factor for stroke, heart attack, and kidney failure, and urged people to frequently examine their blood pressure. ‘’Uncontrolled hypertension is the leading cause of stroke. Blood pressure control along with control of other conditions such as diabetes mellitus, and high cholesterol, can prevent stroke. ‘’It is important for you to check your blood pressure at least four times a year, and if found to be hypertensive, see a doctor for medications to treat it,’’ he said. Also speaking, a family physician, Dr Mubo Ibiyo, advised people to regularly check their blood pressure for early detection, and see a doctor when an abnormal trend was observed. She advised against patronising unapproved medicine peddlers and urged the public to desist from such practice. “Check your blood pressure regularly and see a certified doctor in a hospital if the BP is abnormal; not a patent medicine seller posing as a doctor. “Check your BP every day at home and keep a diary of your recordings for your doctor to review at clinic appointments. ‘’Eat a healthy balanced diet, exercise; avoid a sedentary lifestyle, and ensure rest and good sleep,’’ Ibiyo urged.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com