Armed robbers on Monday invaded Efab Queens Estate in the Galadima area of the Federal Capital Territory. The assailants reportedly entered through the rear end of the estate around 3am, attacking the apartment of a politician whose identity was not disclosed. The estate’s security supervisor, Mr Patrick Simon, who spoke to our correspondent, claimed that the gunmen carted away laptops, mobile phones, smart television sets, and other valuables from the house. “There was a shooting around 3am and the assailants entered through the fence behind the estate. They succeeded in breaking into the house of a politician. “There were about 20 of them. They broke the door and stole laptops, phones, Plasma TVs, and other valuables,” he added. Responding to reports making the rounds concerning an alleged kidnapping from the estate, he said, “I can confirm to you that no one was kidnapped from the estate”. PUNCH Metro gathered that the police were on the trail of the suspects. The FCT Police Public Relations Officer, Josephine Adeh, also confirmed the incident. “It was a burglary, and we’re currently on their trail,” she added. In a statement, the FCT police command also denied reports of alleged kidnapping on the estate. The statement read in part, “We wish to set the records straight, that on June 6, 2022, a distress call was received from Efab Queens Estate, Kasana, in the Galadima area of the FCT, that there was an ongoing robbery operation, and our officers attached to the Galadima divisional headquarters swiftly responded. “Upon our arrival on the estate, the robbers took to their heels upon being chased by our officers, and that led to them abandoning some items they had already stolen, including some phones and laptops.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com