The campaign organisation of the presidential candidate of the All Progressive Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Sunday, distanced itself from a viral document circulated on social media as Tinubu’s manifesto. The organisation disclosed that what was being peddled online was a mere draft and suggestions on the programmes Tinubu is expected to implement when elected in February 2023. This was contained in a statement issued on Sunday by the Tinubu Campaign Organisation’s Director of Media and Communication, Bayo Onanuga. Onanuga said that the manifesto being shared mostly via WhatsApp and Facebook is not the official campaign manifesto of the APC presidential candidate. The statement read, “The attention of the Tinubu Campaign Organisation has been drawn to a viral document said to be the manifesto of the All Progressives Congress Presidential Candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “The document is currently being circulated via social media platforms in his name, despite the TCO informing editors that it is merely a draft proposal and suggestions on the programme he should implement, when elected in February 2023.” According to him, a manifesto is a more serious document. Onanuga stated that Tinubu is having a consultation with the party, experts in various fields and a broad section of the populace through an empirical and evidence-based approach, to release an all-embracing manifesto that will be presented to Nigerians once it is ready before the official campaign begins in September. While acknowledging that the document in circulation was prepared by some senior associates of the APC presidential candidate, the veteran journalist said the document was a private initiative, which Tinubu has not personally endorsed. “I want to place it on record that the manifesto being circulated via social media platforms and already published by a section of the mainstream media is not the official Manifesto of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and the All Progressives Congress for the 2023 general election. “The Presidential candidate and the APC are currently working on an all-embracing manifesto that will inspire the confidence of Nigerians. When the official policy document of Tinubu is ready, it will be formally presented to Nigerians and our candidate will be in a position to defend every word that will be contained therein,” the statement said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com