The remains of the 137-year-old custodian of the Olumo rock, Sinatu Aduke Sanni, have been laid to rest in Abeokuta, the Ogun State Capital. The grandson, Samad Sanni, disclosed to journalists that the centenarian had been buried on Thursday night according to ‘Orisa Egun’ traditional rites. The custodian of the international tourists site was announced dead on Monday June 1 at the age of 137. Sanni said though Iya Olumo’s family is not from Orisa Egun, she was buried in that tradition having served the Orisa Egun in her lifetime He added that she was buried in her room at the family house behind the Olumo rock. In his words, “We buried her Thursday night according to Orisa traditional rites. Mama belongs to Orisa Egun, and there is nothing we can do than to bury her in that rite. “Anyone who is a member of Orisa Egun cannot be buried outside, they’re buried inside their house. So, mama was buried inside her room. All other activities will follow after the burial rites. “Mama’s family is not from Orisa Egun, but it was when mama was looking for children, that was what brought mama into serving “Orisa Egun.” Meanwhile, the Ogun State Government has said mama will be missed so much as she has become a tourist attraction herself. Speaking on behalf of the state government, the state Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Dr. Toyin Taiwo, who led state delegates to confirm the story of her death on Friday assured family members that Mama will be imortalised. “When we heard of mama’s passing, as a government, we have to show up here and identify with the family at this moment to condole with them. “Mama is a custodian of our history, culture and tradition. We’re going to miss her greatly in terms of the history and truth of Egbaland and in terms of the tourism because mama, herself has become a tourist center because of the way people jostle to see and heard from her. “You should be sure that if somebody has made an impact on humanity, the government is going to do the needful”. Taiwo added that many of the history heard from Mama have been documented and available at the ministry for reference. Reacting to the death of her mother, Mama Olumo’s first child, Mosinat Amusa, said even though her mother died at a ripe age, she was still saddened by her passing. Amusa who said she has passed the age of 90, however expressed satisfaction at the life her mother lived. She expressed confidence that some of her children would continue from where mama stopped Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com