A real estate development firm, Bashmoh Homes, has entered into a partnership with the Non-Academic Staff Union, the University of Lagos chapter, with the aim of making home ownership convenient for the university’s members of staff. During the official commissioning of the project on Saturday, the firm’s Head of Marketing and Corporate Development, Ifeoma Ekwenye, said the high poverty level and bureaucratic bottlenecks had made house ownership very expensive and cumbersome. This, he said, necessitated the partnership with Bashmoh Homes. According to her, 25 acres of land were purchased by the union and then handed over to Bashmore Homes for development. She noted that the allocation of plots to various subscribers would begin by September 2022. “When we signed the partnership, we were very clear on the task ahead and the audacity of our ambition. This ambition was solidly rooted in our determination to deliver not just high quantity but quality housing units built to the best global practices and at a price that will be quite affordable to UNILAG staff and other subscribers.” Ekwenyi, who used the opportunity to solicit the support and cooperation of NASU’s Building Planning Committee, said Bashmoh Homes was facilitating access to decent and affordable housing across the country, promising that all subscribers to this new partnership would get the best at the completion of the project. Earlier in his opening remarks, Chairman of NASU, University of Lagos Chapter, Ajibade Kehinde, had applauded Bashmoh Homes for its dedication to making housing available for those who ordinarily did not have or dream of owning one. He said many Nigerian workers and families had continued to face harsh economic realities due to inflation that rose above 15 per cent in March 2022, and spacious and high-end apartments had gone beyond the budgetary limits of the salaried class and upcoming adults in major cities. “However, Bashmoh Homes is changing this narrative with our partnership which intends to build affordable homes for UNILAG NASU members as well as other interested Nigerian workers. “Bashmoh Homes, from my interaction with them over the years, does not just believe in housing that meets subscribers’ needs, but also believes in examining the challenges at every point in the housing value-chain and providing credible answers which meet the needs of its clients.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com