The Alaba International Market in the Ojo area of Lagos State on Thursday shutdown operations to mobilise traders in the market to register or get their permanent voters card to enable them to vote in the forthcoming elections in Nigeria. The PUNCH gathered that during the exercise, the traders visited Ojo Local Government Area, which is the venue for the registration. The registration was said to be ongoing when the registrants became frustrated by the availability of a single registration terminal. A Twitter user, identified simply as Columbus, said registration was ongoing when some hoodlums allegedly besieged the premises to steal the terminal being used for the registration. He, however, noted that the registrants foiled the attempt, adding that the hoodlums were sent to disrupt the registration process. Columbus, using his handle, @Chude_, wrote, “Igbo traders closed down Alaba market to register for PVC in Ojo LGA HQ today and Lagos thugs were sent to disrupt the process. “They attempted to carry the only @inecnigeria PVC machine at the centre but the crowd overpowered them. This is unacceptable!” In a 44 seconds video clip credited to an eyewitness, Oriaku Ngozi, which was attached to Columbus’ post, a lady was heard lamenting the incident. Reacting to the development, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, said the attack was caused by one of the registrants, adding that normalcy had been restored. The state Public Affairs Officer, Independent National Electoral Commission, Adenike Oriowo, said, “Ojo Local Government has five machine; we are on a rotational plan around the wards. So, for every ward, you just have a single machine and in a bid to get it closer to the people, people are expected to go to that place to register.’’ Meanwhile, hundreds of youths besieged the Tafawa Balewa Square in the Lagos Island area of the state to register for the PVCs on Thursday. During the exercise, our correspondent observed security agents including the army, police and private security personnel arranging the youths in batches to control the crowd. A registrant, who gave his name only as Stanley, said most of the registrants were youths who were determined to partake in the forthcoming election, adding that some of the registrants spent hours before completing their registration. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com