A yet-to-be identified woman abandoned a newborn on Wednesday at an uncompleted building in the Sarkin Kudu area of Bogoro Local Government Area of Bauchi State. Our correspondent learnt that the baby was found bare on Thursday morning with his placenta yet to be removed. It was also learnt that security agents and the local government authorities in Bogoro LGA launched a manhunt for the mother of the newborn. A resident of Sarkin Kudu, who spoke to City Round, stated that the baby was found on a rock. She said, “We woke up to hear that a baby was abandoned near a bush. The mother of the baby left him crying on a rock. We quickly mobilised some women who took the baby.’’ A social worker in the area who spoke on condition of anonymity said that the baby was found by residents, adding that the baby was in their care. The Police Public Relations Officer, Bauchi State Police Command, Ahmed Wakil, confirmed the incident to City Round in a telephone interview, adding that the newborn was found in an uncompleted building in the area. Wakil said: “On Thursday, June 2, 2022, at about 8.30am, some Good Samaritans of the community went to the Bogoro Divisional Police Headquarters and reported that on their way to the farm, they discovered an abandoned baby crying in an uncompleted building. Upon receiving the complaint, the DPO and his team moved to the scene and took the abandoned baby to the Bogoro General Hospital for medical check-up. “After the medical doctors have certified that the baby is healthy, they handed the baby to the Social Welfare Department of Bogoro Local Government Area.  Investigation is still in progress. We are trying to expand the investigation to look for the mother of the baby and further our investigation to know why she abandoned the baby in that manner.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com