An indigenous group under the aegis of the Owo Is One Association has mourned the victims of the St Francis Catholic Church, Owaluwo, Owo, Ondo State, massacre and condoled with the community. The group condemned the Sunday attack on the place of worship stating that the incident came as a shock to the indigenes of Owo. In a statement made available to The PUNCH, the National Co-ordinator, OIOA, Chief Akinboro Aruwajoye, said the members of the association of spread across different countries were “in grief for the sad loss that occurred in our homeland. This is seriously a sad mood that calls for a very sober reflection”. Aruwajoye also condoled with the Olowo of Owo kingdom, Majesty, Oba Ajibade Gbadegeshin Ogunoye III, adding that the community was known to be peaceful from time immemorial. “We sympathise with our paramount ruler, His Imperial Majesty, Oba (Dr) Ajibade Gbadegeshin Ogunoye III, Olowo of Owo kingdom, the families of the bereaved and the Catholic community, and pray to Almighty God to comfort each and every one of us. We pray that the Almighty God should heal the wounded and the injured. “We don’t have any other place we can call home but Owo, our native home,” Aruwajoye said. Commenting on the incident, the Head of Media, OIOA, Olatunbosun Oladimeji, stated that the carnage in the wake of the evil attacks on a place of worship like the Catholic Church showed how devilish some people might be, adding that only God can repay those behind the attacks. He also condoled with the Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, who hails from Owo, and urged the authorities to ensure the perpetrators of the attack are brought to justice. He said, “Our government has the capability and the capacity to go after these devils. Our people should not only remain calm and be peaceful but continue to pray for God to take control of our homeland.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com