The Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Wase; the Minority Caucus leader, Ndudi Elumelu, and the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party for Ekiti South Federal Constituency I seat at the House, Henrich Akomolafe, have commended Nigerians for their patience and resilience in preserving the unity and integrity of the country. They made the commendation in separate statements issued on Sunday to commemorate the June 12 Democracy Day. Wase, in the statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Umar Puma, urged Nigerians to nurture and protect the country’s democracy by participating actively in the governance process both at local, state, and federal levels. In the statement titled, ‘Wase Felicitates with Nigerians on Democracy Day,’ the Deputy Speaker said that even though the country was faced with various security challenges in its march towards nationhood, Nigerians should roll out the drums and celebrate the 23 years of its democracy. “While congratulating all Nigerians on this auspicious day, Wase urged leaders on their part to double efforts in delivering the good governance and leaving enduring legacies that generations to come will be proud of,” the statement partly read. In another statement issued by the Minority Leader of the House, Ndudi Elumelu, titled ‘Democracy Day: Minority Reps Tasks Buhari on Credible Elections in 2023,’ the caucus called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to take firm steps towards putting in place all necessary arrangements that would guarantee free, fair, credible and transparent general elections in 2023. The caucus stressed that the Federal Government must use the occasion of the Democracy Day to commit to processes that would check electoral manipulations, guarantee the security of the voters and ensure that only votes are cast by Nigerians in their respective polling units count at the end of the elections. The statement partly read, “Our caucus holds that the hallmark of democracy is the ability of the people to freely choose their leaders under an unrestricted, fair, and transparent process that guarantees that their expressed Will at the ballot for a truly democratic and people-oriented government is not subverted. “The Minority Caucus is indeed saddened that under the APC government, the tenets of democracy; its principle of adherence to rule of law, justice, equity, freedom, transparency in governance and national unity, which Chief MKO Abiola died for, have all been trampled underfoot by dictatorial and anti-democratic proclivities. “As lawmakers, our caucus is disturbed that under the APC government, abuse of human rights, disregard to rules, suppression of citizens, nepotism, impositions, barefaced injustices, lawlessness, unbridled corruption, impunity, extreme insensitivity to the sensibilities of Nigerians as well as electoral manipulations have become the order of the day.” The caucus, which stated that “this is not the way to go,” urged Buhari to use the Democracy Day to “leave a legacy by taking decisive steps to realign our nation towards the part of constitutional order, strict adherence to rule of law, credible elections, respect for the rights of citizens and transparency in handling the affairs of our nation.” The opposition lawmakers, however, urged Nigerians not to despair but remain resolute in the collective determination to entrench the tenets of democracy in the country by fully participating in the current electoral process. The statement further read, “Our caucus urges Nigerians, especially those who do not believe in our electoral process because of past manipulations, to get their Permanent Voter Cards and be ready to participate in the elections, as our caucus is already taking very strong steps with other pro-democracy bodies to ensure that votes cast by Nigerians in this 2023 general elections certainly will count. “The Minority Caucus extols the courage, selflessness, and patriotism of Chief MKO Abiola who made immense sacrifices and paid the supreme price for the entrenchment of democracy in our country. “We, therefore, urge leaders at all levels to uphold this legacy by carrying out their responsibilities in line with the demands of justice, equity, fairness, and adherence to rules.” Meanwhile, Akomolafe said Nigeria has a long way to go to enjoy the full benefits of democracy. He, however, stated that Nigerians must continue to hope and be ready to make sacrifices for a better nation. In a statement issued by his media office, titled ‘June 12: We’re A Long Way from Perfect Democracy, We Must Evolve – Engr Akomolafe,’ the 29-year-old prospective lawmaker also condemned the recent violence in the Ekiti State ahead of Saturday’s governorship election. Akomolafe said, “While Nigeria has experienced 22 years of uninterrupted democratic transitions, the violence, malpractices, and poor leadership have over time undermined that process. Democracy should be the rule of the majority and protection of the minority but we have created a gulf where the privileged minority rules and run the affairs of this nation. “We need to evolve into a more mature, civil, and sportsman-like nature of playing politics and practicing democracy. We must provide total inclusion and good leadership across the board for all Nigerians to enjoy the benefits of democracy.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com