The Indigenous People of Biafra has accused security agencies operating in the South-East of selling the human parts of youths they kill extrajudicially in the area on a daily basis. The group listed the security agencies to include the Nigeria Joint Task Force comprising Ebubeagu, the Nigerian Army, the Nigeria Police Force, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and and agents of the Department of State Security. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, on Monday, the group alleged that the security agents have turned the “kidnap and killing of the IPOB and Igbo youths as a lucrative enterprise through which they generate revenue to run their operations.” It also alleged that the Ebubeagu outfit set up by some state governors in the South-East was aiding and abetting in the genocide. It claimed that the “task force” now kidnap all classes of people daily within Okporo, Umuna, Amaifeke, Owerrebeiri, Umutanze and Akata in the Orlu Local Government Area of Imo State, while continuing in their “dangerous rape against our females and mothers in the Orlu zone of Imo State”. It said, “We wish to state clearly to all and sundry that the Nigeria Joint Task Force comprising Ebubeagu, the Nigerian Army, Police, Civil Defence Corps and the DSS agents representing the image and interest of the evil Nigeria security outfit are evidently known as criminals and armed robbers, kidnap sponsors, arm runners and murderers of the innocent citizens in Biafraland. “The JTF kidnapping enterprise established or revamped by politicians in Imo State and their new operation spots within where they lay criminal ambush and conveniently abduct for ransom. As their name implies “Task force” they now kidnap all classes of people daily within Okporo, Umuna, Amaifeke, Owerrebeiri, Umutanze and Akata in the Orlu LGA of Imo State. They continue their dangerous rape against our females and mothers in the Orlu zone of Imo State. “It has become imperative to state that the Nigerian Government and her security operatives have turned the kidnapping and killing of the IPOB and Igbo youths as a lucrative enterprise through which they generate revenue for the Nigerian Government. They are also deeply involved in harvesting the organs of our youths in Imo State and other parts of Biafraland.” While calling on the attention of the international community to the development, the secessionist group commended the Amnesty International, Intersociety group and others for standing on the side of truth as they had previously covered and documented genocidal crimes in the zone. It said, ”We call again for you to note that the killings and abductions have increased exponentially and are being silently perpetrated by the security agencies as disappearance of young people in Igbo-land with harvest of their organs in Orlu, Imo State, and killing of Biafra youths have become the order of the day in Biafraland.” The group, therefore, asked Governor Hope Uzodimma to recall the “killing machine” he assembled to exterminate the people of Imo State. The statement read in part, “Our demand to him is to instruct the killing squad of ‘Military and Ebubeagu militia’ to immediately desist from further killing of his people and vacate Orlu and entire Imo State. “We, the IPOB, have had enough of the criminality and murder being perpetrated by these murderous combined government militia because all those politicians behind this devilish activities would soon regret being involved in such wickedness. “We demand for an immediate stop of these operations and burning down of people’s properties and houses to avoid equal consequential resistance from the IPOB, which no one should blame the IPOB when it will start because we would not continue to condone such barbarities. “We remind the international communities that their silent is not golden, rather their opinion and involvement speak volumes; therefore, the IPOB extends calls to the EU in Nigeria, US in Nigeria, UK in Nigeria, UN in Nigeria, African Union, Israeli (government) in Nigeria, Russia in Nigeria, China in Nigeria, India in Nigeria, German Delegation, Canadian government, all Diplomats, Diplomatic Missions, CHOGM, including all ambassadors and High Commissioners in Abuja and Lagos as well as Governor Hope Uzodimma and other States Governors in Biafraland occupied by Nigeria, to the current wave of violent rape of our women and young ladies, especially when they cannot afford the ransom payment to their abductors, most of whom are members of Ebubeagu and the military, as testified by defenceless survivors. “The IPOB remains resolute, disciplined and intact. Despite the provocations, we have remained focused and faithful to our fundamental objectives never allowing ourselves to be distracted or stampeded into criminal activities, which is what the Nigerian government had hoped to achieve. “We are aware that the international communities’ representatives in Nigeria are not completely ignorant of the numerous unfolding criminal activities, state-sponsored acts of terror and the Nigerian government direct/proxy involvement in almost all of these. “They are also not unaware of the Nigerian government’s mission to exterminate Biafrans whose only demand is a democratically recognised and international accepted process of referendum which is our fundamental human right and the only political solution between the Biafra-Nigeria face-off.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com