A real estate firm, The Address Homes, has emphasised the need for property firms to embrace the global shift towards the reduction of carbon emissions into the ecosystem. The firm made the call during a two-day Real Estate Summit, which was held in Lagos last week. Speaking in an interview on the sidelines of the summit, the Sales lead, Address Homes, Segun Ogunbiyi, said all hands must be on deck to ensure the preservation of the environment via sustainable practices in the real estate sector. Ogunbiyi said there had been various calls across the real estate sector and beyond for individuals and business entities to prioritise clean and renewable sources of energy. He said, “The world is trying to see how it can reduce the emission of carbon monoxide to secure nature. There’s a need for all real estate organisations to create a sustainable policy within their system that revolves round the work force, work methodology, the design and the team.” According to him, one big step towards embracing greener energy sources would be to phase out the use of fossil-based power sources, a practice embraced by the Address Homes. “When we talk about sustainability, there’s a green concept now. Projects have to be certified LEED. For instance, if you do more of generators, you reduce it in order to safeguard the atmosphere. “When you put on a log of generators, there is carbon emission. Technologically, It is being advised that we should start installation of solar systems, electric systems in order to sustain the ecosystem.” Speaking on the recently passed Money Laundering Act and how it would impact the real estate industry, Ogunbiyi advised real estate firms to adhere to stipulated guidelines regulating the practice to avoid turning the real estate sector to a veritable tool for stealing public funds.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com