The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof Mahmood Yakubu, says sensitive election materials will no longer be “routed” through the Central Bank of Nigeria. Yakubu who spoke on Saturday at an election dialogue, ‘The Electorate’, organised by Enough is Enough, stated that the electoral body never had an issue with the CBN since the partnership started, but that due to “current circumstances”, an alternative would be found. The PUNCH exclusively reported on May 9, 2022, that the Governor of the CBN, Godwin Emefiele, registered as a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress in February 2021. The chairman of the party in Ward 6 in the Ika South Local Government Area of Delta State, Mr Nduka Erikpume, told The PUNCH based on an inquiry, “Yes, he has registered since February 2021. He is our member.” Meanwhile, Sunday PUNCH had earlier reported that pressure groups and civil society organisations had called on INEC to move sensitive materials from the CBN over the involvement of the CBN governor in politics. He also approached the court to affirm his right to contest the presidential primary of the APC, before he later dropped the move. Yakubu however said the new measures as regards the election materials would be adopted starting with the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti State. He said, “I want to say that since INEC started this collaboration with the CBN, we have never experienced a single issue with the movement of materials. The agency has been such a good partner to the commission. “But we appreciate the current circumstances, and it is for that reason, pending the time we find an alternative, that the materials for the Ekiti election will not be routed through the CBN. “We will move the material to the airport in Akure and move the material to our office in Ado-Ekiti and do the distribution from there. We are not going to use the CBN. When it comes to the general election, we have to look for an alternative way of doing it.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com