The Director-General of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, Prof Mojisola Adeyeye, has urged Nigerians to always ensure that only safe foods are consumed to enhance immunity against diseases. While saying that Nigerians do not need medicine if they eat right, she stressed that eating right means making healthy food choices from safe, wholesome and nutritious food. Adeyeye made the call in Abuja on Tuesday as the agency celebrated the World Food Safety Day 2022 with the theme, ‘Safer food, better health.’ In a statement signed by the agency’s Resident Media Consultant, Sayo Akintola, Adeyeye was quoted as saying that safe food is an essential component of sustainable development and contributes to the improvement of public health, poverty reduction and increases food security. “You all know my popular saying about not requiring medicine if one eats right. Well, eating right means making healthy food choices from safe, wholesome and nutritious food,” she said. Adeyeye described the celebration as an added opportunity to create and generate awareness around food safety and situate it as a significant issue of public health concern. The NAFDAC boss disclosed that unsafe food is the cause of many diseases and contributes to other poor health conditions such as impaired growth and development. Adeyeye stated, “We know that food safety is a shared responsibility and everyone has a role to play in ensuring we have safer food for better health: from growers to processors, to transporters, sellers, buyers, and those who prepare or serve food. “Policy makers, educational institutions and workplaces, as well as consumers are not left out. Food safety is the responsibility of all. We must all work together to help achieve safer food for better health.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com