The management of Chemstar Paints Industry Nigeria Limited and manufacturer of Finecoat and Shield Paints, Lagos,  has advised its workers to take good care of their health and be safety conscious. The Group Managing Director, Mr Adedayo Paseda, who gave the advice during the flag-off of year 2022 Health and Safety Week, said the management would continue to prioritise the well-being, sound health and safety of members of its staff. He reiterated the company’s commitment to providing a working environment that would foster and ensure quality health and the safety of the workers, as well as encourage them to live a healthy lifestyle. Paseda explained that the theme of this year’s edition of the health week was ‘Good health and safety practice: Your responsibility and benefit.’ According to the GMD, the theme is apt and carefully chosen to enlighten workers on the need to pay attention to their health and safety. ‘‘The four-day programme, which would feature a health talk by Medical Director, King of Kings Scan Centre, Dr Femi Akinola. There will also be medical check-ups, safety talk, fire drills/fire safety talk, and demonstration for all categories of staff. “We all have the responsibility to educate each other about health and safety. Our attitude, knowledge and information at our disposal on what to do to live healthy should be of great concern. “Since health is wealth and peace; good health and safety is a collective responsibility. The programme will benefit everyone tremendously and challenge them to make their health a priority.’’ On his part, the General Manager of Operation and chairman of the HSE Committee, Mr Cyprian Ukpai, said only a healthy workforce would enhance productivity in the chain of production. He said, ‘‘The company takes it as a priority that our workers are healthy.’’  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com