The Igbo Youths for Positive Change has described the Anambra State revised 2022 budget by Governor Chukwuma Soludo as a people-oriented budget that will go a long way in transforming the state. The National President of the association, Chinedu Obigwe, while addressing journalists in Awka on Friday, said Soludo had continued to justify the confidence reposed in him by refusing to be distracted by the insecurity challenge facing the state. Obigwe said the revised budget showed that the governor was tackling the insecurity problem and doing his best to deliver dividends of good governance to ndi Anambra. He said, “So far so good, all the steps taken by Soludo towards the actualisation of his transformation agenda in Anambra are commendable. His presentation of a revised budget estimate to Anambra State House of Assembly is a good step in the right direction. “A careful perusal of the budget content showed that the only thing on Soludo’s mind is how to transform Anambra State and also touch the lives of ndi Anambra positively. “In the revised budget, Soludo increased the money budgeted for roads from N12bn to N50bn and he did this because of the emergency he declared on Anambra road sector. “The governor also increased the budget for youth empowerment from N500m to N2.5bn.” He stated that the actions of the governor have only shown that he has the welfare of the youths in mind and that he is ready to do anything humanly possible to empower them. Obigwe said the plan to empower the youths will also go a long way in curbing crime in the state because most of the perpetrators of crime in the state are youths. “Another commendable thing the governor wants to do that was reflected in the budget is the payment of pension and gratuity to retirees. “He first of all pledged that those that will retire from civil service under his watch will not be owed their pension and gratuity. “The only budget that was not tampered with in the 2022 revised budget is the budget for security and that is one main area the governor does not want to joke with because of his determination to curb insecurity in the state. “The reason is because he knows very well that he needs security to enable him actualise his dream of turning Anambra to a liveable and prosperous homeland,” Obigwe added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com