Nigerian-based Congolese, Kadi Kandigu, and a Nigerian, Anthony Makowulu, have been arrested by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos, for allegedly attempting to export illicit drugs to the United States of America and Dubai, United Arab Emirate. A statement by the Director, Media and Advocacy, NDLEA, Femi Babafemi, on Sunday, said Kandigu was arrested on May 31, 2022, at the NAHCO export shed for attempting to export 2.100 kilograms of pentazocine injection, while Makowulu was nabbed on June 3, 2022, in connection with attempts to export parcels of cannabis sativa concealed in cereal packs to Dubai through the SAHCO cargo shed. “Investigations reveal that the pentazocine consignment was being sent to Kinshasa, Congo, while a similar package containing 200 bottles of pentazocine injection intercepted a week earlier at the airport was heading for the US. “In his case, Makowulu was caught with eight parcels of cannabis weighing 2.90kg concealed in Nutribom Cereal cartons, among other natural packs of the cereal, as part of a consolidated cargo meant for different people in Dubai,” the statement added. Meanwhile, anti-narcotic officers in Edo State reportedly intercepted 10,280 tablets of tramadol, 2,000 tablets of diazepam, 300 tablets of swinol, 5,000 tablets of axol and 10 bottles of codeine-based syrup in the Irrua area of the state, while they also destroyed 5.301713 hectares of cannabis farm in Oke forest, in the Ovia North-East LGA, as part of efforts to disrupt all cannabis planting activities for the season in the state. In the past week, the agency said no fewer than 39 suspects were arrested across drug joints raided in parts of the Federal Capital Territory and different quantities of assorted illicit drugs recovered from them. The Chairman of the NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Marwa (retd) charged the officers and all other commands to remain vigilant and committed to the goal of saving Nigeria from the drug scourge.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com