The Synagogue Church of All Nations on Sunday celebrated the first remembrance of its late founder, Prophet Temitope Joshua, at the church’s auditorium in Ikotun, Lagos State. Joshua died on June 5, 2021. Several personalities, including religious leaders from Paraguay, Columbia, Pakistan, and several African countries, attended the event in honour of the life and legacy of the prophet. The wife of the prophet and now the head of the church, Pastor Evelyn Joshua, said the church had made progress since the demise of her husband. She said, “We are all witnesses to what has been happening since the church reopened six months after Prophet TB Joshua passed on to glory. “The vision has been carried on. Despite what the ministry has been through, we are inspired by the strong arms of God. “Our services have kept growing in spiritual depth and divine impartation. We are determined to broaden the scope and relevance of Prophet TB Joshua’s legacy.” Among those who gave goodwill messages at the event included the Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu; the Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu SAN; the Deputy Speaker of the Cross Rivers State, Joseph Bassey; Bishop Asil Jamali from Pakistan, and Pastor Carlos Alvaro from Paraguay. Akeredolu, who was represented by his Deputy, Mr Lucky Aiyedatiwa, said, “We celebrate the life and legacy of a great man that passed through this place. Prophet TB Joshua lived and died, but he lives on.” During his exhortation, Pastor Bernard Mulder from South Africa urged Christians to look beyond the tragedies of life and focus on what God called them to do. “We have a race to run. We have to finish strong. Sometimes in this journey, you have to look beyond the cross to the joy. Focus on what Jesus has planned for you. What does it mean to finish strong? The day you cross over, and your heart is offence-free,” he said. The event concluded with the unveiling of the TB Joshua Foundation. The foundation includes the TB Joshua Museum, TB Joshua Scholarship Scheme, and TB Joshua Holy Land. The museum documents the life and activities of the cleric, while the Holy Land is a mountain expected to have residential areas to boost mobility and economy. According to the church, the scholarship scheme will help students in their academic pursuits. “The foundation will sustain and propagate the life and legacy of the late cleric,” the church added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com