The World Bank has disclosed that at least 30,000 people die every year from pollution in Lagos. The Washington-based bank disclosed this in a feature story on its blog, which is titled ‘Making Lagos a Pollution Free City: Solving the threat one solution at a time’. According to the bank, pollution is a huge problem in many cities globally, including Lagos, which is notorious for its large population, high concentration of motor vehicles and industrial pollution. The bank further said that an estimated 20 million people live on an area of less than 100 square kilometres in Lagos, which leads to a suffocating mix of air pollution, single-use plastic pollution and solid waste in the city’s streets causing respiratory problems, floodings and other illnesses among the locals. On the effect of pollution in Lagos, the lending bank said, “The causes of the pollution are many, and the pollution has many effects on the environment. It is estimated that at least 30,000 people die every year in Lagos due to pollution.” It added, “Air pollution in 2020 in Lagos was responsible for over 30,000 premature deaths and more than half were infants of less than one year old.” The bank further warned about the economic costs of exposure to lead aerosol in Ikorodu, which are estimated at an additional $300–$600m or $400–$600 for every resident of that LGA. The Environmental Officer of the General Hospital, Ijede, Mrs Rita Ehinmetan, urged members of the public not to relent in cultivating the habit of cleaning the environment to make it habitable for everyone and future generations. She emphasised the need to guard and protect the environment jealously for the health and wellbeing of all human beings, plants, and animals. In May this year, the Lagos State Government in partnership with the United States Consulate General Lagos stressed the need for residents to adopt environmentally friendly practices in order to tackle air pollution in the state. The acting Consular of the United States Consulate-General, Lagos, Mr Bradon Hudspeth, noted that the state would be supported with technical expertise in order to ensure clean and better air quality.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com