The Lagos State Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences (Enforcement) on Friday crushed another set of 2, 228 motorcycles impounded from errant motorcyclists plying restricted routes in the state. The state governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, last month banned operations of commercial motorcycles popularly called Okada in six Local Government Areas and nine Local Council Development Areas of the state.  The six council areas included Ikeja, Surulere, Eti-Osa, Lagos Mainland, Lagos Island, and Apapa. The exercise took place on the premises of the Task Force, Ikeja. Speaking during the exercise, the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, said the reason for the exercise was to clear doubtful minds and send a warning signal to offenders. Omotoso said, “Many individuals have been doubtful and wondering what we have been doing with the seized motorcycles. We have been crushing them. No one should think the seized bikes are taken back to town. They are being crushed. “This is also to send a signal to anyone who feels that the enforcement of the ban is not serious. Any motorbike seized will surely be crushed.’’ The Chairman of the Taskforce, CSP Shola Jejeloye, said the ban had been in enforcement since February 2020, adding that since June 1, 2022, there was over 85 per cent compliance. He said, “This enforcement is not something that came to place on June 1, 2022. It came into place on February 1, 2020, and since then we’ve been on it. The problem is that some individuals are used to violating the law but since the June 1 enforcement, there has been more than 85 per cent compliance. We don’t see Okadas on the road and the expressways. The numbers have drastically reduced.” Jejeloye stated that all efforts for the enforcement would be intensified, noting that another phase of the enforcement would commence on Monday. He said, “I know that some of them (Okada operators) have the belief that it is just the first one week of the enforcement that would be thorough and after that week, there would be laxity. This is not true, as we will intensify efforts by next week even to areas that we couldn’t get to this week. “Another phase would start on Monday. This first three days of enforcement is a test run to see the level of compliance. The sustainability plan is the next stage for us to carry out. Everyone knows there’s no going back and the government does not make mockery of its policies.” After the seizure of motorcycles during enforcement of the ban, Jejeloye noted that the agency would be crushing no fewer than 2,228 impounded motorcycles to make the enforcement effective.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com