JANET OGUNDEPO examines the age-old lure for aso ebi (ceremonial attire) and partygoers’ scrutiny of the costly value hosts attach to the fabric to seemingly raise funds One wouldn’t miss the iridescent blue laces glinting in the sunlight on the attire of some female guests of a chief nurse at a government hospital, Mrs Rebecca Olaniyi, as they moseyed elegantly into the reception hall. The bodice of the younger women among them, exposing the fullness of youth, was laced in white as they gingerly followed in. As they took their seats in the tastefully decorated hall, the array of various sizes and styles of golden Damask headgear compete for attention. The colours made them similar; the fabrics wove them together as a family despite being unrelated by blood. The men were not left behind. The young men swaggered in to the beat of the music pulsating from the speakers. The date was January 14, 2021, and Olaniyi was giving out the hand of her first daughter in marriage. They radiated beauty and oneness in their aso ebi; a ceremonial dress mostly worn by Yoruba from the South-West and a few other tribes in Africa during celebrations to indicate harmony and solidarity. The aso ebi emergence In a peer-reviewed, international and interdisciplinary research journal, Journal of Culture, Society and Development in its 2015 article, “The Ethics of Aso Ebi Culture in Nigeria,” indicated that aso ebi originated from the Yoruba. It defined the aso ebi as a unique fabric worn at special ceremonies, weddings, birthdays, and burials, among others, by family members and friends to symbolise unity, support and easy identification. The journal stated, “The culture of adoring aso ebi has now been extended to include friends, acquaintances, and work colleagues. It has also been adopted by people from other parts of Nigeria. In most ceremonies in recent times, the majority of attendees dress in aso ebi, which has become a status symbol in celebrations. The culture of aso ebi has also spread across the Igbo, Hausa and other ethnic groups in Nigeria. It has also gained wider acceptance in other parts of West Africa countries such as Ghana, Gambia and Liberia.” It noted that despite the growing acceptance of aso ebi and its associated cultural practices, there were some practices that had ravaged it recently, thereby questioning its relevance. It added, “For example, aso ebi is now seen as a means of raising funds, as attendees are expected to purchase the materials at a price higher than the cost price of the material. Celebrants source for aso ebi material of their taste, add a margin of 20-50 per cent and distribute them among families and friends to buy. Families and friends of celebrants buy these materials to show their support even though they did not plan to attend. Most people buy the materials in order not to offend their friends while some buy to escape victimisation, especially if the celebration was one’s superior in office. Some people also buy the aso ebi materials in order not to be left out or suffer any form of discrimination at the event. The reason is that attendees, who are not wearing aso ebi, are often treated differently.’’ The journal  stated  that  people  were  known  to  have  borrowed money to pay for aso ebi; others had used money meant for their families’ upkeep while others compelled their spouses to buy them with frictions in some families as a result of the financial pressure of buying aso ebi. Findings by the journal also showed that culture of solidarity, akin to aso ebi had metamorphosed to an avenue of social strive, display of affluence, and discrimination against people, either unwilling or unable to buy aso ebi. Birthday parties, naming ceremonies, baby showers, political rallies, and religious programmes are now incomplete without aso ebi notwithstanding the terrific ambience. Throbbing aso ebi tales In recent times, aso ebi has become a means of generating funds by hosts with partygoers feeling the yoke of the pricey worth often fixed for the fabric regardless whether the fabric is of low or high quality. With a deep sigh and a delightful whoop, a social media user, Maria Effiong (not real name), was glad when she stumbled on a post supporting her views on the imposed purchase of aso ebi. She responded, “I’m so relieved that this topic has come up because I thought I was the only one who declined to wear some folks’ aso ebi because of the cost and then be accused of not wanting to support the bride and groom. We as Nigerians need to stop trying to outdo each other and try to uplift. It is so ridiculous to see how much people pay for their weddings. How then do you base a marriage on that?” “All you people that you use your aso ebi to make money off your friends and family members, continue, there is God” said a Vlogger, Berry Dakara, in a viral video. She decried the compulsion placed on friends of the hosts to buy the ceremonial attire despite its high-priced rate.  This cross is what those with heavy social calendar carry year in, year out. Narrating her experience, Dakara said “My mom has a trunk box of materials that she has bought over the years because of aso ebi that have not been sewn. I love aso ebi but just be considerate of your friends and family that would buy the aso ebi and I don’t think it is by force. If your family or friend chooses not to buy, don’t see it as a slight (sic), you may not know what they are going through plus they have the right to choose.” Another disturbing tale regarding aso ebi tale is that of a lady, with the moniker Chokolo Chokolate, who, according to her, was denied a wedding invitation by her friend because she couldn’t afford the money and refused to take it on credit. Baby shower, an event where friends and families of a pregnant woman celebrate the conception of her baby and at times, reveal the gender of the baby, is now gradually requiring guests buy and appear in aso ebi. A media personality, Kaylah Oniwo, tweeted, on her verified twitter handle, that “A friends baby shower, 25 of us were asked to pay 10k each, before I could say… about four people had paid, someone still had the nerve to say we should still come with gifts. What happens when she delivers…’’ The yoke of aso ebi is also affecting those on bridal train. Sometime in 2017, a lady, Omotola Afolabi, stated on Twitter that she had to pay N80,000 for a bridal train dress. Faced with the fear of losing friends who would buy her ceremonial attire during her own wedding, she had to pay the fee. Afolabi stated, “Paying 80k for this bridal train dress is affecting my lungs, heart and kidney. Talambout if you don’t buy during your friend’s wedding, no one will for your wedding.” There was a report that a group of men in Abuja lamented over the financial toll aso ebi was having on their finances to fund their wives’ quest and desire to acquire ceremonial attire for almost every occasion. Supporting hosts’ with aso ebi Despite some distressing and unpleasant experiences about aso ebi, some relish enjoyable experiences. For an interior designer, Christiana Dosunmu, being able to render her expertise in the choice of colours and clothes for an upcoming event were both exciting and confusing moments. She noted that the excitement emanated from her tour of the market interacting with various quality, textures and colours of fabrics and choosing a particular textile out of the several. Speaking with our correspondent, Dosunmu said that in a year, she could attend between four and five parties dressed in aso ebi, adding but “I have never had cause to break the bank.’’ She added that aso ebi brought its beauty and colour to the parties but was not a compulsion to party guests. The content writer added, “I think aso ebi is great. I think it’s really beautiful a culture and tradition. It gives this uniformity and beauty to the party. I mean, I saw a wedding online where everyone wore different colours and clothes….nah, it was like everyone was saying different things at a time. It was quite confusing. There was no beauty in that for me. “All the aso ebi I have ever bought were because I wanted to contribute to and support the party and because the people were my pals. I was never mandated to buy to enter the event centres. I thought it was obligatory because of the relationship that existed between me and the owners of the parties.’’ On the costly worth of ceremonial attire, Dosumu, who said she had been directly involved in the purchase and sale of aso ebi, added “the exact amount of the cloth and the money for souvenirs was the amount the guests were charged. Well I do think some people make financial gain from aso-ebi which I stand against. All the aso-ebi I have been directly involved in their purch, I never added an extra amount and I think that’s how it should be.” A realtor and indigene of Edo State identified only as Edison said that the highest amount he had spent on buying aso ebi was N35,000. He, however, said that the souvenir he got from the ceremony was not proportionate with the amount for the attire. Edison added that though he had never borrowed or incurred debt to buy any ceremonial garment, he had made sacrifices to buy the attire because his friends would doubt his claim of having no money. The realtor further stated that he had no issues attending ceremonies when he was unable to buy the chosen attire. Edison said, “I don’t feel unwelcome for not wearing aso ebi at a wedding. As a matter of fact, I feel relieved and happy if I go to a wedding like an ordinary attendee. Normally, I spend roughly between N40, 000 and N50,000 to buy and sew an aso ebi, so why will I feel unwelcome if I attend a wedding without wearing aso ebi? It would be a relief. I would channel that money into something else or save it. Some people add as much as N15, 000 and N20,000 to fabric to be sold to their friends to raise funds for their events.’’ “We buy aso ebi to support hosts’’ A theatre producer and creative director, Emmanuel Orisunmibare, noted that buying aso ebi was his way of expressing support for the hosts’ events. Stating that N25,000 was the highest amount he had spent on aso ebi, Orisunmibare added that since he bought them at his convenience he never incurred debt. He said, “Many times I buy aso ebi as a means of supporting the host not necessarily as a means to please them or feel among. When I don’t buy aso ebi I wore what I have and feel great about it cause I understand that my presence and gifts mean more kind gesture, than the aso ebi.’’ He further said that aso ebi was a means of identifying those who attended an event as there would be many guests for several people linked to an event. Similarly, a community manager for creative entrepreneurs, Toluwalope Okerinde, said she had never been compelled to buy aso ebi, rather she bought them to show support and celebrate the host during their event. She added that instead of incurring debt to buy the attire, she remained committed not to buy the ceremonial garment. Okerinde said, “The use of aso ebi has deviated from what it used to be back in the day. Now, it comes with a lot of societal pressure, the need to show class and wanting to reap people of their hard-earned money. Before, it was just about the desire to have a communal life and celebrate family and friends to create oneness, bonding and unity and togetherness. It is no longer what it is today, because in families nowadays, we have people who are not on good terms, but have to put up a front by wearing the same attire. People do it for fanfare and social media. “I have never been compelled or pressurised to buy aso ebi. I bought them because I wanted to celebrate with the person involved and as a way of supporting in my own way. If I do not have the money at the time, I wouldn’t worry and it will not affect me in any way. But on a few occasions, I have had to go out of my way to show support to a family or friend and I am happy doing it.” Disclosing that N30,000 was the highest amount she had spent on aso ebi, Okerinde added that she got souvenirs during the event, recalling an event where she paid N12,000 for attire and never got a souvenir. He stated, “There are some people who try to get the money to fund their events at the expense of potential buyers of aso ebi. I have seen a case where wearing the aso ebi is the ticket to the event venue. People should be considerate to others and not put those who are coming to celebrate with them under pressure.” On his part, a postdoctoral student and content writer, identified only as Ade said aso ebi held a significant memory for the hosts and party attendees, adding that the attire was a form of cultural identity, solidarity and support with the host. Ade said, “The highest amount I had bought an aso ebi was N40,000. Aso ebi comes in grades. I have been to a party where I was not served food or given souvenirs because I didn’t wear the chosen attire. I bought and sew it but I couldn’t pick it from the tailor before the day of the event.’’ Fabric dealers’ economic gain Amid the tough financial deal for partygoers, fabric dealers selling preferred aso ebi laugh all the way to the bank. “Selling of fabric for events is lucrative. The more demand, the merrier,” the manager of an online fabric store, Ahmed Bioyo, said when our correspondent spoke with him. Bioyo stated that he had supplied aso ebi to clients for much as N450,000, stating that fortunately his customers paid completely after the initial deposit was made and attire delivered. The fabric seller based in Surulere, Lagos, added, “I can tell you that aso ebi makes occasions colourful, be it for a wedding or birthday or burial. Clients buy the fabrics most time because of the quality of the material which comes in grades. For me, whenever a client wants an aso ebi package, I try to explain to them the kind of fabrics we have and their prices to make it easy for them when making choices.” Also, the director, Elite Party Managers, Mr Bayo Thomas-Ojo, said that though the initial scope and purpose of aso ebi had been broadened, when worn during events they reflected a sense of identity and solidarity between the guests and the hosts. He added that colour codes for the event in sync with the aso ebi determined the colours and decorative style of the event venue to create a beautiful ambience. Thomas-Ojo said, “Aso ebi is meant for immediate family members. But today, many hosts have seen it as a way of recouping some money from those that would attend the event. Some celebrants would go as far as buying materials for N1,800 and selling at N2,500. However, many people see it (buying aso ebi) as an escape route from attending the event since the purchase of the attire signifies their presence. “The trend now is that colleagues, friends, neighbours, business associates are included in the aso ebi and for some, once you buy the cloth, they have already ‘fulfilled all righteousness. Donning colour codes and aso ebi at events helps for identification. It creates a sense of uniformity and support. It should be encouraged and embraced by many people.’’ Aso ebi concept has lost its original value, say historians A professor of History in the College of Humanities, Tai Solarin University of Education, Ijagun, Ijebu Ode, Ogun State, Rasheed Ajetunmobi, stated that the need for clothing, which started first as the need for covering, after the fall of man in the Garden of Eden, evolved to the need for identity, class and social strata. He added that the identity brought by clothing took away the burden of verbal explanations and introduction of who a person was, and what tribe, or religion they belonged to. Ajetunmobi said, “The Ebiship institution is more pronounced among the Yoruba than in any other group. The Yoruba will say, 200 people would train a child born by one woman, and such 200 persons that would train the child belong to the community and see themselves as an extended family. Their role is to protect one another, for continuity of Ebi culture, heritage and the rest. It has been there that way.” On the significance of aso ebi in society, the researcher of traditional political institutions in Yorubaland, said that the ceremonial attire was a means of socialisation and identity among family members, stating that non-family members wearing the same attire were a reflection of the monetisation and changes in family values. He said, “During a family event, the immediate family choose their attire while the extended family does same for socialisation, recognition and identity. The generality of the people who give out the aso ebi to non-members of the family, who are their friends, bring non-ebi (non-family members), either by nuclear or extended, into the fold because they want to make money. You will realise that the amount of money immediate members of the family pay for the attire will be different from the amount others outside the family pay. “The truth about it is that we are in a global world. Things are changing, and the values of yesterday are equally changing. In the past, a slave within the family remains a slave. But today, that has changed. A non-member of a family can be adopted into the family and treated as such. The concept of ebiship is no longer the way it was originally. Then, your family is your family, blood is thicker than water but today, we say my family is whosoever I see and that is close to me. It has brought about the concept of wherever you are is home. “The scope of ebi is now redefining itself based on socialisation, contingencies, location and need. So anybody who can and is ready to assist becomes one’s family and those one would want to see and have around.” On those fleecing their guests through the sale of costly ceremonial attire, the professor noted, “Some take the aso ebi for economic gain but that is not only it. It is part of socialisation, group solidarity and aesthetic appeal. As such, one will want to choose enticing, stylish and colourful attire. The motive of some of them is not just to have a uniform dress but at least, it would give them an economic basis to recover some of the money expended on the ceremony and there is nothing one can do about it. That is why the issue of aso ebi is gradually dying but it has not faded out. People are now realising that some people are now commercialising it. You would see some who would say they don’t wear aso ebi. Some will just buy it for solidarity and not sew it much less, wear it so that they will not be accused of not buying the material.” In his contribution to the issue, an associate professor of History and International Studies at the Lagos State University, Ojo,  Lagos, Olawale Lawal, stated that the historical significance of aso ebi was linked to the identification of a particular family, group, lineage, profession and setting. He noted that the ceremonial attire dated back to the pre-colonial times was re-modified during the colonial era and became widely known and used copiously after independence and the civil war. Lawal said, “Aso ebi is exactly what it is, it is in recent times that it is associated with parties and ceremonies. Historically, aso ebi is associated with traditional festivals. In fact, the aso ebiis peculiar to the Ijebu people. During their ceremonies and festivals, some groups, what they wear would signify a particular lineage, family setting or group of people. The aso ebi has to do with, one, a group of people from a particular family. It has a part of it that has to do with age-grade where people of a certain age would dress in a particular manner including those in a certain profession. These trajectories are peculiar to traditional outings. The historical significance of this has to do with the identification of people so that they wouldn’t need to say this is who I am and this is what I do. In every traditional setting in the olden days, whatever clothing the people wore would be seen as a basis of identity during some of the occasions. “During the colonial time, aso ebi took another dimension. The Europeans had their contribution to it. For instance, during European parties, though they were not using aso ebi, people noticed that Europeans called out colours for their events. So, rather than calling colours, people started to say, use Damask and so on. I am not saying that the Europeans introduced aso ebi to us. But the fact that since they came with the idea of calling colours for their parties, Africans bought into that too which created the ceremonial bliss associated with aso ebi in Africa, especially in Yorubaland.” He added that the present usage of aso ebi was for social stratification and as individuals’ quiet support and contribution to the success of events. Lawal said, “After independence and the civil war, it became something people bought into in terms of identification with the celebrants during special occasions. In our present time, you would see that the aso ebi thing has taken economic dimension in the sense that most hosts would want many people at their events and would want to source money from the chosen aso ebi. So, you would see people buying something that the actual value is about N2,000 for almost as high as N5,000 or N10,000. From the African perspective, people want to support and see that whatever the hosts are doing is successful but people are complaining, maybe because of the harsh economy.’’ The don linked the donning of aso ebi by non-family members during family events, to the evolution and changing phases of the ceremonial attire from specific functionality by family members and a traditional corporate affair to cross-cultural and community functions.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com