Family, friends and colleagues of David Imoh, the sound engineer killed and burnt in an attack in Lekki area of Lagos May 12, 2022 gathered on Thursday to pay their last respects to him. Imoh who was lynched and burnt to death after a misunderstanding ensued over the N100 balance with one of the commercial motorcyclists. During the service, the deceased was described as a diligent and committed person. The song of service, which was organised by the church for the deceased, is part of the two-day funeral ceremony .The program was held at the Church of God Mission International in Victoria Island, Lagos. The deceased is survived by his wife, two children, mother and relatives. According to his biography which was read by his church member named Pamela Steven , Mr Imoh was born in 1984, and the last born of 9 siblings. He studied sound production. He also functioned as an event manager, He had worked with Real-time festival, the Experience, Legacy 360 band and many others. The choir honoured the deceased with a special rendition. Tributes to the deceased The wife of the deceased, Bolu Imoh, said he lived a short but impactful life attributing his life to that of Jesus and also urged the church to give their life to Christ , she also said she is sure that if he wasn’t done with his assignment on earth he wouldn’t have left. Akinwale, the deceased brother- in- law also described him as a blessed man and a man of integrity, He also urged the church to cheer up and not lose their faith His boss, Stanley Ohikhuare, said Mr Imoh strived toward perfection and was selfless. “He never said no to me. What pains me the most about David’s death is that he was like 50 people in one. He was an asset,” he said. Pastor Uhunnwangho , also said in his farewell speech said the deceased “will cancel his daily schedule to take me to the airport at no cost.” He added, “David travelled at his own cost to Benin to fix the sound for my wedding 11 years ago. “He spent a week there for a one-day event. Whenever David was around, your problems were solved but we underestimated him.” However, the pastor said he never envisaged that he would officiate the deceased service of the song. “He died due to the failure of the system. It calls to question how safe we really are here,” he said. “Do we have hope that the system will change?” He further explained that they wrote several letters to invite the government but unfortunately they are not here Ken, a church member, said the deceased was a thoughtful and friendly person. “There is this smile on his face whenever he gives the chorister mic. Sadly, he died in a gruesome murder,” he said. The service ended with a prayer for the family and special offering for the family. At the end of the service, friends and colleagues gathered outside the church to observe a candlelight service for him before they all dispersed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com