A Consultant Gynaecologist and Obstetrician at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, Dr. Modupe Adedeji, has cautioned women experiencing vaginal dryness against using moisturisers and olive oil to treat the condition. The maternal health expert noted that using olive oil and moisturisers could introduce infections to the vaginal environment and cause more serious health problems. According to her, menopausal women and breastfeeding mothers experiencing vaginal dryness should seek help from experts and not resort to self-treatment. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise in an interview, Dr. Adedeji stressed that any prescription that would help to lubricate the vagina should come from experts. He explained, “It is because the persons that experience vaginal dryness are mostly menopausal women. “Those are the set of women that we may want to show concern to. “So, they will not only present with vaginal dryness, but they may also present with other menopausal problems that they cannot cope with. “As a result of that, we may now have to introduce estrogen in that place. “So, there is estrogen cream or we may even start giving them estrogen drugs or injection. That could help them to have a moist vagina. “For the group of reproductive women that are not enjoying sex, those women can use lubricants but the lubricants must be recommended by an expert.” The maternal health expert noted that perimenopausal and menopausal women complain more of vaginal dryness, adding that the dryness of the vagina increases the risk for vulvovaginitis – vaginal infections. Dr. Adedeji advised women not to use anything that will tamper with the normal vaginal environment. “But some people will go and be using olive oil. Olive oil is not okay for the vagina. “Some people will go and pick something from the shelf without reading the content and it will start destroying the normal vaginal environment. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com