One person was killed on Friday night while three others were injured when gunmen suspected to be terrorists opened fire in Kuru community, Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State. It was gathered that all the victims were students of a boarding school within the locality. The affected students were said to have gone to charge their phones at a filling station close to the school when the gunmen opened fire on them, killing one on the spot, while two others sustained injuries. A community leader in the area, Sunday Gyang, who confirmed the attack to Sunday PUNCH in Jos on Saturday, said the incident occurred at about 7:30 pm on Friday Gyang said, “What happened was that yesterday afternoon (Friday), some Fulani herdsmen, who were staying at a location in the community with their cows and using them to destroy farmlands of the natives were driven away. So, last night (Friday), they sent terrorists to attack the community. “Unfortunately, around Science School, Kuru, by Emmy fuelling station, opposite Assemblies of God’s Church, close to the school, the bandits who came in J5 vehicle opened fire on people. “A few of the students of Science School, Kuru, who went there to charge their phones, were affected. One of them who was shot in the neck by the gunmen, died immediately while two others who also sustained injuries were rushed to the hospital.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Alabo Alfred, also confirmed the attack in a statement on Saturday. Part of the statement read, “The attention of the Plateau State Police Command has been drawn to news making the rounds in some sections of the media space, alleging erroneously that Science School Kuru, Jos is under attack by some groups believed to be terrorists. “The Command wishes to set the records straight that on 10/06/2022 at about 2000hrs, information was received at our end that some hoodlums were firing along Mararaban Jama’a, Riyom road not Science School Kuru Jos as it is reported by a cross-section of the media. “Upon receipt of the report, a high-powered team of policemen and other security agencies responded swiftly mobilised to the scene of the incident but on reaching the scene, the gunmen had fled, leaving one person dead and three others injured.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com