The Lagos State Government has assured citizens that it would continue to ensure food safety and reduce the incidences of food contamination in the state. The Director-General, Lagos State Safety Commission, Mr Lanre Mojola, gave this assurance on Tuesday during an event to commemorate the 2022 World Food Safety Day in Ikeja. Mojola stated that the international day is an opportunity to strengthen efforts to mainstream food safety in the public agenda and reduce the burden of food borne diseases globally. He said, “With an estimated 600 million cases of food borne illness annually, unsafe food is a threat to human health and economics affecting vulnerable and marginalised people, especially women and children. “The LSC, in collaboration with other agencies of government, is committed to consistently working to support safe food production and consumption through regular sensitisation, advocacy and engagement with critical stakeholders to limit food borne diseases and food poisoning across the state.” The state Commissioner for Agriculture, Abisola Olusanya, who was represented by the ministry’s Director of Agricultural Services, Mrs Abiola Ayoade, noted that good farming practices will reduce food hazards. “The Ministry of Agriculture places special focus on areas that promote the safety of food for consumption and eligibility for trade through the promotion of good agricultural practices among farmers to ensure that exposure of foods to biological and chemical hazards is reduced,” she said. The General Manager of the Lagos State Consumer Protection Agency, Mr Afolabi Solebo, who was represented by the Head of Scientific Investigation in the agency, Mr Lucas Raheem, urged residents to work with the government to tackle food poisoning in the state.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com