Manchester United have been urged to make a move for Leicester City midfielder Wilfred Ndidi as Erik ten Hag looks to make a mark on his squad. The Red Devils have made midfield their number one priority this summer and have been linked with a move for Barcelona midfielder Frenkie De Jong, a deal that would see the Dutch ace link up with ten Hag after their Ajax days. Ten Hag is said to be keen on improving the midfield ahead of the 2022/23 season, with Paul Pogba, Jesse Lingard, Nemanja Matic and Juan Mata all leaving this summer. De Jong has only been at his “dream club” for three years ago, but hasn’t hit the heights expected and the Spanish giants’ financial problems could see a sale take place if the right offer is made. However, the midfielder has recently spoke about his desire to succeed at Barcelona. Since joining the Foxes from KRC Genk in 2017, Ndidi has been a constant presence in the transfer rumour mill with links to teams like United and Real Madrid prominent. However, injuries throughout the past couple of season have meant no move has ever materialised. With De Jong’s stance made clear, former United midfielder Paul Scholes has urged United to make a move for City’s defensive midfielder Ndidi. The Nigerian has been out with a knee injury since March, missing the Foxes Europa Conference League run to the semi-final. Speaking to the Football Daily YouTube channel, Scholes said, “Leicester’s Wilfred Ndidi still very much fits the bill of what Manchester United are looking for, and with just two years remaining on his contract at Leicester, it’s likely to cost significantly less than the eye-watering sums associated with him in summer past. “And while he missed the last two months of the season with a knee injury, he remains one of the best defensive midfielders in the game when fit, averaging an astounding 6.5 tackles and interceptions each match and ranking in the top seven per cent of midfielders for aerial duels, too.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com