A former chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, who abandoned the party over the cost of its Expression of Interest and Nomination forms, Adamu Garba, has suspended his presidential aspiration in the 2023 general election. Adamu after leaving the APC joined the Young Progressives Party where he picked the presidential Expression of Interest form. He, however, announced the suspension of his presidential aspiration on Tuesday. Adamu said, “Fellow Nigerians, in line with my aspiration for the Presidency of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the coming 2023 general election, we have identified some critical factors which are currently at odds with our aspirations and desire to bring about positive change to the Nigerian political space. Below are the most critical among the identified factors; “There is a need for widespread consultation and rally of the interest of the country’s stakeholders, nationwide. This we did not achieve to some satisfaction. “Nigerian Youth, whose agenda is what I am projecting is mostly disconnected and in silos, there is a need for proper networking among us, to build a network of like-minds, that genuinely care for Nigeria within the Youth constituency. This will require a longer time and nationwide consultation, and interest. building/alignment with stronger bonding among all classes of the Youth. “There is a need for developing a structure that will ensure a pool of resources across board for us to succeed in our journey to the office of the President. “In view of the above, we have decided to suspend our aspiration for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the coming 2023 general elections. “I have made this decision after consulting with my closest associates, friends, family and other high-level stakeholders and elder statesmen within and outside the country. “These three constraints, which are evidently clear for all to see, are deep-rooted issues that require our collective action to address over a longer period of time. It could not have been done within the eight months on the campaign trail. It is with this in mind, based on facts, that I must drop my intention to aspire for the office of the President in the coming 2023 election while opening a new chapter of working hard with critical stakeholders, the network of like-minds, with mutual trust and understanding among the youth across the country while building a resource domain. “It may be comatose for me to take on the aspirations after identifying genuine gaps that are caused by the circumstances within our limitations. It may not be good to raise the hope and interest of the young people high, while in fact, there are instrumentations that needs to be put in place before we proceed. “I have made it categorically clear that my only interest in Nigerian Politics is in the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I am therefore not going to change my stance on this, however, the factors highlighted above tell me it will be the election cycle, but not the coming 2023 general elections. “I promise you that I will carry you along on all issues related to my desire for the greatness of this country. I must also have the courage to face the facts on the ground which might affect the campaign and accept it even if it goes contrary to my personal interest.” The former presidential aspirant added that he would prioritise the interest of the youths. He said, “To all Nigerian Youth; male or female; I am coming for you. I will reach out to you. We will all have to work together to deliver a greater Nigeria. “We must not relent, we must not demur, we must not give up. We will all have the country of our dream in Nigeria. “The Nigerian Project is the Project that everyone is required to put his/her hands on the desk to ensure we deliver for the future generations of Nigerians. We are just starting. Let’s continue with the movement to make Nigeria great.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com