The Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, on Monday, said his administration has achieved over 90 percent of his electoral promises to the people of the state. Yahaya made this disclosure on Monday at the commissioning of Alabura Model Primary & Junior Secondary School, Kumbiya Kumbiya, before proceeding to the College of Nursing and Midwifery, Gombe. The school, which has two blocks of 18 classrooms each, totalling 36 classrooms, two offices, two staff rooms, and two computer rooms (e-library), is furnished with modern facilities. The school also has sporting facilities. He revealed that within inadequate resources, his administration had managed to provide the needed infrastructural development promised upon assumption of office in line with democratic dividends. Yahaya said, “For us in Gombe State, there is no denying the fact that democracy has ushered in a period of sustainable development to our dear state. So far, three successive civilian administrations have come and gone, paving the way for our administration which is three years old now. “Over this period, we worked hard to consolidate on the achievements of previous administrations and correct the lapses we found. We introduced innovative ideas, policies, and programmes aimed at making lives better for our people. The past three years were indeed years of commitment to delivering on our ambitious campaign promises. “Our Third-year Scorecard and Progress Report indicates that we have recorded 90% overall achievement in fulfilling the promises we made to the good people of this state. It is indeed an uphill task to be able to fulfill the promises we made to our people in this period of global economic meltdown and uncertainty. However, given our determination, hard work, perseverance, and prudent and efficient management of scarce resources, we have been able to weather the storm and deliver on our mandate. Our achievements are glaring and self-evident that even our political opponents have acknowledged.” Yahaya also named a nine-member team as part of the school management committee to ensure the steady progress of the school “The provision of quality education is an onerous task that must not be left in the hands of government alone. I, therefore, call on us to rededicate ourselves to nation-building, remain united, and frontally confront our problems with total commitment. We must always remember that the task of nation-building is a collective responsibility. “Government is always ready to partner with organisations and individuals who are prepared to assist in providing quality education to our citizens. In this regard, prominent sons of kumbiya Kumbiya have, in consultation with the government, constituted a special committee that would collaborate with the relevant authorities in proving necessary oversight to the school,” Yahaya added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com