The lawmaker representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal Constituency in Oyo State at the House of Representatives, Shina Peller, has explained why he did not seek a second term at the House, saying it was based on his consideration of the two local government areas in his constituency. According to the businessman-turned-politician, Kajola and Iwajowa LGAs have never produced a representative in the House for almost 16 years. Peller, the Aiyedero of Yorubaland, who is aspiring to represent Oyo North Senatorial District at the Senate on the platform of the All Progressives Congress in the 2023 general election, made this known in a post on his social media platforms on Thursday, titled ‘Why I Chose Not to Contest for House of Reps for Second Term.’ The post read, “Many people wonder why I chose not to return to the House of Representatives for the second term. For the sake of integrity, my decision is based on my consideration of other local governments within my constituency – Kajola and Iwajowa – who haven’t presented a representative for almost 16 years now. Returning to the House for the second term will mean denying them the opportunity to present a representative for twenty years. “By 2023, when I will be completing my first term as a member of the House of Representatives, it will make it sixteen (16) uninterrupted years that Iseyin/Itesiwaju have been producing representatives for the constituency leaving out the people from Kajola/Iwajowa. “My people from Kajola/Iwajowa feel the people from Iseyin haven’t been fair enough to them in this regard, and I share their pain. This was why I made up my mind to throw my weight behind choosing a qualified person from Kajola/Iwajowa to represent our federal constituency in 2023, while I am yielding the call of my people from Oke-Ogun to opt for the Oyo North Senatorial District seat. And I cannot be seen leading the liberation of Oke-Ogun people and not fair to the local governments within my constituency. “So, to those that feel I should return to the House of Reps, it’s not all about me alone; it’s about putting into consideration my integrity and overall interest of all.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com