Socio-political activist and President of Women Arise, Dr Joe Okei-Odumakin, on Saturday described the late Kudirat Abiola as a beautiful, valiant and good woman, who stood firm on democratic principles and “died for human dignity.” In a statement to commemorate the murder of the wife of the winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election, Chief Moshood Abiola, the activist stated that the issues of corruption, election fraud, insecurity, and the collapse of the economy continued to linger despite the fight for democracy. Kudirat was murdered on June 4, 1996, during the struggle for the validation of her husband’s annulled mandate under the military junta of General Sanni Abacha. Okei-Odumakin lamented that Nigerians seemed to have forgotten the characters that brutalised Nigerians as the son of the military dictator might become a state governor in 2023. She described the democratic dispensation as “the road” blending with “the jungle”. “As they buy and sell delegates like rago today, Kudirat rejected election fraud. She rejected cheating and insisted on doing right by 14 million voters. She stated, “As there was Arthur Nzeribe that time (God rest his soul) and one Kanu, there was Kudirat and many valiant humans who said no. “We have had to answer a recurring question every year we celebrate Kudirat…what has changed? I believe nothing has changed, but everything has worsened; killings and abductions, corruption, election fraud and societal decay, collapse of systems, security, education, health, economy. “These problems are brought to us by a primitive leadership processing system deliberately established and sustained to keep this place impoverished for the benefit of political brigands. “If what we have seen so far in the political parties’ primaries is clear, then, we kid ourselves with nursing any kind of positive expectations.” She advised Nigerians to learn about Kudirat Abiola and other freedom activists such as Funmilayo Ransome Kuti, Nwayeruwa and Pele Wura, who fought for Nigeria’s independence and democracy. She also stressed the need for the youth to do better than the older generation. “As we celebrate Kudirat Abiola today again, for giving us everything, we must now turn our attention away from the deaf generation. We must turn to the youth with ears yet…we must tell of Kudirat and the many giants who chose a higher ground above this slime. “Perhaps by doing so, we just might rescue tomorrow before today is squandered. Adieu Kudirat Abiola. Rest on in rich memory,” she added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com