A Lagos State High Court sitting at the Tafawa Balewa Square has sentenced a man, Madu Uche, to seven years’ imprisonment for armed robbery. The convict had initially pleaded not guilty to three counts of conspiracy and armed robbery on October 6, 2021, when he was first arraigned. However, on Tuesday, the prosecution team, led by Olayemi Shofolu, told justice Y.A. Adesanya that the defendant had agreed to plead guilty to the offences. Shofolu also informed the court they had filed and executed a sentencing agreement which was to the knowledge of the attorney-general of the state. The prosecution, therefore, prayed the court to grant the sentence of seven years imprisonment. The defence counsel, Olameran Alliu, confirmed the agreement. Uche confirmed the agreement under oath and told the court that he was not compelled to change his plea in the course of the trial. Justice Adesanya told the defendant that he had the right to maintain his not-guilty plea. The amended charges were read to him again, and he admitted to the two counts of conspiracy to commit felony and felony. The court observed that the defendant dispossessed one Ugochukwu Tochukwu of his ATM card, a phone, National ID card, driving licence, and the sum of N150,000. The prosecution also informed the court that the defendant had made restitution to the victim. Delivering her judgement, Justice Adesanya said, “In passing my sentence, I have taken into consideration the statements of the aggrieved parties, particularly the fact that there has been some measure of restitution that the defendant has paid the sum of N200,000. I recognise that the court is not bound by the sentence appeal. “Be that as it may, I have made all relevant considerations, particularly the fact that the defendant is not going to be wasting the resources of the state and took the plea at the earliest opportunity. “Also, having regard to the sentencing guidelines of this honourable court, I find that the agreed sentencing fits the crime. You, Uche Madu Uche, are hereby sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment, taking effect from the day of your remand.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com