The Nigerian Association of Petroleum Explorationists has called for caution regarding the recent gas leak and inferno which engulfed a water borehole site within Caritas University at Amorji Nike (about 3km from Emene) in Enugu State. NAPE President, Dr. James Edet, in a statement on Friday, said the rush to explain what happened and processes should be left to the professionals such as NAPE and others to handle. “As NAPE, we are appealing to members of the public to tread with caution as they visit the site to avoid burns and other hazards associated with this type of flare (water and gas leak) as it currently lacks appropriate safety measures to mitigate the flare. NAPE, through its experienced members who have worked in the oil & gas industry as well as the academia, will require access to more data to be able to ascertain the source of this leak. With these data, solutions can be proffered to prevent future occurrences,” the statement partly read. NAPE is the umbrella association for persons involved in the professional application of geosciences and related disciplines, including exploration and production of oil and gas in the country. The association called on organisations and persons  engaging the services of water well drilling companies to seek professional geoscience advice and project support to understand subsurface geometry prior to their exploratory activity. This, it said, would go a long way in forestalling unprofessional drilling practices and accompanying environmental impacts. “NAPE also recognizes and acknowledges the remediation efforts so far deployed by NOSDRA, NUPRC, NEMA and the Federal and State Fire Services. “NAPE Executives from our Awka/Owerri Chapter, led by our Chapter Coordinator, Dr Princeton Dim, have visited the site and are on standby to provide necessary technical and professional support to the relevant agencies to abate this continuous leakage of gas and water. An event that poses serious environmental concern to lives and property of the community” it said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com