The Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria has said it is engaging partnership with the government and other professional bodies to boost tax compliance and development in the country. The president, CITN, Mr Adesina Adedayo, said this during the institute’s 30th annual general meeting in Lagos, which was widely attended physically and virtually by its members. Adedayo said, “Our continuous collaboration with stakeholders at the state level is central to the successful execution of the mandate of the institute. Within the period under review, visits were made to nine states namely Oyo, Enugu, Edo, Borno, Akwa Ibom, Kebbi, Niger, kwara and Kaduna states.” He also said after his investiture, he led a delegation to visit the office of the Vice President of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. “The highlights of the visit include our call to leadership by example by ensuring tax compliance and effective payment of taxes by those who aspire to political offices, implementation of the recommendations of the National Tax Policy; and the need for effective digitisation of the tax system,” he said The CITN president said the relationship with professional and regional bodies was increasingly being sustained. To strengthen partnership with neighbouring countries, he said an action plan for specialised capacity-building programme for tax professionals in Africa was being developed by the CITN and the Chartered Institute of Taxation Ghana. He said to further advance its relationship with other tax professional bodies, it attended some international conferences which took place in other countries. To improve its engagement with the legislative arm of the government, he said he visited some officers and members of the National Assembly. Adedayo said discussions during the visit brought to the fore, the need for the institute to improve on its interaction with the National Assembly He noted that this was key to initiating tax law review and other issues that required legislative action. Adedayo said, “The institute had cause to make representations during the Senate Public hearing on the Financial Reporting Council Act (Amendmend) Bill and the House of Representatives Public Hearing on ICAN Act (Amendment) Bill. Our contributions were very much appreciated by both arms of the National Assembly.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com