The Lagos State Drivers’ Institute has sought a partnership with the Nigerian Ports Authority on the training of professional drivers of articulated and container-bearing trucks in Lagos in a bid to reduce the rate of accidents involving articulated trucks. The General Manager of LASDRI, Mrs Afusat Tiamiyu, made the call on Wednesday during a courtesy visit to the Lagos Ports Complex, Apapa. Represented by the institute’s Head of Engineering Department, Kayode Oladesu, the General Manager stressed that the agency had trained many truck drivers over the years. She was quoted on the state government’s website as saying that, “We have carefully outlined the best ways possible to partner with the Nigerian Ports Authority in the training of truck drivers. “We believe that when these drivers are well trained in the art of driving, the rate of accidents will be reduced and safety of lives and property will be ensured on our roads.” On her part, the Port Manager of the Lagos Ports Complex, Apapa, Mrs Olufunmilayo Olotu, regretted that articulated truck accidents result in loss of lives and property as well as damage to public infrastructure, stressing that any form of training and sensitisation that can be done to reduce such damage will be a welcome initiative. Olotu added that more of such stakeholders’ meetings will lead to evolving more strategies aimed at reducing accidents involving articulated trucks within the Lagos metropolis, particularly through standardised training and sensitisation programmes. While appreciating the institute for the initiative, Olotu said the visit was the beginning of a beneficial partnership, promising to escalate the report of the meeting to the appropriate authorities and stakeholders. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com