Nollywood filmmaker and director, Kemi Adetiba, on Thursday hailed her husband, Oscar Heman-Ackah, on his birthday. The King of Boys director shared pictures of the music executive via her Instagram page on Thursday, praising him for his kind-heartedness and sacrificial personality. Describing him as an “incredible man with the biggest heart”, Adetiba showered appreciation and prayers on her partner for being a selfless leader whose life mission was to uplift others. She further stated that the joy she expressed during their wedding was because she knew she had done the right thing by marrying him. “It’s my honey’s birthday!!YAAAY,” the excited bride wrote in the captions. She continued, “Happy birthday to the love of my entire life. This incredible man with the biggest heart. Thank God I didn’t wait this long to ‘just do it’. You see the smiles in the wedding pictures and videos?? That’s because I KNOW I did it RIGHT. I carried my head, mind, eye & heart to the market. I didn’t get married because ‘I had to’. I got married, because it was to HIM!! “I don’t just love Uncle Oz. I RESPECT him. Not because ‘I’m supposed to’ but because his very life, demeanor, essence and incredible accomplishments DESERVE it. And it’s the same for everyone he comes across. I have never seen anyone with so many incredible feats, fight to stay in the shadows just so others wear the crown. “You have the biggest heart, baby and you are KIND!! SO SO KIND!!! Anytime someone new says, ‘I love the way he loves you so openly.’ I responded, ‘It’s not me. That’s just how he is.’ This man loves with four corners of his heart… HARD and DEEP and carries people’s matter on his head. “He is such a leader, and in a service way. His entire mission is looking for a way to help or uplift another, using any and every resource he has. And even in the face of betrayal this man still lends himself. Sweetheart, everyone is rallying around to make today special for you, because you make everyday so special for others. “On a personal note – Thank you for making me feel emotionally, spiritually and physically safe. I love you deeply, immensely. Undeniably. And thank you for always spoiling me, Sugar-Daddy. God bless you and everything you touch. You will grow old to see our great grandchildren flourish.” In February, the filmmaker revealed that she got engaged to Oscar in January 2022. The couple married in April of the same year in a star-studded ceremony. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com