The West African Examinations Council has condemned the activities of ‘rogue website operators’ who lure candidates and their parents by proposing shortcuts to examination success. A statement signed by WAEC on Wednesday titled, ‘Re: Conduct of WASSCE for school candidates, 2022 – the unwholesome activities of rogue website operators and pitiable patronage by some candidates/parents,’ said ‘rogue website operators’ were hell-bent on sabotaging the noble efforts and concrete arrangements put in place by the council to ensure the successful conduct of the ongoing 2022 West African Senior School Certificate Examination. The statement read in part, “The council is equally aware that these individuals perpetrate their dastardly acts through various social media platforms, such as blogs, Facebook, WhatsApp, and Telegram. “These unpatriotic individuals see WASSCE and other examinations as a business venture and avenue to make money, thereby deceiving innocent and gullible candidates and their parents. They lure candidates and their parents by proposing shortcuts to examination success. They lie to them that WAEC questions can be accessed earlier than the due date. This is nothing but a lie from the pit of hell. “Please, for the avoidance of doubt and for the benefit of the general public, this is not true. The council works hard to put firm security measures in place to protect the integrity of its test items. “Unfortunately, some candidates have fallen prey to the ‘trash’ being served on these rogue platforms. They no longer read their books because of the promise of access to WAEC questions. This is a very sad and dangerous development.” The examination body assured the public that such individuals would not go unpunished as they would be brought to book and made to pay for all their crimes.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com