The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, on Thursday, said the Federal Government had done enough to honour the presumed winner of the June 12, 1993, presidential election, Chief Moshood Abiola. He also said that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), would address the nation through a live broadcast on Sunday, June 12, 2022, by 7:00 am to mark Democracy Day. Buhari had in 2018, directed that Nigeria’s Democracy Day, which was hitherto marked every May 29, be shifted to June 12 in honour of late Chief Moshood Kashimawo Abiola, the presumed winner of the June 12, 1993, presidential election. The President had also honoured Abiola with a posthumous award of Grand Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic. Mohammed during a press briefing at Radio House in Abuja said no government had immortalised Abiola than Buhari’s regime. He listed some of the activities lined up for the Democracy Day celebration to include a public lecture at the National Mosque on Friday and Jumaat prayers on the same day and venue on June 10, 2022. According to him, this would be followed by the President’s address and a church service at the National Christian Centre by 3pm on Sunday, June 12, 2022. He said there would also be a Democracy Day parade at the Eagle Square in Abuja on Monday morning. Mohammed assured that all events would be held and there would be no security breaches. The minister added that attendance “at these events are strictly by invitation and in line with the COVID-19 protocol”. The minister also explained that the annulment of June 12 brought Nigeria to the brink. He, therefore, said whatever the Federal Government was doing was to celebrate that day in memory of Abiola, as well as many other heroes, many Nigerian students, and democrats worth celebrating. “So, I think the Federal Government has done enough in addition to the fact that several state governments have followed suit. We have in our small way be courageous enough to declare this day a public holiday, I think it is the best gift to any Nigerian,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com