The Delta State Police Command has gunned down three suspected kidnappers/armed robbers in the state. The Police spokesman in the state, DSP Bright Edafe, confirmed this on Monday in Asaba. He said, “On June 5, 2022, at about 12:35 pm, operatives of Command’s Rapid Response Squad, while on undercover of anti-crime patrol along Asaba/Benin expressway, some armed hoodlums suspected to be kidnappers numbering about five suddenly emerged from the bush at Umunede area. “The hoodlums fired gunshots at the space bus in an attempt to rob and possibly kidnap the occupants but unknown to them that the occupants were undercover police operatives. “The team smartly disembarked from the vehicle and returned fire. The hoodlums realising that their potential victims were policemen ran into the bush. “The team went into a fierce gun duel with the hoodlums during which three members of the gang were fatally wounded. “The injured hoodlums were taken to the hospital but died while receiving treatment.” Edafe stated that manhunt for the fleeing members of the gang was ongoing while one fabricated revolver pistol, six 7.62mm live ammunition, and four expended 7.62mm ammunition were recovered from them. In another development, Edafe said that a 48-year-old Suleiman Musa, who specialised in stealing home items, was arrested. According to him, on Saturday, acting on a tip-off, operatives of the Command’s Anti-Cult Unit, raided a criminal hideout in an uncompleted building along Mariam Babangida way in Asaba, Delta State, during which 540 rounds of live cartridges, three Elepac Generators, one solar light, one singer sewing machine, two television sets, and one Lifan motorcycle all suspected to have been stolen were recovered. He said the suspect, Suleiman Musa, 48, was arrested while the investigation was ongoing. Edafe added that operatives of Eagle-Net Special Squad, while on Aberdeen system of patrol along Asaba Ogwashi-Uku expressway, intercepted a commercial vehicle and arrested a 20-year-old Edea Samuel. He said items recovered included 4,054 wraps of substance suspected to be cocaine and 954 wraps of heroines on a bag belonging to one of the passengers, Samuel of Ochele Street, off Ojugbana Drive, Ezenei, Asaba. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com