The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has urged the striking workers of the National Assembly to call off their industrial action and embrace dialogue for speedy resolution of the disputes. Lawan in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Ola Awoniyi, was said to have made the appeal at a meeting which he summoned to find a way out of the lingering issues between the workers and the management of the National Assembly. Workers of the National Assembly under the aegis of the Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria had embarked on an indefinite strike since Monday to press home their demands for payment of some allowances. Lawan said, “I want to urge you, whenever we disagree, let’s try to come and sit and talk about it because when we talk, we are able to find some common grounds and solutions. I am very happy that we have been able to deal with this.” President of PASAN, Comrade Mohammed Usman, also led his other colleagues who are officials of PASAN. After the two sides had narrated their positions on the disputes, the Senate President assured the workers that he would reach out to the relevant authorities that would facilitate the speedy resolution of the issues involved. Meanwhile, Lawan on Friday evening held a meeting with the striking staff of National Assembly with a view to end the one-week strike to press home the demand for payment of outstanding National Minimum Wage and implementation of Revised Conditions of Service. According to the notice sent to the Parliamentary Correspondents, the meeting which was initiated at the instance of the Senate President was scheduled for 4pm at Conference Room 301 in the Senate Wing. However, efforts by Parliamentary Correspondents to attend the meeting were rebuffed as some National Assembly staff barred them from accessing the complex. “We don’t need journalists, go! What are you doing here? the meeting is not for you.” Efforts to get the comments from the meeting proved abortive as members of PASAN chased, harassed and insulted journalists who waited with them for over three hours to know the outcome of the meeting.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com