The Ogun State Police Command has arrested one Wakilu Ogundairo for allegedly raising a false Boko Haram invasion alarm through a WhatsApp voice note. Ogundairo was accused of raising a false alarm about Boko Haram terrorist invasion of Imosan-Ijebu in the state with a cache of arms. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this on Thursday in a statement. Oyeyemi said the suspect allegedly circulated the false alarm on social media, thereby causing panic in the mind of law-abiding citizens. He said, “the suspect was arrested when the voice note went viral and people from all walks of life started calling the command’s emergency number expressing concern over the safety of their loved ones in ijebu-Ode and Ogun state as a whole. “The Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole, then quickly directed the DPO Obalende division to move into the area and find out the authenticity of the said WhatsApp voice note. “In compliance with the CP’S order, the DPO Obalende division, SP Salami Murphy, moved into the area for a thorough investigation. “In the course of the investigation, it was discovered that the only people in that location were farm labourers from Benue state who are carrying out their legitimate business devoid of any form of violence. “Having found out that the viral voice note was a false alarm, the DPO and his detectives there and then embarked on a technical investigation which eventually led them to the hideout of the man behind it. “He was subsequently arrested and taken to custody. “On interrogation, he confessed that he only made the voice note to scare members of the public and that there is no invasion anywhere.” Oyeyemi however said the commissioner of police has ordered a thorough investigation into the past activities of the suspect, with a view to charging him to court as soon as possible. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com