A former Chairman of the Inter-Party Advisory Council in Lagos State, Mr James Adeshina, has clinched the 2023 governorship ticket of the African Action Congress in the state. Adeshina who is the immediate past Chairman of AAC in Lagos State was declared the winner at the party’s governorship primary election held on Tuesday in Ikeja. The Chairman of AAC Electoral Committee/Returning Officer for Lagos State, Mr Ezimoha Kajetan, said Adeshina emerged unopposed through consensus at the primaries. Announcing the result, Kajetan said Adeshina, polled a total of 32 delegate votes out of the 40 delegates accredited for the election. In a related development, in the party’s senatorial primaries conduct at the same venue, Kajetan said Mr Henry Madojemu, Olumuyiwa Adelaja and Ms Mercy Adeoye polled 29, 28 and 29 votes to win the party’s tickets for Lagos Central, Lagos West and Lagos East respectively. Also, for the party’s House of Representatives primaries, Kajetan declared Messrs Kolawole Adedoyin, Akinola Popoola, Akinwande Memuda, Abel Aigefoh, Peace Jerry, and Raphael Osiomwan as winners for Agege, Ifako-Ijaiye, Surulere, Ajeromi-Ifelodun, Ojo and Alimosho Federal Constituencies respectively. 10 candidates of the parties emerged unopposed through consensus though voting was conducted through an open ballot system. In his acceptance speech, Adeshina who promised to put the people first appreciated the support from the party faithful and its hierarchy. He promised to prioritise security, education, youth empowerment, and infrastructure if he emerges the winner in the general election. “I have gathered a lot of experience as a pioneer of AAC and ex IPAC chairman in Lagos State. “I have all it takes to lead the youths and get Lagos working. If Lagos is moving forward, the state should be better than Dubai where our leaders run to. “With your support, I will win, move the state forward by putting the people and the state first in all policies and expenditures,” Adeshina said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com