The management of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso, has debunked the claims of a lecturer of the institution, Adewale Olasumboye, who is on study leave in the United States of America, that the university has refused to release to him N26m Tertiary Education Trust Fund grant. The university, in a statement on Wednesday by its Public Relations Officer, Mr Lekan Fadeyi, said the management was surprised that the lecturer rushed to the press without waiting for the determination of the court case he instituted against the school. Describing the lecturer’s action as blackmail, the university stated that it would not succumb to such while reminding him that he must fulfil the conditions in the bond he signed which stated that he would return to the university after completing his studies. The statement read in part, “Ordinarily, we would have ignored this publication but for the need to maintain our goodwill with members of the public, most especially to respond to the members of the public who have been seeking clarification on the matter. “The university is surprised that Olasumboye could throw caution to the wind by making publication on this matter, having sued the university on his refusal to resume duty after the expiration of his study leave with pay under TETFUND. “Since Olasumboye is aware that the case is still pending in court, in suit number NICN/IB/58/2021, which came up yesterday June 6, 2022 and has been adjourned to July 7, 2022 at the National Industrial Court Ibadan, we did not expect him to rush to the press on the matter, except he is jittery and no longer believes in himself and the judicial process. “With the said case being in court, the university is not ready to join issues with him in the public so as not to be charged for contempt. “Suffice to say here that most of what Olasumboye published in an online news platform was half-truth which amounts to blackmail, which the university will not succumb to. One may wonder why he is not patient enough to await court judgement on the matter, being the first person to approach the court. “Maybe, he needs to be reminded that he signed a bond with the university on his study leave with pay which he is bound to fulfil. “This university will not succumb to any form of blackmail or yellow journalism, as we will insist that he should comply with all terms and conditions guiding the study leave with pay granted to him.” The lecturer had said he started his PhD programme at Howard University in 2014, after LAUTECH approved N26m through TETFUND for his studies. He stated, “The payments were made without compliance with TETFUND guidelines. My tuition and living expenses were paid by the school into my salary account in naira. The school deducted N97,138 from the fund without giving me any explanation.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com