With a population of over 20 million residents in Lagos State, the populace surely need to have confidence in the health care facilities where they receive care. The Health Facility Monitoring Accreditation Agency saddled with the responsibility of ridding the state of quackery in the health sector has not left any stone unturned to give Lagosians quality health care. Statistics from the Healthcare Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency shows that in Lagos, no fewer than 3,831 hospitals have been registered in Lagos State as of February 15, 2022. The agency added that about 96 health care facilities were shut in the state in 2021 for operating below the standard out of the 1,896 centres visited. HEFAMAA in a statement released recently said about 14 health facilities had been shut between January and April 2022 as well. The PUNCH had on October 7 reported that the agency had shut 17 health facilities between July and August 2021, adding that the agency also monitored 1,304 facilities between January and August 2021. Also, The PUNCH reported in December that the agency had shut nine facilities between October and November, 2021. The Executive Secretary of HEFAAMA, Dr Abiola Idowu, in the report advised Lagos residents on the need to expose quacks, who parade themselves as professionals, in order to promote the good medical practice and safe health. Idowu, in an interview with our correspondent, said the agency’s mandate was to improve the quality of health care delivery in the state. She said, “Before the Agency came on board, complaints and petitions about quackery leading to avoidable morbidities and mortalities, especially in the private health sector were being received by the Ministry of Health almost on a daily basis leading to poor health indices. This was because as of then, only about 30 to 40 per cent of the health facilities operating in the state were registered with the Private Hospital Registration Authority from which the agency emerged. “The decline in the quality of health care delivery necessitated a reform in the Lagos State health sector and the agency was established in 2006 with a mandate to improve the quality of health care delivery in the state. “Since the inception of the agency in 2006, the majority of health facilities sealed for not operating in compliance to the set standards were as a result of quackery practices, but this has reduced gradually over the years through regular quality assurance monitoring of health facilities in the state. In 2021, statistics showed that 23 health facilities were sealed for quackery practices out of a total of 96 sealed health facilities. “Also, at present, the rate at which complaints/petitions against health care providers are being received by the Agency have reduced to about two or three in a month as compared to higher rates in the previous years. This can be attributed to the regular monitoring visits to health facilities by the staff of HEFAMAA which has encouraged a lot of the health facilities operating in the state to register with the Agency. Fourteen health facilities that are not meeting up with standards have been sealed since the beginning of the year during our monitoring visits, this is a proactive measure to prevent unwholesome practices in such facilities.” The HEFAAMA boos added that about 80 per cent of the health facilities estimated to be operating in the state have been registered. “At present, 3,831 facilities have been registered as compared to 1074 in 2006, this is about 80 percent of the health facilities estimated to be operating in the state. However, the Agency is seeking the support of the general public in the identification of unregistered health facilities in the state where quackery practices could still be existing. “As part of the agency’s effort to protect the health of the people in Lagos State, it has developed draft standards for over twenty categories of health facilities in the State. The draft standards are an improvement over the standards stipulated in the Health Sector Reform Law of 2006 which is presently under review. Fourteen of the standards have so far been reviewed and validated with the relevant stakeholders while the review meetings for the remaining eight standards will soon be organised by the agency. “The elimination of quackery in the health sector is very achievable in the next few years. The State Government and the Ministry of Health have been very supportive towards realising this goal. The Agency solicits for the continuous support of the people of Lagos State and also importantly, the other regulatory bodies in the health space such as the Traditional Medicine Board and the Task Force on Pharmacy,” Idowu said. Patient safety must be prioritised, says WHO The World Health Organisation on its website said patient safety is fundamental to delivering quality essential health services. It says, “Indeed, there is a clear consensus that quality health services across the world should be effective, safe and people-centred. In addition, to realize the benefits of quality health care, health services must be timely, equitable, integrated and efficient. “To ensure successful implementation of patient safety strategies; clear policies, leadership capacity, data to drive safety improvements, skilled health care professionals and effective involvement of patients in their care, are all needed.” “The occurrence of adverse events due to unsafe care is likely one of the 10 leading causes of death and disability in the world. In high-income countries, it is estimated that one in every 10 patients is harmed while receiving hospital care. The harm can be caused by a range of adverse events, with nearly 50 per cent of them being preventable. “Each year, 134 million adverse events occur in hospitals in low- and middle-income countries, due to unsafe care, resulting in 2.6 million deaths.” Another study has estimated that around two-thirds of all adverse events resulting from unsafe care, and the years lost to disability and death occur in LMICs. “Globally, as many as four in 10 patients are harmed in primary and outpatient health care. Up to 80 per cent of harm is preventable. The most detrimental errors are related to diagnosis, prescription and the use of medicines. “Investments in reducing patient harm can lead to significant financial savings, and more importantly better patient outcomes. An example of prevention is engaging patients, if done well, it can reduce the burden of harm by up to 15 per cent,” the WHO added. ‘Operation show your license’ HEFAMAA had on November 8, 2021, begun a campaign, tagged, ‘Operation show your license.’ The move, according to the agency is to ensure that all hospitals in the state are duly registered. The Executive Secretary of the Agency, Dr Abiola Idowu, said all health facilities in the state, both public and private must present the licenses of all health care workers and their certificate of registration to the Agency’s monitoring staff for verification or risk sanctions. Idowu warned that the Agency would not accept a situation where health facilities operate in the state without proof of registration or licenses for their health care workers, with the Agency maintaining that such action was contrary to the provisions of the 2006 Health Sector Reform Law. She affirmed that the Agency would strive to ensure that facilities across the state operate within the confines of the law as well as deliver quality health care to Lagosians. “On the directive of the Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, our monitoring staff have been visiting public and private health facilities in the state to, amongst the routine responsibilities of the Agency is verify their licenses to ascertain they are operating legally,” Idowu explained. She added that all existing health care facilities in the state were required by law to renew their registration annually, noting that it was mandatory for new facilities to register with the Agency before commencing operations to safeguard the health of the citizenry. Idowu reiterated the need for owners of facilities in the state to take advantage of the HEFAMAA e-portal to complete their registration and renewal and also keep abreast of the programmes and activities of the Agency. The HEFAMAA Board Chairman, Dr. Yemisi Solanke Koya, explained that the ‘Operation Show Your Certificate,’ was not a witch-hunting exercise, “rather it is in furtherance of our public protection mandate, HEFAMAA through the verification exercise seeks to ensure that the health facilities in Lagos State are strictly complying with the law.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com