The leadership of the Accord Party has warned aspirants wishing to take part in its primary election to be wary of attending any gathering that does not have the presence of the Independent National Electoral Commission as directed by the Electoral Act. National Secretary of the party, Dr Samson Isibor, gave this warning in Benin, Edo State, on Sunday while reacting to a recent court judgment that affirmed Rev Isaac Adeniyi as the authentic National Chairman of the party. He said the new leadership would soon convene a meeting of all the state chapters of the party to chart a way forward and organise how to have properly constituted leadership and flag bearer ahead of the 2023 elections. Isibor said, “The Executive Committee will have nothing to do with any Presidential primary which will not be observed by INEC, anyone who presented himself as Accord presidential candidate is on his own. “We are grateful to God for giving us the victory at the court. We are the executive that has been saddled with the responsibility of running the party. We have got the justice we prayed for so I appeal to all our members in all the states to be calm and that as soon as a possible we shall call a meeting of all the state chapters including all those that have been there legally and illegally and rejuvenate the party for reckoning. “We don’t want to be a second-hand party. We were formally in the forefront but because of the way those hijackers operated, we were relegated but now the real exco has bounced back and we have instructed that no bank should deal with them again. INEC has also been informed. “I want to congratulate our national chairman Rev Isaac Adeniyi who stood firm during adversity; we are victorious, and kudos to the judiciary because it shows that the court remains the last hope of all the citizens of the country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com