Brazil’s far-right leader, Jair Bolsonaro, said Friday that his country could expand agribusiness without harming the Amazon as he spoke highly of meeting United States President Joe Biden, who raised the issue of climate change. “We don’t need the Amazon to expand agribusiness,” Bolsonaro told the Summit of the Americas in Los Angeles, where he met Biden a day earlier. Bolsonaro had been faced with enraged environmentalists who championed that the large agricultural companies involved in the deforestation of the Amazon were a crucial “sink” for carbon emissions and could be blamed for the planet’s rising temperatures. Bolsonaro, who was one of the top international allies of former US President Donald Trump, and even backed his baseless claims of fraud in his 2020 election loss, had, however, praised Biden. The meeting was “simply fantastic,” Bolsonaro said. A day after the meeting, Bolsonaro and Biden patted each other on the arms and appeared to exchange pleasantries as they posed for a group photo at the summit. Biden agreed to meet Bolsonaro for the first time as the US tried to secure attendance at the summit, already marred by a boycott by the leftist president of Mexico, the second-most populous nation in Latin America after Brazil. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken also spoke highly of Biden’s meeting with Bolsonaro. The talks are “best described as constructive, an opportunity to address a lot of issues in the bilateral relationship right now,” Blinken told reporters. He said that the United States was concerned about the Amazon as the “lungs of the hemisphere” and that Biden told Bolsonaro that the United States felt a need to help. “We feel a responsibility to do that because over many, many, many generations, we were able to take advantage ourselves – for example, clearing forests in order to have agricultural production or industry before anyone understood the impact of climate change,” Blinken said. He noted that the US was committed to offering financing and other support to ensure that countries “have the means not to further engage in deforestation or even to engage in reforestation.” AFP