The Chairman of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, Cross River State, Dr Lawrence Ekwok, has said a minimum of one million votes would be mobilised among member churches of the PFN in support of any governorship candidate the fellowship endorses in the 2023 general elections. He made the promise during the 2022 PFN Pentecost Service at the Redeemed Christian Church of God (House of David), Calabar. Ekwok said the commitment and backing of key leaders of the pentecostal churches in the state has been secured to ensure that the goal is achieved. He told the gathering, including all the key leaders of churches in the state, “It is a task that can be accomplished,” considering the votes fact that the winner of the 2019 governorship election in the state had a figure that one of the mega churches can easily produce. He urged all members of the pentecostal churches in the state to “take advantage of the ongoing voters registration exercise and ensure that you register to vote in the forthcoming elections.” The service was attended by a guest speaker from Lagos, Bishop Curtis Fianu, who gave a message titled ‘Power above Powers’. In the message, he charged believers in Christ to take advantage of the Power of Pentecost to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ and do legitimate signs and wonders. Other activities that took place during the service were special songs by the Mass choirs of the PFN, the PFN Women’s Wing and the RCCG Mass choir. Church leaders, ministers and members from the Pentecostal churches including the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Christ for the World Mission, Assemblies of God, Deeper Life Bible Church, Church of GOD Mission, Winners Chapel, Foursquare Gospel Church, Charismatic Renewal Ministries attended the event. The Chairman of the Planning committee, Pastor Dr Victor Ovat, thanked the church leaders and members for mobilising massive attendance at the event. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com