One person reportedly died when a Toyota Sienna vehicle conveying members of the All Progressives Congress, Rivers State chapter from Abuja to Port Harcourt somersaulted on Thursday. One of the occupants of the vehicle, Innocent Amadi, disclosed this in an interview with a Port Harcourt-based radio station, Nigeria Info news, which was monitored by our correspondent. Amadi said the crash occurred around 8am on Thursday near the University of Abuja staff quarters. He said the driver of the vehicle was on high speed when he suddenly applied the brakes, while another vehicle was in front. He further disclosed that five of the seven occupants of the car were injured and are currently receiving treatment at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital. He said, “Our vehicle was at high speed. So, in the process there was another vehicle before him. “He was at high speed, he couldn’t control. He applied the brakes and the wheels pulled out. “The motor somersaulted. I was in front of the vehicle. I came out unhurt. I fastened my seat belt, though we lost one person.” Meanwhile, the APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has sympathised with the party in the state over the accident. Tinubu’s condolence was contained in a statement on Thursday by his Director of Media and Communications, Bayo Onanuga. The statement identified the deceased as Onimiteim Samuel. It read, “The Tinubu Campaign Office received with shock the death of Onimiteim Samuel, the secretary of our great party, the APC in Akukutoru Local Government Area of Rivers State and others yet to be identified in a vehicular accident on their way from Abuja. “On behalf of the presidential candidate of our great party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, we commiserate with the family and our party leaders in the state. “The death of grassroots leaders of our party in such tragic circumstances is saddening. We pray for the repose of their souls and urge party members to dedicate themselves to ensure that the victory of our party which they fought for is achieved.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com