The Committee for Defence of Human Rights has partnership with the Delta State Police Command in its ongoing efforts at community policing and crime fighting activities. This was contained in a statement issued by the National President of the CDHR, Kehinde Taiga, copies of which were made available to journalists in Warri on Sunday. CDHR also urged the people of Delta State to further cooperate with the state police command to be able to sustain the tempo, thereby keeping the society safer from criminals. The statement specifically applauded the Commissioner of Police for the State Command, Ari Muhammed Ali, “for his unrelenting efforts in crime fighting and commitment in bringing to bare minimum cases of human rights abuses in the state”. “It took the Rights group quite some time to study and monitor the activities of the CP Muhammed Ali before arriving at the decision to recognize and applaud him publicly”, it posited. The statement read in part, “What endeared the Police Commissioner to the foremost human right group was the way and manner he carried out community policing by engaging the local vigilantes and anti cult groups in fighting crime at the various community level which had yielded positive results in crime fighting. “Also worthy of note was his quick response to criminal cases in any part of the state and this he had demonstrated by the record time his men visited crime scenes whenever his attention was drawn to such by anybody in the community no matter how high or low the position of such a person in the society. “Then the area that concerns us mostly as human rights group in the state is the violation of citizens rights by the law enforcement agencies and we can attest to the fact that the Delta state police Commissioner, CP Ari Muhammed Ali, had scored a very high point on ensuring zero tolerance to cases of human rights abuses in the state since he assumed office at the Command. “We have had the course to intervene in some cases of human rights infringements by some policemen at the various police units in the state but we are happy to see that once we draw the attention of CP Ali to such, the cases were given utmost attention and addressed as quickly as possible.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com