The OISA Foundation, has called on eminent Nigerians and corporate organisations to support the foundation’s goal of ensuring indigent but brilliant children get education. This was made know by the  Trustee of the Foundation, Prince Abimbola Olashore while briefing journalists in Lagos on the 10th year memorial activities of HRM Oba Oladele Olashore. Olashore explained that this year, due to Nigeria’s huge number of out-of-school children, the foundation partnered other foundations to offer scholarships to indigent but brilliant children. He added that the foundation had an aim of providing interventions in the areas of health and education of learners. Olashore said that it was discovered that young adults of age 12 and 18 years had mental health issues, which sometimes go unnoticed by parents and schools, saying the foundation had develop a toolkit to assist in knowing the areas of needs of learners and teachers. He said, “We are also training educators, school owners, teachers, guidance and counsellors, as well as parents in that regard. ‘‘We raised money to develop the toolkits so that we can distribute  to every school. It will be a guide for them to mitigate effect of mental health issues. “We are working with guidance and counsellors of schools so that it can be adaptable to different cultural diversity. We also train  parents, caregivers, teachers, educators, guidance and counselors, so we can move from a talk shop to something practical.” The 10th year memorial programme would commence with a thanksgiving service on June 11, 2022 at Oba Samuel Oyerinde Olashore Anglican Church, Iloko-Ijesha Osun State, as well as a memorial lecture of HRM Oba Oladele Olashore, on June 20, at Civic Centre, Ozumba Mbadiwe Street, Victoria Island, Lagos on June 20, 2022. The keynote address would be delivered by the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, while the Founder, Fate Foundation, Mr Fola Adeola, would give the memorial lecture. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com