Contrary to videos circulating online that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was involved in an accident along Airport road, Abuja, on his way to commiserate with the Ondo State government and families of victims of Sunday’s attack on St Francis Catholic Church, Owo, the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the VP, Laolu Akande, has said the report is untrue. In a tweet posted to his verified Twitter handle on Monday, Akande said the vice president came across a road accident on his way to the airport and stopped by to assist the victims.  He added that Osinbajo was already in Ondo State and heading to the site of the attack. “On his way to the airport this morning, VP came across a road traffic accident, stopped to lend assistance, & ensured victim was taken to the hospital with VP’s convoy ambulance. He then proceeded on his trip and is now in Ondo State heading to site of yesterday’s attack in Owo,” Akande wrote. When contacted by our correspondent, Akande denied the report by the circulating videos and online media (not PUNCH) that his principal was involved in an accident. Also, the Federal Road Safety Corps has denied the reports suggesting that the convoy of the vice president was involved in an accident.  The Federal Capital Territory Sector Commander of the FRSC, Oga Ochi, told our correspondent that Osinbajo was on his way to the airport when he stopped to rescue an accident victim. He added that Osinbajo took the victim to a hospital and paid his bill.  “Neither the VP nor cars in his convoy were involved in an accident. What happened was that on his way to the airport the VP saw a crash where a victim was stuck. He came down to help. He even followed them to the hospital and paid the person’s bills,” Ochi said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com