On May 25, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party held its governorship primary. In Ogun State, two parallel primaries were conducted by factions of the party. While one produced Segun Sowunmi,  a former spokesman for the Atiku Abubakar campaign organisation; Oladipupo Adebutu, an ex-member of the House of Representatives and son of a business mogul and Odole–Oodua, Chief Kessignton Adebutu, emerged from the other primary. In this interview with DAUD OLATUNJI, Oladipupo Adebutu comments on the governorship primary and the All Progressives Congress government in the state Who is the authentic governorship candidate of PDP in Ogun State? Well, I am the governorship candidate of the PDP in Ogun State because I participated in the primary conducted by a panel empowered by the national working committee of the party and duly observed as prescribed by the electoral law on the 25th day of May 2022. This process as prescribed by law is the only method by which one can become a candidate for the Peoples Democratic Party. I participated in this process and I emerged victorious. Yes, we were four aspirants that obtained the necessary prerequisites to contest, namely the dues, fees paid, and the clearance certificate obtained. At the end of the day, when the contest was engaged, I came out with 714 votes. Jimi Lawal having started the contest, gave up and walked out and ended up with zero vote. Segun Sowunmi didn’t bother to show up at all and ended up with zero vote. And the fourth contestant whom I heard the name for the first time in the process ended up with zero vote as well. Are you aware that other people held a congress where a governorship candidate also emerged? Well, Segun Sowunmi is not new to us. He has suffered the party with various antics over time. I think this time he has taken it a bit too far. Necessarily, I will describe this as a hand-shaking above the elbow. He knows clearly what he is doing is baseless and meaningless. He gathered a handful of people at Iwe-Iroyin, which is the press centre in Abeokuta. And he declared himself the winner of a process he organised, supervised, superintended and declared himself a winner and flooded the media with this information. The contest proper did not end till about 11 pm and as such, the result did not hit the news till the next day. So, he now had one day ahead and deliberately and wilfully tried to subvert the chances of the PDP prospering. This has been the trait to subvert the fortunes of the PDP. Unless he has paid the fee, he continues to do this. This time we have decided not to pay. In the last local government election, he was party to some similar shenanigans which ended up depriving the party of the right to participation in the local government elections. I made this very concrete and deliberate accusation and I challenged him to counter them. We lost out on the opportunity to participate in local government elections because of various actions of Segun Sowunmi and Co. At the end of the day, because of the various vested interests. Now, similarly, we have the clear view that he is not part of any genuine primary process. He continues to distract the concentration of the party such that we can move forward and garner the will and interests of the electorate such that our fortunes are enhanced towards general elections. He continued with his distraction. There are allegations that you intimidated some contestants, especially Jimi Lawal during the primary.  Is this true, and if it’s true why? This is unfounded. What is the definition of intimidation? What and how does it mean? In what manner did I intimidate. You cannot just make this kind of allegation without any form of foundation. In what way did I intimidate, it must mean something. On the issue of the delegate list, you were accused of using your power to influence the national body of the party to change the list of delegates. Then, be more careful about the use of your words. Does that amount to intimidation? The point is this, there is a process. The process is if you come from the APC and you don’t know the process, you must learn the process. That is the least you should do. I don’t know how it is done in the APC but in the PDP, this is the process; and this process is expected to be followed. The party determines the level of compliance of all members, so how could I be alleged wrongly of intimidation. Now you have emerged as the candidate of the party, how do you want to calm the aggrieved people ahead of the elections? All is well. Primaries have come and gone. I want to borrow Governor Wike’s word, whatever the primary is, we should just stay as one and the same and that’s my candid opinion and candid thought for all of us. If truly, Jimi Lawal wants to be a blessing to Ogun State, It’s good that he has dumped the APC sinking ship on time. History will note that he jumped off from the sinking ship. We welcome him on board of the PDP ship. He should please, let’s work and do this thing together. Segun Sowunmi, we pray he stops his antics and let us work together. T When a politician is lacking correct address or an alternative address, then we address you on social media. You have to have real address. Where do you work? What do you do? You must now stand for something. Ladi Adebutu is a farmer. I do politics. I have an ideology but that ideology is backed by the fact that I work hard. I am a farmer in reality and that is why when politics is hard. I’m able to stand the difficult test. I’m a farmer, that is my address. How are you preparing to defeat the government of APC in Ogun State? The government of the APC has made it very easy. They have defeated themselves. The rich and the poor are just alive. There is no food in the houses anymore. Our earnings cannot feed us, cannot sustain us anymore. Our businesses are failing. Society is failing, zero infrastructure, no schools and no hospitals. These are obvious things. Any sane person does not need to be convinced. We don’t need to say much. Just ask any normal human. The only thing we have to tell people now is to think twice. Is the N5,000 or N10,0000 the APC government is going to give you on election day greater than the sufferings you’ve suffered for years? That is the main thing I have to do now. To bring out the conscience of people to what they are doing is the only thing to do now. They see the reality of no infrastructure, of no security, no schools, no hospitals, impoverishment, children do not have work, our women are suffering, our industries are failing and they have to buy diesel N700 per litre now. What else do you want to tell me? There used to be some elders with you in the PDP but it seems that many of them have left the party; the likes of former Gbenga Daniel, Salman Badru and so many others. What can you say about that? Well, we thank God that these people have left for retirement. And I’m happy that they have left. There is space for younger ones. A lot of them have left and have given room to others. They will leave and I will also leave and that is part of the process. It is also alleged that you have hijacked the party from the state chairman ? Why are people labelling me wrongly? Some people call me acting state chairman. They call me all manner of names. Well, maybe because I’m forthright and I do what is necessary to be done to support our party whenever the party calls. We thank God for having a Chairman who believes in the victory of our party. If you become governor of Ogun, will you not be controlled by your dad? Laughs… I thank God I have a father who has built a good name and bequeathed the same good name to us; a very compassionate and intelligent man. Let me also say this about my dad. By the grace and blessings of God upon his life, he has been of great support to many state governments, various institutions and numerous communities; but he has never sought any form of control nor asked questions on how the projects or government programs are being administered. Therefore, if he has not in a single day been interested in the administration of any of my businesses as my father, how will he then control me if I become the governor. That is not possible sir. How independent are you, are you not surviving on your dad’s wealth? I say this often that those of us that are “lucky” I mean very lucky to have such a wealthy and affluence background are always treated badly in this society. People in our society always feel we don’t have anything upstairs, like they say Ladi is jobless. Ladi is a spoilt brat, and all manners of defaming talks. But I thank God.This same Ladi has a farm he started over 30 years ago with just less than 100 animals and today the same farm he personally oversees has grown to over 30,000 animals, with about 2000 employees. That is the same Ladi. Same Ladi conceived the idea of processing these animals and making them available on B to B or to end-users. He completed and commissioned a multi-billion naira processing plant built to international standards in February. One day, I will like to take you around our farms both the livestock and the citrus farm all in Iperu and Ode Remo. I am also into real estate and other businesses. My point is that, despite all these thriving ventures and businesses, people still insinuate that I survive on my father’s wealth! Well, I thank God I have a loving and doting father. But I tell you that Ladi is a successful farmer. He is doing very well with all what God has blessed him with. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com