The Peoples Democratic Party, Oyo State chapter, has asked the Deputy Governor, Rauf Olaniyan, to resign immediately, following his defection to the opposition party, the All Progressives Congress. The Publicity Secretary of the PDP in the state, Akeem Olatunji, said this in a statement issued on Monday. The party said Olaniyan should resign as the deputy governor “since he wilfully abandoned the political party and the votes that produced him as such on the party’s joint ticket.” The ruling party warned that it would not allow Olaniyan and his new party to enjoy the benefits of the votes cast for the PDP at the 2018 governorship election. He said the PDP leadership in the state, South-West, and national levels all intervened at different times to resolve whatever the situation fueling the suspected defection plan was but Olaniyan left. The statement read in part, “Our position is simple and very clear on this matter and as a matter of legal implication, the votes in any election in Nigeria are to political parties, and not candidates. “It is on this note that the PDP as the ruling party in the state is advising the Deputy Governor, Rauf Olaniyan, not to be carried away by the lies and deceits told him by a political neophyte such as ‘Mr jagba’ and be bamboozled into self-delusion of thinking he can be used as a tool to steal Oyo people’s mandate through the backdoor. “Failure to follow this advice and adhere strictly to it from the PDP which is the legitimate owner of every single vote cast by the electorate in the 2019 governorship election, the PDP shall not hesitate to immediately deploy every constitutional means to prevent this daylight robbery. “We’re determined and resolved to retrieve the party’s mandate being withheld illegally and unlawfully by the deputy Governor, Rauf Olaniyan because it belongs to the people of Oyo state who have handled same to the PDP.” However, the APC welcoming Olaniyan’s defection to the opposition party by the governorship candidate of the party, Senator Teslim Folarin, described this as a good development, saying it was unfortunate for the ruling party to lose such a political asset. Folarin, who said this in a statement warned the governor not to think about instigating the removal of the deputy governor because of the step he had taken. He said, “I want to state that His Excellency Olaniyan’s position as validly elected Deputy Governor of Oyo State is secured and constitutionally-backed; his tenure ends on May 29, 2023. Therefore, the ruling PDP must perish the impeachment agenda or further victimisation in any form. APC has zero tolerance for harassment, humiliation, and victimisation of any of her members. “H.E Olaniyan and his teeming supporters will not be the last to join the Oyo APC Rescue Mission 2023, many more PDP political office holders and their chieftains will announce their transfers in no distant future”. With personalities such as Olaniyan in the APC, PDP will suffer electoral humiliation in the 2023 general election. The strongest indicator for conducting an opinion poll is the uncontrollable exodus that has been hitting Oyo State PDP since 2019. “His Excellency Olaniyan’s defection to the APC is a morale booster for us ahead of the 2023 elections. We will give him a rousing welcome after the 2022 APC Presidential Primary Election scheduled to hold between Monday, June 6 and Tuesday, June 7, 2022.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com