The Eagles kicked off their 2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying campaign with a 2-1 win over Sierra Leone on Thursday in Abuja. JOHNNY EDWARD rates how the players fared… Francis Uzoho Pulled off a big save in the 15th minute when he somehow managed to get a finger to a shot that came off the bar. It was an important save as that would have doubled Sierra Leone’s lead. RATING: 6 Ola Aina The Torino right-back was involved in the winning goal when his cross from the right was cushioned down by Moses Simon for Osimhen to finish off. He was always dangerous when he surged forward. RATING: 6 Calvin Bassey He has fully settled down at left-back ahead of FC Porto ace Zaidu Sanusi. He delivered a couple of crosses, including one that Osimhen failed to put away after just six minutes of action. He has come to stay in the Eagles. RATING: 7 William Troost-Ekong He was decent in the heart of the defence but on a couple of occasions he was caught for pace by the athletic Leone Stars forwards. RATING: 5 Semi Ajayi The West Brom defender was tested by the daring Sierra Leonean forwards and almost put a foot wrong in either half, but somehow the opponents could not make hay. RATING: 5 Joe Aribo Drafted as defensive midfielder for the game despite his best position being offensive. Aribo tried so hard to influence the game from the deep lying playmaking role. RATING: 5 Alex Iwobi The Everton midfielder did well to draw the Eagles level soon after the team conceded a shock goal. It was a cool finish and he seemed to enjoy himself in the heart of the midfield. RATING: 8 Victor Osimhen Scored a poacher’s goal, which proved to be the winner on the day despite also missing a couple of chances. His commitment was again there for all to see. RATING: 8 Sadiq Umar A rare starter, the Almeria striker struggled to get into the game early. He was replaced at half time by Oghenekaro Etebo. RATING: 5 Moses Simon Provided the assists for both goals despite having a quiet game. Kept his game a little more simple, but still needs to work on his setpieces. RATING: 7 Samuel Chukwueze The Villarreal winger was below par in the game, missed a sitter after being set up by Osimhen early in the second half. RATING: 5 SUBS Oghenekaro Etebo His introduction at half time added steel to the midfield. He was cautioned for a professional foul three minutes after he came on. RATING: 5 Ademola Lookman Replaced the ineffective Chukwueze and should have scored the team’s third goal with his first touch but his shot was blocked by Steven Caulker. RATING: 5 Kenneth Omeruo Came on with nine minutes left to replace William Troost-Ekong, who suffered an injury. He did not do enough to be rated. Shehu Abdulahi Replaced Aina in the 83rd minute and did not do much to be rated. Terem Moffi The Lorient striker was subbed on for Victor Osimhen in additional time of the encounter and barely touched the ball. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com