Delta has celebrated its latest investment in New York with the opening of its new Terminal C at LaGuardia Airport to customers. Opened on June 4, 2022, the facility is a massive milestone in the $4bn programme to transform and modernise one of the airline’s key hubs. Delta Chief Executive Officer, Ed Bastian; New York Governor, Kathy Hochul, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and other New York public officials celebrated the milestone by debuting a gleaming check-in, security and baggage claim facility and a new 10-gate Concourse E at an official ribbon-cutting ceremony on Wednesday. Bastian said,“Today marks a new beginning for Delta customers and employees at our LaGuardia hub with the opening of this remarkable new terminal.” He added, “It’s been more than a decade since Delta committed to growing – and winning – in New York, and we’ve been unwavering in our efforts to become New York City’s No. 1 airline. It’s thanks to the 10,000 New York-based Delta people that we’ve been able to invest nearly $7bn in New York airports since 2010, deliver the products and experiences our New York customers deserve, and become part of the fabric of the New York community that means so much to so many of us.” Delta accelerated construction timelines during the pandemic to deliver this facility to New York customers even faster than anticipated. The airline will fully complete the entire four-concourse terminal by the end of 2024, almost two years earlier than originally planned. Ultimately, Terminals C and D will consolidate into one state-of-the-art facility, spanning 1.3 million square feet and featuring 37 gates across four concourses. According to a statement, Delta will continue to double down on its vision for the future of travel, building airports of the future that are comfortable, easy to navigate and part of an effortlessly connected journey, capable of absorbing and supporting new innovative experiences as technology evolves. Recently, Delta also revealed the completion of the first major phase of its $2.3B Sky Way at Los Angeles International Airport. “The transformation of a Whole New LaGuardia airport into a world-class destination that is internationally recognized for its beauty is an integral part of our bold vision for a new era in New York,” Hochul said. “The opening of Delta’s $4bn Terminal C will help provide a superlative passenger experience, easing connections and creating lasting impressions – and it joins the completed Terminal B which we celebrated just a few months ago. Congratulations to all who made today’s milestone possible as we finish creating a LaGuardia airport worthy of New York.” Terminal C is designed to deliver the efficiency and speed New York travelers often need, allowing them to navigate to and from their gates quickly and intuitively with the latest technologies such as hands-free bag drop, self-serve check-in and Digital ID screening capabilities. Customers will have the option to check-in via a spacious, centralised lobby, complete with 36 full-service check-in counters and 49 self-service kiosks, or bypass it altogether and utilize the direct-to-security drop-off option to head directly to one of the 11 security checkpoints. Additionally, all five entry points offer baggage drop for easy bag check. Terminal C is as visually impressive as it is efficient, featuring a world-class art program in partnership with the Queens Museum, showcasing custom pieces from six local artists that share a compelling story of New York’s immigrant history, its people and the importance of the city’s diversity. Digital art is another prominent design feature; with a massive digital art installation made of 34 lenticular panels, displayed overhead the security checkpoint, while a 238-foot digital back wall in the check-in lobby will feature TSA wait times, wayfinding in both English and Spanish as well as Sky Club volume and gate information Concourse E is the second of four new concourses to open, with ten new gates, nine of which will be operational on opening day, able to accommodate various narrowbody aircraft types as well as offer larger gate seating areas. Longtime Delta partner OTG will bring to life a variety of restaurant options, including Bubby’s Diner.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com