Lagos State Domestic and Sexual Violence Agency says 2,334 cases of domestic violence and four deaths were recorded in the state in the last six months. A statement made available to The PUNCH on Tuesday quoted the agency’s Supervisor, Virtual Response and Referral Service, Henry Okafor, as disclosing this in a presentation at the 5th anniversary programme of TQ Behavioral Health Limited, held in, Lagos. The theme of the anniversary was ‘Domestic violence in Nigeria through the Ages: Causes, Mental Health Consequences and Intervention.’ Okafor was quoted to have described domestic violence as a worrisome development in the state and environs. He explained that following incessant menace of domestic violence, the state government has commenced proactive measures to curb the cases, with advocacy engagement, which is also extended to schools He also disclosed that within last year, the state recorded 19 deaths, as well as 999 physical assaults at matrimonial homes, and 127 recorded cases of rape and defilement The statement said, “He said the government in same vein, to address the issue, introduced family therapy, introduced social media engagement, and empowered over 200 women who were victims of the violence. “The speaker, in his presentation emphasised, the need and importance to work on mental health, as part of solution to the menace, stressing relevance of intensive advocacy engagement across board among stakeholders.” The Executive Director, Operations TQ Behavioural Health, Olakunle Adeogun earlier in his welcome address said Behavioural Health  is the premier mental health and substance abuse facility in Nigeria with a mission to play a key role in total transformation of behavioural health care in Nigeria and beyond.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com