The National Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, has alleged plans to assassinate him and some of his aides. According to a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media, Ikenna Onuoha, he said the plan was hatched because the PDP National Working Committee acted on the recommendations of a committee that was set up to probe the May 26 primary in Ahiazu Mbaise State Constituency, Imo State. He alleged that some people, who were pained by the cancellation and rescheduling of a fresh primary, issued the threat to burn and kill him in a voice note. The statement partly read, “We have uncovered a discreet and underground plot by desperate politicians in Imo State to assassinate the National Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Samuel Nnaemeka Anyanwu, and his close aides. “In the said voice notes, the group, acting in support and on behalf one of top the politicians and in cohorts with their killer squads, vowed to shut down the Imo State Secretariat of the Independent National Electoral Commission, destroy other notable public structures and hack anyone directly or indirectly linked to Senator Anyanwu’s political camp. The voice notes (though still intact) will be made available when necessary. “While security operatives have been briefed of this orchestrated plot to assassinate the PDP National Secretary and his close aides, we, therefore, notify traditional rulers in Imo State, religious leaders, and the public of this development.” He alleged some desperate politicians in the state had used different plots, including blackmail and threats, to run him down since his emergence as PDP National Secretary. The Imo police were yet to receive a statement on the matter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com