A political movement under the aegis of The National Movement, piloted by a former Governor of Kano State, Musa Rabiu Kwankwaso has adopted the New Nigeria People’s Party to wrestle power from the All Progressives Congress and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party in the 2023 general elections. Others in the team with him included Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi of Kaduna State; former Minister of Youths and Sports Development, Solomon Dalung; popular Northern critic, Buba Galadima and other prominent Nigerians. The PUNCH reported that the NNPP was among 18 political parties registered by the Independent National Electoral Commission. The Interim National Chairman of the NNPP Caretaker Committee, John Ifeimeje, made the announcement during a press conference held after a marathon meeting in Abuja that lasted for over five hours. According to him, the movement decided to adopt the NNPP to rescue the country from bad governance orchestrated by the APC. He said the movement, since its unveiling last month, had received an overwhelming response from across the nation, adding that huge numbers of individuals and groups had been trouping to the TNM national secretariat to identify with and join the movement. Ifeimeje said, “While thanking the entire and supporters of the TNM, let me use this opportunity to present to the good people of Nigeria that, in pursuance of the objectives of the TNM, we have resolved and agreed to fuse ourselves to, and adopt a political platform in order to further our struggle to rescue our country from maladministration and nepotism, from incompetence and impunity, from insecurity and corruption, from poverty and squalor, from hopelessness and despondency, and from the attendant existential threats of disunity occasioned by unprecedented micro-nationalism that is being fuelled by the total absence of inclusiveness, fairness and justice in the manner our country is being ruled in recent years. “The TNM has therefore fused together with the NNPP. Members of the TNM have adopted and agreed to join the NNPP because of the overwhelming similarity between the party and TNM in terms of their aims and objectives, their mission and vision, their core values and core beliefs as well the shared patriotic tendencies of the leaders and members of both the NNPP and the TNM.” He added that with the fusion of the two platforms, TNM has already been consummated, adding that the party has already appointed caretaker committees at state and national levels ahead of its conventions. Members of the national caretaker committee of the party include Dr. Boniface Aniebonam as Chairman; Board of Trustees; Deputy chairman, Hunkuyi and Oladipo Olayoku, National Secretary. He said the committee has the mandate of conducting congresses and convention for the purpose of electing substantive executives. Ifeimeje said the party fixed march 30, 2022 for its national convention. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com