The Climate and Sustainable Development Network, on Wednesday, urged all relevant stakeholders to collaborate effectively to address climate change and other environmental challenges in the country. The Chairperson, Thematic Gender Group of the organisation, Dr Elizabeth Jeiyol, made the call in an interview with newsmen in Abuja. Jeiyol said that the collaboration would proffer solutions to integrate gender perspectives into climate, environmental and disaster risk reduction policies and programmes to promote and protect women. According to her, there is a need to mainstream gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow. “We must ensure solutions that integrate a gender perspective into climate, environmental and disaster risk reduction policies and programmes to defend, promote and protect women’s environmental human rights. “We should build the resilience of women and girls; strengthen, prevent and respond to disaster risk reduction mechanism to invest and improve in gender-specific statistics and data to amplify the relationship between gender and climate. “Today, we have the opportunity to call to action all stakeholders to put women and girls at the centre of planning and action to integrate gender perspectives that will shape national laws and policies. “We also have the opportunity now to re-think, re-frame and re-allocate resources to benefit from the leadership of women and girls as environmental defenders and climate activists to guide our nation. “Climate change is a threat multiplier. But women and especially young women, are solution multipliers,” she said. Jeiyol said that the 2022 International Women’s Day, which is celebrated every March 8, with a theme, “Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow,” highlights the contribution of women and girls worldwide. She said that the women and girls were leading the charge on climate change adaptation, mitigation and response towards building a sustainable future for all. “It is worthy to note that this year’s theme for International Women’s Day explores and mainstreams how women and girls should lead the charge on climate change adaptation, mitigation, and response around the world. “Women and girls are taking climate and environmental action at all levels but their voice and participation are under-supported, under-resourced, under-valued and under-recognised. “In continuing to examine the opportunities and challenges, we call on everyone to join hands in transforming and empowering women and girls to have a voice and be equal players in decision-making. “We should work on issues related to climate change and sustainability to achieve sustainable development greater gender equality,” she said. NAN