Actress, Mosunmola Adeleye, has said having to go bald for a movie role is a decision she does not regret taking. According to her, the critical acceptance of the film titled, Omolangidi, which was released last Monday, makes it worth it after all. She said, “I thank the Almighty God for the success of the movie. The acceptance, so far, has been encouraging. This shows that the movie is impactful and accepted by many.” She went on, “I had to go almost bald, save for little hair in the middle of my head to get the look of the character in the movie. It made me look weird for weeks and some people even got scared whenever they saw me on the streets. I never felt bad about it because I should be ready to interpret any role that comes my way as a professional. I kept the awkward look for weeks, then I later cut off the hair completely to restore my look. Anyway, the sacrifice has proved to be worth it eventually. I have every reason to thank God for the success of the movie.” Giving a synopsis of the movie, she said, “It is a story of a woman and her child, called Omolangidi. The woman was married but could not conceive. She then left her matrimonial home, and went to another town where she met another man. “She agreed on the condition of the man getting her pregnant. She later conceived, and to preserve the life of the child, the woman consulted some evil creatures who gave her a statuette called Omolangidi. The child came to being (from the statuette) and became very powerful. She did a lot of unusual things and at a point, her father got fed up and sent her and her mother packing. They (mother and child) left that town and went to a city where the child got involved with some politicians and things took a different turn for her.” Other actors in the movie are Taiwo Hassan (Ogogo), Yinka Quadri, Odunlade Adekola and Peju Ogunmola.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com