As part of efforts to improve financial services and limit the need for in-person banking, Abbey Mortgage Bank Plc has launched a mobile banking app that it says will provide customers with easy access to their accounts as well as the ability to perform seamless transactions. Speaking at the launch which was held in Lagos on Monday, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Abbey Mortgage Bank, Madu Hamman, said the need to evolve and embrace global best practices in the industry informed the development of the mobile banking app. He said, “We are delighted to be at the forefront of digital banking within the mortgage banking space. We recognise that these are very difficult times and our customers are looking for a partner that can help them navigate the challenges induced by the COVID-19 pandemic. “This is why we are constantly raising the bar and pushing the limits in service delivery by pioneering innovative solutions that make banking easier and faster for our customers”. “In keeping with its commitment to simplify homeownership, provide funding to qualified customers and reduce access times, Abbey is utilising the latest technology to consolidate the compendium of care and expand our vision to our customers’ mobile devices.” “This game changing application will facilitate smooth interaction between customers and stakeholders nationwide.  It also marks a big step in the democratization of mortgage banking in Nigeria and providing unprecedented homeownership access for Nigerians in all geographical locations.” Also, the General Manager, Information and Technology & Platforms, Abbey Mortgage Bank, Lolita Ejiofor, said the AbbeyMobile App was developed based on the need to provide a more seamless and convenient banking experience for both existing and new customers. He said, “The app would ensure a better experience is accessible for day-to-day banking services, including opening an account to save towards their equity for a mortgage (“Save to Own”), without the need to visit a branch. Of course, our friendly customer experience team members are readily available to assist.” The Group Head, E-business & Support, Felix Omodayo-Owotuga, said customers would also be rewarded with prizes for referrals made to the AbbeyMobile App, “as our goal is to consistently create value for our customers and to provide them with solutions that enable them to meet their strategic objectives.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com