Residents of Eti-Osa community has hailed the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Lagos Waste Management Authority, Ibrahim Odumboni, over his impact in solving environmental challenges emanating from deposition of non-biodegradables in water bodies and other inappropriate places Leader of the Eti-Osa community journal, Princess Aminat-Elegushi, during a visit to the LAWMA boss on Sunday, said that his impact on waste management would help mitigate environmental challenges of ocean surge often caused by improper disposal of non-biodegradables. She said, “Your strides in waste management will help avert the disaster of ocean surge caused by improper disposal of plastics, nylons, and other environmental challenges in Eti-Osa. Your leadership skill and contribution to the development of Lagos State cannot be overemphasized nor ignored, hence, we decided to celebrate you on the cover of the Eti-Osa community magazine’s special edition as a way of appreciating your impact on our community and your career achievements as a public administrator. “The journal is a community magazine published bi-monthly, solely dedicated to projecting the beauty, culture, heritage, and anesthetics of Eti-Osa and its people, all of which constitute psychological, educational, and environmental components of development.” The MD/CEO, who also spoke to pressmen during the visit, said that he had developed a 10-year blueprint for the sustainability of LAWMA operations. He said, “Since I resumed duties as the MD/CEO of LAWMA, I have introduced some innovations that have led to improved efficiency at LAWMA. I have used my business acumen to open up business opportunities for investors in waste management, developed a 10-year blueprint for the sustainability of LAWMA operations, provided capacity building for SMEs and other stakeholders in the solid waste management sector through the PSP development and empowerment program. “I also brought dynamism to solidify waste management in Lagos State with programmes and initiatives such as LAWMA Academy, Lagos Recycle Programme, for promotion of waste sorting from source and introduction of PAKAM application for waste intelligence, facilitated inclusion of waste management into primary school curriculum in the state in collaboration with the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board, and re-organised LAWMA for vision 2030 and infrastructural investment among others.” Odumboni, a financial expert and former Executive Director, Business Development, LAWMA, was appointed MD/CEO of the waste management agency by the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu in August 2020. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com