AIICO Insurance Plc has received the Information Security Management System certification from the British Standards Institution under ISO 27001:2013 standard, after a thorough assessment of the company’s information security management system. During an event to unveil the certification in Lagos, the company noted the standard is the highest international standard for information security management and a globally recognised information security standard developed and maintained by the International Organisation for Standardisation. AIICO explained, “Information Security Management defines and manages controls that an organisation needs to implement to ensure that it is protecting the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of its assets. It has become an absolute necessity for corporate entities to protect their assets in view of the ever-increasing cyber-security threats and vulnerabilities that are ravaging the world today, resulting in significant losses.” Commenting on the certification, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mr Babatunde Fajemirokun, said, “We are taking conscious steps towards the fulfilment of our vision of being the dominant insurer in Sub-Saharan Africa, leveraging technology. “While investing substantially in technology, we are also mindful of the associated risks and leaving no stone unturned for effective risk management; this is the reason we subjected our systems to BSI’s assessment.” He added, “Our valued customers and other stakeholders stand to benefit more from this endeavour. The implementation is towards a sustainable approach to business continuity, reinforcing our resilience against attacks and strengthening our ability to continue to fulfil our obligations now and in the future.” The company’s Chief Risk Officer, Mr Abiodun Adebanjo, stated, “We consider the certification as a reward for the collective efforts that has gone into embedding the information security risk management culture within the entire organisation, and a reflection of the premium we place on protecting our customers and business data.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com