Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal; and his Bauchi State counterpart, Bala Mohammed, on Thursday, obtained the presidential form of the Peoples Democratic Party for N40m each. A former Senate President, Pius Anyim, also obtained the form. However, different support groups purchased the form on behalf of the aspirants. The PUNCH reports that since putting its presidential form up for sale last week, the PDP has generated at least N200m as another former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, and a former Vice-President, Atiku Abubakar, have also obtained the form. It was observed that Anyim remained the only aspirant from the South-East to have obtained the form, while the four others are northerners. Saraki, while addressing journalists at his Maitama residence in Abuja shortly after a meeting with Tambuwal and Mohammed, said there was great hope for the PDP if it adopted a consensus candidate for the 2023 presidency. According to him, the meeting is part of the continuing consultation with party leaders and stakeholders to adopt consensus over zoning in arriving at a suitable presidential candidate. He said, “Some of the decisions we’ve taken today is that we’re going to reach out to other aspirants. We’ve already, of course, identified senior leaders of the party, including Waziri (Atiku) and other aspirants across the country, as well as stakeholders. Some of them were former colleagues and governors. “The major issue and message I want to pass across to Nigerians is that the country is larger and bigger than our interests. And we’re committed to the process. Because we believe that once we are united as the PDP, we’ll lay the foundation for a strong party that will help in delivering Nigerians from the challenges that they’re facing now.” Asked of the likely success of the consensus arrangement in the PDP, Saraki said, “Leadership must look at interests. But those interests should not be larger than the interest of the country. Here is a better opportunity to build a strong government. Yes, there are challenges. Of course, we’re all eminently qualified; even those who are not here, who we are going to meet with. “We’re going to meet with everybody across all zones of the country to reassure them to let us continue to discuss and meet and address those challenges. I’m hopeful that we will overcome those challenges. Because our desire for a better Nigeria is what is driving us.” Addressing notions that a consensus agenda might be a ploy to kick out Atiku, who recently declared for the presidency, Saraki said such insinuations did not mean good for the country. “We’re not shutting anybody out. As we said, we are going to see him (Atiku). We’re going to see other aspirants. There are other aspirants in the party. This is not about shutting anybody out. It’s about uniting everybody with the interest of this country. And you will see when we begin to move around, but we’re not limited to anybody,” the former Senate President added. He noted that the next session of the meeting would take place in Sokoto with Tambuwal as host. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com