The Chief Executive Officer, BusinessToday, Nkechi Naeche-Esezobor, says the organisation will bring together stakeholders in the insurance and pension industries to brainstorm on improved services to customers. She said in a statement that chieftains of the industries would speak during its upcoming annual conference with the theme ‘Prioritising excellent customer services in insurance and pension businesses’. The statement said the Chairman, National Insurance Commission, Chief Emmanuel Nwosu, and Group Managing Director, African Alliance Insurance Plc, Mrs Joyce Ojemudia, are among the dignitaries who will speak at the sixth BusinessToday annual conference. She added that the Chairman, Nigerian Insurers Association and Group Managing Director, Cornerstone Insurance Plc, Ganiyu Musa, will chair the event, while the Chief Consultant of B. Adedipe Associates Limited, Dr. Biodun Adedipe is expected to be the keynote speaker. According to the statement, the Commissioner for Insurance, National Insurance Commission, Mr Sunday Thomas, and the Director-General, National Pension Commission, Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar, have confirmed their attendance at the conference. It added that the President of Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria, Wale Odutola; Managing Director, Access Pension Fund Custodian Limited,  Mrs Idu Okwuosa- Okeahialami;  Chairman, Boff Insurance Brokers Limited, Babajide Agbeja; former Director- General, Lagos State Pension Commission, Mrs Folashade Onanuga; among others, have also confirmed their presence at the event. Other groups expected at the programme are the National Union of Pensioners; NURTW Ikeja branch; Keke Drivers Association, Ikeja branch; Trade Union Congress; Nigerian Labour Congress; Drivers under the Indriver App; Students of insurance; Nigerian Port Authority; Association of Senior Staff of Banks Insurance and other Financial Institutions among others. “The annual conference comes up annually to deliberate on and proffer solutions to issues that affect the insurance and pension markets in Nigeria,” Naeche-Esezobor  said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com