No fewer than 26 suspected oil thieves have been arrested by personnel of the Nigerian Navy. Also, the Navy said a vessel on its watch list, MT Queen of Peace, has been impounded alongside a long wooden boat and a tug boat. The Navy, in a statement by its spokesperson, Commodore Adedotun Ayo-Vaughan, on Thursday said seven of the suspected oil thieves were Beninoise while others are Nigerians. He explained that 21 of the suspects, a vessel and a wooden boat were apprehended during operation recently launched by the Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, and codenamed Exercise Obangame. Five suspected oil thieves were arrested by the Nigerian Navy Ship Pathfinder at the Naval Base in Port Harcourt and handed over to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. The statement read, “On Day 5 of the exercise, the Nigerian Navy arrested MT Queen of Peace, a vessel of interest for over a year. “The vessel was last sighted at the Trans Amadi Jetty in Port Harcourt, before she switched off her Automatic Identification System and proceeded on three weeks of unknown activities but was successfully intercepted South West of Bonny Fair Way Buoy on March 15, 2022. “The dark activities of the vessel were monitored by the Nigerian Navy Falcon Eye Surveillance System and Nigerian Navy Ship Ekulu was detached from the Exercise Obangame to intercept and arrest the vessel. “Subsequent interrogation revealed that the vessel with 14 crew members onboard was laden with an unspecified quantity of crude oil. “Additionally, the vessel was unable to provide appropriate documentation from the point of loading as well as documents and authority of her intended operations. These therefore led to the arrest of the vessel and she is currently at Nigerian Navy Forward Operating Base Bonny for further investigation and possible hand-over for prosecution. “Exercise Obangame Express 2022 has also seen the arrest of seven Beninoise in a long wooden boat fully loaded with unspecified petroleum products from questionable sources. “Meanwhile, as part of the relentless effort of the Nigerian Navy in fighting maritime illegalities, Nigerian Navy Ship Pathfinder at Naval Base Port Harcourt also arrested and handed over five suspected oil thieves with a diesel – laden barge and a tug boat to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on 14
March 2022. ” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com