A specialist in Paediatric Nutrition, Gastroenterology and Hepatology at the University of Calabar, Professor Emmanuel Ekanem, has warned breastfeeding mothers against consuming alcohol, noting that it does not increase breast milk production. He said such act can potentially harm the baby as alcohol can easily pass from the woman’s bloodstream into the breast milk. Prof. Ekanem advised women that have difficulty expressing breast milk to take lots of alcohol-free fluids. “Fluids generally would help in the production of breast milk,” he added. The former Chief Medical Director, University of Uyo Teaching Hospital, also warned pregnant women against alcohol consumption, noting that it can cause a condition known as Foetal Alcohol Syndrome, which impacts the overall development of a child. According to Mayo Clinic, Fetal Alcohol Syndrome is a condition in a child that results from alcohol exposure during the mother’s pregnancy. It noted that the irreversible condition causes brain damage and growth problems. “The problems caused by fetal alcohol syndrome vary from child to child, but defects caused by fetal alcohol syndrome are not reversible. There is no amount of alcohol that’s known to be safe to consume during pregnancy. If you drink during pregnancy, you place your baby at risk of fetal alcohol syndrome,” it warned. Prof. Ekanem noted that while fluids generally can help a breastfeeding mother to produce more milk, there could be risks if the fluid is laced with alcohol. He said, “Fluids generally help women produce more milk, but fluids that contain alcohol are not advisable. This is because alcohol crosses from the bloodstream into the breast milk very easily. “Fluids will help the woman produce breast milk more. It is good for a lactating mother to take lots of fluids but it doesn’t have to be alcohol.  Alcohol crosses into the breast milk and I don’t think you want your baby to be drunk.” On the degree of danger alcohol-laced breast milk poses to a baby, Ekanem said, “whatever the alcohol does to the mother, it will also do the same to the newborn. He added, “It can make the baby’s blood sugar level to drop and can as well affect the nervous system. I don’t advise a lactating mother to drink alcohol while breastfeeding.” Prof. Ekanem recommended water, non-alcoholic beverages and fruit juice for breastfeeding mothers. He also advised them to eat soups, fruits and observe plenty of rest to help them express more breast milk. Meanwhile, children’s exposure to alcohol through breast milk may cause a comparable drop in their cognitive abilities, a study published in the Peer-reviewed journal, Paediatrics, revealed. According to the researchers from Macquarie University in Australia, the study is the first to examine associations between alcohol exposure through breast milk and cognition in children. The authors in an interview with CNN, said they obtained data from a longitudinal study, a continuous study of data over a period of time, of 5,107 Australian infants who were recruited in 2004 and evaluated every two years until age 11. They noted that their mothers were asked about their alcohol consumption from a modified questionnaire used by the World Health Organization.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com