Asides from choosing the All Progressives Congress’ next set of substantive leaders, some delegates took the Presidential campaign of their preferred aspirants to the Eagles Square, Abuja, venue of the 2022 APC National Convention on Saturday. Our Correspondent who was on the ground observed two of such groups; a pro-Emefiele presidency group under the auspices of Emefiele Solidarity Vanguard which asked APC leaders to allow the Governor of the Central Bank, Dr Godwin Emefiele, to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in 2023. Addressing journalists at the Convention ground, coordinator of the group Daniel Enyi, said they were at Eagles Square to “celebrate the anchor borrower’s scheme of the federal government which has led to the agricultural revolution, the monetary policy that has stablise the economy, the Forex Policy, the transformation of the automobile industry, the ease of doing business, social investment program and many more. The federal government is lifting Nigeria out of poverty. “Today, we say thank you to the Governor of the Central Bank Nigeria, Dr Godwin Emefiele for his steadfastness and patriotism in discharging his duty as the head of our apex Bank. “As the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari is coming to an end, the Nation needs a very strong will, and ideologically transformed personality with justifiable evidence of patriotic services like Dr. Godwin Emefiele as the next President of Nigeria.” Also spotted on the Convention ground was the embattled Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, who was flanked by a huge crowd of supporters wielding a banner inscribed with “Umahi for President”. Umahi who did not speak to our Correspondent circled the Convention ground with his supporters. Also on the Convention ground was an Osinbajo support group, Coalition 4 National Progress, which took a different approach, handing out pamphlets titled ‘The Hallmark of Excellent Leadership’. The pamphlet bore chronicles of the vice president’s history, education and political career. It also bore testimonials by various local and foreign leaders including the National leader of the APC, Bola Tinubu, who said of Osinbajo “Since I knew him, he has not changed one bit in brilliance, commitment to causes he believes in selflessness and loyalty to the nation.” Other support groups were seen wielding the banners bearing the images and slogans endorsing the former Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu, for the country’s highest office. The PUNCH had earlier reported that on January 10, 2022, Tinubu informed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), of his ambition to run for the top seat ahead of the 2023 elections. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com