The Senate, on Wednesday, passed the Proceeds of Crime (Recovery and Management) Bill, 2020. The passage of the bill followed the consideration and adoption of a report by the Joint Senate Committee on Anti-Corruption and Financial Crimes; and Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters. The bill is titled ‘A Bill for an Act to Make Comprehensive Provisions for Seizure, Confiscation, Forfeiture and Management of Properties Derived from Unlawful Activities; and for Related Matters.’ Section 42 of the proposed Proceeds of Crime (Recovery and Management) Act prescribes that, “(1) Where a person has an interest in property, as a joint owner, his death after a preservation order is made in respect of the interest does not, while the order is in force, operate to vest the interest in the surviving joint owner or owners, and the preservation order shall continue to apply to the interest, as if the person had not died. “(2) A forfeiture order made in respect of the interest referred to in subsection (1) of this section shall apply, as if the order took effect in relation to the interest immediately before the person died. “(3) Subsection (1) of this section does not apply to the interest in property where a preservation order ceases to apply to that interest without a forfeiture order being made in respect of that interest.” The bill, when signed into law, would establish a ‘Proceeds of Crimes (Recovery and Management) Agency,’ with Section 4 granting the agency the powers to take over and assume responsibility for the proper and effective management of properties recovered from cases relating to proceeds of crimes or unlawful activities. The proposed agency would also set standards to be applied in the handling of properties and ensure the effective preservation of recovered properties, which may be required in the investigation and prosecution of cases relating to proceeds of crime or unlawful activities.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com