The Chairman, Sona Group of Companies, Arjan Mirchandani, speaks on the importance of infrastructure development in the government’s industrialisation drive in this interview with Edidiong Ikpoto. You have lived in Nigeria for about 45 years, what is your view of the economy today? I know Nigeria probably from the days of Independence. The country has come a long way with a lot of changes economically and the intervention of the military.  Unfortunately, the sudden boom in oil really derailed a number of other areas like mining, rubber plantation and all sorts of other plantations. Nigeria was exporting cocoa and today, you can’t find cocoa that much again, which Nigeria still have the potential. Again, the government must support in terms of fertilizer because it is necessary for the population to be fed locally. You cannot continue to buy food from outside the country. This is because when you don’t have enough foreign exchange, that will be the end of everything. We in the industry find things extremely difficult when the Central Bank of Nigeria does not give us allocation for raw materials. It is not everything that is produced here but we have the packaging here. It is not possible for us to do everything locally. No country has self-sufficiency, countries still rely on other countries for some imports. This is how things can work. The Nigeria government should ensure it supports the industries with raw materials whenever they are not available. If this is not done, the industries will die. For an instance, for the past one month, we don’t have gas. Shell said no pressure and we are handicapped, unfortunately. In what ways has government policy either supported the present situation or against it? Inflation has affected a lot of things and Nigerians cannot survive on salaries again due to the situation. The cost of transportation has gone high and a worker on a salary of #30,000 cannot survive on it again. This is just my opinion because if I don’t love Nigeria I cannot live here for that long. What is it that the government is not getting right in the diversification of the economy? Many a time, talk is cheap. My belief is that infrastructures will help in the industrialisation drive. You go to the port, and there is no space. The management of the port has to put in more seriousness. Sometimes, the containers are delayed for one month and I believe there are different areas where the government can help. The government can connect a rail system to carry the containers from the port and other things to help clear your goods much quicker from the port. This will reduce the cost and burden on the poor people. I remember that we used to pay about N100,000 to carry a container but today it costs between N600,000 and N900,000. Now that diesel is going up, it (the rate) may go higher. What are the options for the government in terms of diversification of the economy? The port has to be nicely handled. They must develop different rail routes to take the goods out of the port and distribute them to different locations so as to draw the traffic out of the port for clearing in different locations. However, the government is doing its best in recent times; I have seen a lot of developments. The government is connecting new bridges and rail systems for public transportation which is excellent. This is because the private transport system cannot take all the people, it also causes traffic on the road. Government must know that the train system is a key. The existing ones are working but they are not enough with the population of over 200 million Nigerians. When we look at things economically, the port is very key because we are exporting. However, we sometimes find things difficult when our goods are lying down at the port for two months. So, the port is very important in terms of export, because we have a lot of agricultural products that can be processed locally and exported. The government needs to improve on infrastructures. The government also needs to improve on the availability of gas. It is important for us to have a continuous gas supply whereby we can sustain and reduce costs for the people.  If we cannot meet their pockets, we will find it difficult in the future. The government needs to look at different areas around export because there is prospect there. Chocolate which is a product of cocoa is worth billions of dollars annually, how do you think government can use its resources to earn this foreign exchange? We have a company called Sona Foods where we produce biscuits and have a chocolate factory where we utilise 100 per cent local cocoa. We have other industries in Nigeria that are processing cocoa and they are excellent. The government needs to look at why chocolate and biscuits are imported to this country because we are using local raw materials and local labour both to create jobs and wealth in the economy. Government policy needs to show that when you are producing local goods when you import the same goods or similar, you are not giving the local company the opportunity to grow. What should government do to make agriculture attractive to young people? We have industries that we have created on 100 per cent local raw materials. We buy sorghum, corn and so many other products and produce locally and supply companies like Lux, Nigerian Breweries, Guinness and the likes. We produce a replacement of sugar so young people should be given more opportunities to play crucial roles in the agricultural sector because there is the demand. We are also into agriculture. We have a coconut plantation where we produce high-breed coconut. We are also going for soya, where we can produce locally. The problem is that government is very slow when it comes to giving out the land. We got a piece of land from the Ogun State government but we are still struggling to get the document. It has been over two years now and we cannot go because I have to be sure that we have the right to get to the land. What is your view on the CBN Anchor Borrowers Programme? They have good programmes but it’s difficult to access from the security angle. For an instance, if you go to the Bank of Industry to borrow, the bank will ask you to bring a bank guarantee. The banks will not want to give you any guarantee because if the fund does not come back, they will have to pay it back. The banks also want security so it’s not so easy to get them the security. So, if they are creating such a programme and sometimes it is not flexible, such a programme may not work. What policy should the government put in place to encourage the exportation of processed or semi-processed products? The government should ensure that raw materials are not exported. They need to make sure that there is sufficient food for local consumption and bring the cost down. If the salaries that people are earning are low, there should be a number of other areas that they can be sustained. If costs are high, people will find it difficult to survive. Processed goods should be exported, and not necessarily raw materials. How are your companies surviving in terms of the power supply? Power is very key but you cannot put everything on the government. It is important to note that any developing country cannot have everything. We put up a gas turbine. We drilled the borehole to get our water and utilize the water for sustainability. We have to do a lot of these things because the government cannot provide everything 100 per cent. What is your organization’s staff strength? We are looking at direct labour of about 6,000 people apart from the indirect labour. What will be your advice to any potential foreigner who wants to invest in Nigeria? They should understand Nigeria very well before they think of investing. They need to do their feasibility studies very well. The market is there, the population is there but not so easy a market. There are a number of opportunities everywhere and I will recommend to any foreigner to explore 100 per cent local raw materials. This is because if they base their production on the importation, they will lose their investment.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com