Spanish Segunda club, Almeria, are adamant and have told Sevilla that only €60m will see them part ways with their talismanic striker, Sadiq Umar, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. The Nigeria international was all over the Spanish media on Wednesday as interests from Sevilla swelled. According to Spanish tabloid, estadiodeportivo, Sevilla sporting director, Monchi, is believed to be a huge fan of the former Partizan Belgrade man and is ready to seal a deal quickly for the Nigerian ahead of other interested clubs. Several reports also claim La Liga giants Barcelona and English Premier League club Newcastle have shown interest in the striker. Since his return from the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations, Almeria are back to winning ways, having struggled without their key player. They are now back in the second position, following four consecutive victories, with Sadiq scoring five goals and providing two assists in those games. Sevilla failed in their bid to sign the 25-year-old during the January transfer window after Almeria turned down their offer of €20m for the striker. With Sevilla eager to try again ahead of next season, the website wrote that Almeria are standing firm on a fee of €60m, the player’s release clause. “According to Sport, Monchi ‘s intention is none other than to get ahead of his competitors and close his contract as soon as possible,” the website wrote. “(It’s) something that, however, will not be easy for De San Fernando, at least not cheap. And it is that with a contract until 2025, Almería’s intention is to have Sadiq next year in the First Division, as indicated by those around him to ESTADIO Deportivo. “In fact, the response of the Indál club and its Saudi owners whenever a club has asked about the Nigerian striker is to refer to his termination clause of €60m. “Sevilla FC already tested him last summer, with Barcelona being one of the clubs that tested him in January. From England, they even offered up to €20m for the striker, some interests that were never accepted by Almería, which is intransigent in this regard.” Sadiq has scored 13 goals and 9 assists in 24 Liga Smartbank games this season and faces Zaragoza next in the league.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com