The Lagos State Government has said the Spelling Bee competition will bring out the best in learners in Lagos. A statement signed by the Director-General, Office of Education Quality Assurance in the Lagos State Ministry of Education, Abiola Seriki-Ayeni, said that the grand finale of the 20th edition of the Lagos State Annual Spelling Bee Competition for public school students would hold on 16th and 17th March 2022, at the Adeyemi Bero Auditorium, Alausa, Ikeja. The statement read in part, “This year’s competition will bring out the best in participants and also justify the State Government’s strides at promoting excellence in the education sector in Lagos.” It explained that the two-day competition would witness students from 57 primary and secondary schools vying for cash prizes and scholarship awards, adding that the winner and runners-up in the secondary school category would serve as one-day Governor and members of the State Executive Council respectively. “The Spelling Bee project was pioneered in year 2001 by the former First Lady of Lagos State, Senator Mrs Oluremi Tinubu, through New Era Foundation, with the aim of promoting excellence, healthy academic rivalry, good reading habits and public speaking proficiency among students in government schools in Lagos State. “We acknowledge the partnership of the private sector towards the successful hosting of Spelling Bee competitions, including 7up Bottling Company, Kessington Adebukunola Adebutu Foundation and United Bank for Africa for partnering with the State to host this year’s edition of the event. “These brands have magnanimously toed the line of corporate social responsibility towards the delivery of quality education and talent building in line with Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s T.H.E.M.E.S. agenda on Education and Technology,” it read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com