The Bauchi State Police Command has arrested a constable, Lukman Madaki, for stabbing two members of a vigilance group to death in the Yelwa area of the state. Youths in the area, who were angered by the action of the policeman, were said to have staged a protest and barricaded Dass road from Elim Church junction to the Yelwa Divisional Headquarters, leaving road users stranded. The angry protesters were seen hurling stones and other objects at a team of policemen deployed to the scene to maintain law and order as they demanded the release of the erring policeman, who was attached to the Sports Office of the Bauchi State Police Command. The Police Public Relations Officer, Ahmed Wakil, who confirmed the incident to City Round in a telephone interview, said the suspect had an encounter with a patrol team comprising of the Nigeria Police and members of the Vigilante and Peace Committee, and stabbed three of the vigilantes with a jack knife in a bid to resist arrest. Wakil said two of the victims died from the injuries sustained. “It was quite an unfortunate incident. The command confirmed a case of culpable homicide which happened at 10:30pm. As you are aware, the Commissioner of Police ordered all DPOs and Area Commanders to constantly clamp down on red zones that tend to give residents sleepless nights. He (Madaki) was there at a black spot at Rafin Zurfi. An encounter occurred between him and the patrol team. “During the encounter with them, he used a jack knife and injured three among them. The police later rushed the three people namely: Nazif Mohammed (19) of Yelwan Lebra, Abdulmalik Mohammed (22) of Sabon Gidan Yelwa and Sadik (second name yet unknown) (23) also of Sabon Gidan Yelwa, to the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Teaching Hospital, where a medical doctor certified two of them dead. “The Commissioner of Police has directed that the officer should be arrested. Moreover, the Commissioner of Police has sympathised with the victims’ families. He is sending his condolences to their families and to the people of Bauchi state,” he added.  Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com