THE CIO Club Africa has said it is set to host its inaugural summit which focuses on the role of digitalisation in economic growth and transformation. At a press briefing on Tuesday in Lagos, the event organisers, Edniesal Consulting Ltd, said the summit would enhance strategic communication and networking ease among IT companies and technology hubs. The Chief Executive Officer, Edniesal Consulting Ltd and founder, the CIO Awards and CIO Club Africa, Abiola Laseinde, stated, “The CIO club Africa is the offspring of the CIO awards. It is the strategic platform linking all the key stakeholders with the IT ecosystem together to discuss and collaborate on the digital transformation agenda for Africa. “The CIO awards started in 2020. The first of its kind in Nigeria. It started at a very critical point in our history, during the pandemic, we thought as a group of people in different industries to put some spotlight on these senior IT executives across the industry. “The CIO club has various objectives. It has strategic pillars around advocacy, learning and development, contributing towards the growth of the economy, and it also has all the people element for us to help the ecosystem grow, develop, and add to the digital transformation journey of our continent.” The organisers added, “The CIO Club Africa and Edniesal Consulting limited are holding an inaugural summit: The CIO Club Africa Summit. “This is the first of its kind in the Information Technology space in Nigeria and by extension, the Central West Africa countries. The strategic summit would take place on the 25th of March 2022 at the Civic Centre at 9 am with the theme – The Role of Digitalisation in Transforming the Economy. “Worthy of note to be present as speakers at the CIO Club Africa Summit are high-profile government personnel who understand in-depth the roles of the CIOs, CTOs, CDOs, CISOs in the economy and these include Managing Directors, Country Managers, and Chief Executive Officers in the private sector who keep making their mark in the technology space.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com