FOR years, disharmony and industrial action by tertiary institutions-based workers’ unions have become a bogey that continually haunts Nigeria’s education system. Among others, threats and actual strikes by the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics, Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union, Joint Action Committee of the Non-academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions and Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities, have perpetually disrupted the academic calendar. Things are really looking gloomy. ASUU’s latest declaration of a four-week “total and comprehensive” strike after many months of fruitless negotiations between the Federal Government and the union was the trigger for other tertiary institutions-based unions to issue strike threats. The SSANU President, Muhammed Ibrahim, said, “It is resumption. Remember we suspended the strike to allow the government to implement the Memorandum of Action.” On its part, the ASUP President, Anderson Ezeibe, recently asked the members of the union to get ready to “stop work at any time when the need arises.” Also, the National Executive Council of COEASU, barely 24 hours after the declaration of industrial strike by ASUU, stated that the union “would take necessary actions as permissible by the Trade Union Act if the government fails to do the needful.” While the Federal Government is yet to find a solution to the warning strike by ASUU, it will be a depressing situation if other tertiary institutions-based unions are allowed to make good their threats. This may lead to a total collapse of the tertiary education sector in the country. The main cause of work stoppages is the Memoranda of Understanding reached separately between the Federal Government and most of the unions since 2009. The major issues in the MOUs are the revitalisation of public tertiary institutions through consistent adequate funding; payment of earned academic allowances to lecturers; settlement of promotion arrears; and the renegotiation of the 2009 ASUU-FG agreement. These disruptions are a patent blight on Nigeria’s weak education system. The outcome is plain: in annual global rankings, Nigeria’s tertiary institutions score woefully. In the 2022 (global) Webometrics rankings for universities, the three leading institutions in Nigeria finished in distant positions: the University of Ibadan (1196); Covenant University (1314) and the Obafemi Awolowo University (1503). This is a poor advertisement, a food for thought. This harsh reality cannot be wished away. A 2019 survey by global financial consultants, PricewaterhouseCoopers, laid bare the sorry state of tertiary education in Nigeria. The PwC report put federal university funding budget at 2.0 percent of GDP in 2013, the highest in the past decade. Things have since declined sharply. In 2014, it was 1.4 percent to GDP, 1.2 percent in 2015, 0.7 percent in 2016 and an abysmal 0.6 percent in 2017. Irrationally, the regime of the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the imprudent National Assembly have been establishing more universities and upgrading polytechnics to university status to satisfy their base political interests. It is appalling that the Buhari regime, like its predecessors, does not demonstrate commitment to the implementation of agreements. Perceptively, it is becoming obvious that in dealing with labour-related issues, the only language the government understands as alleged by the unions, is strike. Consequently, the country is being inundated with industrial actions by different unions. The Nigerian ruling political elite has not seen it fit to give the social sector – especially education and health – the utmost priority it deserves. This is partly because members of that class send their own wards to school abroad. The UNDP says that translating economic growth “into enhanced human capabilities lies at the heart of the development problem.” There is yawning contradiction. While the government has continually complained of depleted resources when citing reasons for the unfulfillment of the agreements it made with the unions, the same government, relying on the legislature, has continued to establish many more tertiary institutions despite the dilapidated state of the existing ones. From the various bills under consideration in the parliament, the Ninth NASS is pushing the establishment of 203 new universities. This is laughable. The latest strike – described as a resumption of the one suspended last year by ASUU and threats of strikes by other unions – has thrown traumatised students and their parents/guardians into another round of agony. The fate of the future generation is left hanging, with all those who are supposed to be concerned playing the ostrich. The Nigerian government created the mess, it should clear it up. It should honour the agreements it signed and repeatedly reneged on. Successive governments have not made a determined effort to solve the crisis by sourcing and meeting instalment payments to clear the funding backlog they promised. The provocative utterances of the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, and of the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, have continued to portray them as insensitive and poor negotiators. Through their haughty words and actions, they fuel the tensions between the government and the unions. The Federal Government should behave responsibly by implementing the agreements it entered with the unions. Tertiary institutions should be adequately funded, and commensurate wages should be paid to the lecturers. ASUU, ASUP, COEASU and SSANU and the government should work out a formula to release the revitalisation fund to the system over an agreed number of years, even if it means that the government should look beyond the normal budgeting appropriation process to raise money for this purpose. The federal and state governments should suspend establishing new public higher institutions until the current mess has been sorted out. The unions should adopt this as a major plank of their advocacy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com