A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has described the party’s new National Chairman, Mr Abdullahi Adamu, as an experienced administrator and statesman. Tinubu, said this in a statement issued by his media adviser, Tunde Rahman, on Monday, to congratulate the newly-elected members of the APC National Working Committee. The PUNCH had reported that Adamu emerged as the National Chairman at the APC National Convention held on March 26 in Abuja. Tinubu said, “I join every member of our party in congratulating the newly elected members of the National Working Committee. Our successful National Convention demonstrated the resilient fiber of our party in our collective objective to establish democratic good governance and economic prosperity in Nigeria. President Muhammadu Buhari deserves commendation for his leadership. “Deserving citation are members of the Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee for carrying out the vital assignment of planning and conducting the March 26 National Convention. We acknowledge the calibre of men and women elected to the leadership positions of the party as pledged. We encourage them to work in unity toward our common purpose. In this way, victory for the party and excellent governance for the Nigerian people shall be assured. “Congratulations to the new National Chairman, Alhaji Abdulahi Adamu, who like me, is a team builder and former governor. He also is an experienced administrator and able statesman. His wisdom and ability will be great assets to the APC in the crucial moments ahead. The future stability, progress and prosperity of Nigeria depends substantially on the democratic commitment and efficacy of the APC. We must all come together to ensure the party keeps faith with its promise to the Nigeria people by creating a more prosperous, secure and just society for all.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com