An Abuja-based human rights lawyer, Pelumi Olajengbesi, has said that Singer, Timi Dakolo, should not be criticised for doing his job as a musician. The lawyer stated this in a statement titled, ‘Timi Dakolo’s Performance at Atiku’s Presidential Declaration’. Dakolo has been flayed on social media since Wednesday when he performed his hit song, Great Nation, at the ceremony where former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, officially declared his interest in the 2023 presidential race. Many Nigerians on social media have since called Dakolo out for hobnobbing with a politician and compared his singing to that of former ex-Nigerian internationals national leader of the All Progressives Congress chieftain, Bola Tinubu, last weekend. But Olajengbesi, in his statement, said Dakolo should not be “cancelled” for simply doing his job as a musician. The statement partly read, “For instance, Timi Dakolo’s performance at Atiku Abubakar’s Presidential Declaration event. It was, on the face and substance of it, a job where he got the roles to perform his songs to the pleasure of all in attendance while perhaps earning for himself, family and workers (props, back-up singers and other coteries of a singer’s craft) much need sustenance. It was a job! And one not unlike that done by the Master of Events, stage technicians, event planner and caterer in the whole programme. “It is a business with no bearing on the nature of the event itself, and any attempt, to sum up the performance of one’s duty as a form of support for the candidacy of a political actor must be backed up with irrefutable facts. “In Timi Dakolo’s case, for example, how does a song about love and women resound with political rhetoric in support of Atiku? How does he suffer criticism for doing the simple job of performing his song while giving even more visibility to his brand while the event planners, caterers and ushers do not, in full or half measure, endure equal suspicion of working to advance a political candidacy? Let people do their job! “It is an entirely different affair if such a musician or event planner is at the event announcing their support for the candidacy of a political actor and using their craft to clearly advance same through jingles or choruses. This is clearly distinguishable from an artist paid to entertain the guests of a political actor. “It is not a bad thing to be loved for one’s craft and be patronised accordingly without the hues and labours of political adoption. In much the same way a TV or Radio station will conveniently air sponsored ads, events and programs by the PDP, APC or any other political parties because it is their business, musicians must be allowed to run their businesses as deemed fit. Thus, the earlier we wean ourselves of wilful hatred and hypocrisy, the better for our society.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com