The Indigenous People of Biafra has said the group is not recruiting new members for the Eastern Security Network and therefore warned youths to be careful as those behind the recruitment are not genuine members of IPOB. The group also alleged that some unscrupulous elements were planning to recruit cultists and criminals as fake ESN members to further terrorise the people in the region. The spokesman for the group, Emma Powerful, made this known in a statement made available to journalists on Thursday. The statement read, “We the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, wish to alert the world, particularly Biafrans, that some unscrupulous elements in our land are recruiting cultists and criminals as fake ESN members to further terrorize our people in Biafraland. “Some wicked politicians and greedy individuals in Biafraland are behind the evil agenda to create confusion and unleash mayhem on innocent people in our land. The political class is colluding with these people to sponsor the recruitment of criminals as fake ESN in their desperation to implicate IPOB and ESN. “We are warning the youths that IPOB is not recruiting new intakes for ESN and they should be careful and mindful because those behind this recruitment are not genuine members of IPOB or ESN security outfit.” “If you are involved in this fake recruitment process you are on your own, and be ready to bear the consequences. The leadership of IPOB has not asked anybody to recruit people for ESN. “The general public should know that ESN is not recruiting, and should run away from being tricked by fraudsters. Anybody involved in any form of recruitment for ESN is an impostor and working for the enemies,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com