Over 160 cases of human rights violations and police brutality have been taken to the ECOWAS Court by Avocats Sans Frontiers, also known as Lawyers Without Borders, its Country Director, Angela Uzoma-Iwuchukwu, has said. The organisation said the decision became necessary because of the increase in the spate of human rights violations by the police and other security agencies. Uzoma-Iwuchukwu stated this in Abuja during a situation room meeting organised for the police and civil society organisations with the theme: ‘Strengthening the national actors’ capacities and advocation for ending serious human rights violation in Nigeria.’ “So far, we have received between 2019, when the projected started, 160 cases of rights violations by the police and other security agencies. Out of that number, 110 have been taken up for litigation at the ECOWAS Court,” she said. Uzoma-Iwuchukwu explained that the meeting was aimed at fortifying the relationship between the security agencies and the public, putting an end to extrajudicial killings and unnecessary detention. According to her, the organisation has established an office domiciled in the Nigeria Police Force, where complaints of rights violation could be lodged for investigation and prosecution. “We are here for the second police and civil society organisation situation room which is set up on the platform of the SAFE Project. “The SAFE Project is an EU and AFP-funded project aimed at promoting human rights and addressing issues of torture and extrajudicial killings, arbitrary detention in Nigeria. “It is to promote human rights. It is a project that is implemented by Avocats Sans Frontiers. We are here to create a platform for the police and civil societies to collaborate to promote respect for human rights in a democratic society and accountability for human rights violations,” the director stated.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com