Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency on Wednesday said it seized over 1.9 million tablets of tramadol and codeine imported into the country from Pakistan and the United Kingdom through the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos State. The agency, in a statement by its spokesperson, Femi Babafemi, said of the total seizures, 40 cartons of co-codamol, a brand of paracetamol, with codeine, were seized from a freight agent, Eraikhueme Ehis. “The seizure, made on Thursday, March 10, translates to 349,800 tablets, weighing 336 kilogrammes. The consignment came from London, UK, as a consolidated cargo through the SAHCO import shed of the airport. The consolidated cargo was declared as personal effects, but was discovered to contain some medicaments. “In the same vein, not less than 1,584,000 tablets of tramadol were recovered on Tuesday, March 15, by NDLEA operatives in collaboration with aviation security and Customs service personnel at the airport. “The seizure includes 17 cartons of 250mg tramadol, branded as ‘Tamra’ weighing 669.70kg and five cartons of 225mg tramadol, under the brand name, ‘Royal’ with a gross weight of 217.15kg. “The psychotropic substance, which was imported into the country from Pakistan, was smuggled through the airport tarmac using one of the vehicles of the Skyway Aviation Handling Company and was intercepted at the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria personnel yard. “Two suspects — Ofijeh John Mova, a SAHCO driver; and Nyam Gazu Alex, a security guard with the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company — have so far been arrested in connection with the seizure,” the statement added. The NDLEA noted that it previously intercepted 2,160 tablets of co-codamol, among others. Babafemi said, “Meanwhile, NDLEA operatives have arrested one of the kingpins behind the attempt to smuggle 11.93kg of cocaine to Accra, Ghana, through the Seme land border, Lagos. The 50-year-old suspect, Oyewunmi Ademola Ahmed, was arrested on Tuesday, March 15, at the Mile 2 area of Lagos after a series of follow-up operations following the arrest of a driver, Osagie Anthony, with the 11.913kg cocaine at Gbaji, Seme-Badagry Expressway on January 23.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com