FIDELITY Bank has collaborated with OnePipe to launch a payment gateway called PayGatePlus to allow organisations integrate financial services into their business offerings. According to the firms, the product is a payment solution and an embedded finance platform that empowers organisations in any sector to integrate financial services within their businesses and offerings. They added that it offers services such as web payments, virtual accounts, funds transfer, direct debit, balance inquiry, statement, online collections via NIBSS Instant Payment, BVN validation, direct credit, and Buy Now, Pay Later. The Managing Director /Chief Executive Officer, Fidelity Bank Plc, Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe, who was represented by the Executive Director/Chief Operations and Information Officer of the bank at the event, Stanley Amuchie, said, “Innovation is a key pillar of our strategic framework and we are constantly looking for new ways of improving our processes and delighting our customers. “PayGatePlus will open more opportunities for revenue growth for our customers while improving their risk management processes and reducing their cost. “Everything we do as a financial organisation including the design of our products and services has the customer as our main focus.  It is on this basis that we have worked very hard over the last few months, together with our technical partners to innovate a solution that enables businesses across different sectors to easily integrate financial services with their product offerings.” The Founder and Chief Executive Officer of OnePipe, Ope Adeoye, added, “Our core at OnePipe is to help businesses and partners achieve maximum operational excellence, deeper customer intimacy and ultimately revenue growth. “These and more are the opportunities our partnership with Fidelity enables. PayGatePlus essentially provides merchants with the rails to deliver diverse financial services to their customers across a range of platforms namely: website, mobile app, social media and even in-store (in the case of retail outlets).”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com