There is panic that 17 out of the 27 lawmakers of the Imo State House of Assembly who at various times since 2019 defected to the All Progressives Congress from the Peoples Democratic Party, Action Alliance and All Progressives Grand Alliance, respectively may be sacked by the court. The fear is because of the recent sacking of the governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, and 17 lawmakers who defected with him from the PDP on which ticket they were elected to the APC. Also of an issue is the Monday’s court judgment which sacked 20 members of the Cross River State House of Assembly who defected with the governor of the state, Ben Ayade, from the PDP to the APC. Motivated by the development, a group of persons had dusted up a suit they filed against the defection of the 17 lawmakers at the Imo State House of Assembly. The case was instituted by Legal Defence and Assistance Project, Chijioke Nwachukwu, Chibuzo Ekene, and Mmerole Modestus against the state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Clerk of the state House of Assembly, the Independent National Electoral Commission, Attorney General of the Federation, a former Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Collins Chiji, and the current Deputy Speaker,. Amarachi Iwuanyanwu; and 15 other lawmakers. In the suit No. FHC/OW/27/2020 filed by their counsel, Nath Epele and Co., the plaintiffs are asking the Federal High Court sitting in Owerri to declare the seats of the defendants vacant by virtue of the fact that they defected from their former party. Chiji, representing Isiala Mbano, had abandoned his former party, the All Progressives Grand Alliance, and declared for the PDP. However few days after the January 14, 2020 Supreme Court judgment which sacked Emeka Ihedioha and declared Hope Uzodimma of the APC as governor, Chiji, along with other members, moved to the APC to retain his position. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com