Recently, I watched as Ukrainians waited to be attended to at the embassies of the European nations to which they wished to migrate after they left their war-ridden nation. These Ukrainians conducted themselves decently; this is in spite of the fact that an observer described the visa process at the British consulates in mainland Europe as slow and a “mental torture.” But the conduct of the Ukrainians reminded me of what the Nigerian Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Poland, Major General Christian Ugwu, said about Nigerian children who arrived in Poland from Ukraine after Russia invaded. That time, Ugwu gave an interview on NTA. He described the situation at the Poland-Ukraine border, noting that many Nigerians had moved into Poland and the Nigerian embassy there was doing its best to make them comfortable. These were mostly youth, of course, and the ambassador sounded shocked by their attitude. According to him, the young Nigerians were received and comfortably housed in hotels at the expense of our government. However, in spite of all that the embassy did, he said these young Nigerians “are very aggressive.” Ugwu repeated this comment several times in the course of the interview, an indication to me that he was exercising enormous restraint in his choice of words considering what he must have witnessed. He’s a diplomat after all, and diplomats are trained to be restrained and careful with their choice of words. But if no Nigerian could imagine what Ugwu and his embassy staff must have passed through in the hands of the children they hosted, I did. I know what it means for the Nigerian youth to be “aggressive.” I know the attitude, the disrespectful behaviour. I sympathise with Ugwu and his staff members. But those are the children we raised. Here I seize the opportunity this incident presents to point out the implication for parents and our nation the kind of children we’re raising. I’ve often stated how each of us is responsible, in one form or the other, for where our nation finds itself. There’re those who loot the treasury, pocketing funds that should go to all. There’re those who smuggle things and thereby destroy our economy. There are as well those who carry guns and murder fellow Nigerians, The list is endless. But, is there a Nigerian who feels that they don’t harm Nigeria in any way? If they raised disrespectful, unruly and morally corrupt children, then they’ve harmed Nigeria. That child, who has to be jailed and public funds expended in feeding him in jail, or the child that has to be rehabilitated by the state is a liability to Nigeria rather than an asset. He is because his parents don’t do their job. Badly trained children would end up also contributing to how our nation is harmed. So, is there anyone who still thinks they aren’t guilty in any way for where Nigeria finds itself? What those children displayed in Poland, and which Ugwu described, didn’t indicate that many Nigerians are blameless. I recall two incidents which always ring in my mind each time I consider the harm we all do to Nigeria with how we raised our children. I once observed a mother who was talking to a neighbour and his child, said, “Shut up!” Another mother who heard it said, “Slap the mouth of that child!” However, the mother who was insulted placed a hand on the head of her child and lovingly rubbed it. About a year later, this same child saw his parents’ neighbour, looked directly at the neighbour and insulted him, just like that. The neighbour was so angry that he vowed to beat the child if he got hold of him. The thoughtful reader must have considered other repercussions for a child who goes about insulting everyone. On another occasion, I was at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. As I turned into the parking lot, there was this elderly couple standing behind their car with a teenager, obviously their son. I stopped. Out of respect for this couple, I decided to not honk. The man and his wife turned, noticed me and moved away. As for their son, he was the last to move at all, dragging his feet slowly in a cocky manner as though it was an insult to him to be made to move away from the path meant for cars. I moved forward, stopped, and calmly said, “I waited for your parents to move away but here you are, posing, making me wait for you too.” Intense anger accompanied this boy’s response. Obviously, he’s not the type to be told he’s wrong and someone older than him mustn’t correct him. The end of the matter was that this teenager uttered the four-letter word common to people of his age. I moved on without saying anything else. But I was thoughtful about the kind of child who would insult an adult in the presence of his parents. I have this blank, almost emotionless way of viewing realities. To me, the child parents raise is the child they will get. It’s an input and output thing. When it’s time for output, it becomes the headache of only the parents who have raised a child that’s neither respectful nor disciplined. Those who have experienced it know what I refer to. Here, I’m more concerned about the overall effect of badly trained children on our nation. They’re our future. Even at the moment, the evidence is that we’re already witnessing the consequences of the kind of children we raised yesterday—the youth who’re kidnappers, those who digitally steal other people’s lifetime savings, etc. We also hear their comments as to what they would do when they get into public offices and have access to public funds. Everywhere one turns, it’s a story of dishonesty. Not many Nigerians can see what doesn’t belong to them and take their eyes off it. These are the children Nigerians raised. They must display abroad what we’ve failed to teach them at home, a reason Nigeria incrementally loses respect across the world. At the time Ugwu was talking, he said Polish authorities didn’t allow black people to come into Poland from Ukraine during the day. They might be allowed in during the night, even though  white people continued to have free access during the day.  The NTA news anchor asked if Polish authorities did this because they were reportedly racists. I didn’t need an answer before I came to the conclusion as to the reasons whites in Poland would make blacks cross their border only in the night. Yes, there’re racist policies in Poland but when you have  African children, who conducted themselves in the manner our ambassador described, even you would want to be cautious. Poland was taking precautions not to be the target of “aggressiveness” which Nigerian children showed Ugwu, so you cannot blame the Poles. There’s something the matter when children would be aggressive towards Nigeria’s embassy officials in Poland who were there to assist them. These are officials who are old enough to be their parents. Where’s that aggressiveness, indecent conduct, coming from? Where did these children pick up such utter disregard for others? It’s from the work most parents should do that they don’t. Meanwhile, when you want to see the consequences for a nation where parents don’t raise their children properly and children become violent gang members, drug barons, kidnappers, murderers and even parents aren’t safe anymore, the finest example is Mexico. Note that yesterday, the complaint was that Nigerian embassy officials wouldn’t assist Nigerians in trouble. But today, the Foreign Affairs Ministry, our ‘Big Sister,’ Honourable Abike Dabiri-Erewa of the Diaspora Commission and embassy staff in Poland help Nigerians the best way they can. These officials brought the plights of our people in the Diaspora to the attention of the president, who then made provision to have Nigerian children brought back home whenever they needed to. In bureaucratic circles, these are no mean changes to bring about. Yet, what these children repaid them with was attitudes so horrible that Ugwu, in his polished manner, had to refrain from expressing. Sorry, I can imagine what you went through, Mr Ambassador. But those are the children we raised.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com