THE Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board, Simbi Wabote, has lauded Nigerian companies for taking up the challenge to grow their outfits and contribute to the development of in-country capacities and capabilities. He spoke at the inauguration of the Tag Energy facility in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Wabote said, “Nigerian businesses are taking up the challenge to grow their outfits and contribute to the development of in-country capacities and capabilities.” The NCDMB boss, who expressed satisfaction with the inauguration of another facility of Tag Energy Limited, commended the effort of the state government for creating an enabling environment for businesses to initiate and complete their growth plans within the city rather than relocate to another city or state. According to Wabote, Nigerian oil and gas service companies play very crucial roles in the provision of services for the sustenance and growth of the local industry. He said, “We currently have about 8,500 service companies registered in the NCDMB NOGIC-JQS portal, offering diverse services including engineering, fabrication, procurement, drilling services, logistics, exploration, seismic services, installation and commissioning, inspection and testing, project management, finance, and insurance, and many others as listed in the Schedule of NOGICD Act (2010). “In the year 2021 alone, 1,299 oil and gas service providers registered on our NOGIC-JQS platform in a remarkable rebound from the COVID-19 pandemic downturn. “We are here today to celebrate the achievement of one of the resilient companies offering some of these services to the industry and is slowly and steadily making its mark in the provision of top-notch services to a diverse clientele in the oil and gas industry.” Tag Energy Limited, an integrated service company, had launched a new valve service centre in Port Harcourt. According to the firm, its new valve service centre will serve as a training centre for youths in the area. In a statement, the Chief Executive Officer of Tag Energy, Mr Yemi Gbadamosi, was quoted as saying, “Our investments in this modest facility is not only to provide premium services to our clients but also to serve as a training centre for young Nigerians especially those from our host communities who suffer more of the negative impact of the exploration and production activities. “Moreover, it makes good business sense to be nearer to where our products and services are required. As a socially responsible entity, we will offer paid internships to qualifying students to produce a steady stream of skilled resources for the industry, further reducing our dependence on foreigners for ongoing maintenance and support activities. “This of course will also deliver added benefits of lower costs and quicker turnarounds to our customers. Our future is bright, and we remain quite confident in the prospects and opportunities in Nigeria.” Earlier, Wabote had noted that Tag Energy would commence the construction of a 3000sqft facility in Port Harcourt for the design, production, and repair of valves of all types and sizes by the year 2025. He said, “TAG Energy has continued to streamline its services into three major areas namely; flange management services, valve maintenance, and assembling, and inspection, repair, and maintenance to provide much-needed support to its customer base, helping them to achieve optimal performance and maximise operational efficiency. “It is important to highlight that TAG Energy has not limited itself to the oil and gas industry but is also delivering a comprehensive range of services to customers in the petrochemical, power, and manufacturing industries. “I do not doubt that these are just the beginning, and we will continue to see greater strides from TAG Energy thereby contributing to our goal of achieving 70 per cent Nigerian Content in the oil and gas industry.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com