The Christian Association of Nigeria has thrown its weight behind zoning arrangements for occupiers of Nigeria’s highest office, saying rotation is the best alternative for a multi-ethnic country like Nigeria. This is as the religious body also maintained that to engender the principle of fairness in the country, the next president after the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), must be a Christian from the Southern region of the country. The CAN President, Rev Dr Samson Ayokunle, gave the body’s position on Tuesday evening during an interactive session between Christian leaders and the European Union delegation led by the EU Chief Election Observer, Ms. Maria Arena. This was contained in a statement on Wednesday titled, ‘Insecurity in the country is the biggest threat to 2023 elections – CAN … Ayokunle Declares First Week of March as Week of Soul Winning’, signed by Ayokunle’s media aide, Pastor Adebayo Oladeji. The CAN president noted that though the body has no candidate for the office of the president, there was need to have a Christian president as Buhari’s successor. “Although Nigeria is practicing democracy, but because of our peculiarities which include multicultural, multi-tribal, and multi-religious nature, ours should be a ‘homegrown democracy’ where every divide should be given a sense of belonging. “Even if the constitution is silent on the six geopolitical zones rotational representation, the political parties should be wise enough to make use of it in sharing the leadership positions. “We have warned all political parties against fielding either Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian presidential candidates. Since President Muhammadu Buhari is a Muslim from the North, in the interest of equity, fairness, social justice, and cohesion, the next President should be a Christian from the South,” Ayokunle said. After the interactions, the leader of the delegation, Ms Maria Arena thanked the leadership of CAN for honouring their invitation and promised to be carrying the association along in their assignments. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com