GTI Group, a finance and investment group, has launched The Nigeria Football Fund to provide opportunities for the development of Nigerian sports in the Nigerian capital market. A statement said the TNFF is a collective investment scheme or mutual fund that combines the regular advantages of a mutual fund with unique propositions of a structured fund. It said “TNFF, promoted by GTI Group and being managed by GTI Asset Management & Trust Limited, is raising N5bn through an initial public offering of 5.0 billion units at a par value of N1 per unit. “Minimum subscription to the fund is 100,000 or N100,000 and thereafter in multiples of N100,000.” According to the statement, the application list for the offer was open and the TNFF was registered as an open-ended fund by Securities and Exchange Commission. Speaking at the launch of the fund in Lagos, former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Otunba Femi Pedro, said the TNFF has come to fill the missing link in the development of Nigerian sports. He said the TNFF provides a unique vehicle to mobilise private sector funding for sports development, enabling the sector to contribute significantly to national economic development. With its population and passion for football and other sports, he said, efficient and consistent funding has been the major gap undermining the potential of the Nigerian sports ecosystem. Pedro said, “This is an historic occasion, a milestone in the development of Nigerian sports. I have no doubt that this will unlock the potential of the sports ecosystem. I personally endorsed this project. “There is no shortage of investment assets in the sports industry and I’m sure investors will get good returns.” He added that the TNFF aligns with the national agenda of turning sports into a financially rewarding industry that is attractive to investors. Pedro, who is also the chairman of Lagos State Sport Trust Fund said. “I consider this very creative because the missing link has always been money. We have the people , the talent, the passion, resources and everything you can think of, but we don’t have a managerial funding to actualise our dream.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com