Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, says the rising prices of petroleum products including petrol, diesel, aviation fuel and cooking gas in Nigeria are not limited to the country but a global problem also experienced in the United Kingdom and the United States. He stated this at a press conference in Abuja while reacting to sundry issues confronting the nation in recent times. Mohammed said, “The last issue I want to address is the figures being bandied around by the folks on the other side and a section of the press,
comparing the prices of some foodstuffs, petrol, diesel, etc pre-2015 and now. This misuse of statistics is clear mischief. Those who bandy
around these figures without putting them in context are being clever by half. “Let’s take the price of foodstuffs and petrol. Google the price of foodstuffs in other countries, especially the UK and the US, and you will discover a steep rise. Ditto for the price of gas or petrol. What we are saying is that this increase is a global trend, and it’s not limited to any country. “Therefore, presenting it as a Nigerian problem is mischievous, disingenuous and a clear act of misinformation. Let me add that the crippling fuel shortage experienced across the country in recent times has started easing, as the measures put in place by the government begin to work.” For months, Nigerians have had to contend with energy crisis with sharp increase in the cost of cooking gas, petrol amid power outages and grid collapse. While petrol became scarce with a corresponding price increase, the price of diesel rose astronomically from about N250 to about N750. Also, 12.5kg of cooking gas, in the last one year, rose from about N3,000 to N8,000. Several businesses and homes have been badly affected by the crisis in the energy sector. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com