THE Katsina State Police Command, on Wednesday, confirmed that riot policemen repelled an attack by terrorists in the Mararabar-Kankara community, Kankara Local Government Area of the state, on Tuesday. The command said it received a distressed call around 5pm on Tuesday that terrorists in large numbers were in the community and had rustled many domestic animals. The spokesman for the command, SP Gambo Isah, who confirmed the development, said a team of riot policemen was subsequently mobilised to confront the terrorists and repel them. The police Area Commander for Dutsin-ma was also said to have led a reinforcement team to ward off the terrorists. Isah added that although no death was recorded during the encounter, a man believed to have been initially abducted by the terrorists was rescued by the police teams. The spokesman also said the police team was able to recover all the rustled animals from the terrorists. “Our operatives were able to repel the terrorists, who were over 100 in number and divided themselves into two groups during the attack. They were seriously engaged. We repelled them, rescued a victim and recovered all the rustled animals. No death was recorded,” Isah stated. Residents, however, gave a different account of the incident. The residents claimed that the terrorists attacked at least five communities namely; Gidan Dankunda, Kungiya, Gidan Kurty, Centan Dangera and Gidan Malumfashi, all in the local government council. They alleged that the attack was carried out by Fulani herdsmen from the forest, who were on reprisal over the recent rustling of their domestic animals by some fellow herdsmen residing in the town. The residents alleged that at least five persons were killed in the incident. One of the residents, who spoke on condition of anonymity stated, “The terrorists came in their numbers, armed with sophisticated weapons, with three persons each riding on a motorcycle. “They gathered together at the Gidan Dankunda community, from where they moved to other communities, killing and maiming people. “The five bodies we have discovered so far are non-herders. Right now, we don’t know the actual number of persons that have been killed, but there are many. “People are still discovering bodies in the affected communities; we will get to know the figures later in the day.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com