The lawmaker representing Ekiti-West/Ijero/Efon Federal Constituency in Ekiti State and Deputy Chairman, Committee on FCT Judiciary, at the House of Representatives, Omowumi Ogunlola, tells LEKE BAIYEWU, her position on the recent failure of gender-related constitution amendment bills at the National Assembly What is your initial reaction to the failure of bills seeking to include more women in governance in the ongoing amendments to the 1999 Constitution by the National Assembly? We all know the situation; it is an unfortunate one that affects more than half of the population of the nation because it has to do with the female folk, and it is really unfortunate. There is a part of the Bible that says, ‘Who made you a judge over us?’ I am seeing it is an issue that is between the men and the women, or the males and the female counterparts. If not, I believe the male honourable members (of the House) would want to give the female members the grace of having a modicum of representation. It is not as if we are asking for much, or more than what anybody should be able to give. And to tell you how rooted the hatred and rejection is, it was not limited to only the allotment of slots or portion of seats to honourable members; it also got to citizenship of a woman married to a man from another state or country. It does not take you anything to allow a person – if you have a free mind, if you are not threatened, if you don’t have (inferiority) complex. So, the bane of this matter is that men – these honourable members; those that voted against the bills – feel threatened by the women because they know when a woman takes possession or is in charge or is leading, they do it better. It is because they feel threatened. I am not saying (it is) everybody because there were some of them – the real men among them – that voted for the women; those that felt like ‘okay, I am a man; I should be able to stand for myself.’ If you don’t feel threatened, you will want the women to come on board. It is not when it suits you that you want them to come on board. How can you explain the fact that about a hundred members of the House signed for one of the bills but less than a hundred voted for it? That is the hypocrisy of our people; the hypocritical situation that we have found ourselves in. You can be something outwardly but inwardly you are another thing. When you can get caught up, you portray yourself to be something, whereas you are another thing. That is the more reason why you don’t just put people’s names as co-sponsors of any bill, because something that they don’t have conviction about; something that they don’t believe in, you are asking them to come and co-sponsor it. The point is that we all voted. Let them take off the veil and let us see those that voted for and those that voted against. Then you will see that even some of the votes are not limited to certain regions or zones. We have some people that are on the other side (North) that we felt were not going to vote for us but they voted; and we have some people that we believed that normally they should vote for us, but they did not vote because they felt threatened. Somebody was telling me, ‘So, I should vote for women so that they can come and take my position?’ And I told them that, ‘It is what you fear most that will happen to you.’ It is these women that you feel they cannot take it; these are the women that will take it from you. The Bible says ‘my people perish for lack of knowledge.’ Most of them don’t really understand this thing. They believe that when they vote for women, we are coming to displace them. And how many seats are we asking for? I am not even talking about (legislative) seats now; let us put that aside. What happened to party positions? So, it is an issue between men and women. It is about the sex; forget it! It is about gender. To me, it goes beyond the issue of slots. The problem that we have with men is because they always feel that women are second class citizens, and they are thinking that if they should give women this opportunity, they will take the rear seat. So, it is about fear. It is about the men being intimidated that if women should come on board…it is about complex. It is about their mindset, because if you are civilised – if truly you are civilised, you will want to allow anybody to be (what they want to be). What do you think will be going on in the mind of the First Lady and the Second Lady right now after visiting and lobbying the National Assembly on the gender bills? When it comes to a man, he sees every other woman as the same; any man at all, including you interviewing me. Every man sees all women, regardless of their status, qualification or what they are, as the same. We had the wife of the President (Aisha Buhari) coming to the National Assembly; it is not as if they come here often, it is not as if that is the way they come.  The Bible says we should give honour to whom honour is due. And the reason why they came was just to show solidarity to the women. I want to see it as a sign of humility on their side, coming down to say ‘please, we want you to help us.’ But they threw the thing at their faces; that ‘you can go anywhere, we are not going to do it.’ It tells you the decadence that we have in our nation. Then it tells you how bankrupt we are morally. There is no respect; there is no honour; we were supposed to be honourable people; we were supposed to behave as honourable people and give honour to whom honour is due. It takes somebody who is honourable to honour another person. A male member of the House has said the issue is not about men against women but about the cultural and religious configuration of the country.  Do you agree that these factors contributed to how lawmakers voted on the bills? As far as I am concerned, I am a Christian and I know that the word of God gives a woman the leverage to be whatsoever she wants to be. After all, which I know; the other side of the religion too, they believe that God created man and woman. Even though their injunction says they can marry four, from the beginning, He created just one each. My belief and my conviction is that I can be anything that I want to be, with the grace of God. Anything that you want to do, we always have a way or a place that we can hide under. If you want to justify your actions, you will always get it there. There are precedents that you can get. So, let us leave the issue of religion. As far as I am concerned, it is just an excuse that it is in a religion or culture. There is nothing like that.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com