The League Management Company has kicked against the Rivers State government’s appointment of Barr. Chris Green as the sole administrator for Nigeria Professional Football League side Rivers United as it is in breach of its framework. The LMC In a letter addressed to the General Manager of the club and signed by the Chief Operating Officer of the body has asked the club to clarify the Green’s position in the organisational ranks of the club. The statement reads, “It has been brought to our attention through several media correspondences of your officials that Barrister Chris Green has been appointed, and currently operates as a Sole Administrator of Rivers United FC. This infers that all residual powers and responsibilities relating to the administration of the club are vested in a single individual, instead of a constituted board of directors or group of administrators. “Be informed that this kind of appointment is invalid ab initio and cannot be recognised by the League Management Company because it is at variance with the provisions of Article 12 of the NFF Club Licensing Regulations, and runs afoul of the contemplation of Rule A6 of the Framework and Rules of the Nigeria Professional Football League. “Be further informed that Barrister Chris Green is the Chairman of the Rivers State Football Association, as such any appointment into the management structure of a football club, constitutes a conflict of interest and a breach of the NFF’s Integrity Directive “Consequent to the above, you are urged to provide immediate clarifications on the status of this appointment and the portfolio of Barrister Chris Green within the management structure of the Rivers United, to provide clarity on compliance with the extant football regulations.” Remember that the LMC in a similar situation frowned against the appointment of a sole administrator for Ibadan-based Shooting Star.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com