RESEARCHERS at the Alex Ekwueme Federal University, Ebonyi State, have invented and constructed an automated 500w solar energy generator to help supply electricity to rural communities. This was disclosed by the Deputy Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof Abel Ezeoha, at the ongoing 2022 STI expo in Abuja on Wednesday. Ezeoha, in a statement said that the 500w solar energy generator was designed and constructed to extend electricity supply to rural areas in Nigeria. “This is a project that does not depend on conventional energy supply to be powered and the research idea was drawn from the need to contribute to the realisation of the Sustainable Development Goals.’’ he said. The DVC administration said that the university profiled about five projects at the expo; all anchored around SDGs Seven and Eleven. He said the university was advancing the projects, which were all at prototype stages, after making significant improvements in getting them to the national level. The Director, of Research and Development at the university, Prof Onuegbu Ugwu, who also spoke about the 500w solar energy generator, noted that it would help mitigate epileptic power supply, especially in rural areas. He said energy was one of the most critical challenges the country faced and that the automated 500w solar energy generator was designed for affordability, clean, and easily distributable. The lead researcher of the solar energy generator, Dr Uche Onochie, also explained that it was sustainable and eco-friendly to rural communities. “AutoCAD software was used for the engineering design and specifications while Andruno was used for the automation of the system. “The novelty of this project is that the lighting system is powered by automatic switching, which was achieved through the aid of a light-dependent resistor. Other projects exhibited by the university at the expo were, a 3D mobile solar-rechargeable refrigerator for the conveyance of COVID-19 vaccines to rural areas in Nigeria. According to Ugwu, the project offers a sustainable, affordable and efficient means of transporting COVID-19 and other vaccines to rural areas and capable of maintaining the cold chain of the vaccines. Another project was the development of a novel strategy to tackle multi-drug resistant pathogens such as pseudomonas aeruginosis by Azorella atacamensis. A lecturer in the Microbiology department of the university, Dr Azuama Onyedikachi, gave a brief outline of the innovative aspect of the research output. “The research successfully established the efficacy of a novel therapeutic action mechanism termed anti-virulence strategy.” The dons called for university-industry partnerships in order to mass-produce and commercialise the research outputs for the benefit of Nigerians. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com