Retirees in the South-West have vowed to vote against any governor owing pensions and gratuities in the forthcoming 2023 general elections. The Public Relations Officer, Nigerian Union of Pensioners, South-West Zone, Olusegun Abatan, stated this on Thursday while briefing journalists shortly after a meeting of the retirees in Abeokuta. Abatan explained that pensioners in the zone were not well taken care of and the union would prefer to elect leaders, who would understand and address their plights. According to him, South-West governors owe pensioners trillions of naira. He said, “Salaries of workers were increased in 2010, many of the state governors throughout the federation did not increase pension except Lagos and Ondo States. “Salaries also increased in 2019, over three years now, no South-West governor has implemented the adjustment for pensioners to benefits.” Abatan called on state governments in the zone to as a matter of urgency hold consultation with the pensioners and do the needful. He added that if the government truly wanted to tackle corruption in the civil service, it was important to take care of pensioners. Abatan, who is also the Secretary of NUP in Oyo State, explained that salaries and emoluments of public office holders should be reduced, saying that the country’s presidential system of government should be restructured. The union urged the federal and state governments to restructure their system and make it less expensive. Abatan stated that the union was advocating the restructuring of the current presidential system of government, describing it as too expensive. He said the union was interested in any system that would lead to the development of the country and take care of the elderly and pensioners. He advised that all the state governments in the South-West should establish a ministry for the elderly like ministries for youths and women affairs. Abatan stated, “Our system must be restructured, particularly the presidential system, where you have an array of public officers taking huge sums of money. “The union is advocating the need for restructuring of the system to make it less expensive and release money for the development of the country and for taking care of elderly ones and pensioners. “They talk of paucity of funds, the reason is that payment of pensions and gratuity doesn’t allow governments and their agents to take money and embezzle. “Our system must be restructured, particularly the presidential system, where you have an array of public officers taking huge sums of money. “The salaries of public officers are too much in this country; you know what our senators and members of the House of Representatives take home; you know the array of officers for each of these people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com