The Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, has urged stakeholders to close the gender gaps between men and women in governance to create more sustainable and inclusive society and economy. Tallen spoke at a special event organised by Women Wing of the Christian Association of Nigeria to commemorate the 2022 International Women’s Day in Abuja on Tuesday. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), also on Tuesday extolled Nigerian women as they joined their counterparts worldwide to mark the 2022 IWD. Buhari observed that women are not where they should be yet in different spheres of endeavour, but expressed the belief that they can no longer be deprived for too long, as they consistently prove that they can hold their own on all fronts, and in all fields. The President’s goodwill message was contained in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina. “The President rejoices with women and mothers, around whom the tranquillity of homes and society revolves, praying God to grant them peace, joy and satisfaction, as they celebrate today and always,” the statement read. Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, linked the crisis that rocked the state’s House of Assembly to the lack of women representation in the House, reassuring support for more representation in elective positions. Obaseki gave the assurance during an event at the Government House, Benin City, to mark this year’s IWD. He said, “My only regret till date is that I didn’t work hard enough during the last national elections that produced members of our State House of Assembly to bring women into the House. “You all know the situation under which we conducted that election. And we can see the crisis that we had in the House. It was possible because we did not have a woman there. “So, we have learned our lesson, and this election, you don’t need to preach to us.  I will go out there to campaign and more women will be elected into our State House of Assembly. The crisis we had may have been avoided if we have more voices of reasoning in that House.” Women inclusion non-negotiable, says Kogi gov Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, noted that the inclusion of women in governance should be prioritised at local and international levels. In a commemoration message issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Mohammed Onogwu, the governor admonished women to keep breaking stereotypes and biases, which is in line with the theme of this year’s celebration. “The African woman, especially in Nigeria, is a profile in courage. In spite of widespread and often systemic non-inclusion which they face everywhere on the continent, they have excelled nevertheless,” he said. Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, said the state leads in women political empowerment. In his goodwill message to mark the IWD, the governor said the ruling party in the state prioritised the place of women. The goodwill message issued and signed by his media aide, Nathaniel Ikyur, said in the forthcoming local government election, the Peoples Democratic Party-led state government would produce 69 elected women councillors. CAN asks political leaders to listen to women’s voices The Christian Association of Nigeria, at a special event organised by its Women Wing to commemorate the 2022 IWD in Abuja, called on political leaders, especially the President, and the 36 state governors to listen to the voices of women directly and not by proxy. The President of CAN, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, represented by its Director (Education, Youth/Women Development), Pastor Omonuwa Ogiemudia, made the call at the event. “Women are the reason there is relative peace in the country. They love peace and will always seek after it. That is why our leaders need the right kinds of women to advise them. If our leaders can listen to the advice of women, our nation will get better. It is very important. “However, when you have men as most of the special advisers to the President or the Governor, then you realise why we are having some anti-people policy directions. We, therefore, encourage our leaders to draw women closer and listen to them, and the nation will prosper,” he said. Female lawyers protest, lament bias in Ondo judiciary Female lawyers in Ondo State on Tuesday joined their counterparts and other women organisations across the country to protest against the alleged constitutional bias meted to women in the country. The lawyers, under the auspices of the International Federation of Women Lawyers, Ondo State chapter, lamented the alleged bias in the state judiciary as very few women were allegedly elevated to higher position in the judicial sector of the state. The state chairperson of FIDA, Mrs Catherine Ogunjebi, who addressed journalists after the protest, which was held at the state House of Assembly, Akure, the state capital, said the association was ready to address issues of gender bias and all forms of violence against women in the state. She lamented that the in the state judiciary, only four females were elevated to the position of judges out of the 28 judges. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com