The First Lady of Kwara State, Mrs Olufolake AbdulRazaq, has said that the Nigeria Governors’ Wives Forum is working in partnership with McArthur Foundation to provide a national directory for Sexual and Gender-based violence in the country. Abdulrazaq, who disclosed this at the meeting of Kwara State Committee on Sexual and Gender-based Violence, held in her office at the Government House, Ilorin on Wednesday urged the committee to sustain advocacy drive on sexual and gender-based violence down to the grassroot level. The first lady noted that getting accurate data of incidence of gender-based violence would open the committee to deserved interventions and more rewarding engagements of survivors, who completely depend on them to get justice and support. She commended the committee for promptly submitting the list from Kwara State to be included in the national directory. Abdulrazaq, who is also the chairperson of the committee, enjoined members of the committee to make use of the opportunities that their engagements present to draw plausible partnership and support, noting that government alone cannot surmount the challenges posed by the menace of sexual and gender-based violence. Also speaking at the meeting, the Commissioner for Women Affairs, Mrs Mopelola AbdulMalik, thanked Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq and the first lady for the support given to the committee to achieve its mandate. In her own address, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Women Affairs, Hajia Afusat Ibrahim, said the committee is determined to eradicate the menace of sexual and gender-based violence in the state. Ibrahim also commended the proactiveness and efforts of the Ministry of Health in ensuring that Sexual Assault Referral Centres in the three designated Hospitals took shape. The meeting witnessed goodwill messages from commissioners present, representatives of top security operatives, faith-based organisations and members of civil society organisations. Meanwhile, the Kwara State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps has began a seven-day sensitisation and enlightening programme with the aim of educating the school pupils on the danger of sexual abuse and child labour and how they must prevent themselves from being a victim. According to the spokesman of the NSCDC in the State, Babawale Afolabi, the week-long programme tagged ‘Addressing the social ills of sexual abuse and child labour amongst students’ is being packaged by the Anti-Human Trafficking and Illegal Migration Unit of the Corps. “The State Commandant, Makinde Iskil Ayinla, has directed the anti-human trafficking unit of the Corps to go ahead with the sensitisation programme and in the past few days the officers and men of the unit led by their Head of Unit, ACC. Bamigboye Folake, have visited some schools in the Ilorin metropolis where pupils were properly enlightened and educated on how not to ruin their career and future by involving themselves in any illicit sexual activities and also their rights to report to the appropriate authorities if they are being sexuallly abused.” According to him, some of the schools that have been visited by the campaign team are Agbabiaka Secondary School, Okelele Secondary School, Government Day Secondary School, Kulende and Oke Sunna Girls Secondary School among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com