The Minister of State for Health, Dr Olorunnimbe Mamora, has urged all stakeholders in the pharmaceutical profession to shun every form of unhealthy rivalry at work and engage actively in research for new methods and relevant medical solutions that align with new technologies. This came as the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Benin, Prof. Lillian Salami, advised the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, to ensure progress and development in the areas of medicines and healthcare. The duo spoke at the inauguration of the newly elected president of PSN, Prof Cyril Usifoh, and the conferment of fellowship awards on 112 ambassadors of the pharmacy profession. Salami urged the association to intensify the fight against abuse of substances as well as get rid of fake and expired drugs out of the country. The UNIBEN VC explained that the sector was saddled with not just the responsibility of drug manufacturing but also the medical and general health safety of the entire nation. She also urged the association to step up efforts to ensure that the nation is free of harmful drugs In his remark, Mamora added that the professional body would always have the full backing of the Federal government in all their research and noble activities. Also speaking, the immediate past President of PSN, Mazi  Ohuabunwa, expressed confidence in the capacity of the new president. “I am handing over to Prof. Usifoh, and I am not reluctant to do so because I believe in his capacity to deliver,” he said. Meanwhile, in his inaugural speech, Usifoh, urged all within the rank and file of the profession to be united to ensure progress and development in the areas of medicines and healthcare. “If we want a united and progressive pharma-space, where pharmacists are increasingly relevant and respected for their invaluable contributions, then we need to work as a family,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com