The Lagos State Ministry of Education will be giving out 15 cars to outstanding teachers at its 2022 Teachers Merit Award. The co-convener, of the program, Mrs Lai Koiki,  made this known at the committee meeting with the permanent secretary, Ministry of Education, Mr Abayomi Abolaji. She said the numbers of applications received so far had been encouraging compared to last year, adding that 258 teachers passed the first stage of the selection program. “The challenge we had last year was that people were skeptical and they didn’t present themselves for the competition. We had just over a thousand applications last year we have stakeholders pushing from behind the scene there is the need to lift themselves up to believe that this is real. This year, we have almost  4,000 applications already and it is an improvement. We also have more primary school teachers, junior secondary schools teachers applying for the award than senior secondary teachers. “We are not dealing with teachers alone but with administrators, special needs schools and we are trying to select the best District Local Government Education Area,” she said. Also Speaking, CEO, Edumark Consult,  Mrs Yinka Ogunde, said it was important to create more awareness on the award and encourage teachers to participate. In his response, Abolaji appreciated the efforts of the committee and promised to give them all the support needed to make it a successful award ceremony. The categories being considered for the awards are Primary School Teachers, Junior Secondary School Teachers, Senior Secondary School Teachers, Special Educational Needs/Technical College Teachers, Primary School Administrators, Junior Secondary School Administrators, Senior Secondary School Administrators, and Special Educational Needs/ Technical College Administrators. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com