…want current coach Finidi sacked Some Enyimba fans have called for the sacking of head coach Finidi George, following the former African champions’ run of poor form, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. After Enyimba were held 1-1 by second-place Plateau United on Saturday in Aba, some of the fans urged Plateau gaffer Fidelis Ilechukwu to join their team. The fans broke into chants of “Come to Enyimba, come to Enyimba” as the coach approached them after the Nigeria Professional Football tie in Aba. Ilechukwu has turned around the fortunes of Plateau United since his arrival at the beginning of the season, with just one point separating his side and leaders Rivers United at the top of the table. Ex-Super Eagles winger Finidi began life with the Nigerian giants on a positive note, winning his first six games, but the People’s Elephant have experienced a dry patch recently, winning just one of their last seven league games. Reacting to their latest result, fans of the club on Facebook noted that it was time for the coach to quit the club. “It’s time for Finidi George to resign. With Finidi, Enyimba is currently going nowhere,” Vernatius Ahamefule wrote. Chukwu Izrahaiyah said, “It is not only about the coach, a lot of the Enyimba players are not good enough for a team like Enyimba. At the moment, no Enyimba player can make the Rivers united starting 11.” Chigozie Dire added, “Whoever employed this coach should please sack him as quick as possible before Enyimba will go on relegation.” “I think it’s time for Finidi to step aside. Enyimba seems to be bigger than he can handle,” Iteogu Godwin stated. John Okorie added, “It’s obvious these players don’t know they’re playing for Enymba, someone should tell Awaziem he should grow up this is African champions. Again Finidi should go and look for sharp and smart wingers. We are missing someone like Anayo Iwuala. This kind of performance should not linked with Enyimba at all.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com