DENNIS NAKU re-examines the soot menace in Port Harcourt and its environs, the root of the problem and what must be done urgently to effectively combat the problem The thick black smoke that billows up into the sky almost on a daily basis has become a common sight in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, and its outskirts. In many parts of the metropolis, the atmosphere is usually foggy from as early as 7am, and this has become a daily occurrence. More often than not, residents wake up to these toxic hydrocarbon emissions emanating from surrounding creeks and waterways and hanging in the air for hours. A visitor would easily conclude that a heavy rainfall was looming, but to the residents who have become used to the situation, it’s a sad reminder of an environmental problem that has refused to go away. The evidence of the problem is everywhere. Outside a house, one is easily coated with the soot – black powder – and while inside, mere cleaning of the floor, furniture, electronics, sanitaryware and other household items shows the extent of the spread. While some claimed the soot had been there since illegal refining became a popular activity, it became more noticeable in Port Harcourt about five years ago when suddenly the atmosphere became dark in broad daylight. Beyond the stains on the surface of items, the health of the residents may also be taking a hit. For example, by cleaning one’s face or nostrils with white handkerchief, one is assured of a black stain. Sadly, this dangerous smoke has engulfed Abonnema Wharf, Borikiri, Amadi and Abuloma in the Garden City and has spread to Emuoha, Onne, Gokana, Okrika and Eleme Local Government Areas of the state. Since air has no boundary, it implies that the health of about seven million residents of Rivers State is now being threatened. The soot has caused us so much discomfort and we don’t even know the impact it would have on our health,” Blessing Ojei, a teacher and mother of four, told Saturday PUNCH. Ojei, who resides in the old Port Harcourt township axis, said she had been constrained to clean her house and mop the floor on a daily basis because the black smoke easily covers all surfaces. She added, “Everywhere in the house is covered by black smoke. Catarrh has become a regular occurrence for my children and me. Even when one spits, it comes out black. If you put your hand inside your nose, it is black. “Our environment has become so polluted and it doesn’t matter whether or not the windows are closed, air will always find its way into the house. All our furniture, electronics and sanitaryware are affected. “I wash our mosquito nets every two days, otherwise once the children sleep in it, it would give them catarrh. Meanwhile, we can’t stop using the nets because of mosquitoes.” Comparatively, Ojei has been lucky. Hers hasn’t resulted in serious ailment, but Ms Favour Punen hasn’t been so lucky, as she said two of her nieces, aged seven and 10, had fallen ill and were taken to the hospital on account of inhaling the polluted air. She said she had since resorted to wearing her face masks to limit the volume of the substances she inhales. Punen, who resides in Elekahia area of Port Harcourt, said, “The floor of the house is usually dusty and it is when you check underneath your feet – for those of us who love to walk with bare feet at home – or you use a wet cloth to mop the floor that you see how black it is. “Even when you mop, moments later, the black powder would have taken over the entire space again. It’s the same way your fingers turn black when you put them in your nose. Whenever I’m going out I wear my face mask because it makes me susceptible to catarrh. “My two nieces had runny noses and catarrh. We even took them to the hospital where they were given antibiotics and some immune boosters. It was after that they felt better. It’s a serious problem that the government needs to address urgently. Sometimes we see this thick smoke during the day and have to quickly close the windows and stay indoors until it is clear outside.” These are only a fraction of what the residents of the state have been subjected to over time. Soot with known origin The Rivers State Government has repeatedly attributed the soot to the activities of illegal oil refiners, burning of tyres and the destruction of seized trucks and drums from operators of artisanal refineries by security operatives. Rivers State is one of the leading oil-bearing states in Nigeria, and it is also severely affected by oil pollution, which has necessitated the much publicised Ogoni clean-up project, estimated to cost billions of dollars. For decades, residents of oil-bearing communities in Rivers State, and indeed other oil-bearing states, have endured land, water and air pollution. Farmlands have been severely polluted, depriving farmers of the opportunity to farm; water has also been polluted, making fishing – the major occupation of the indigenes – almost an impossible activity while basic things like clean water have been hard to source. The pollution has mainly been caused by oil exploration. The Minister of State for Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, in June 2021 attributed the rising number of illegal refineries to the fact that residents of the coastal areas buy refined petroleum products at high prices due to the high cost of transporting the products to those locations. Speaking during the shareholder’s agreement on the construction of Brass Petroleum Products Terminal Limited in Bayelsa State, Sylva stated, “The prevalence of illegal refineries in the region is attributed to the non-availability of legitimate alternatives.” Given that the activities of the illegal refiners have yet to abate, the soot, which has for years been endured by residents in the rural, coastal communities, has now gone beyond borders to traumatise city dwellers. It’s arguably the latest addition to the suffering of Port Harcourt residents. There have been strong indications that the soot could be risk factors for several health complications including lung cancer. On December 17, 2021 when our correspondent visited the Nigerian Naval College in Onne, Eleme LGA, the atmosphere leading to and around the premises spoke volumes about the rate of illegal oil bunkering that takes place around the area. One of our correspondents had visited the college for the passing-out parade commissioning of Direct Short Service commission 28 and special duty pre-commission training 21 cadets of batch 31 trainees, presided over by the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo. The atmosphere was foggy, almost impairing visibility. One only needed to run their fingers through their head or use a white cloth to wipe their face to understand the severity of how this illegal activity has put everyone in the state at risk. Troubled by the problem, many residents of the state had taken to social media to share pictures of how their feet, palms, cars and clothes spread on the line had become black. Despite renewed calls for the state and the Federal Government to tackle the deadly air pollution given the risks it poses to their health and overall well-being, the problem has yet to cease. To drive home their displeasure, some residents started a stop-the-soot campaign and gathered over 10,000 petitions to raise awareness about the worsening situation. A resident, Kenneth Green, who started the petition at the peak of the environmental crisis, said the petition would be sent to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and Governor Nyesom Wike for them to take urgent action. Green said, “Apart from the online collection of signatories, we are also meeting people offline. For the online petitions, we have got about 10,000 signatories. We will be presenting it to the governor since he will be the one to have the most effect in Rivers State.” Some of the signatories, Joy Daminabo and Mfon Eyoma, said they had to join the campaign because of the health hazard. “I would rather live a very long and fulfilled life than die because of something that could have been controlled,” Daminabo said. Eyoma also noted, “I have many friends and relatives living in Rivers State and what is happening is worse than chain smoking. It is a real shame that these illegal refineries have become a permanent feature of the state under successive governments and their joint task force. This official corruption and gross disrespect for public health must stop.” As far back as October 2020, the Rivers State Government expressed its readiness to implement the report and recommendations of an inter-ministerial committee set up to investigate the cause of the soot, which ravaged Port Harcourt and its environs. The committee was headed by a professor at the University of Port Harcourt and a two-time Commissioner for Environment, Roselyn Konya. The state Commissioner for Energy and Natural Resources, Dr Peter Medee, had affirmed that the state was faced with serious environmental problems occasioned by illegal refining, popularly known as ‘kpo fire’. He added, “The soot was not here when the gas flaring was here. But the soot is here today when artisanal refining or illegal refining started.” A former Managing Director of the Port Harcourt Refinery Company, Dr Bafred Enjugu, had described the soot as a direct result of incomplete combustion (refining) by artisanal refiners of petroleum products. This position has been corroborated by many, including environmentalists and government agencies. Governor Nyesom Wike had on several occasions faulted the Federal Government for not showing concern to the plight of the Rivers people over the soot menace despite his repeated appeals for intervention. The governor had accused the military and police of complicity in the illegal oil refining, which he described as the ‘worst economic sabotage’. Wike accused a divisional police officer of operating an illegal refinery in the state, saying the involvement of security operatives in illegal bunkering and refining had made it difficult for them to tackle the environmental problem. The governor, who had mandated the 23 local government chairmen in the state to provide a comprehensive list of illegal refineries and their operators within their jurisdiction, noted that it would be unwise for a responsible government to fold its arms and do nothing to safeguard the residents of the state. Wike said, “It’s unfortunate for this country that security people will be involved in illegal bunkering. I can’t believe it. Mr. CP (Commissioner of Police), I thank you for transferring the DPO in Rumuji, who owns a refinery. But the man must leave here, not be transferred. He must leave this state. “I can’t be governor here and a security man owns an illegal refinery. No, it is not possible. The man has to go. Take him to wherever they allow bunkering.” The governor fingered several persons, whom he said should be arrested for operating illegal refineries. While demanding for the transfer of the NSCDC personnel in charge of vandalisation of pipelines in the state, Wike said he once intercepted a Major in the army providing escort for illegally refined petroleum products. “We must continue to take this war (against illegal oil refining and bunkering) very seriously, not only because it is sabotage to the national economy but also for the health of our people, which for me is key.” Sadly, however, despite these efforts, the black deadly smoke has yet to disappear from the Garden City, and the residents have continued to live in the choky atmosphere. This explains why Mr Cyprain Obasi and many others in the metropolis are apprehensive over the situation. Obasi, who lives around the Mile One axis, said he had had to stop fetching rainwater because his children fell ill after using the water. He narrated his experience, “There was a time when virtually all my children and I fell ill, so we went for medical examination. After explaining to the doctor, he said going by the symptoms, our ailment was not unconnected with the soot. “The doctor advised me to do what I could to limit my children’s exposure to the smoke. At one point we stopped fetching rainwater because the atmosphere is heavily polluted by the soot and when we fetch the water turns black and we often treat it. When it rains, rainwater serves as an alternative source of water for us but we had to stop.” As a rule now, Obasi said he had stopped his children from staying outside once they return from school while he now wears his face mask almost all the time. “I also make sure everybody takes the medicine prescribed by the doctor,” he added. Another resident, who simply identified himself as Chijioke, said he had had to battle catarrh repeatedly. “This soot has negative effects; I have been having catarrh for a long time now. Government should come and help us,” he said. Soot, injurious to health, environment – Experts Renowned environmentalist and Director, Health of Mother Earth Foundation, Dr Nnimmo Bassey, in an interview with one of our correspondents stressed that the soot was a result of incomplete combustion. He said, “We all know that soot, sometimes called black carbon, is the particulates produced by incomplete combustion of hydrocarbons. It is injurious to both humans and the general environment. The sources include gas flares, refineries, illegal refineries, burning of crude oil, etc.” On the health implications associated with the soot, Bassey said, “The illnesses caused by these particulates include asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, cancer, birth defects, preterm births and even death. “Other diseases include kidney failure, lung cancer, skin disease, nausea and vomiting.” He also pointed out that soot contaminates surface water and the soil, which impedes many human activities. “It severely affects the health of the environment and affects agricultural productivity,” he noted. Asked about the possible solutions, he emphasised the need to trace and identify the sources of the soot, noting that air quality monitoring units should be set up in all cities, especially in the Niger Delta. He noted, “Stop illegal gas flaring, let there be strict regulation of activities that cause soot, clean up the entire Niger Delta region and stop the burning of seized crude in the Niger Delta by the military. “Also, provide the required training for individuals engaged in harmful activities such as burning of tyres, burning of wastes.” A professor of Environmental Sustainability, Environmental Education and Learning for Sustainable Development in the Faculty of Education, Osun State University, Anthony Kola-Olusanya, said the soot in Rivers State and other parts of Niger Delta dates back to the 90’s, even though it was now being manifestly experienced. Kola-Olusanya, who is the deputy vice-chancellor, Academic, Research, Innovations and Partnerships of the university, recalled that he warned years ago that there was a looming health hazard on account of the soot but that many people didn’t pay attention. He noted, “This didn’t start today and it’s not just about Rivers State or the Niger Delta. It has been there for decades. When we kept flaring gas at the rate we were 10, to 50 years ago, nobody saw the implication. People didn’t even believe that smoke from the flaring of gas could become a health hazard. “In 1998, we were in Port Harcourt for a conference. I looked at the city and said to my colleagues that something would happen there, but it all sounded strange. I put a white handkerchief into my nose in the afternoon and it came out dark. But it felt like my nostrils were dirty. The next day, I told my colleagues I was continuing my experiment. “I brought out my white handkerchief again. I wiped my nose clean before we left the hotel. We moved around in the afternoon, by the time we were going back to the hotel in the evening, I put the same handkerchief in my nose and it came out black. Incidentally, we went there for an environmental training/education workshop. I mentioned it during the presentation, but it was like another academic topic.” Kola-Olusanya, who has carried out research on the human dimensions of climate change issues and environmental and resource conflict, noted that the soot that is now causing health hazards in the Garden City could not have accumulated in one day. He said improved economic activities and increased emission of carbon from vehicles in the region had also compounded the problem. The don stated, “When you burn these gases, they are so toxic, but there are multiple sources. There is automobile emission, there is gas flaring and there is illegal burning of fuel in illegal refineries. People would say it largely comes from illegal oil bunkering because they could see the smoke directly. “So, it is a matter of perception but it is mainly the accumulation of different factors over time. There are industries and motor vehicles in Rivers State. They also emit carbon monoxide. Don’t forget, climate change is caused by human factors, likewise soot. None of them is natural. We have to do more research.” Speaking further, he said, “If you remember when the Olympics was to take place in China some years ago, China had to close down all the factories around Beijing. Why? They needed to clear the air before the Olympics started. “So, as a result of this soot, people inhale polluted air. End result? There would be instances of lung infections, respiratory troubles and ultimately internal organs get damaged. There can also be cancer. So, it’s not just one particular illness. There will also be gene mutation. It could affect ovaries in females and sperm in males.” He called for an end to gas flaring because of the health implications and economic loss. He added, “Government needs to revisit all the policies that are in place and be determined to enforce them. For example, the government needs to be tougher on vehicle inspections. “Also, if you are going to stop illegal refiners, you have to find a way to redirect their energies by examining and addressing what forced them into that kind of life. With that, you can put in place legislation that prescribes stiff penalties and sanctions for offenders. “In addition, many companies do not have a release point that is controlled and so raw smoke and emissions go into the atmosphere. That and a lot of the practices in the petroleum industry have to be checked. People should also be made to realise that when they engage in illegal refining, they are not just endangering many people, they are also endangering themselves.” Similarly, a professor of Biomonitoring and Restoration Ecology in the Department of Fisheries, University of Port Harcourt, Nenibarini Zabbey, said soot had a huge impact on humans and the environment. Zabbey, who is also the Coordinator of the Centre for Environment, Human Rights and Development, said, “There are Particulate Matter 2.5 and Particulate Matter 10 which are of health concern, causing deposits on plant surfaces, clogging the leaves and impacting the photosynthetic output. You know plants are the primary source of food and they photosynthesise to produce food. “That would decrease crop yield. The soot deposit on water surfaces too would prevent the input of oxygen because the major source of oxygen in water bodies is the atmosphere. So, when there are soot deposits on water surfaces, they would limit the pathway or the movement of oxygen into water bodies. “Of course, it would also affect photosynthetic activities of the microscopic plants in water. That would also lead to a decrease in the productivity of aquatic lives which we depend on.” He explained further that soot contains contaminants and that those toxins would enter into the food chain and become concentrated in the body of those who inhale them. “Ultimately, we ingest the soot through the food chain and these toxins are dangerous to health,” he concluded. Speaking on the problem, Horatius Egua, who is the media aide to the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, said the Federal Government was on the issue and would leave no stone unturned to address the problem. Egua said, “The Minister of State for Petroleum and some others were in Rivers State on Wednesday as part of the engagements and measures the government was taking to deal with the issue. He said, “It is not something that can be done overnight. It is not magic. First of all, you destroy the root or the cause of the problem before you start other remedial measures. “The fact that the President directed the Minister of State for Petroleum, the Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Company, the Chief of Defence Staff and other stakeholders to tour the Niger Delta, especially the on-the-spot assessment of illegal refining, is an indication that the government is determined to fight this problem. “The government is taking the issue very seriously and drastic measures will be taken to curtail further pollution of the environment. Other measures are also being put in place.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com