The Clerk to the National Assembly, Ojo Amos, has decried that Nigeria is fast losing its youths to the consequences of their obsession with wealth, blaming it partly on social media. Amos made this known in Abuja on Monday at an event marking the anniversary of the Commonwealth Day, with the theme ‘Delivering a Common Future,’ organised by the management of the National Assembly. The Clerk to the National Assembly noted that Commonwealth Day is commemorated every year on the second Monday of March to create awareness and understanding among the young people, about the Commonwealth in general and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in particular. According to him, the objective is to introduce the youth to the CPA ideals of democracy, good governance and human rights as a conscious attempt at mentoring and coaching you for leadership. Amos pointed out that ‘delivering a common future’ for the teeming youths in Nigeria “is a huge challenge to parents and the society because of the disturbing circumstances and distasteful scenarios surrounding them today.” He said, “The tide must change positively so the next generation is not doomed. Nigeria is fast losing her youth to the obsession with wealth and fortune which has plunged them into diabolical rituals. Our youths now want to become rich overnight while some suddenly turn living horror to their pals. “May l ask the question: what type of future are our youths looking at when teenagers and under-aged children are incredibly involved in money rituals? What kind of future is waiting for our youths when the craze for sudden wealth has even overtaken morality and Godliness? “What future awaits a generation when its youth spends long hours chatting on social media sites yet the long hours wasted online on can be channelled to productive activities that can enable one acquire quality education.” Amos added, “For instance, through online tutorials and make good use of online research materials. Over the past two decades, social media have gained so much growth and fame worldwide but the youth and teenagers are the leading and most fanatic of these social platforms to the point that they even use the social network while in class or even at religious places, Social sites impact the lives of our youth in a society a great deal in terms of morals, behaviour and even education-wise. “Where do we go from here in the face of nauseating atrocities enveloping our society? For me, it is never too late to drag our children and youths from the jaws of certain identified destruction. That is one of the reasons the theme chosen for this year’s Commonwealth Day is timely and very instructive.” The Clerk stated that the trend is a wakeup call to all parents, religious leaders, schools and the mass media, urging them to all go back to the basics and identify “where we missed our ways into the jungle of barbarism that now violently threatens the future of the youths in our society, as government cannot do it alone.” Earlier, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, noted that the event provides an avenue to further highlight these ideals, with a view to promoting them among member countries, and introduce them to the younger people. Gbajabiamila, who was represented by Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Yusuf Buba, said. “As good Ambassadors of your schools, I encourage you all to use your creative energy to positively impact your environment. The future belongs to artificial intelligence and you must fully equip yourselves with relevant skills in addition to your regular studies. You must use the various social media platforms to learn and improve yourselves in order to be responsible citizens that would contribute to nation-building. “As future leaders, the future begins now and you must avail yourselves of these rare opportunities to play responsible roles in your immediate environment. The world is rapidly changing, bringing people closer and putting enormous pressure on the available resources. It is, therefore, important that we collectively build a world that is inclusive where everyone is fairly treated. “I encourage you to become agents against bullying, gender violence and other societal ills that promote discrimination and obstruct inclusiveness within the school environment and the larger society.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com