Dealing with health-related challenges is never a walk in the park. From the frequent hospital visits to the physical and mental toll that sickness takes on the body and its usually drastic effect on finances, illnesses are never easy to handle. Of the many challenges that accompany being unhealthy, perhaps the most daunting of all is the financial impact on ill people and their loved ones. In many cases, the inability to pay up medical bills puts the sick and their loved ones in dire straits that could result in bankruptcy, and death, owing to otherwise treatable diseases. Even worse is the sheer loneliness or isolation people dealing with illness experience while battling their specific situations, and unfortunately, not many of them get help. According to a survey by the World Bank, out-of-pocket health expenditure in Nigeria accounts for an average of 76.6% of all medical spending in recent years. Yet, by outsourcing this critical aspect dealing with ill health to a credible partner, people need not worry about their finances when illnesses strike. This strategic outsourcing can be done through various channels, the most dependable of them being insurance, specifically, health insurance. To many people, health insurance is an unwanted expenditure and has been reduced to an add-on that comes with attractive job packages. As such, most people who have health insurance cover belong to the educated, white-collar class, while others are left to face medical challenges alone when they occur, completely unprotected. As a result, supposedly well-to-do Uncles and Aunties become the fallback left to bear the burdens to their loved ones when they fall ill. This pattern is an all too familiar pattern that must be addressed through intentional learning and unlearning to reorient people on the pricelessness of health insurance and the numerous benefits that its enrollees stand to gain in the case of medical challenges. Without a doubt, should more people make the conscious move of taking advantage of health insurance, it will drastically reduce the World Bank’s underwhelming statistic on out-of-pocket health expenditure to the barest minimum. This reality then raises the curious question; ‘Who is the go-to credible partner for health insurance in Nigeria?’ The answer to that is rather delicate because when it comes to health insurance, people only want to know one thing: the ability to pay claims. What they want to be assured of is simply that their health insurer is willing and capable of footing the relevant bills in the event of a medical emergency or any other kind of health challenge. This caveat is of high importance because it is intrinsic to the purpose of insurance covers, and even more so, in the case of health insurance, owing to the usually time-bound or urgent nature of illnesses or medical emergencies. For example, if an individual with a health insurance cover suddenly falls ill, and needs urgent medical attention, which requires a substantial amount of money, will the insurer in question be capable of swiftly taking up the responsibility within the golden time of saving the insured’s life? This means that when getting health insurance, one’s choice of insurer is just as important as the decision to commit to the plan in the first place because a wrong partner could jeopardize its benefits. So, how then can one decide on the right insurer to engage? The answer to this is not at all far-fetched. Like in any other transaction or engagement, the easiest and most reliable way of confirming effectiveness is by checking antecedence and testimonials. Who has done this before? How have they gone about it? Are there appraisals or testimonials to show a proven track record of prompt payment of claims? In this regard, no brand fits the bill better than Leadway Health Limited, an associate company of Leadway Assurance Company Limited that has just enrolled over 60,000 enrolees in about 365 days. Just like its parent company with a proven track record of promptly paying insurance claims, Leadway Health has, in the last 365 days, paid health insurance claims of over 800 million Naira to healthcare providers who have serviced  more than 62,000 enrollees. That’s not all. In the last twelve months, a total of 280 healthy babies have been birthed through the health insurance scheme, and over 100 free mammogram screening sessions provided to beneficiaries. A friend indeed! To enable a robust, swift and reliable healthcare service to its enrollees, Leadway Health has incorporated over 1,635 pharmacies and 2000 healthcare providers into its network. Leadway Health also supported the Lagos State Blood Transfusion Service (LSBTS) to increase availability of blood in the state through a blood donation drive which recorded 74 blood donors that donated over 30 litres of blood. The insurer has also organized and managed different health education sessions for the public like Covid-19 awareness and sensitization, mental health, eye care, among others, all of which have coalesced to grant the insurer a 100% client retention record. Who wants to leave a reliable friend? Last year, the management told the media that they are here to disrupt the HMO space in Nigeria, and after just over 300 days, they are walking the talk and showing that they are indeed “the HMO that truly cares”. So, if you are looking to protect yourself and your loved ones from the hard-hitting financial burden of illness, then you should be joining the Leadway Health Champions League of happy enrollees. For more information, please visit https://leadwayhealth.com/ or call 01-2801051 or 08139862271. You can also send an email to healthcare@leadway.com We are also within your reach on WhatsApp on+23409040760684 or any of our social media outlets – @leadwayhealth on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. You can also send a DM, and we will revert with all the information you require.