Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, the Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, has indicated that the Peoples Democratic Party must go the extra mile to wrest power from the ruling All Progressives Congress. To achieve the desired result, the governor said the party must embark on intensive voter education, campaign against rigging, and mobilisation of rural voters. Also included in his winning strategy recommendations for the main opposition party were: guarding of votes cast and exploiting the divisions threatening the cohesion of the APC in many parts of the country. Tambuwal listed the recommendations on Tuesday when a presidential bid contact and consultation committee of former Senate President Bukola Saraki paid him a courtesy visit in Sokoto. According to a statement by Tambuwal’s spokesman, Muhammad Bello, titled, ‘2023: What Must Do To Win, By Tambuwal’, the governor said the advice became imperative against the backdrops of the outcomes of recent bye-elections in Abuja Municipal Area Councils, Cross River, Imo, Ondo, and Plateau states. He noted that PDP leaders must be united in the quest for a credible, strong, virile, purposeful, and focused leadership “with the objective of rescuing Nigeria.” He challenged the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to “improve the process and the electoral system in Nigeria so that, by the grace of God, when we win, he will hand over to us as a party, God willing.” “I believe, he should have the interest of this country at heart, not APC and not any individual. This country has been kind to President Muhammadu Buhari. He seized power in 1984 and was elected President after having been forgiven by Nigerians for truncating democracy. “What he owes Nigeria, now…is the establishment of the security of lives and property; and, free and fair electoral process,” Tambuwal stressed. He advised the PDP to study and analyze the aforementioned bye-elections and take note of the “problems in APC and take lessons from these elections going forward.” “It is very important that we do a clear and dispassionate analysis of voting patterns as we proceed and approach 2023. If we do so, we will be guided as a party when it comes to putting forward our candidates. “We should not be carried away by winning that important and coveted Federal Constituency (Jos North) election, but we should go down and be what we are: a party of people who are skilled in politics, endowed with leaders who are very knowledgeable and skillful in the electoral processes and election management,” the Governor cautioned. Tambuwal, who is also the Chairman of the PDP-Governors Forum appealed to all stakeholders in the party to “work together, since the objective is the same and ensure that we deliver and rescue Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com