Socialite, entrepreneur and ex-husband of actress, Mercy Aigbe, Olanrewaju Gentry, says that contrary to his former wife’s claim, she was a friend to her new husband, Kazeem Adeoti’s first wife, Oluwafunso. In an interview with Saturday Beats, Gentry said, “I do not blame Mercy. The blame should be on Adeoti’s first wife for bringing Mercy into her family. People like Funso who love to follow actresses (about) in a bid to make friends with them need to be very careful. It is dangerous to bring a person whom you do not know into your home simply because the person is a celebrity. In all honesty, Funso and Mercy were friends. She (Funso) was the one who invited Mercy and I to her husband’s 40th birthday celebration some years back. Mercy Aigbe knows within herself that what she did to Funso and her family is very bad. It was Mercy that told me her friend was organising a surprise birthday for her husband and we were invited. Unlike what many are saying, my son, Olanrewaju, was not five months old at the time, he was over a year old. We attended the event, and that was the first time I met Adeoti and his wife. Funso, who was Mercy’s friend at the time, introduced Adeoti to Mercy and I. After that, Adeoti used to come to my home, office and hotel. Mercy later told me they were working together and that he was her marketer. I was 100 per cent sure that Mercy and Adeoti were seeing (dating) each other, and I used to tell her that what she was doing was very bad. I am a socialite, and I definitely know when something (intimate) is going on between a man and a woman. I really don’t want to be involved in this issue because I have remarried, and I respect my (new) wife. People should learn to handle their homes properly and stay away from strange friends.” Speaking on his new marriage, Gentry said, “I said I was going to get married last year and I did. We did our traditional and court wedding on September 11, 2021. We now have a baby girl and she looks very much like Olajuwon, whom some have claimed may not be my biological son. A man who was sneaking to have sexual intercourse with another man’s wife cannot have the guts to request for a DNA test. Children born in my family have a certain birthmark, and Juwon and my daughter have it.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com