The Katsina State Governor, Aminu Masari, on Tuesday, held a closed-door meeting with political office holders in the state where he reminded those of them nursing political ambition in 2023 on the provisions of the Electoral Act. The state’s Deputy Governor, Mannir Yakubu, was also at the meeting which took place at the Government House, Katsina. The governor confirmed the development in a chat with newsmen shortly after addressing the political appointees who were at the meeting. Masari said: “I call them (political appointees) to brief them on the development of our party APC and our preparations for local government elections. Nobody has been sacked and nobody will be sacked. “We briefed those of them that who have ambitions to contest elections in 2023 should have a look at the Electoral Act signed by Mr. President so that they will do the needful and avoid the avoidable.” When asked to clarify what he meant by the needful, the governor said: “They should comply with the Electoral Act”. Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act recently signed into Law by the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari,(retd) prevents political office holders in the country from contesting for election from the party primary level without resigning. Meanwhile, Masari’s Acting Director-General in charge of media, A-Amin Isa, has debunked the rumours that the governor recently travelled to London to meet the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), over the current crisis in the APC. Isa who addressed newsmen on Monday evening declared “I want to state categorically clear that His Excellency (Governor Masari) has not travelled anywhere recently. “And all the rumours going around are just the fiction of the imaginations of those people speculating it. His Excellency has not travelled and he has not gone to London as people are speculating.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com