Former National Vice Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, South-East zone, Emma Enukwu on Friday, boasted that the party would be more united and stronger after the March 26, 2022 national convention. Enukwu stated this after obtaining a form to contest for the party’s national deputy chairman for South. The South-East zonal leadership of the party had on March 3, 2022, released a zoning formula for all the national working positions zoned to the region. The document which our correspondent sighted on Friday, showed that the deputy national chairmanship position was zoned to Enugu State while other States got theirs. Addressing journalists, shortly after collecting his nomination form, Enukwu, said he joined the race was listening to calls by his friends in the party across the country to contest based on his rooted background in the party and leadership prowess which he has displayed so far; starting from one of the mergers of political parties. He said, “I am optimistic that the party the national convention all the crisis you see will be resolved. I have a strong belief that the party will be more united after the convention.” The Board Chairman of the Projects Development Institute, however, stated that the calls to contest and serve made him present himself to the party, to serve them as the Deputy National Chairman, South. He said, “Since the party brought out dates for the National Convention, I have been receiving calls from my supporters in the party across the 36 states of the federation and FCT to contest. “This is because of the trust they have in me and believe that I have done so well for the party in different capacities that I have served her. “I am contesting because I want to serve the party and the interest of the grassroots; after receiving numerous calls to do so. “I have listened to the yearnings of my supporters across the country, I am soliciting for their support to make this come to true.” On whether he has the capacity to defeat other candidates contesting from his state, Enukwu said he is the right person for the job, but noted that that was left for the party’s delegates to decide. Enukwu said, “I am the right person for the job, but it is not for me to decide but the party faithfuls.” “Everybody has the right to contest for any position provided you are a party member, but I know our members know people who are deep-rooted in the party that can protect their interest.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com