BAOBAB+, a leader in rural electrification in West Africa and Madagascar, has inaugurated its pay-as-you-go solar power service in Nigeria. Baobab+ is a pan-African group currently present in Senegal, Côte d’Ivoire, Madagascar, Mali, and more recently in Nigeria and DR Congo. It said it had equipped 240,000 households and served more than 1,500,000 beneficiaries in the past six years. In a statement, Baobab+ said it recently deployed its activities in Nigeria. The distribution of its solar products started through Baobab MFI Network (parent company) as a top-up loan for its clients; a dedicated hybrid green loan for productive use solar systems for small businesses is also available. The Chief Executive Officer, Baobab+ Nigeria, Kolawole Osinowo, said the company is in Nigeria to help close the huge energy access deficit. According to him, about 85 million Nigerians don’t have access to grid electricity. This, according to him, represents 43 per cent of the country’s population and makes Nigeria the country with the largest energy access deficit in the world. Osinowo said, “This week, Baobab+ has launched our Solar Pay-as-you-go home systems in the Alimosho Local Government Area of Lagos and Sango-Ota in Ogun State. In the coming months, it will expand its reach across Nigeria to support the government’s effort in off-grid solar distribution. “I am very happy that Baobab+ is taking this next step, made possible by the incredible work done by our team. We started operations in 2021 with a deep focus on providing top-quality solar products leveraging the Baobab Group Microfinance channel, and now we are set to expand the opportunities with affordable access to these products through our Pay-As-You-Go financing option.” Baobab+ Nigeria aims to equip over one million households and businesses with solar home systems and productive use appliances within five years. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com