When after all the protestations to the contrary, Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his troops to invade Ukraine, he apparently failed to reckon with a number of things. Most notable is the stiffness of Western sanctions and Ukrainian resistance. Yet, these realities were so predictable. To begin with, Putin seemed unfazed by US and EU threats to impose crushing sanctions against Russia. Yet those sanctions were imposed almost immediately, and within days they are dealing a severe blow to the Russian economy. And it will only worsen with time. The stiff resistance was also very predictable. Like the Big Bad Wolf of children’s tale, Russia has long been huffing and puffing along the Ukrainian borders. So, despite their denials of the intent to invade, it was too obvious. Ukrainians had ample time to prepare and stiffen their resolve. So, even if Russia “wins,” it will be a pyrrhic victory. In any case, there is something about Ukrainian politics that should have clued Putin as to what awaits his troops. It might seem glib to say, but these are people who jettisoned the traditional politicians in favour of a TV comedian (Volodymyr Zelenskyy) for president and a heavyweight boxer (Vitali Klitschko) for capital city mayor. What more evidence can there be of their loathsomeness toward authoritarian figures? A cynic might say, well, see where the leadership has taken them? The fact, of course, is that the various wars that have been fought over the years were enjoined by professional politicians. In fact, it could be said that Ukrainians’ sense of ownership of their country and government has manifested in the general fervency to defend both. And because they are so imbued with the ethos of grassroots democracy, they probably would have similarly defended the democratic order if it were attacked from within, say by a military coup or even a demagogue. Not surprisingly, the Russians’ advance has been stymied on all fronts, as they take considerable losses in personnel and equipment. In any case, the linkage between Ukraine and 2023 is not about the war. It is about Ukrainians’ openness to electing people who are outside the usual circles of political power. Though Nigeria’s presidential election of 2023 is still more than a year away, the electoral landscape is already taking shape. And the gravitational pull is already toward the political heavyweights. Yet even as the world shudders over the plight of Ukrainians, it is worth noting that they have already left a legacy in democracy. They have shown how widely voters may cast their nets in search of leaders. They have put integrity over political weight and cronyism. They have demonstrated that even a person whose claim to fame is parodying presidents can actually become one. As though on cue, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta, just provided Nigeria another example of how to choose leaders. Kenyatta, whose two-term limit is about to run out, has endorsed opposition candidate Raila Odinga. Kenyatta’s Deputy President William Ruto and fellow member of the Jubilee Party is running to replace him. But Kenyatta has dismissed him as unfit to be president. To put this in context, Odinga was for long a political nemesis to Kenyatta. His challenge of Kenyatta’s reelection victory in 2017 led to riots and bloodshed. The political crisis was resolved through an agreement that made Odinga the deputy president. It was an arrangement that quite a few analysts didn’t think would endure. Yet the two worked out a working relationship that has resulted in a cross-party endorsement. Kenyatta alluded to the unusual political decision at a leadership meeting of his Jubilee Party two Saturdays ago. “Very early in my second term I did make it clear to the Kenyan people that mine was a choice of leadership over politics,” Reuters quoted him as saying. Now, from East Africa to West Africa, specifically Nigeria, you must be thinking the same thing that I am thinking. That is, could it be that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), is concealing his own Kenyatta surprise? He has held back on endorsing any prospective successor, saying that he doesn’t want to jinx the person. Could it be that the APC leader plans to endorse a PDP candidate, perhaps Peter Obi, or Atiku Abubakar, or … you get the idea? Impossible, you say. In that case you must be a person of little faith. Faith in the trajectory of Nigerian politics, that is. If it can happen in Kenya, it can happen in Nigeria. Forget logic, just believe. No? By the way, will it be another element of Nigeria’s disintegration if the winning presidential ticket pairs two southerners as president and vice president? Wisdom has dictated that the two not come from the same region. And that has never happened. However, wisdom also dictates that we don’t pair people of the same religion. Yet, that has happened twice. In 1984, then military strongman Buhari picked a fellow Muslim, Tunde Idiagbon, as his vice. Then in 1993, M. K. O. Abiola picked a fellow Muslim, Baba GanaKingibe as vice presidential candidate. Picking a presidential pair from the same region would be breaking new grounds, but there is a parallel. In fact, if accounts that Idiagbon’s father was of Fulani ancestry are correct, then we had a case — albeit a dubious one — of two men of the same ethnicity. This is not idle pondering. It is about putting a bandage on a wound that might otherwise fester into an ulcerous sore. That is, the matter of electing a president from the South-East. From all indications, the political constellations are converging around Bola Tinubu. If he wins, he will most likely be reelected in 2027. In 2031, the presidency will rotate back to the North, probably for another eight years. So, it won’t be until 2039 that the South-East will have another opportunity to produce the president. By then the Indigenous People of Biafra might have overrun the region, if not militarily at least politically. So, if Tinubu wins the presidency, it would do Nigeria a lot of good to have a southeasterner as vice president. There are stellar candidates to choose from, among them Peter Obi, Oby Ezekwesili, and Pat Utomi. (Though Utomi is from Delta State, it is from an Igbo community that strongly identifies with the South-East). More about this another Sunday. Suffice to note now that with or without a vice president from the South-East, it behooves any president to go beyond the call of duty to repair the chasm with the region. Having a vice president from there will make the task a lot easier.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com