The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said the Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Law would be implemented to help eradicate corruption and deepen accountability in public service. He also appointed Justice Mojisola Olatoregun (retd.) as Chairman of the anti-graft commission. Sanwo-Olu disclosed this on Tuesday in a statement signed by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, noting that the commission will complement the efforts of similar agencies in the police and federal establishment. He said, “The Lagos State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission Law 2021 is a testimony to the state government’s effort towards entrenching accountability in governance and checking malfeasance among officers entrusted with public resources. “The anti-corruption commission law is intended to deepen accountability and transparency in the expenditure of appropriated public funds. It is backed by the instrument of law to investigate and prosecute officials of the state government and registered contractors indicted for economic crimes and financial misappropriation” The law will further boost confidence in the public to make complaints against public officials for investigation and prosecution. “Other functions of the commission include: investigating any allegations of non-performance of any government contract; making policies for appointments, promotion and discipline of its staff; investigating all financial crimes and anti-corruption cases with regards to the state government; ensuring transparency in the management of government resources; and confiscating proceeds of corruption and financial crime-related offences or property.” The governor added that the appointment of Olatoregun would reinforce his commitment to tackle corruption. “The appointment is pursuant to the power vested in Mr Sanwo-Olu under Section 3(3) of the Lagos State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Law, 2021. Hon. Justice Olatoregun retired as an administrative Judge of the Federal High Court, Lagos Division, after a tour of service in other divisions of the Federal High Court across the federation. “Hon. Justice Olatoregun (retd) has been trained in international fraud and terrorism, cybercrime and electronic evidence, banking fraud, mediation and other courses. She is expected to bring her huge wealth of experience to bear on the job. Olatoregun’s appointment reinforces the governor’s commitment to eradicating corruption in the public service,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com