A gas leak has occurred on the Ogboinbiri/OB-OB 24-inch pipeline operated by the Nigerian Agip Oil Company in the Azikoro and Okaka communities of the Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. According to residents, the incident happened on Monday and has adversely impacted the environment. One of NAOC’s gas pipeline surveillance security personnel, Ike Napoleon, said a loud explosion was heard at the facility. Napoleon stated, “The gas leak is a thing of surprise, because it is the first of its kind; we never thought of this. “We were on surveillance and as we got closer to the pipeline, we heard a sound and we saw smoke coming out from the gas pipeline. “I have made an effort by reaching out to the contractor to tell him about our experience.” The paramount ruler of the Azikoro community, Clever Amadoko, said the lives of the people were in danger. He called on Agip to immediately mobilise to the site to clamp the leaking point on the pipeline, stressing that the leak was enormous. Amadoko stated, “We don’t know what has actually happened, whether it was caused by sabotage or not. But Agip should come quickly and shut-in the leak. Our lives are in danger, particularly those who are farming within the vicinity of the leak point. “I call on Agip to immediately shut the pipeline. It is enormous. You cannot breathe very well, the whole atmosphere is polluted.” Speaking during an inspection tour of the site, the state Commissioner for Environment, Iselema Gbaranbiri, described the incident as harmful to human life and the ecosystem, adding that gas was oozing from the pipeline under high pressure. He urged the oil firm to plug the leaking point and save the environment from monumental damage from the disaster. Gbaranbiri stated, “We are calling on Agip, the owner of the pipeline, to shut-in the leak to give room for joint investigation visit action. Gas is spewing very fast and under high pressure, which is inimical to human health and even the ecosystem. “You can see that the vegetation is getting dry; farmlands are here, women and men who farm around here cannot come to their farms to harvest their crops. “I, therefore, call on Agip to, as a matter of urgency, shut-in and call for immediate JIV action.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com