…Lawan asks Buhari to send subsidy extension bill The Senate, on Wednesday, passed the 2022 Appropriation Act (Amendment) Bill for second reading. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, after the bill scaled second reading, referred it to the Senate Committee on Appropriation for further work, asking it to report back within one week. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had earlier in February transmitted the executive bill to the National Assembly, seeking adjustments in the recurrent and capital expenditures in the Federal Government’s budget with estimates totaling N150,032,091,096. Buhari had also sought approval for another N2.557tn to extend the payment of subsidy on Premium Motor Spirit, popularly called petrol. Buhari said 139 out of the 254 projects in the 2022 budget valued at N13.24bn had been identified, asking the lawmakers to delete them. The President also requested the National Assembly to provide for capital expenditures totaling N106,161,499,052, and recurrent expenditures amounting to N43,870,592,044. Buhari also requested that an additional provision of N2.557tn be made to fund the PMS subsidy in 2022. The President also asked the lawmakers to reinstate four capital projects worth N1.4bn under the Federal Ministry of Water Resources; and the N22bn cut from the provision for the Sinking Fund to retire mature loans needed to meet government’s obligations under already issued bonds. President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan; and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, had read Buhari’s letter dated February 10, 2022, in plenary. The Majority Leader of the Senate, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi, while leading the debate at the second reading, gave key highlights of the amendment to include 11 areas. Contributing to the debate, Senator Gabriel Suswam, however, criticised the high tax expenditure in the 2022 budget. Suswam said, “Tax expenditures are waivers that are given to individuals or companies. If you look at the tax expenditure in 2022, it is about N1tn and totally unnecessary. Meanwhile, Lawan urged the Federal Government to transmit a bill to the National Assembly to amend the Petroleum Industry Act to enable the parliament to extend the subsidy regime in the Act, in line with the President’s request for an additional N2.557tn to cover fuel subsidy in the 2022 budget from July this year. The present subsidy regime is expected to elapse in June 2022, in accordance with the provisions of the PIA Lawan, therefore, mandated the relevant Committees on Petroleum Resources at the National Assembly to engage with the Executive on a bill to amend the PIA to align with the President’s request. He said, “This is an opportunity for me to speak to the issue of the Executive sending a request for the amendment of the Petroleum Industry Act to extend the provision of the fuel subsidy which is also requested in the amendment of the 2022 Appropriation Act. “The Act itself says something else, that there will be no subsidy. If we approve for subsidy in the 2022 Appropriation Act Amendment Bill to us, then it means we have to extend the period in which the government will provide subsidy up to the point this subsidy we approve (N2.557tn) would last. So, there is a need to come up with the request for amendment. Our gas and oil related committees should work with the Executive side of government to get that sorted as soon as possible, so that what we do is appropriate, and is lawful and legal.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com