There will be periods within the cryptocurrency market where the big hitters like Bitcoin (BTC) and Ethereum (ETH) will falter at points and newcomers like Seesaw Protocol (SSW) will take the attention of investors around the globe. The volatility of the cryptocurrency market makes it an extremely risky industry should you not spend adequate time on research on where to and where not to invest. While cryptocurrencies at the top end of market value are usually looked at as sensible cryptos to invest in, every now and then there’s a project that garners the attention of people and potentially explodes on the scene, enter Seesaw Protocol Seesaw Protocol Despite the financial implications the war between Ukraine and Russia had on the cryptocurrency market, Seesaw was able to guide itself through the period as the project remains in phase 2 of its pre-sale period. Not only did Seesaw avoid the losses that some cryptocurrencies suffered, but due to its aim of bridging Binance Smart Chain (BEP-20) with Ethereum (ETH) and Polygon (MATIC), the project would be solving an interoperability issue in the crypto industry that will allow users to choose the faster and more cost-effective method of undertaking transactions. Priced at $0.005 at the beginning of its pre-sale in January, SSW’s price currently sits at $0.119, at this time of writing. That illustrates a gain of over 2,160% and with stage 2 of the pre-sale already underway, that number has the potential to reach new heights. SSW also provides a bonus referral system where both the referrer and referee are rewarded a 5% bonus based upon their first investment in SSW tokens. Waves (WAVES) The extraordinary price rally of Waves (WAVES) following its announcement to launch a blockchain agnostic metaverse demonstrates the growing influence the metaverse continues to have in the crypto sphere. Gains of 102% in the past seven days propelled Waves to new levels of crypto notoriety as it has become the best performing coin in that same period, according to CoinMarketCap. Its recent partnership with Allbridge, a token bridge that will enable Waves to connect with fellow popular blockchain networks also contributed to its price surge. Its impending blockchain collaboration could shape WAVES’ price growth in the coming months. Cosmos (ATOM) As the 20th biggest cryptocurrency in the world, according to CoinMarketCap, Cosmos (ATOM) has experienced an extremely fruitful week compared to many of the major coins as they’ve had a price rise of 36.4% in the past seven days. The burgeoning project is aiming to provide scalability and interoperability within the crypto industry and its network of interconnected blockchains, much like Seesaw Protocol, has many in the space clamouring for its success. Its trading volume in the past seven days ranks second only behind Terra (LUNA) among the top 48 cryptocurrencies in the world. A recent partnership between Cosmos and Polkadot (DOT) regarding a blockchain bridge reached a key milestone that spells a development in the future of interconnected blockchains. Enter Presale: https://presale.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol