The month of March has been identified as a month for women across the globe, the month when the voices of women are heard on issues concerning womanhood. March is also the beginning of spring in Europe when animals prepare for hibernation and spring flowers begin to bloom. The United Nations has also dedicated the 20th of March as International Day of Happiness to recognise the importance of happiness in human existence and total well-being, especially in these uncertain times. One of its declarations is to maintain “Happiness as a way of living, being and serving communities and society”. Unfortunately, this is far from the truth in many societies, marriages, relationships, families and the world at present. MARRIAGE BREEDS HAPPPINESS Marriage is perhaps one of the finest institutions that promotes happiness and lifelong well-being because married couples are expected to love and care for each other as well as support one another emotionally, financially, and spiritually too. Happiness and long life can be measured by the quality of your marriage through the level of commitment and trust you have in each other, which can only be made possible through pure love and self-control. Caring comes from a place of selflessness and control comes from a place of insecurity. Love breeds happiness in marriage and can trigger the feeling of joy and marital satisfaction. LOVE IS NOT CONTROL Several researches on happiness show that women across the globe are known to be happier than men. However, these conclusions can be subjective and not a true representation of women in this part of the world because these same women who have been perceived as happy are dispassionately lacking in so many other ways. In today’s modern society, a lot of women are still being subjected to abuse and control in their marriages and many are being manipulated to believe that control is a sign of love and not abuse. Some certain culture still believe in the power of control as a device a man must deploy to demand respect from his wife and children. This notion can create a toxic situation in the marriage and threaten the health and potential of the family.  Every woman must be able differentiate between love and abuse as well as identify controlling behaviours in her marriage. REDEFINE YOUR OWN MARIAL VALUES A society that puts a man on a pedestal in marriage and tells a woman that she must be submissive to her husband even when he is abusive towards her is breaking the divine principle of marriage, which is love, happiness and mutual understanding. The only control that should be promoted in marriage is self-control, without this, you or your spouse’s behaviour becomes unpredictable, which often triggers cohesive control which is not a sign of love but power and abuse. Marriage has the capacity to transform your mind as you begin to share your different life experiences and how they can influence your present journey. Marriage provides the opportunity to rebuild your values, irrespective of your past, but you must be willing to relinquish those old values that have been deposited in your mind and are hindering your happiness. Setting the right values together as a couple will enable you to create marital values and boundaries that promote love, happiness, respect and fairness.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com