The House of Representatives has rejected a bill seeking to regulate how children of public officers enrol in schools outside the shores of Nigeria. The bill faced stiff opposition at the second reading on Thursday. It is titled, ‘A Bill for an Act to regulate international studies for wards and children of Nigerian public officers to strengthen indigenous institutions, provide efficient educational services for national development; and for related matters’. It was the second time within four years that the lawmakers would reject the bill sponsored by a member of the House, Sergius Ogun. Leading the debate on the bill at the second reading, Ogun noted that the proposal would strengthen indigenous educational institutions to meet global standards; boost the economy by reducing cash flight and foreign exchange; reduce brain drain and institute good welfare conditions for indigenous academics, experts and professionals based abroad to come back home and develop their country with their skills and expertise. The lawmaker added that it would build a better society by developing formidable educational institutions; and facilitate the realisation of the fundamental objectives and policies of state as enshrined in Chapter Two of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) Cap C23, LFN, 2004. He said, “This bill is proposed against the background of fallen standards in our educational system and the need to bring the sector up to speed with global best standards. “Unfortunately, as a result of the inability of the government to provide quality education in its public educational institutions, Nigerians have resorted to private schools and foreign schools for their education. “The United Kingdom, United States of America, Ukraine, Ghana, Malaysia, Egypt and South Africa, just to mention a few, have become choice destinations for Nigerians in search of quality education. “The trouble with this is that most of those who patronise private owned educational institutions or those who travel abroad to study are children and wards of Nigerian public officers. These are the officers, who should take responsibility for the building of our public institutions. “For me, this will yield a counter-product result in our drive for national development. I believe that public officers should be subjected to the utility of the public institutions, which they are responsible for building and maintaining.” The lawmaker stated that apart from the fact that a public officer, who did not utilise public institutions, would be indifferent about the well-being of members of the public, there was also the worry that so much of the nation’s resources were being expended in foreign institutions. However, several lawmakers criticised the bill. While some stated that the proposed restriction would infringe on the rights of the affected children, others argued that not all government officials sponsor their children’s education in foreign schools with public funds. For instance, Chinyere Igwe stated that the proposal “offends the fundamental human right, which guarantees freedom of movement,” adding, “Most public officers that send their children to school abroad don’t do that with public funds. I also don’t agree that is the reason the educational system in Nigeria is failing. I urge him to withdraw the bill.” “It is against the constitution in terms of discrimination. My children have the right to be educated anywhere in the world. The bill should not see the light of the day; he should just step it down,” Nicholas Ossai said. The Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Wase, who presided over the session, put the adoption of the bill for second reading to voice vote and it was unanimously rejected. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com