Good at set-pieces with feet packed with ferocious shots, and mazy runs and dribbles, DANIEL-KOFI KYEREH is the man Eagles must watch out for in their 2022 World Cup qualifier, writes Kelvin Ekerete Exciting St Pauli’s exciting midfielder Daniel-Kofi Kyereh is one player the Super Eagles must watch out when they faceoff with Ghana  in their Qatar 2022 World Cup qualifiers on March 25 in Cape Coast and March 29 in Abuja. Kyereh, the Black Stars most in-form player at the moment, has been in electrifying form in Germany, ahead of the World Cup play-offs and will sure cause the Eagles problems if not properly checkmated. After a disappointing AFCON 2021 campaign in Cameroon, where the Ghanaians failed to win a single game and crashed out from the group stage, Kyereh was sidelined by a muscle injury and missed three club games. Five-over-five But he wasted no time in resuming normal service for St Pauli February 12, as he found the net on his first appearance back, coming on as a second-half substitute against Jahn Regensburg in the Bundesliga II. He needed less than 10 minutes to make his mark, and he scored the winner for St Pauli to clinch a crucial 3-2 win in Regensburg. He was also on target in the 3-1 win over FC Ingolstadt, bending in a superb free-kick for the opener and his seventh goal of the season.. The midfielder, who has a German father and Ghanaian  mother, added two more in the 3-1 triumph over Karlsruher to take his league tally to nine and fire St Pauli to third on the log as they chase promotion to the German top tier league. He caused Bundesliga side Union Berlin, which feature Nigerian striker Taiwo Awoniyi, problems when they clashed with St Pauli in the DFB-Pokal, scoring the opener in the 21st minute but Union rallied back to win 2-1, with Awoniyi and his teammates having the last laugh over the Ghanaian and his Nigerian teammate, Afeez Aremu. Since his return from AFCON/injury, he’s scored five goals in five games, while overall he boasts 10 goals and 11 assists in 25 matches in all competitions: a great return for the midfielder, who has already beaten his last season record of nine goals and 10 assists in 35 matches. What they are saying The 26-year-old’s performance has seen him pop up on the radar of Bundesliga II leaders Werder Bremen, who are hoping to add him to their ranks, but St Pauli manager Timo Schultz insists the club will do all they can to keep their prized asset. “Everything is speculative, both in terms of us and Kofi’s future. We’ll see, wait for the rest of the season and the summer break. I’m not naïve either, but I think he’s quite comfortable here and would like to stay,” he said. On his performance, Schultz added, “He’s a laid-back lad who gives a lot to the group, not just on the field but also away from it. Kofi’s in great shape and his statistics alone show that, and he’s far from peaked.” Christian Benbennek, Kyereh’s coach at Havelse, also had this to say of his former player, “Kofi always had the talent, but it is own hard work and ambition that have got him to where he is now, and I’m delighted to see it.” Kyereh’s Nigerian teammate at St Pauli, Afeez Aremu, warned of his precocious talent. “The Eagles must be wary of Kyereh,” Aremu told PUNCH Sports Extra. “He’s a great talent with great quality. He is very skillful and also a free-kick specialist. He is very versatile and can play in any position in attack “I play alongside him, so I know him very well. He is very adventurous and a good user of the ball. I believe we have good players in the team that should handle him but he is a great player. “He must not be given enough time on the ball or opportunity to turn and run at our defence because he is also a good dribbler. But as a Nigerian, the Eagles will qualify.”  Qualities A burst of pace, dip of the shoulder, dribble past your marker and a cut-back from the goal line – sounds familiar? Like Bayern Munich and Germany winger Leroy Sane, Kyereh likes little more than racing forward with the ball glued to his feet, using a combination of excellent close control and skill to carve gaps before either providing a finish or supplying an assist for a better-placed teammate. Aside being a good runner, Kyereh also has a great technique and a good eye on goal. Particularly remarkable is that he’s also capable to handle difficult passes most of the time and he keeps the ball at his feet. Kyereh has also proven to be a prolific set piece taker, having scored from dead-ball situations twice in his last four appearances. Ghana debut Kyereh has been a key member of the Black Stars since his debut in the 1-0 win over Ethiopia in a 2022 World Cup qualifying group stage last year. He has gone on to make eight appearances for the country, with three coming earlier this year in Cameroon  at the AFCON. Although he is yet to record a goal or assist for the Black Stars, he will be heading into the tie versus the Super Eagles full of confidence, having been in scintillating form for St Pauli. Did you know? Kyereh was born in Accra, Ghana, but was brought up in Germany and would have been eligible to play for either nation. When he was scoring with regularity in Germany’s third division, the question was first put to him, where his footballing allegiances lied. “My friends are often asking me this and I’ve not had any contact from either federation yet, but I would certainly love to play for a national team. Both countries would be an option for me – I would play for the first country to show an interest in me.” That was Ghana, who handed Kyereh his debut in September 2021, in a 1-0 FIFA World Cup qualifying win over Ethiopia, and later included him in their squad for the 2022 Africa Cup of Nations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com