The former North-East Chairman of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, Mafindi Danburam, has said ranching is the best form of grazing animals. Danburam, who is aspiring to be the national president of MACBAN, made this disclosure on Thursday in Gombe while briefing journalists on his ambition, which he said would help the Federal Government to harness the gains inherent in the cattle business. He stated, “We have no land to do ranching in Nigeria. Go through the gazetted grazing reserves of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Law of 1960/1962. Are they there? What happened to the grazing reserves? People that are elites are the ones occupying the reserves.” “For the past 40 years, you left the area without developing it and when you ask the person to vacate it, thus creating another war; ranching is the best for grazing in the world, but the government has no will to establish it; instead, they established the law wrongly without considering the consequences. If I am to establish this law, I will establish it today and I will give you a lifespan of 10 years; I will assist cattle herders to access loans from the Central Bank of Nigeria.” Commenting on the dwindling turnover from the cattle business, the former Chairman of MACBAN, Taraba State chapter, revealed that the economy was losing quite a lot due to lack of support. Danburam stated, “The Federal Government is in need of 10 million litres of milk every day. But we are importing from foreign countries like Canada and others. They don’t treat herders like the way we in Nigeria are being treated; they patronise their products. Let the Federal Government have the political will; it should liaise with cattle breeders and whatever they want to achieve they will achieve. “Livestock has the capacity to fund the whole of Africa, not only Nigeria, with the right support through the Central Bank of Nigeria. Nigeria will feed the world in terms of meat and milk.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com