The National Industrial Court sitting in Enugu has dismissed the suit filed by the Enugu State Government seeking to stop primary school teachers from embarking on strike over the non-payment of the national minimum wage. The state in an originating summon marked NICN/EN/01/2022, between Enugu State Government, Theophilus Odo, and on behalf of the teachers in the state, sought the relief of the court to bar the teachers from embarking on any strike on the ground that they were essential workers. The court presided over by Justice Oluwakayode Arowosegbe of Court II, had in an interlocutory injunction restrained the teachers from embarking on any form of industrial action pending the determination of the substantive suit and ordered an accelerated hearing. Delivering its judgement on the suit, Justice Arowosegbe, dismissed the suit and ordered Government of Enugu State to go back and negotiate with the teachers, describing it as discriminatory for the Claimant to pay some workers in the state employee minimum wage, and refuse to pay the teachers same. The Judge noted that the state could not stop the teachers from ventilating their grievances through industrial action. The court, in its judgement delivered on Tuesday, March 8, 2022 which our correspondent obtained on Friday, held that the Primary School teachers in Enugu State do not fall within the categories of workers who provide essential services, hence they can embark on strike and other lawful means to press home their demand. “The court found as condemnable the attitude of the Claimant/plaintiff for its failure to implement the national Minimum wage as approved by the federal government since 2020. Such (an) act of the claimant is discriminatory. “The claimant is hereby ordered to go back to negotiating table with the Defendant and implement the national minimum wage. The defendants are entitled to be paid the Minimum wage.” The Judge said “the law relied upon by the Claimant – the Trade Dispute Act is inconsistent with the 1999 constitution as (amended), which prohibited discrimination hence the Trade Dispute Act is void.” Reacting to the judgement, counsel to the defendants, Charles Igwe described the court judgement as a victory for the education sector, particularly the primary school teachers, who have suffered discrimination in the hands of the state and Federal Government.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com