The Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, has reiterated that restructuring remained the solution to various problems facing the country. He said the federal system of government that had been skewed had eroded the identities of the states of the federation. The governor stated this on Monday at an event organised to honour living heroes of the states who were involved in the struggle for the creation of the Sunshine State. According to him, there was a need for component units in a federation to enjoy the considerable latitude to explore avenues for sustenance, if restructuring was in place. The governor said the current arrangement had rendered all the states of the federation almost helpless and deplorable, adding that the identity of each state was being eroded in a mistaken apprehension of the need for unity and peaceful coexistence. He also pointed out that the current system in the country militated against ingenuity relentlessly, stressing that the current political arrangement must be tinkered for real progress to take place. He said, “We must not opt for the opportunistic path of political correctness which predisposes us to ambivalence when principled stance on issues of national development is discussed. “The states of the federation cannot continue to depend on hand-outs from the Federal Government for even the payment of workers’ salaries.” Some of the heroes of the state that were honoured included the leader of the socio-political organisation, Afenifere, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, a former Secretary-General of the Afenifere, Basorun Sehinde Arogbofa, Chief Olu Adeyemi, among others. Addressing the honorees, the governor said, “We celebrate you, most enthusiastically, for your vision. We remember the departed elders who have gone to join our ancestors. “I must not fail to express gratitude to the past leaders of this State, and by extension, those of our sister state, Ekiti, for their contributions to her development. “We acknowledge their roles as pivotal to the advancement of this State within the permissible limits of the current political configuration in the country. We shall continue to insist on the best arrangement for our people in the Nigerian Federation.” Responding, one of the honorees, Basorun Arogbofa, thanked Governor Akeredolu for reminding them and reassuring them that they fought a good fight for the creation of the state. He also commended the governor for implementing the programme of the founding fathers of the state which according to him, included; provision of security for the people; deliberate industrialisation of the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com