The Chief Judge of Osun State, Justice Adepele Ojo, on Thursday, remanded the owner of Hilton Royal Hotel, Ile-Ife, Dr Ramon Adedoyin, and six others arrested in connection with the death of a Masters Degree student of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Timothy Adegoke. Adegoke, as well as Adedeji Adesola, Magdalene Chiefuna, Adeniyi Aderogba, Oluwale Lawrence, Oyetunde Kazeem and Adebayo Kunle, had appeared before the court on 11 counts bordering on murder, indecent interference with the dead body, administration of extrajudicial oath and alteration to conceal evidence. There was heavy security presence at the entrance to the premises of the court in apparent anticipation of the crowd that may storm the venue of the trial. The seven defendants led by Adedoyin, who was dressed in a white kaftan, entered the courtroom around 8.47am while Justice Ojo commenced sitting at about 9am. Addressing the court, the leader of the prosecuting team, M. Omosun, asked that a charge previously filed against the seven defendants on February 17, 2022, be struck out and replaced with a new one filed on March 2, 2022. In her ruling, Justice Ojo struck out the previous charge and a fresh 11-count pressed against the defendants was read to them. In the new charge,  Aderogba,  Chiefuna,  Kazeem and Adesola were alleged to have unlawfully killed Adegoke between November 4 and 5, 2021. In another charge pressed against the defendants, Aderogba and Kazeem were alleged to have dumped the corpse, phone and other belongings of the late Adegoke in a bid to cover up his death. Adedoyin, Aderogba and Oyetunde were also alleged of conspiracy to indecently interfere with Adegoke’s corpse, while Aderogba and Oyetunde were also charged for indecent interference with Adegoke’s corpse. The hotel owner and Aderogba were also accused of conspiracy to alter receipt for payment made by the deceased to conceal evidence, while Adedoyin and Oyetunde were also charged for administering extrajudicial oath on members of staff of the hotel. They were said to have committed offences punishable under Sections 315, 324, 509, 519, 242, 469, 516, and 106 of the state criminal law. The defendants all pleaded not guilty to the 11 counts. Mr. K. Eleja, SAN, who appeared for Adedoyin and two defendants and Mr. Kunle Adegoke, SAN, counsel for another three defendants moved bail applications for their clients. The counsel, who listed health reasons, among other reasons for the bail application, assured the court that the defendants would provide reliable sureties that would stand for them. Adegoke also said a formal bail application could not be filed for the seventh defendant, Adesola Adedeji, as she was included in the matter a day to the commencement of the case. He then pleaded with the court to remand the defendants in police custody and adjourn for a short period to enable him to file a formal application for Adedeji’s bail. But the lead prosecution counsel, Omosun opposed the bail applications, with counter applications and adopted his already filed written address. In her ruling, Justice Ojo remanded the defendants in Ilesa Correctional Centre and adjourned the matter to Friday for the defence to move formal bail application for the seventh defendant. Meanwhile, three men, whose identities could not be immediately ascertained, that had wanted to enter into the premises of the court were arrested by the police. The men drove to the gate of the court in an unregistered Nissan Micra car and were subjected to search when incriminating items were reportedly found on them. The men were later whisked away in a police van towards Dugbe Divisional Police Station Osogbo. Adegoke, Adedoyin families clash in court Some members of the family of late Adegoke and those of Adedoyin, after the day’s proceedings, clashed within the court premises, after a man recording how Adedoyin and other defendants were being marched into a van conveying them to the correctional centre, was attacked by the police. The man, whose name could not be confirmed, was running commentary as he recorded how the men were marched into the van. Some police operatives, not pleased with the action, ran after the man and seized his mobile phone. Mr. Gbade Adegoke, the elder brother of the deceased, however, lambasted the police, alleging preferential treatment for the defendants. Some members of the Adedoyin family, who were not happy with the abuses hurled at the hotelier, also engaged Gbade and other members of the late Adegoke’s family in a shouting match. The two families hurled abuses at each other as they left the court premises. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com