A consultant oncologist with the Federal Medical Centre, Ebute Metta, Lagos, Dr Ajibike Odunuga, tells GODFREY GEORGE about the dangers of cervical cancer and its treatment What is cervical cancer? The cervix, also known as the uterine cervix, is the lowermost part of the womb (uterus). It like the door to the womb or uterus. A malignant tumour of the cervix is called cervical cancer. How exactly does cervical cancer present in women? The way cervical presents in a patient depends on the stage of the disease. In the early stages, patients could have no symptoms at all and the cancer is detected by screening tests or during investigations for other diseases. They could also present with abnormal vaginal bleeding and discharge. In sexually-active women they may notice vaginal bleeding after sexual intercourse, which is known as post-coital bleeding.  Patients may complain of increasing amount of menstrual blood (menorrhagia), or bleeding in between menstrual periods or vaginal bleeding in a woman who has attained menopause (post-menopausal vaginal bleeding). There could be abnormal vaginal discharge, which could be copious, foul smelling, or not, or mixed with blood. Due to the bleeding, patients may present with dizziness, fainting spells. At later stages, the tumour may spread to nearby structures, causing damage and producing various signs and symptoms. If it grows laterally to the ureters it obstructs them and the patient may complain of reduced urine flow. If it persists, it may cause the ureters and kidneys to accumulate urine, leading to hydroureters and hydronephrosis. This may then lead to kidney failure and the patient will present with vomiting, generalised body weakness and other signs and symptoms of kidney failure. There could be abdominal pains. If the tumour grows to involve the urinary bladder it may at first cause increased frequency of urination, then blood in the urine, which could be microscopic at first or bloody later. As the tumour increases in size it may cause an abnormal connection between the cervix and the bladder, which is known as a vesicovaginal fistula. Patient would at this stage complain of uncontrolled passage of urine via the vagina. What are the causes of cervical cancer? Cervical cancer is one cancer that one can say has a cause, as 99.7 per cent of cases are associated with persistent infection with a virus called the human papilloma virus. This virus and the changes it causes are usually cleared by the body’s immune system. The risk factors that increase the chances of one having the HPV infection are early age at which sexual intercourse is begun, especially when it is near the time when a woman first sees her period (menarche). Having many children, especially more than five, having multiple sexual partners and having a male partner with multiple sexual partners, chronic immunosuppression, having HIV disease also increase the chances of persistent HPV infection. Cervical cancer is the most common cancer in people living with HIV/AIDS. Low socioeconomic status, malnutrition, low micronutrient intake may increase the risk of persistent HPV infection as these patients may have a poor immunity and may not be able to clear the HPV infection. Other factors that may increase the risk of cervical cancer are smoking cigarettes, use of oral contraceptive pills. Also, women born to mothers who took a drug called diethylstilbestrol while pregnant with them are at an increased risk of having a rare type of cervical cancer. Having abortions does not increase the risk of cervical cancer but having multiple sexual partners increases the risk. What role does early marriage and early childbirth have to play in all this? As I said earlier, the majority of cervical cancers are caused by persistent infection with the HPV virus. The area of the cervix that HPV tends to infect is a region called the squamocolumnar junction. This region is usually hidden, not exposed but gets exposed during puberty and during pregnancies. So if a woman gets married early for example in her early teens or just as soon as she sees her period early there is an increased chance of her being infected with HPV, and infecting the squamocolumnar junction. Also a number of these young ladies do not have very good immune systems, are from poor homes and so may be malnourished. This leads to their immune system not being able to clear this infection and these result in its persistence. This leads to chronic inflammation of the cervix which leads to some changes in the lining of the cervix that lead to precancerous lesions in the cervix and if this does not resolve it leads to cancer. Are there stages of this condition? Yes there are. Staging tells us the extent to which the tumour has spread. There are four main stages, according to the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics staging system. In stage I, the tumour is confined to the cervix and the womb. In stage II, it has spread to the upper two thirds of the vagina and the connective tissues surrounding the uterus and cervix. In stage III, it has spread to the lower third of the vagina and more lateral connective tissues and the walls of the pelvis. At this stage it could have grown to obstruct the ureters and the patient could have a kidney that isn’t functioning. Stage IV is divided into IVA and IVB. In stage IVA it has grown to involve the bladder or rectum. In stage IVB, it has metastasised to distant organs outside the pelvis, like the lungs, liver, bones and brain. How does one know one has cervical cancer? Cervical cancer is diagnosed histologically, that is under the microscope. So if a patient has the above signs and symptoms, the patient should go to the hospital and see a gynaecologist. The gynaecologist would then ask questions, examine her, may ask for some investigations like an ultrasound, blood tests and then do a biopsy. A biopsy is basically taking a small sample of the tumour, which is then sent to the laboratory. This biopsy is usually taken in the theatre under conscious sedation as there is a risk of bleeding which may be better controlled in the theatre How often should women go for screening? Screening aids in detecting cervical cancer at an early stage. The chances of cure are higher when cervical cancer is detected early and adequate treatment instituted early. Checking cervical cells with the Papanicolaou test (Pap test) for pre-cancer has significantly reduced the number of cervical cancer cases and deaths from cervical cancer. Screening for cervical cancer depends on the age of the woman and the type of screening test done. Women are advised to start screening at 25 to 30 years. Testing for HPV is done every five years or Pap test every three years between ages 21 to 65 years. Screening may be discontinued if there are no abnormal screening results within the previous 10 years and no history of precancers (CIN2 or higher) in women older than 65 years. The HPV vaccination status of a woman does not change the frequency of screening. Can one with cervical cancer have kids? This depends on the stage of the disease and the type of treatment offered. Young women with very early cervical cancer who still desire to have children would have a type of surgery called trachelectomy in which only the cervix is removed. The womb is left in place and when she wants to have a baby the gynaecologist would be involved. Also delivery would be by caesarean section. If this patient is to also have radiotherapy during the treatment for the cervical cancer, the ovaries would be moved to a site where they won’t be within the field of radiotherapy treatment. Is it hereditary? No it is not. Are there preventive measures you’d recommend? I will recommend four main preventive methods. Firstly, HPV vaccination for young girls and boys aged nine to 14 years. Secondly, screening of all women aged 25 to 65 years with Pap test and / or HPV testing. Thirdly adopting a healthier lifestyle, like eating more fruits, vegetables, as I said earlier. And fourthly, all those who smoke should stop. What are the treatment options? The treatment of cervical cancer depends on the stage of the disease, treatment facilities available, the patient’s wishes and the desire for children by the patient. The treatment of cervical cancer is multidisciplinary involving the radiation and clinical oncologists, gynaecologists, interventional radiologists, urologists, general surgeons, oncology nurses, psycho-oncologists, who all play a role or multiple roles at different stages in the patient’s life. It includes surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy (external beam radiotherapy and brachytherapy). In early disease, patients may be offered surgery, which is a hysterectomy. hysterectomy is the removal of the uterus and the cervix. There may also be removal of the upper part of the vagina, the fallopian tubes, ovaries and surrounding connective tissue. It is a very extensive surgery and should be done by skilled gynaecologists. In later stages, surgery is not offered to patients but the use of chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Radiotherapy is the use of ionising radiations to treat malignant tumours and some benign conditions. There are two main types; external beam radiotherapy, in which the radiation source is far from the patient and brachytherapy, in which the radiation source is placed close to or within the patient. Chemotherapy is the use of cytotoxic drugs to control tumour growth. Currently there are targeted therapies available for the treatment of cervical cancer. How accessible are these treatment options in Nigeria? Treatment for cervical cancer involves surgery and/or chemotherapy with radiotherapy. Gynaecologists skilled in the type of surgery needed for early cases of cervical cancer are few and the surgeries are usually expensive. I would advise that a patient goes to a teaching hospital where the probability of getting a skilled consultant gynaecologist is high. Radiotherapy centres are few with the majority being very expensive. External beam radiotherapy may cost between N300, 000 to N1.5m. Treatment is cheaper in the government-owned machines, which include University College Hospital, Ibadan; National Hospital, Abuja; University of Nigeria, Nsukka; Usman Danfodio University Teaching Hospital, Sokoto, amongst others. But they are few. Private and private-public partnerships that offer external beam radiotherapy include NSIA-LUTH, Eko Hospital, Marcelleruth, American Cancer Hospital, Anambra State. The cost of chemotherapy depends on the type, the number of cycles and where it is being administered. It may cost between N100,000 to millions of naira, depending on the type, and where it is being administered. It could be administered in any government owned centre in which doctors trained to give chemotherapy are present. Are there some food choices women should avoid? It has been found that adopting the western diet which is high in saturated and trans fat, added sugars, and sodium (salt) increases chronic HPV infection and makes controlling HPV infection difficult leading to persistent HPV infection which may ultimately lead to cervical cancer. Therefore women should avoid foods high in added sugar, processed meats, red meats and foods high in saturated and trans fat. They should eat foods rich in antioxidants like carotenoids, lutein, zeaxanthin, folate,  Vitamin C, E, A and D  as they have been shown to stop the progression of HPV infection to cervical cancer. Are there nutritional changes for people battling this kind of cancer should consider? I usually tell cancer patients to eat what they want in moderation and as varieties. They should avoid smoking and drinking alcohol. When restrictions are placed on the diets of cancer patients it increases the chances of micronutrients deficiencies which are necessary for blood formation. This leads to anaemia and patients may need to take frequent blood transfusions. Avoid replacing approved medical intervention in the hospital with licensed oncologists and doctors with at-home natural remedies, unproven treatments usually offered by charlatans. What is the statistics of women battling cervical cancer in Nigeria? Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer in women after breast cancer in Nigeria. In 2018, there were almost 15 thousand cases of cervical cancer detected with 10403 deaths from cervical cancer in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com