The Managing Director, Greenwich Merchant Bank, Mr Bayo Rotimi, says the bank offers its customers other financial services beyond lending in order to support their businesses to grow. He said this in Lagos during a press briefing on developments in the bank. Rotimi, said, “If you look into our history, you will see that we started as an investment banking firm and what the investment bank does is to provide bespoke financial advisory financial services. So, we are almost like your in-house strategy consultant to say, this is the most efficient way to grow your business; or if your business has reached maturity, you need to diversify into other areas. “As an institution, we are saying that we will go beyond just lending you money. We have an investment banking team, we have an asset management team, we have research capability, we have studied and understudied your industry. “We know what the success and risk factors are and we have some ideas on how to grow your business from where you are to where we believe you should be. That gives us a unique competitive advantage, we offer a more holistic bouquet of services.” He also expressed the bank’s commitment to supporting the Nigerian economy, particularly in the area of infrastructure development and economic diversification through its bespoke financial solutions. To provide holistic financial services to its diverse clientele, he said Greenwich transitioned from a pure-play investment banking firm to a merchant bank duly licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria in October 2020. He said, “Given the inadequacy of consistent, long-term and sustainable financing in Nigeria, it is imperative for a merchant bank to provide customised financing solutions for infrastructure projects, business expansion, and diversification. This is our core area of focus as Greenwich Merchant Bank.” According to the Executive Director, Benson Ogundeji, efficiency is one of the core values of the bank and that is why it is deliberately driven digitally. “We remain agile and respond to the needs of the market and we put ourselves at that top edge of the market where we can compete effectively, not only in the knowledge of the products we sell but also in pricing,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com