The Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress Wednesday in Abuja approved the appointment of Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, as Chairman of the party’s zoning committee ahead of the March 26 national convention. According to a statement signed on Wednesday by the party’s National Secretary, Dr John Akpanudoedehe, other members of the committee include the Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege as Deputy Chairman and Deputy Governor of Anambra State, Nkem Okeke as Secretary. Other members of the panel include; Prof. Etim Nyong, Dr MB Shehu, Mustapha Salihu, Teslim Folarin, and Sadeeq Sami. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the Progressives Governors Forum, on Tuesday in Abuja, said there was no plan to shift the national convention of the All Progressives Congress from March 26 despite the election timetable released by the Independent National Electoral Commission. The forum’s chairman, Governor Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State, disclosed this to State House correspondents after leading some APC governors to a meeting with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, shortly before the president departed for Nairobi, Kenya. Shortly after INEC released the 2023 elections timetable, there were speculations that a section of the party was pushing for the postponement of the national convention to ensure that the election of party national executives and primaries hold on the same day. But Bagudu told journalists that the March date will not change. He said, “Last week, we were in this hall (Villa Briefing Room), about 20 APC governors, and this question came up, and we clearly said we came to discuss the national convention, which is slated for March 26 and are working hard to ensure that on March 26, we have our convention and elect our national officers and that remains the case.” The governor also debunked notions that the governors are still divided over the party’s direction regarding zoning and chairmanship. “There is no altercation. As a body, the 22 governors of the APC are united behind the party and Mr President,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com