ON Friday, January 20, 2022, the Court of Appeal affirmed the judgement of the Federal High Court in the case instituted by BFI Group with respect to committal proceedings against the Bureau of Public Enterprises and its Director-General, Alex Okoh. Through these proceedings, BFIG sought to compel the Bureau to comply with the judgements of the Supreme Court dated July 6, 2012, and the Court of Appeal dated January 11, 2019, failing which the Bureau and its Director-General would be guilty of contempt of court and liable to be committed to prison. In its press release on the matter, BFIG gloated about the moral arc of justice. But the reality looks different from a neutral perspective. It was C.P. Scott, the editor of the Manchester Guardian now known as Guardian Newspaper (UK), who said “Comment is free, but facts are sacred.”  Nowhere in its 1,748-word press statement, signed by its General Counsel, Jimmie L. Williams, did BFIG admit it had subverted the judgement of the Supreme Court. In the press statement, BFIG said, “While we take no pleasure in seeing someone go to prison, they must understand that we will use every measure available to ensure that ALSCON is rightfully transferred to BFI Group without delay.” Let us avail ourselves of the precise details of this matter. In 2004, BFIG emerged as the preferred bidder for ALSCON with a financial bid of $410m. However, BFIG failed to pay the initial deposit in the sum of $41m (being 10% of the financial bid) within the stipulated time of 15 working days, thus the BPE terminated the transaction with BFIG. Aggrieved with this decision, BFIG pursued its purported claim in the courts. After its claim was denied by both the Federal High Court and Court of Appeal, the Supreme Court allowed its appeal. The apex court, in a July 6, 2012 judgement ordered as follows: “an order of specific performance is hereby decreed mandating the respondent to provide the mutually agreed share purchase agreement for execution by the parties to enable the plaintiff pay the agreed 10% of the accepted bid price of $410 million (i.e, the sum of $41 million) within 15 working days from the date of the execution of the Share Purchase Agreement in accordance with agreement dated 20/5/2004 and the 90% balance of bid price shall be paid within 90 calendar days. “It is declared that the defendant is bound to accept payment of 10% of the bid price from the appellant (BFI Group Corporation) within 15 days from the date of signing the Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) by the parties.” In compliance with that judgement, BPE in a letter dated September 7, 2012, formally informed BFIG of its reinstatement as the preferred bidder of ALSCON. Subsequently, BPE forwarded the draft SPA to BFIG for their review and comments via a letter dated October 8, 2012. In an e-mail dated October 11, 2012, BFIG acknowledged receiving the draft SPA but contrary to terms of the Supreme Court judgement requested for some documents, which were not referred to by the Supreme Court, nor were they part of the original transaction concluded in 2004 and were not referenced in the SPA. BPE in a letter dated January 29, 2013, offered 77.5% shares in ALSCON to BFIG. Surprisingly, by way of an e-mail dated February 2, 2013, BFIG communicated its non-acceptance of the  SPA. Consequently, upon expiry of the period stipulated for execution of the agreement, BPE terminated the transaction with BFIG as a result of its non-compliance with the terms of the Supreme Court judgement. It is instructive to note that it is BFIG that has repeatedly sought to vary and/or frustrate the Supreme Court judgement. First, by seeking to reduce the actual price to be paid for the asset and second, by attempting to take benefit of documents which were not part of the original transaction. BFIG has unsurprisingly been silent about the fact that in 2013, when it commenced enforcement proceedings at the Federal High court, seeking to enforce the judgement of the apex court, it smuggled in a completely different SPA to that explicitly stated to be the mutually agreed SPA by the Supreme Court. Strangely, this SPA presented by BFIG stated the bid price of ALSCON to be $250m, rather than the $410m stated in the SPA rightly identified by the Supreme Court as the mutually agreed SPA. This scheme was ultimately unsuccessful as the Court of Appeal saw through it and in its judgement dated January 11, 2019 decided as follows: “To enforce the JUDGEMENT of the Supreme Court in Appeal No. SC/12/2008 delivered on 6th July, 2012 the appellant Bureau of Public Enterprises is hereby directed to provide the mutual agreed Share Purchase Agreement which is Exhibit BPE 1 for execution by the parties to enable the respondent BFI Group Corporation pay the agreed 10% of US$410 Million (i.e. the sum of $41 Million) within 15 working days from the date of the execution of the Share Purchase Agreement in accordance with the agreement dated 20/5/2004 and the 90% balance of bid price shall be paid within 90 calendar days as ordered by the Supreme Court.” The Bureau complied with the order of the Court by: (a)Providing the mutually agreed SPA for execution by the parties; and (b)Both parties executed the mutually agreed SPA. However, BFIG, once again, in breach of the terms of the Supreme Court Judgement failed to make payment for the asset. Instead, BFIG once more demanded that the documents which it had requested for by way of its e-mail dated October 11, 2012, should form annexures to the SPA. The Bureau made it clear to BFIG that the SPA executed by both parties was the complete SPA the Supreme Court ordered the parties to execute and which the Court of Appeal directed BPE to provide for execution by the parties. BPE also pointed out that the provisions of this SPA were clear and unambiguous – these documents were not referred to in the SPA, nor by the Supreme Court or Court of Appeal as forming part of the original transaction. Furthermore, some of these documents were not even in existence in May 2004 when the SPA should have been executed. The only annexure referred to in the SPA is  BFIG’s Post Acquisition Plan – a document generated by BFIG and which is already in the possession of both parties. An emerging pattern can thus be clearly seen. Having failed in its original adventure to obtain an asset for which it bid $410m, for the grossly reduced price of $250m, BFIG sought to convince the CBN that it had indeed paid for ALSCON when payment was never received. Now, it is once again seeking to manipulate Nigeria’s judicial system for its own devices by seeking to take benefit of documents, which were not even in existence in 2004 when the original transaction took place. At this juncture, perhaps it would be useful to have recourse once more to the words of the Court of Appeal in its 2019 judgement: “In this case, there is no doubt that the issue is about the enforcement of the judgement of the Supreme Court. The law is well settled that enforcement of a valid judgement of a court of law must address exactly what the judgement being enforced decided. The exact terms of the judgement cannot be varied and must be enforced in exactly the same tenor as was determined.” BFIG would do well to heed these words. Given the claims and counterclaims by both parties, what sticks out like a sore thumb is this critical poser: why has BFIG time and again failed to make any payment but wants to take over a public asset through public sympathy? Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com