A presidential aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party, Aminu Tambuwal, has urged the party to consider making him its standard-bearer ahead of the 2023 presidential election. Tambuwal argued that making him the standard-bearer would secure the party’s hold on the Presidency which would, in turn, pave the way for appointing members to important positions. This was made known in a statement signed by the Special Adviser, Media and Publicity to the Governor of Sokoto State, Muhammad Bello, which was made available to our correspondent on Tuesday. The statement said the Sokoto State governor made his intentions known during an audience with former presiding officers of states and the House of Representatives at the ballroom of the Fraser Suites in Abuja on Tuesday. Tambuwal admonished the PDP to reconsider its stance on the zoning of the presidential nomination to a section of the country which was supported by some members of the party. He reminded the PDP of the All Progressives Congress’ 2015 decision to ignore zoning by deciding to retain the presidential slot in Katsina State, where the late President Umaru Yar’Adua hailed. “You can share tickets because you can tear it up, but you must plan to win. The PDP must accept this reality. The ticket must be balanced, as zoning or any Muslim-Muslim ticket or Christian-Christian ticket would be dead on arrival and recipes for disaster,” he stated. Tambuwal also gave insights as to how the party could be successful in the coming elections putting into consideration “demographics, intra-party wrangling rife in the APC, voter education and rigging”, adding that the PDP needed to be strategic in the nomination of its standard-bearer next year. He noted that the APC had a stronghold in the North, with 16 governors; while the PDP had the same positions in the South, which meant the opposition party would have to “think well, plan well and win this election.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com