The Methodist Boys High School Old Boys Association has appealed to the Methodist Church of Nigeria to stop encroaching on the school’s land to build luxury flats. Speaking at the school’s Founder’s Day celebration in Lagos, president of the association, Mr Kolapo Sogbetun, noted that the school was duly registered as an educational institution under the Lagos State Ministry of Education, saying that the land was solely for educational purpose. “The church should stop tampering with the school’s land, the simple and only thing we are asking the church to do is to withdraw from the site and stop plundering school assets. We make bold to state that the school founded in 1878, about 144 years ago, is an instrument of trust under a Trust Deed, which the school is duly registered under the Lagos State Ministry of Education. Thus, the church can neither tamper nor plunder, nor sell any of its asset strictly meant for education,” he said. Sogbetun maintained that the association had agreed in a meeting to refund the N30m spent by the church to commence the building project on the school’s land. He, however, said the church claimed to have spent over N300 million. The president faulted the church for obtaining a concurrent Certificate of Occupancy in respect of a property belonging to the school. Sogbetun urged the church to ensure the C of O issued during the tenure of erstwhile Lagos State Governor, Babatunde Fashola was revoked. He said, “There is infrastructure deficit in the school, the school still needs more classrooms, hostels, staff quarters, additional departmental buildings, among others. We admonished the church to jettison its plan of building luxury flats on the school’s premises for commercial purpose.” He maintained that the Old Boys Association  had sponsored many projects to develop their alma mater. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com