The Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has called on the All Progressives Congress in the state to draw the attention of the APC-led Federal Government to the plight of suffering Nigerians. In a press statement by the Acting State Publicity Secretary, Dr Patrick Ojebuoboh, the PDP said Nigerians have been boxed to a tight corner by the APC’s poor management of the nation’s economy, which has led to extremely excruciating living conditions for Nigerians across the country. He said: “The state chapter of the APC should tell Edo people if the APC-led Federal Government is living in a bubble and unconscious of the dire straits in which Nigerians now live. “Is the party aware that a litre of diesel is now selling for over N750, up from N240? 1kg of gas is N700 against N224 in 2015? The cost per unit consumption of electricity is up, so also is the cost for food. “It is, therefore, disturbing that in the midst of these adversities, the APC by their utterances and posture give the impression that they do not go to the same market as other Nigerians or consume electricity from the same public power source. “Their recent jamboree convention, broadcast across various network stations in the country, is a spite on all Nigerians, who have been thrust into extreme poverty by the indiscretion of the APC and the bad governance they have enthroned in the country over the past seven years. “The Edo State chapter of the APC obviously does not care for the wellbeing of the people, which is why it is not bothered that the masses are suffering under the weight of the central government’s failures. “In case they may have forgotten, we want to remind them that Edo people are suffering from their government’s mismanagement of the country’s resources. Their inexplicable silence over the state of affairs of the economy is hypocritical. “It is only soothing that Edo people know the APC for what it truly is and would continue to reject their self-seeking politics in favour of people-oriented, development-focused leadership being provided by the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration and the PDP in the state,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com