A drama played out at the investigative hearing held by the Senate Committee on Public Accounts on Friday as the Managing Director of Bank of Agriculture, Alwan Hassan, could not show evidence of purchasing two new Toyota Prado and a Ford Ranger Sports Utility Vehicles for the purpose of monitoring agric mechanisation programme. The committee had summoned the BoA boss based on a query issued by the Office of Auditor General of the Federation in its 2017 report. Appearing before the committee to explain the purchase and whereabouts of the vehicles bought with N49m, the MD of the bank could not present a document to indicate that the vehicles were even purchased. Instead, Hassan presented a letter from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, which mandated him to withdraw money from the Agricultural Mechanisation Fund to procure the vehicles. Members of the committee expressed shock as the MD was unable to show any concrete evidence that the vehicles existed. Chairman of the committee, Senator Mathew Urhoghide, asked how Hassan paid for the SUVs without seeing the vehicles. Urhoghide stated that the vehicles were never bought by the Bank of Agriculture and consequently sustained the query issued against the bank. He also ordered a refund of the amount expended for the purchase of the vehicles into Federation Account. The query reads, “The Bank expended the sum of N49,026,333.32 from the Agricultural Mechanization Fund specifically meant for lending to operators, on various unrelated projects. For instance, the sum of N23,122,095 was paid to a motor dealer through payment voucher number 0103576 dated 29th September 2015 for the purchase of two Toyota Prado Jeeps. “Similarly, the sum of N25,904,238 was paid to another motor dealer for purchase of Ford Ranger Jeeps vide payment voucher number 0103579 of 29th September 2015. “These purchases were purportedly made as project vehicles for the Agric Mechanisation Programme. The management of the bank could not justify the choice and the use of these exotic vehicles for supervision. The vehicles could also not be produced for inspection during the periodic check. “The Managing Director should be compelled to account for all the stated motor vehicles, or refund to Government the sum of N49,026,333.32.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com