A social trading app, Bundle, has partnered with the Feminist Coalition, and The Female Media Network to donate educational and vocational grants to their respective communities. The initiative is said to be held to celebrate this year’s International Women’s Day themed #BreakTheBias. Bundle not only donated a grant but is also sponsoring women to take free courses on Art, Tech and Entertainment on Udemy. The Chief Executive Officer, Emmanuel Babolola, said, “Bundle’s decision to support this ecosystem of women is borne out of the obvious gap between men and women in the crypto and tech space in general. “There is a need for more female representation across all sectors and we want to be a part of this growth. We intend to consciously drive inclusion by empowering these women with the knowledge and resources needed to take the next step. That’s why beyond the grant we will also be offering educational training on Udemy for those who are interested.” He added, “The Feminist Coalition is partnering this because they believe it is every girl’s right to access quality education. Women’s rights and safety is one of three pillars of our work and, undoubtedly, girls’ education is a space we are committed to working within for the advancement of Nigerian women. “This donation from Bundle to Girls Education Programme will change the lives of brilliant young girls from disadvantaged communities. “The grant and training are all part of Bundle’s month-long campaign to celebrate women. Aside from the grant, Bundle will also be holding weekly question and answer sessions on its telegram channel. Women who have made great strides in crypto spaces would be speaking on different aspects such as NFT, crypto trading etc.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com