Scores of women, on Tuesday, stormed the Imo State Government House in Owerri to demand an immediate end to all kinds of rites and customs affecting the growth of the girl child. The women, who carried placards, marched from the control post junction to the Government House entrance gate, and faulted the National Assembly for failing to pass gender-related bills recently. They also called on the Federal Government and Academic Staff Union of Universities to speedily settle their differences so that university students could go back to their schools. The President of the Women Unite to Live Initiative, Nigeria, Chika Nwachukwu, who led the protesters, also urged the state government to deepen democracy by building basic amenities to alleviate the sufferings of rural women. Nwachukwu said Nigerian women had the capacity to compete favourably with their counterparts if equal opportunities were provided. The activist said, “Use the 2022 International Women’s Day with the theme, #BreakingTheBias, to ponder on the place of a typical African woman. “There is this clarion call for all nations to rise against all forms of unfairness, which inhibit women from utilising their potential for self-realisation, socio-political and economic advancement and general well-being at the various communities, workplaces, schools, colleges and universities.” She added, “A typical African woman performs the role of a wife, partner, organiser, administrator, director, re-creator, disburser, economist, mother, disciplinarian, teacher, health officer, artist and queen in the family at the same time. “Why have our mothers abandoned their parental duties to teachers, who have limited time with them, all in the name of boarding? Such situations have become very worrisome, especially in this Internet age where students are now modelled by what they watch on their phones during off school hours in their respective hostels. “Thus, the high rate of moral decadence among young girls, who now engage and even spearhead crimes that were hitherto regarded as male-related offences such as cultism, prostitution, kidnapping, armed robbery and ritual killings. “Our young girls in tertiary institutions continue to be the worst hit by the incessant strikes of Academic Staff Union of Universities. Many of these young girls waste their years of marriage and other useful life endeavours as undergraduates due to prolonged strikes. We all know that men can marry at any age, but definitely not women. Where do we go from here? “While we commend the government for signing the Electoral Bill into law, the full implementation of the law should be strictly observed to guarantee credibility in our electoral processes.” The Imo State Deputy Governor, Prof Placid Njoku, assured the women that the state government would look into their demands with the intention of solving the ones that were within its powers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com