The Director of the National Youth Service Corps, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, has warned corps members against using social media to spread wrong information and fueling hatred in the society. DG who was represented by the Akwa Ibom State Coordinator of NYSC, Chinyere Ekwe, gave the warning during the swearing-in ceremony of 1,608 Corps members deployed to Akwa Ibom State among the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Stream 1 at the Orientation Camp, Ikot Itie Udung, Nsit Atai LGA on Tuesday. While warning them to desist from drug abuse, cultism and other social vices, the DG also reminded them of the major objectives of NYSC, which is the promotion of national unity and integration, stressing that they should promote only ideals that will bring unity to the nation. He urged the corps members to avail themselves of the opportunities for self-employment offered through the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Programme during the orientation exercise. “Let me use this opportunity to caution you against indulgence in cultism, drug abuse and other social vices. “I also urge you to avoid using social media for spreading fake news, fuelling of hatred and other negative purposes, and instead deploy same for the promotion of unity and development. “You are strongly advised to be security conscious at all times, and to report any suspicious characters or activities around you to the appropriate authorities,” Ibrahim said. He urged the corps members to ensure that they get themselves vaccinated in line with the provision of the Federal Government. Ibrahim who declared the ceremony opened, admonished the corps members to demonstrate a high level of discipline, adding that the regimented nature of the camp was intended to instil discipline and build resilience. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com