The District Head of Ganaja Kingdom in Lokoja, Alhaji Idris Simbabi, has appealed to the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, to mobilise the contractor handling the abandoned Ganaja -Otoikiti Lokoja bypass to site to complete the remaining portion of the road to promote the socio-economic transformation of the state. The Simbabi made the appeal on Friday in a chat with our correspondent. The traditional ruler noted that the bypass, popularly known as Wada Road was conceived to provide an alternative route to articulated vehicles and motorists moving across the state to the northern and southern parts of the country, and to ease traffic congestion and incessant accidents in the Lokoja metropolis. He said the importance of the bypass to the economic growth of the state could not be overemphasised, saying, before the abandonment of the road, it has started attracting human and infrastructural development to the area. The traditional ruler who commended Governor Bello for giving a facelift to the Lokoja metropolis and other parts of the state appealed to him to expedite action to complete the remaining portion of the road. According to the monarch, “no fewer than 1,000 trailers and other articulated vehicles ply Lokoja metropolis on a daily basis,’’ adding that early completion of the bypass would bring a sigh of relief to motorists in the state capital, and help curb incessant accidents. He explained that the completion of the Wada Road, which had started attracting a concentration of people and industries to the area, would further create massive employment for teeming youths, thereby bringing down the incidence of crime and criminality. He urged the Chairman of Ajaokuta Local Government Council, Mustapha Akaba, and the Commissioner for Works, Abubakar Ohere, to lead the advocacy to the governor to mobilise resources for the project. On the issue of insecurity plaguing other parts of the country, the royal father advised governments at all levels to emulate the security architecture put in place by Governor Bello which, he said, has made Kogi the most secured state in the country.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com