A governorship aspirant in the 2023 general election in Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Ide Owodiong, has pledged to establish a diaspora fund to help in the development of the state. This is as he promised to evaluate and complete all uncompleted projects initiated by the previous administrations. Owodiong, a former ExxonMobil chief, said this while interacting with newsmen in Uyo. According to him, “All previous projects embarked upon by the previous administrations that have not been completed will be evaluated and completed. “This is the first thing I will do when I come into the office because I don’t believe that disagreeing with the previous administration should make you abandon projects sponsored by the taxpayers.” “Our industrial programme must be tied to specific resources that we have a competitive advantage. We have to develop our blue economy as we have the longest coastal in the country,” he said. The aspirant, who expressed concern over the menace of cultism which had penetrated primary schools, vowed to eradicate the menace if he becomes the next governor of the state. Meanwhile, a governorship hopeful in Akwa Ibom State and renowned Estate Surveyor and Valuer, Mr. James Iniama, has identified the crisis in the educational system as the major challenge confronting the state. He said it was unfortunate that most graduates were unable to read and write compared to his days when a child was taught how to read and write in primary school. Iniama said this at the Peoples Democratic Party secretariat during his consultation with party members in Uyo, the state capital. He said, “I’m thoroughly knowledgeable that if there is any challenge we have in Akwa Ibom State today, it has to do with our educational system. It’s a challenge we all must rise to. “I was taught to read and write in primary school; I was taught to draw in my primary school, but very regrettably, today I found graduates who are unable to write and read very clearly. “So, it is a challenge, a challenge to our dream. We believe that a time has come when we must rise together and ensure that we get our educational system tuned up” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com