Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has described his Edo State counterpart, Godwin Obaseki, as a politician who is given to serial betrayal of those who helped to advance his political aspiration. Wike spoke at the inauguration of Community Secondary School, Omuanwa, in Ikwerre Local Government Area of the state on Monday. He said he owed a former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, an apology for opposing him when he insisted that Obaseki was a treacherous and ungrateful man. This was contained in a press statement issued by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri. Wike said Oshiomhole was right then and has been vindicated given Obaseki’s recent display of ingratitude to the Peoples Democratic Party and to those who helped him to secure his second term. He said, “If you go and check the DNA of Godwin Obaseki, what you will see in that DNA is serial betrayal and ungratefulness. Let me stand today to apologise to Adams Oshiomhole who has been vindicated by telling us that we will see the true colour, the insincerity and the ungratefulness of Godwin Obaseki. “So, let me apologise to Adams Oshiomhole and to say you have been vindicated. You were right, we were wrong. I have never seen people who are so ungrateful in life. I have never seen people who can betray everything in life.” Wike claimed that Obaseki was never his match where character matters because he is consistent, sincere and a forthright team player, who has never betrayed any person who helped him politically. He explained that the problem in Edo State stemmed from Obaseki asking the national leadership of the PDP to dissolve Edo PDP executive when the leaders had been elected before he joined the party and provided formidable structure for him to win the election. He added, “I have invested in the party, Rivers State has invested in the party. We have voted for the PDP since 1999 till now. Ask Governor Obaseki, has he done anything for the PDP? “Has he voted for the PDP? The only election he voted was his own election when we gave him umbrella. So who has more stakes in the PDP? I have more stakes because I have supported the PDP always. “You have never supported the PDP, rather it was when your godfather chased you away and you came begging, kneeling down. People came with pressure and we allowed you. Ordinarily, you are a tenant.” He said it was unfortunate that Obaseki could describe him as a bully now that he is being called to order. “You came to beg a bully for you to have a ticket. A bully was your DG campaign and a bully bullied you into Government House. What a shame. It did not only end there. “You came with your wife to thank the bully that after God, the bully made it possible for you to be there,” Wike added. Obaseki had described the personal attacks by Wike against his Deputy, Philip Shaibu, as “most unfortunate and totally uncalled for.” In a statement, the governor called on the leaders of the PDP to call Wike to order, noting that the issues raised by his deputy were germane and needed to be resolved in the interest of the party. He said, “The recent personal attacks by the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, against my Deputy Governor, Rt Philip Shaibu is, to say the least, most unfortunate and totally uncalled for. “If Governor Wike was one who is wont to show respect and courtesy to his colleague-governors, he would have ordinarily reached out to me to express his concerns about the views made by my deputy governor, rather than embarking on this unwarranted public onslaught. “My deputy governor was a former National President of the National Association of Nigerian Students and his comment is representative of the essence of the nation’s youth population, who are inclined to openly speak up and question the status quo.” “If Governor Wike cannot understand and adequately respond to the style and character of the Nigerian youth, how can he aspire to lead them?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com