A former commander of the Niger Delta ex-agitators, Victor-Ben Ebikabowei, alias Boyloaf, has listed 40 students as beneficiaries of a scholarship scheme offered by his non-governmental organisation, the Boyloaf Foundation. The co-ordinator of the foundation, Seleipre Tonbie, disclosed this when he led other officials of the NGO on a tour of Community Secondary School, Yenaka, and some schools around the Swali/Obele area of Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, on Tuesday. According to him, the foundation would build 10 Information Communication Technology libraries in some selected schools as part of programmes and projects to celebrate Boyloaf’s 50th birthday. Tonbie said the Boyloaf Foundation was set up as an NGO based in the Niger Delta with a focus on education and enlightenment of the youths in the region. He said the group adopted 30 students from CSS Yenaka and 10 from the Swali/Obele area of the Yenagoa Local Government Area for the scholarships. Tonbie also explained that the aim of the foundation was to ensure the emergence of a new set of leaders and responsible citizens among young people within the ages of 10-30 years in the region. He said the foundation would deploy formal and informal education, talent hunt, skills development, facilitate and provide information as strategies to actualise its mission. He said, “The offer of scholarships and the move to build 10 ICT libraries followed our ongoing needs assessment being conducted in secondary schools in Bayelsa. The ICT libraries will be built in partnership with intervention agencies in the Niger Delta region. “You can see the excitement among students. The students were given quality school bags and other educational materials.” The Vice-Principal (Academics), CSS Yenaka, Million Asian, commended Boyloaf for floating the foundation, saying that the initiative had shown his efforts in supporting the educational sector, especially the proposed ICT libraries and internet access to schools within the region. He also prayed God to bless the former ex-agitator and called on other well-meaning individuals to emulate his kind gestures. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com