Obiex was founded by a teacher, Ikechukwu Okeke who discovered Bitcoin through a friend and became intrigued by the concept of internet money. His interest in cryptocurrency sparked up a desire to get Africans involved in the emerging digital asset technology, as a way to solve the financial inclusion situation in the continent. This prompted him and his co-founder to create Paylot Technologies. While running Paylot, Ikechukwu and his co-founder, Chidozie Ogbo saw that many merchants were using the product to get off ramp crypto instead of billing actual customers. To make this process easier for the merchants, a single page off ramp platform called Otc.paylot.co was built and launched. Even though it was never advertised, it became so successful that it had to be turned into an independent platform named Obiex Africa. Eventually, the platform was transformed into a fully automated and instant off ramp service for hundreds of traders in Nigeria. The service became a go-to for traders looking for instant cash at competitive market rates; till the 5th of February 2021 when the Central Bank of Nigeria released a circular banning regulated financial actors from supporting crypto companies. This cog in the machine sent payout systems into chaos but also set in motion innovative moves from the Obiex Africa camp. The result of this innovation gave birth to the Obiex App ,and with it came a change of name from Obiex Africa to Obiex Finance. The Growth Of Obiex The Obiex app is more than just another “crypto app”. Since its launch in June 2021, the fintech platform has settled into the Nigerian market to provide a smoother, easier and safer way of trading crypto. At a fundamental level, Obiex helps the everyday crypto trader make more profit while eliminating on-the-spot trading risks. The team behind Obiex is made up of African traders who understand the problems and inefficiencies that accompany trading on the continent.  Problems like numerous technical barriers of entry, zero hedging services , delayed network confirmations, constant restriction of funds without cause and unfriendly support systems. African traders were losing money daily using exchange platforms that had these issues. The Obiex Finance team saw an opportunity in this crisis to deliver an easy-to-use wallet and trading platform while de-risking its users. With Obiex, users don’t have to wait for confirmation on the blockchain before they can trade crypto assets. In addition, the signup and verification process is simple, fast and seamless. Proof of Growth It is often said that numbers do not lie. Within the first month of  launch, Obiex did $2.5m in trades and had a thousand users signed up. The trade volume hit $53m on the 20th of October, and doubled to $100m by December 3rd. As at the time of writing this piece, Obiex has gathered 20k users and a trade volume of over $200m. Also, Obiex had launched with 8 coins listed but at the close of 2021, the platform had listed an additional 7 including $SOL, $ADA, $NGNX, $WKD amongst others. Cryptocurrency and The Nigerian Market In the years since cryptocurrency exploded into the mainstream Nigerian and of course African market, it has proven to be an economic booster. Remittance has grown and a considerable portion of it has been from crypto trades or linked to crypto. According to the Chainalysis 2021 Geography of Cryptocurrency report, Africa’s cryptocurrency market grew by over 1200%  and received a total of $105.6 billion in remittance between July 2020 and June 2021. The report also noted that the African market is one of the most promising and dynamic in the world despite being the smallest; Cryptocurrency has also become a hedge against inflation through coins like Ethereum (ETH), Bitcoin (BTC), Tether (USDT), Solana  (SOL) and several others. With platforms like Obiex, people can save money in these different currencies, especially the stable ones like USDT and USDC which are pegged to the value of the dollar. Despite the obstacles the crypto industry has faced, it has risen up to become one of the easiest as well as fastest ways to send money in and out of Africa. It is also shaping up to be a robust payment infrastructure that can hold its own and even work alongside fiat banking. Cryptocurrency and Decentralised Finance has opened up a lane of financial freedom for Africans and that lane keeps widening. What the Future Holds for Obiex The Obiex team has an overall focus on creating more financial freedom by offering an exchange that lets Africans trade crypto safely, easily and swiftly. On a deeper level, the obiex team has their goals sorted into two categories – short term and long term. In the short term, Obiex wants to give millions of Africans better access to the world of traditional and new-age finance through cryptocurrency. The company intends to make available products including virtual and physical debit cards for limitless, borderless and hassle free payments; leveraged tokens to help customers with high risk appetites make more profit; interest on crypto deposits; saving plans; access to credits; gift cards, utilities and even a new referral reward system. Obiex users should also look forward to more listings on tradable assets, tighter margins and limit orders. In the long term, Obiex plans to create easy-to-use gateways for Africans to access DeFi and Web 3.0. More details on this plan will be revealed at a later date.  However, an Africa-focused NFT marketplace is already in the works. Obiex will continue its customer-first approach by introducing more features of the product that will help Africans move swiftly on their journey to financial freedom. The fintech company is set to continue with more educational projects like the Obiex blog that offers a simple way to learn about crypto, blockchain and web3. Obiex Finance is committed to helping Nigerians achieve financial independence and freedom with its services. Visit obiex.finance to sign up and start trading today.