The assertion that Nigeria is a blessed nation, is a truism of monumental dimensions. And in spite of the disparaging acts of a few charlatans in the geo-polity, there still abound men of character and value whose principles and actions ignite hope. They are symbols of consolation who, by their deeds across time, have consistently lifted the banners of genuine brotherhood, business integrity, true statesmanship, perseverance and other important values. And by a mixture of sheer grit and hard work, while steering their business brands, they have become creators of employment, history makers as well as society’s standard references for success. In this pack is the entrepreneur, a rare gem with panache, Christian with an infectious value system—Otunba Michael Olasubomi Balogun. Call him a symbol of the true Nigerian dream and you would be stating the obvious. That dream encapsulates a warm relationship with people of other ethnicities, religions and cultural values. In all these, the beloved Olori Omo-Oba Akile Ijebu has quite an impressive record. Many stories of him in the public space are tonics for motivation, for embedded in them are many lessons of doggedness and commitment. A typical example is the story of the quest to obtain a banking licence for the First City Monument Bank, which today has become a premium banking brand.  “What I did at that time was unheard of in this country, for one individual to say he single-handedly wanted to establish a bank (as against the statutory requirement for the bank promoter to have a foreign partner, which Otunba Balogun did not have). But I was inspired by my God through the mouth of a nine-year-old son of mine. We were praying and the young boy went to his mother and said, ‘I just pity Daddy. Why can’t he go and start his own bank, instead of wanting to be the Chief Executive of somebody else’s bank?” In obeying that submission, however, Otunba Balogun came face to face with hurdles, which without vision, commitment and the help of God, would have overwhelmed him.  In retrospect, he said, “It was Alhaji Otiti and the former Vice President, the late Alex Ekwueme, who were used directly by God to assist me in doing what many people thought was impossible. In the case of Otiti, he was a CBN deputy governor and someone in the Central Bank had just mentioned to me, ‘we cannot give you a licence because you don’t have a technical partner. Do you know my reply? I said, “God is my partner.” Though Otiti had reassured him by saying, “Subomi don’t worry, the CBN governor and I would arrange something provisional, which will enable you to run that bank and, later, look for a foreign technical partner,” it did not happen exactly that way. Here again, you cannot but agree that divinity was at work, ensuring the opening of another door upon the closing of one. Rather than Otiti, it was Ekwueme, his friend before the civil war, that God positioned for him and used. “At the Cathedral Church, my wife and I planned that when Alex [Ekwueme}was being led out that I would grab his clothes and my wife would grab that of his wife. When we made the moves, the security people with them thought something was wrong with us, but Alex looked back and said, ‘Subomi, Bimbola, what is happening?’ Do you know what I told him? I said, ‘Mr. Vice President, why are you not giving me a licence?’ So, Alex said we should come to see him and he assured me that the following Thursday, I would get my licence. By 3 pm that Thursday, a minister phoned me, and he said ‘Egbon (Big Brother), congratulations, the Vice President said your licence has been approved.’ True friendship, across ethnic lines, had spoken; a friendship that had taken strong roots long before Otunba’s moment of need. Today, several other companies have sprouted from the brand, and they include FCMB Group Plc, subsidiaries such as First City Monument Bank, CSL Stockbrokers, FCMB Capital Markets, First City Asset Management Limited, FCMB Microfinance Bank and FCMB UK. There are also FCMB Pensions Limited and FCMB Trustees Limited. In situations where many still tend to cause divisions, using religious inclination, Otunba Balogun has, through his philanthropy, not only blurred the line but obliterated it. He gives to the Jew as much as he does to the Gentile. He is Otunba; the people decided to also make him the Olori Omo-Oba (the head of all the king’s children) and added the Asiwaju of Ijebu Christians as well as the Olori Ebi of the Arojojoye Ruling House in Ijebu Ode, Ogun State. That town is also the host of the multi-billion naira Otunba Tunwase Paediatric Centre, which he recently gifted to the University of Ibadan and the University College Hospital (both in Ibadan). This is aside from regular donations and support to worthy courses far and wide that continually proclaim the kind-hearted nature of this true symbol of a classic Nigerian brand. Otunba Balogun also proves that people do not always hit it big early in their careers but each stage of their growth is a step closer to some greater future. His first job before leaving the country for the proverbial golden fleece was as a classroom teacher. And even when he was done with schooling in the United Kingdom, he did not allow the flash lifestyle there to tie him down. Many other jobs he landed had enough pecks to keep him hooked but he gave to each only what was necessary. They included his engagement at the Western Region’s Ministry of Justice where he was a Crown Counsel; Parliamentary Counsel at the Nigerian Industrial Development Bank and at the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank and its subsidiary, the International Finance Corporation, both in Washington DC. Armed with a bigger vision, he promptly returned to the country and began to explore business ownership options. His rewards and recognitions have come in quantum profit for investments, commendation for good works, good name around town and fulfilment in life. But the icing is joining the class of distinguished Nigerians, bestowed with the prestigious national honour of Commander of the Officer of the Niger. For being a true symbol of the Nigerian dream, Otunba Michael Olasubomi Balogun deserves all the accolades. All men of goodwill should doff their hats today, for this rare gem and chorus for him a prayer of many more days in the land of the living, in good health. Nothing less can suffice as a birthday gift for the billionaire with panache; this architect of history, Otunba Balogun, as he turns 88 this month. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com