Aworo, Eniso, Mojolagbe and 42 other families in Osogbo have petitioned the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, accusing Osun State Government of forceful takeover of some parcels of land belonging to them. The parcels of land in question, according to the petitioners, are located at Igboro, Owode-Ede, Osun State. The petition written on behalf of the concerned families by their counsel, Bukola Onifade, copy of which was obtained by our correspondent on Friday, also accused the government of malicious damage and intimidation. The families said while a suit instituted over the matter was pending before the Court Appeal, the government used security men to forcefully take over the land and damaged the perimeter fence erected by the petitioners. “Our clients are the customary and legitimate owners of the said lands from time immemorial under the Yoruba Native Laws and Customs. “The invasion of the said land was premised on the purported unlawful, allegedly taking over by the state government without doing the needful to the rightful owners of the land. “The families being aggrieved on the ways, manner and procedure adopted by the government in taking over their rightful land and converting same to personal and/or commercial purpose, our clients were not happy and they took legal steps.” When contacted for reaction, Osun State Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode, said government could not have forcefully taken over land belonging to people that voted it into power.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com