Nigerians Kingsley Eduwo and Anayo Iwuala struck the goals that gave Esperance of Tunisia a 3-0 victory at Jwaneng Galaxy of Botswana on Saturday to seal a Confederation of African Football Champions League quarter-finals place. Eduwo opened and rounded off the scoring in Francistown and Iwuala netted in between as the four-time title-holders cruised to another Group C victory over Galaxy, having put four goals past them when they met in Tunisia. Chabab Belouizdad of Algeria also reached the knockout phase of the marquee African club competition by a 2-0 home win over Etoile Sahel of Tunisia in the same section. The qualifications of Esperance and Belouizdad raised to seven the number of teams who had secured top-two finishes in the four groups with one matchday remaining. On Friday, Raja Casablanca of Morocco, Entente Setif of Algeria and Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa progressed to the quarter-finals of a competition offering a $2.5 million first prize. Last weekend, surprise side Petro Atletico of Angola and Wydad Casablanca of Morocco were the first teams to reach the knockout stage. With seven clubs qualifying, there was just one place to be filled, either by Egyptian defending champions Al Ahly or Al Hilal of Sudan, on April 1 or 2. Ahly would host Hilal in Cairo and need a draw to advance, while a win for Hilal would take them through on head-to-head records after the first match between the decades-old rivals ended in a 0-0 draw. Record 10-time African champions Ahly hope to become the first club to win the competition three consecutive times. While the battle for quarter-finals places was all but over, the contests for first places would rage on in the final matchday with only Group A pace-setters Sundowns assured of finishing first. The Pretoria outfit overcame the 11th-minute red-carding of Kenyan centre-back Brian Onyango to defeat Hilal 4-2 in the 35 degrees Celsius heat of Omdurman. Full-back Thapelo Morena, who scored the winner in a surprise triumph over Ahly in Cairo, netted twice for the South Africans and Namibian sharpshooter Peter Shalulile was also among the goals. AFP