The National President, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, Bishop Wale Oke, has advised Christians against taking the back seat in political activities ahead of the 2023 general elections, but should play active roles and contest for positions. Oke, who urged Nigerians to pray for the emergence of God-fearing leaders at the federal and state levels in the elections, urged citizens of voting age to register to vote. “Everybody, if you are 18 years and above, go and register and get your Permanent Voter Card so that when it is election time, you will be eligible to vote,” he admonished. The cleric, who spoke in Ado Ekiti, on Saturday, during the foundation laying and fund-raising for the N250 million Ekiti PFN secretariat building, appealed, “Let’s join hands to build the house of the Lord. When people build God’s house, God favours them, God prospers them. So, let us do it together, let’s sacrifice and build God’s house”. Speaking on the forthcoming 2023 polls, the PFN president stated, “Every believer, go and join a political party of your choice whether Peoples Democratic Party or All Progressives Congress or any other and get involved at the grassroots level so that you are not just voting, but that you can be voted for. It is important, let us participate in grassroots politics. “PFN is not partisan; we are enjoining our members, join a political party of your choice. Contest or vie for office to be voted for. Again, everybody, go get your PVC. Don’t sell your vote, your vote is your conscience, your vote is your power, let us vote according to our conscience, but above all, let us pray for God to give us godly leaders at the federal, state and local government levels. God bless Nigeria,” the cleric said. PFN State Chairman, Bishop Clement Abifade, who said the challenge of having a befitting secretariat building had been a burden in the members’ hearts, solicited support and generous donations towards the project. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com