The Coalition of United Political Parties on Tuesday protested against the decision by the Independent National Electoral Commission to dump parties reinstated by the Court of Appeal in the 2023 general elections, describing it as “an affront on the Judiciary.” The National Secretary of CUPP, High Chief Peter Ameh, in a statement said the action of INEC was a great danger to democracy. He said, “Continued disobedience to and disregard for the unanimous judgement of the Court of Appeal by Prof. Mahmood Yakubu-led INEC is a danger for the nation’s democracy. “I view with serious concerns the publication by the Independent National Electoral Commission, of its resolve to unlawfully exclude some political parties who were reinstated by the Court of Appeal in a unanimous judgement delivered by its President, Justice Monica Dongban Mensem on August 10, 2020. “This statement credited to Festus Okoye who spoke on behalf of the Commission is not only reckless but grossly irresponsible considering the fact that there is a subsisting judgement of the Court of Appeal which has neither been set aside nor stayed by an Order of a Court of competent jurisdiction. “By such unlawful pronouncement to the general public allowing only 18 political parties to participate in the scheduled 2023 general elections, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu-led INEC has once again affirmed its disdain and disregard for the Rule of Law in Nigeria and clearly shown his contempt of the subsisting judgement of the Court of Appeal. “The Commission ought to have realised that the unanimous Judgement of the Court of Appeal delivered by its President on August 10 2020, being a declaratory judgement, still subsists and appeal in law does not operate as a stay. “In view of the foregoing, I call on the commission to relist the parties as ordered by the Court of Appeal and take every step necessary to ensure that they are accorded every right deserving of them as regards the 2023 general elections.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com