A former speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly and member of the House of Representatives for Nsit-Ubium Nsit-Ibom/Etinan federal constituency, Onofiok Luke, has formally declared his intention to run for the hilltop mansion house in Uyo, the state capital. He promised to leverage the existing technological policies and facilities to develop the state economy. Luke, who is the chairman house committee on the judiciary, stated this on Wednesday while declaring his governorship ambition at the Ibom hall ground in Uyo. “Akwa Ibom State is an emerging technology hub, and we will make it a priority to provide access to IT education, mentorship programmes and technology incubation facilities for our youths. “We will ensure that Information Technology becomes a fundamental part of our educational system in Akwa Ibom. This is the only way that we can produce a globally competitive next generation of leaders from Akwa Ibom,” he said. The governorship aspirant said in addition to expanding existing capacities in agriculture, health, industry, education, food sufficiency and agric development, tourism, sports, youth, women inclusion, security, environment, infrastructure and good governance, he would invest in the human capacity to increase the productivity level to ensure that the state competes with other emerging economies. “We can do this easily if we engender a greater sense of inclusiveness by ensuring that as we build together, we will also partake in the benefits, and grow together. Akwa Ibom is one of the most peaceful and resource-rich states in Nigeria, blessed with brilliant minds. “It is, therefore, important for us to invest in human capacity development to improve skills and empower our people to build and grow while improving infrastructure and attracting Foreign Direct Investment into the state. “We also see immense potential in partnering the private sector, our diaspora community, developmental financial institutions and international donor agencies to accelerate economic growth, improve quality of life, and create sustainable jobs for Akwa Ibom indigenes,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com