THE Independent National Electoral Commission, on Monday, released the final list of eligible candidates for the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti State. The list, published on the commission’s website and at the 16 local government area offices of INEC in the state, showed that Abiodun Oyebanji was cleared as the candidate of the All Progressives Congress with Monisade Afuye as his running mate. The APC candidate will slug it out with Olabisi Kolawole of the Peoples Democratic Party, who has Kolapo Kolade as his running mate. In total, candidates nominated by 16 political parties will participate in the governorship poll. The National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, INEC, Mr Festus Okoye, said in a statement that the development was sequel to the publication of the personal particulars of the candidates last month. He added that it was also in compliance with the Electoral Act, 2022 following the close of nomination by political parties. Okoye stated, “The commission wishes to remind political parties that under Section 32(2) of the Electoral Act, 2022, any party that observes that the name of its candidate is missing from the list shall notify the commission in writing, signed by its national chairman and secretary, and supported with an affidavit not later than 90 days to the election. “Furthermore, the attention of parties is drawn to Section 32(3) of the Electoral Act, 2022, which provides that failure to notify the commission shall not be grounds to invalidate the election. “The final list is published in our state and local government offices in Ekiti State, as well as our website and social media platforms for public information as required by law. “Political parties are enjoined to note the provision of the law for compliance.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com