A former Nasarawa State Governor and Chairmanship aspirant in the just-concluded National Convention of the All Progressives Congress, Tanko Al-Makura, on Sunday in Abuja, voiced his support for the new Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led leadership of the party. Al-Makura said this when he paid a congratulatory visit to the new National Chairman of the APC. In a statement he signed on Sunday titled ‘Al-Makura pays congratulatory visit to Adamu, says APC good to go,’ he noted that it is God who ultimately gives power. According to him, “It is God that gives power. Therefore, I, not only throw my support behind the new party leadership but also urge every party leader and faithful to do the same. “Indeed the onus is on every true and loyal party man to subject his or her individual interest to overall party interest, for it is in so doing that our supreme individual and national interest, which is the peace, progress, and development of Nigeria is also met.” On behalf of his Campaign Organisation, Al-Makura conveyed warm congratulations to Adamu and the entire newly elected leadership of the APC on their emergence in the just concluded convention. He also commended and congratulated the leaders of our party, starting from the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on the successful national convention of our great party. “In displaying our first-rate problem-solving, dispute resolution, and organisational aptitude through a rancor-free and smooth national convention, our party has, once again, disappointed the naysayers and put the enemies of the party to shame,” he said. Al-Makura added that, with the national convention done and dusted, he nursed no doubt that the APC was now well repositioned and good to go into the 2023 elections with confidence, saying that the new leadership had all it took to navigate the party to victory in 2023 and beyond. “I thank most generously the leaders and members of our great party for the confidence they reposed in me and the tremendous support accorded him while the race lasted,” he concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com