A major tragedy was on Thursday averted as a founding member of the National Democratic Coalition, Commodore Dan Suleiman, escaped death by whiskers. The PUNCH was informed that he was on his way to Idah, Kogi State to attend the coronation of the new Attah Igala when the vehicle conveying him and others, including the President of Middle Belt Forum, Dr. Bitrus Pogu, had a fatal crash. He has however been taken to hospital and was said to be recuperating. The Media Adviser of MBF, Simon Reef, confirmed the incident in a terse message to our correspondent. He said, “Cdr Dan Suleiman had an accident today (Thursday) on his way to Ida for the coronation of the new Attah Igala due to take place tomorrow Friday. “His car somersaulted when he attempted to avoid a tanker who was driving against traffic. “The car conveying the President of the Middle Belt, Dr. Pogu Bitrus, did a 360-degree to avoid a head-on collision with the tanker. “Cdr Suleiman has been taken to the hospital for medical attention and is in stable condition.” Suleiman was a member of General Murtala Muhammed’s supreme military council in Nigeria between July 1975 and March 1976 and was Military Governor of Plateau State from March 1976 to July 1978 after it had been created from part of the old Benue Plateau State. After the return to democracy in 1999 in the Nigerian Fourth Republic, Suleiman became chairman of the MBF, a socio-political group representing the people of the Middle Belt of Nigeria. He resisted the dictatorship of General Sani Abacha after the elections of 12 June 1993 were annulled. As a result of being one of the founders of NADECO, he was forced into exile. Sani Abacha died unexpectedly in June 1998. On 7 October 1998, he returned to Nigeria and became a leader of the People’s Democratic Party in Adamawa State. The party went on to win the national elections in 1999. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com