The world of cryptocurrency is evolving, since its inception over a decade, from the launching of the first crypto, Bitcoin, in 2009. Over the years, there has been a significant timeline of unfoldings surrounding the spread, adoption, and approval of cryptocurrency across the globe. Now, with over 6,000 cryptocurrencies in the crypto market, it is affirmative to note cryptocurrency as a big in today’s financial space. However, with several all-time highs reached and instances of price dip, cryptocurrency is on its way from being just a discourse to an endeavor. The endeavor pitch of cryptocurrency is evident as many companies and nations of the world are mulling on adopting this blockchain-supported innovation as a method of payment, while some are eagle-eyeing it for profitability, through its trade and investment potentials. In Nigeria, trading in cryptocurrency is considered one of the lucrative ways of making money in this fast-rising digital age. This is owed to the boundless fortunes it can churn out as the slightest effect of crypto bullish prices. In a bid to further accelerate the hope of existing and newbie crypto traders, Prestmit is curating innovations with simplicity and uniqueness to make wealth accessible to all crypto enthusiasts through its new mobile app that was recently launched. Launched in 2017, Prestmit is an over-the-counter exchange platform designed for you to trade, buy and sell different digital assets that include Bitcoin, Dogecoin, Litecoin, USDT, and also gift cards, using fiat currencies (Naira and Cedis) and cryptocurrencies (Bitcoin and USDT) as modes of payments. As we all know that mobile applications provide the most convenient channel for repeated online transactions, Prestmit is one of Nigeria’s reliable and credible exchanges that make crypto trading easy, safe and fast. Prestmit new mobile app is now available, both on the google play store and the iOS store. On Prestmit, crypto prices are automatically updated to stay abreast with the current price in the crypto market. It should be noted that the aim of Prestmit is not just driven at making profits, but to also ensure that every Prestmit user has an amazing experience to relish while using the platform. This is the inspiration behind the launching of the new Prestmit app, which is to give users a top-notch user-friendly interface experience, the first of its kind in innovative features in Nigeria. Prestmit has an instant payment of 5-10 minutes, having sold your cryptos on the platform. Having set a track record of the app with the fastest payment time, the newly launched app tends to retain that repute. The Prestmit app is always available, 24/7, regardless of when you want to trade your crypto. You are at the liberty to trade anytime from anywhere. The Prestmit mobile app enables you to trade for any currency of your choice, either from Naira or Cedis to Bitcoin, or viz-a-viz. The crypto space is ever-changing to further tickle the interest of people into its adoption and acceptance, hence Prestmit is on the move to provide the best customer service experience to its users, through its mobile app that has just had an upgrade. So it is deemed easy to safely make money while trading with Prestmit.  PRESTMIT ON ANDROID: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.prestmit PRESTMIT ON IOS: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/prestmit/id1581960714 VISIT PRESTMIT: https://prestmit.com/