The Christian Association of Nigeria on Thursday rejoiced with the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, on his 80th birthday, describing him as “a great blessing and gift not only for the Body of Christ but to the whole world.” The General Secretary of CAN, Joseph Daramola, in the congratulatory message wished Adeboye “good health, sound mind, and greater exploits.” He said, “Daddy GO, You are a great blessing and gift not only for the Body of Christ but to the whole world where God has been making use of you as His vessel of honour. “Unarguably, your emergence as the General Overseer of your Church was ordained by God as it is being manifested in the unprecedented spreading of your ministerial impact globally. “We congratulate Daddy GO, the father of fathers, the teacher of teachers, the Pastor of Pastors, Bishops and many General Overseers, a man with impeccable integrity, an epitome of Holiness, Faithfulness, Miracles, and humility. “May God continue to use You in winning souls and setting captives free in Jesus Name. Despite your tight schedule yet, you always honour our invitation whenever there is a need for it and your Ministry and RCCG are great and reliable allies of the Christian Association of Nigeria. “You are fond of reminding those who wanted you to speak on national issues that once CAN has spoken, no Church leader should speak again. “We are fully persuaded that it is the prayer of Daddy GO and a few others that is keeping Nigeria going despite all the self-inflicted problems that are threatening our existence as a nation. “You will continue to flourish like the palm tree and grow like a cedar in Lebanon. Because you are planted in the house of the Lord; you flourish in the courts of our God. You are still bearing fruits in old age; you are ever full of sap and green (Psalm 92:12-14 paraphrased). “Congratulations Daddy GO. Wishing You good health, sound mind, and greater exploits in Jesus Name.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com