The candidate of the Social Democratic Party in the last governorship election in Kogi State, Chief Natasha Akpoti and other notable women have sought more women representation in governance. Among the other notable women are the Assistant Coordinator, Lagos State Mental Health Desk, Adefunke Shonubi; Lagos Central Senatorial aspirant, Victoria Olubanke Oniru; and a social researcher, Fisayo Ogundoro. On the occasion of International Women’s Day, the women decried the poor representation of women and called for the adequate representation of women in governance and other fields in society. Natasha Akpoti, in a chat with The Punch correspondent, noted that Nigeria is still retrogressing in the area of women representation. In a statement, made available to our correspondent, Natasha compared the status quo of Nigeria with other countries and described the country’s situation as a sad reoccurrence. “While most countries are progressing towards a fairer and more liberal world for women with a handful producing their first female Presidents and Prime Ministers, Nigeria is retrogressing,” she said. “Katerina Sakellaropoulou in 2020 became Greece’s first female president. As with Maia Sandu who in 2020 as well became Moldova’s first female president. “Zuzana Čaputová is Slovakia’s president since 2019, as is Paula-Mae Weekes of Trinidad and Tobago since 2018. Both are their countries’ first female presidents amongst many others. “For Prime Ministers, we have the world applauded Jacinda Kate Laurell Ardern of New Zealand; Sheikh Hasina of Bangladesh; Kaja Kalas of Estonia; Saara Kuugongelwa-Amadhila of Namibia; Sanna Marin of Finland, to mention a few, serving their respective countries till date,” Natasha wrote. “Deeply reflecting back home to Nigeria’s status quo on women, especially in leadership, I’d call it a sad reoccurrence of deliberate systemic and cultural manipulations to alienate a gender representing half its country’s population,” she added. Natasha cited how the Parliament discarded five bills seeking gender equity for women. She said that out of the 109 senators, only seven are women, while out of the 360 House of Representatives Members, only 13 are women. “There are 15 states with no women in the House of Assembly. These states are; Kogi, Yobe, Sokoto, Abia, Bauchi, Edo, Jigawa, Kwara, Taraba, Katsina, Zamfara, Kano, Nasarawa, Yobe and Borno. “Sickening it is to have anyone think Nigeria can progress by shutting the doors of opportunity to women who can offer socioeconomic, political and corporate growth to nation-building,” she said. On her part, the Lagos State Assistant Coordinator, Mental Health Desk/Lagos Mind, charged women to advocate for themselves and “unclip their own wings”. While speaking with our correspondent, she said that women have been placed in a box by society and limited by cultural expectations. “The Nigerian society has placed women in a box, limited by cultural expectations. This has contributed heavily to the clipping of the wings of women who would otherwise fly high and wide. It has also created a playbook for women to follow even when faced with societal ills. “To avoid continuing in this tradition, it is important for women to share one voice- to advocate for themselves, and to “unclip their own wings”, showing how much power they possess,” she said. Ms Adefunke stated that the role of women has been relegated to making and keeping home. She however maintained that advocacy surrounding women has shown that there is no limitation to what women can achieve. “Thus, the International Women’s Day celebration is to shift the perception and general expectation attached to womenfolk and to create an even playing field for women in every field of life where decisions are being made,” Adefunke added. An aspirant of Lagos Central Senatorial District, Victoria Olubanke Oniru, has said that men have plunged society into the current mess that we are in, and that women should be given the chance. While talking to our correspondent, Victoria said, “men had plunged the country and the continent into this mess. So let some people that weren’t part of the problem try for once. “Look at some great nations today like the U.K, Germany, New Zealand, and the Scandinavian were run by women. During Covid-19, most of the countries run by women fared better compared to their male counterparts-the reason why women have the pedigree to fix the problems since men seem not to have the solution. When women are empowered, miracles happen! “I believe in equality and we want more women up there.” Responding to the question on the relevance of this year’s theme ‘Breaking the Bias,’ to the rejection of the gender equality bill by the National Assembly, Victoria noted that the women in the National Assembly are not even up to 10 per cent since 1999. “All animals are equal but some are more equal than others,” she responded, calling for more women representations. “Our goal is to have a range of 40/60 per cent representations,” Victoria further said. Also, a Social Researcher and Post Graduate student at the University at Buffalo in the United States, Fisayo Ogundoro, told The Punch that she believes that the goal of this year’s theme is to strengthen the fight against gender inequality and to serve as a grand awareness about the challenges of women in our society. “I believe the goal of this year’s theme is to strengthen the fight against gender inequality. It as well serves as a grand awareness about the challenges of women in our society. “It serves as a continuous reminder that we need to continue advocating. Without continuous advocacy, gender equality in the workplace, family, schools, and more will not end, “ Fisayo told The Punch. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com