The Contributory Pension and Happy Retirement Advocacy, a non-governmental organisation, has said retirees and prospective retirees of the Nigerian Police Force should not be allowed to exit the Contributory Pension Scheme and return to the Defined Benefits Scheme. The NGO said this in a presentation at the public hearing at the House of Representative Committee on Pensions on a bill seeking the removal of the Nigeria Police Force from the CPS. A member of the NGO’s Project Advisory Team, Mahmud Ayinla, while making the presentation said all the grievances of the police could be corrected within the CPS. According to him, one of the grievances of the police is the poor monthly pension of a corresponding officer grade in the CPS. He argued that the monthly pension of such an officer was higher in DBS. This calls for the government to increase the funding of the Retirement Savings Account and not to take over the whole pension payment including its administration. While noting the global crisis in pension management which is majorly funding, he said Latin America had led in policy reforms. This, it said, had made the region’s pension management and administration switch from the pay-as-you-go /DBS to the CPS where, in typical cases, worker and employer partly contribute to a fund to be invested in a relevant mix of portfolio of assets. Speaking on issues of unfunded pension liabilities; statutory government disbursements or deliverables, he noted that currently, the government is saddled with heavy recurrent statutory expenditures as well as providing funding for necessary and important capital projects. He said, “Currently, the government is saddled with heavy recurrent statutory expenditures as well as providing funding for necessary and important capital projects. “A three – year review of our countries budget performance has shown that a large chunk of the budget is dependent on borrowed funds by virtue of rising budget deficits.” While noting that government’s deficit is to exceed three per cent of the GDP, he said arguments could be made for the insecurity currently witnessed in the country. He said that in the midst of dwindling economic resources, borrowed funds are expected for providing economical viable capital projects such as roads, healthcare, subsidy for farmers and others.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com