Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi, on Wednesday debunked notions that he is no longer eyeing the Presidency ahead of the 2023 presidential election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress. The governor spoke to State House correspondents after meeting with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. When asked if he had shelved his ambition, Umahi said, “It could be just your own imagination because there is no such thing. You can see us in the various media houses, you know, social media. You can see my supporters everywhere, you can see my consultation. “I even consult those who are also aspiring. And that shows you how committed I am to this course and I think it is God’s project. So, there is no such thing. Whatever is God’s project, no such consideration will come to such a project.” The governor said the Federal High Court’s decision which sacked him as governor because of his defection contravened the ruling of the Supreme Court on who can claim ownership of electoral votes; the party or the candidate. He added, “Do I look worried? You see, God has plans for everything. And I think that God allowed one court to give judgment that I go nowhere, allowed another court to say, because we defected, and the votes belong to the party. I’m very worried because the highest court has said that votes belong to the candidates. “That’s why even though the APC won the election in Bayelsa State, the deputy governor’s credentials were defective. Even a day to swearing-in, the Supreme Court ruled, disqualifying the candidate of the APC that won the election because of his deputy. So, if vote inputs belonged to the party, it would have been that the Supreme Court in its wisdom would have just asked for the man that won the election for the party to bring the substitutes to do that.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com