The Lagos State Government has partnered with the Nigerian Postal Service to organise a training programme for dispatch riders and delivery drivers across the state. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation, Mr Kamar Olowoshago, disclosed this in a statement on Saturday. Olowoshago was quoted to have said this at an event with the theme “Enhancing professionalism in courier and logistics services,’ held at the Lagos State Drivers Institute’s headquarters, Oshodi. He said, “I appreciate Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for assenting to the programme as this collaboration between the Ministry of Transportation, LASDRI and NIPOST will enhance productivity and move the country forward in all ramifications. “Today’s epoch-making event is a well thought-out training session that will not only certify dispatch riders and delivery drivers, but also improve their professionalism and regulate the logistics sector of the economy.” The General Manager of LASDRI, Mrs Afusat Tiamiyu, said the training was a demonstration of the state government’s determination to partner the organised formal and private sector to enhance the education of drivers. “A driver’s main responsibility is to safely transport either goods or passengers from one location to another, therefore the institute has compiled various educative training topics to provide resourceful material that will enhance qualitative education of drivers as part of the solution to economic growth and development,” she said. The Director of Operations, NIPOST, Mrs Funmilayo Ogun, said, “The dispatch riders and delivery drivers are the last-mile delivery who interact with clients and how they present themselves reflects on the organisation.” Therefore, positivity should always be portrayed at all times whenever they are discharging their duties.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com