Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, on Wednesday, officially declared his intention to contest presidential election in 2023 under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party. Atiku’s declaration comes just seven days to the two-week deadline given to the PDP zoning committee to make recommendations for the zoning of various elective positions before the elections. Speaking at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, the presidential hopeful, said, “The most fundamental right of every Nigerian is the right to life. But the APC has failed to protect the life of her citizens… under my Presidency I will not tolerate insecurity. “They said we should go back to farms. How can Nigerians return to the farms when you have not secured the farms? “When the APC came in 2015, they met a debt profile of N12 trillion. But now we have more than N32 trillion in debt. Under my watch, I will reduce borrowing.” He added that his administration would focus on five priority areas: Unity, security, economy, education and devolving more powers to the federating units. “Nigeria is in dire need of visionary leadership. Presently Nigeria is a sinking ship that must be urgently rescued. That is why I am announcing my candidacy for the President “I offer myself to rescue the ship. Under my captainship, this ship will sail to brighter days by the grace of God. This is a journey I will take with all Nigerians. “Under my Presidency I will focus on five key areas; unity, security, economy, education and devolving more powers to the federating units. I am the unifier that is coming to bind the broken union. Under my Presidency there will be a new Nigerian where everybody has an equal voice and is heard, he said. In his address, the Adamawa State Governor, Ahmadu Fintiri said an Atiku Presidency will unite and secure the country, salvage the economy and create jobs for Nigerians. He said, “Atiku Abubakar represents a special treasure to Nigeria. His commitment, his unity, his growth and development of Nigeria is a sign of his patriotic aspiration. He is probably the most experienced person in the race at the moment not only in our party, the PDP but in the country. “He is well prepared to lead Nigeria at his most demanding moment. He has created wealth and provided jobs as a politician. His democratic credentials are unequalled. He is a good mentor and a leader and the best candidate that can defeat the APC and win the election for our great Party. “He is the President that will unite and secure the country, salvage the economy and create jobs for our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, let’s go for him.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com