A member of the Peoples Democratic Party, Femi Oluwasanmi, has said the public schools in the rural areas are collapsing and in a dilapidated state. Oluwasanmi who is contesting for a seat in the Osun State House of Assembly to represent  Atakunmosa East/West Local Government, Osun State, thereby called on the government to set up a team that would assess the level of the decadence in the public schools. Speaking in an interview with The PUNCH, Oluwasanmi maintained that most schools in the rural areas were not usually renovated, saying only schools in the major towns were usually renovated by the government and other stakeholders. Oluwasanmi who engages in giving out educational materials and organising quiz in some of the schools in Atakunmosa said it was part of his contribution to the development of education in the area. He said, “Most of the renovations carried out in schools, are done in schools very closed to the major roads so that both local and international observers can praise the government when carrying out assessment. “Meanwhile, the schools in the rural areas are collapsing and experiencing a brain drain. “In my constituency at Atakunmosa East/West Local Government Areas for instance, most of the schools in the rural areas are left untouched. While unnecessary edifices are built in schools on the roadside even when the reality on the ground suggests that they only need renovations.” He suggested that the government should recruit more teachers and motivate them. “Government should come with different motivational programmes for teachers. This could be informed of cash or recognition. “Education is the bedrock of a sane society. Through ed0ucation, we will be able to inculcate the values that will enhance development in children,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com