Youtuber, Rodney Okoba, has accused the police of shooting him during a confrontation at Mile 2 Bus-stop in the Amuwo Odofin area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro learnt that the incident happened on Wednesday around 10am. Okoba said he had just alighted from a taxi alongside his dad when a policeman asked where they were going. He explained that the cop accused him of being rude and ordered him to enter the police patrol van. Okoba said he refused to enter and was shot in the leg by one of the police officers. Narrating his ordeal to our correspondent on Sunday, Okoba said, “I was going for an inspection with my dad. There was traffic and we decided to complete the remaining journey on foot. After alighting, one of the policemen came, pulling my shoulder and asking where I was going. My dad responded and said I was his son and that we were going out together. He then asked my dad who he was and that he should identify himself. I asked him if he was suspecting a man with white beards too. “He told us we were not going anywhere and called his colleagues that I was a suspect. They insulted my dad and when I asked why they were insulting my dad, a policewoman accused me of being rude. She slapped me, held my trousers and wanted to drag me into their bus. For absolutely no reason; nothing was found on me or in my phone. I refused and the rest of them came and started pushing me. My leg was at the door. Before I knew it, one of them shot at my leg. “They ran away afterwards.  I cried out for help and people ran after them. The policewoman was caught. I can’t say what happened next because I had to leave the place to get medical attention. The policemen were up to seven and were from the FESTAC Police Station.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, said the Lagos State Commissioner of Police had ordered a preliminary investigation into the matter. He said, “The CP has instructed the DPO to conduct a preliminary investigation to know what transpired. After that, we will know what to do next. “But we have been able to identify the men and where they came from. Possibly before the end of today (Sunday) or tomorrow after the result of the investigation comes out, we will know how to proceed from there.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com