A policeman has shot and injured a student of the Adeseun Ogundoyin Polytechnic, Eruwa, Oyo State, Samuel Akinsuyi. Akinsuyi was said to be going from Eruwa to Ibadan on Friday when the yet-to-be-identified cop stopped him during a stop and search and assaulted him before shooting him in the leg. It was not clear what the policeman accused Akinsuyi of doing, but the trigger-happy cop was said to have fled the scene after the incident. The South-West Coordinator of the National Association of Nigerian Students, Olatunji Adegboye, in a statement on Monday, said the victim was now battling paralysis. He lamented what he described as incessant police brutality, especially against students along the Ibadan-Eruwa Road. The NANS coordinator said, “On a daily basis, harmless and helpless Nigerian citizens continue to fall victim to bloodthirsty police officers who mete out to Nigerians various inhuman treatments, including verbal assault, outright assault, unlawful arrest, unjust detention and more often than not being shot at. Those saddled with the responsibility of safeguarding us from danger have turned themselves to the actual danger. “On Friday, March 11, 2022, Nigerian students yet again suffered great injustice in the hands of a reckless policeman. “Akinsuyi Samuel, a Business Administration student of the Adeseun Ogundoyin Polytechnic in Eruwa, was beaten and shot in the leg by a yet-to-be-identified stop and search police officer. This demonic action has thrown Mr Samuel Akinsuyi into a titanic battle against paralysis. “It is rather unfortunate that several days after the criminal incident, the Nigeria Police Force, Oyo State Command, and the Police Service Commission have failed to make convincing action statements over this persistent cankerworm. “As the culture is, most times when an officer of the law infringes on the fundamental rights of citizens, the police force and the service commission usually perfect a cover-up and make sure that justice is circumvented. Up till now, the assailant remains unidentified. This is a clear sign of the regular conspiracy practices of the police force.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com