No fewer than 59 students of the 2016 set of the Federal College of Education Technical, Gombe, affiliated to the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University have appealed to the Gombe State Government to intervene in the problems they are having. The Secretary to the State Government, Prof Ibrahim Njodi, who received the students in his office on Tuesday, said the government had promised to intervene in order to find a lasting solution to the issue of regularisation with the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, which hindered them from graduating. According to Njodi, the government will do all that is necessary to ensure that the impasse is resolved for the good of all interested parties. “The administration of Governor Muhammadu Inuwa is sensitive to the plight of its citizens; though the school is a Federal Government institution, but as citizens of Gombe State, we will do everything possible to see that all the technicalities are sorted out for you to graduate,” he told the concerned students. Njodi, who expressed concern about the situation, promised to meet with the relevant authorities with a view to addressing the issue. The leader of the affected students, Sani Abubakar, said they were at the Government House to register their complaint, believing that the administration would give them a listening ear, stressing that they were hopeful that the intervention of the government would resolve their challenges. “We have undergone and completed our studies, and given a statement of result, but were not allowed to go for the mandatory National Youth Service Corps scheme or obtain a certificate of exemption, which is the prerequisite for being a graduate. We thereby appeal to the state government to come to our aid,” he stated. Abubakar commended the state government for the warm reception and also lauded the governor’s policies and programmes, which he said were aimed at transforming the state into a model. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com