The Kaduna State Police Command says no fewer than 200 terrorists and 20 suspected armed robbers terrorising the state have been arrested by its operatives. Among the suspects paraded before journalists on Wednesday at the Command’s Headquarters along Bida Road in the metropolis, were the prime suspect in the murder of Air Vice Marshal Maisaka(retd.) and a suspected bandits who was alleged to have killed over 15 person at different operations. The State Police Commissioner, Mudasiru Abdullahi, said several dangerous weapons such 18 AK-47 rifles, 2000 Live ammunitions of different caliber, 11 pump action huns, 10 locally fabricated pistols, 140 shotgun 12-guage cartridges, seven vehicles of different brands and nine motorcycles were recovered from the suspects between January and March 2022. Represented by the state Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammad Jalige, the CP noted that the serene atmosphere currently enjoyed by residents were as a result of strategic and tactical deployment of the special units of the force in the state. He said, “The Kaduna Command during the period under review is not unmindful of the security challenges bedeviling the State amongst which are banditry, kidnappings, armed robbery and farmers/herders clashes just to mention but a few. However, remarkable efforts were not spared in addressing the situation which culminates into the relative peace currently being enjoyed by law abiding citizens in the State. “The relative serene security atmosphere in the state is as a result of the strategic and tactical deployment of the special units of the force, undercover operatives, conventional Police personnel as well as the purposeful synergy within the security architecture in the state. “The sum of these approaches resulted in the successes we are showcasing today with the arrest of over 200 armed nandits, 20 armed robbery suspects and the recovery of 18 AK-47 rifles, 2000 live ammunitions of different caliber, 11 pump action guns, 10 locally fabricated pistols, 140 shotgun 12-guage cartridges, seven motor vehicles of different brand and nine motorcycles. “Let it be on record that the relentless efforts of the Command in investigating the culpable homicide case involving late Air Vice Marshal Mohammed Musa Umar Maisaka of No. A27 Makarfi road Rigasa, Kaduna, who was assassinated on the 8th November, 2021 at the above address has yielded a positive result with the arrest of the principal suspect Muhammed Muhammed Giwa. “The said suspect confessed that he and his cohorts had extorted money, at different times and running into millions of Naira, from the victim on several occasion by threatening to kill him if he fails to meet up with their demands. “All the suspects being paraded here are currently in various stages of investigation and will be charged to court on completion. Thank you for been our window to the world, may you all be richly blessed as you go back to your various destinations,” the CP added. 