The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, on Monday, commended Philip Ogbadu, the retiring Commissioner of Police of the state, for ensuring that citizens in the state lived peacefully and slept safely without fear of being robbed or attacked while he was in office. The governor gave the commendation at the formal pulling out parade of the commissioner in Benin City at the Mobile Police Barrack, Ogida. Obaseki, represented by his Chief of Staff, Osaigbovo Iyoha, said since Ogbadu’s assumption of office in 2021, crime rate in the state has reduced significantly. He assured Edo citizens that his administration would sustain and improve on the current state of security by collaborating with the police force and other security agencies. “You will agree with me that since he was posted to Edo State, it has been peaceful. You will also agree with me that we had the best and most peaceful Christmas period last year in over 30 years, and this is as a result of the harmonious relationship between the state government and the security agencies. “We will be calling on him for his wealth of experience. He has served well and we wish him well in his future endeavours, while we await the arrival of a new commissioner of police so he can start where he stopped,” Iyoha said. Ogbadu, on his part, thanked the state government for the support and for providing a conducive environment for officers of the force to operate. “I want to thank God Almighty, the state government, the Benin monarch, traditional rulers and religious leaders for the opportunity to serve in Edo State. It is a privilege for every serving officer to retire successfully,” Ogbadu said. Ogbadu, who also expressed gratitude to sister security agencies, stressed the need for the proper management of the vigilance group in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com