The Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, has commended the Federal Government for its efforts in evacuating Nigerians trapped in Ukraine following Russia’s invasion. In a Press Release signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Muhammad Bello, Tambuwal also appreciated the non-partisan support of the FG in tackling insecurity in Sokoto State. “I commend the Federal Government for the ongoing efforts to evacuate trapped Nigerians from Ukraine,” the governor said, according to the statement. He stated that, “there is synergy among security apparatuses working in Sokoto.” “Peace is gradually returning to Sokoto,” he said. The statement also noted that Tambuwal singled out the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyema, and commended him for his uncommon determination and patriotism in ensuring the triumph of Nigeria’s diplomacy, and for “representing our country very well in every forum internationally.” He said, “He is among the few foreign ministers we have had that speak every important language in the world. He is doing well and representing our country very well in every forum internationally.” Speaking on the role of Sokoto in sustaining national cohesion and integration, the statement quoted the governor as saying that the state “is one state where everyone is treated equally, explaining that there no discrimination in terms of provision of subsidized education, housing and empowerment to the people of Sokoto and Nigerians of all shades and convictions living in the state. “We must work towards ensuring that all of us are one. We must not discriminate against one another. We must work as one people who have the country at heart.” Also, according to the statement, Onyema expressed condolences to the governor and the state for all past tragedies and assured the governor that the international community as well as the FG were behind him. “Mr President is proud of you and the state. Many people have spoken sincerely and highly of his and state hospitality,” the Minister noted. Onyema also said all the students of Sokoto state caught in the tragedy have been evacuated, just as the government continues to work tirelessly to ensure the evacuation of all Nigerians there. He explained that in that regard the over 400 students trapped in Sumy, North-Eastern Ukraine will now be evacuated after difficult negotiations with the Ukrainian authorities, the statement stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com