No fewer than four persons have been killed by unknown gunmen between Monday and Tuesday in Amangwu community in Ohafia Local Government Area of Abia State. The Abia State Police Command and the local government chairman, Okorafor Ukiwe, confirmed the development. The four victims were said to include a former Peoples Democratic Party’s Women Leader, Ucha Ndukwe; her first daughter, Chibuzor; Ndubuisi Ndukwe and Kalu Umah were. They were said to have been shot dead. Confirming the incident, Ukiwe said he has been to the Federal Medical Centre, Umuahia, where he went to see another hospitalised victim, another daughter of the deceased woman. He added, “The injured lady lost her mother and sister who were shot in their house by the gunmen. She was shot too. “She has just been operated on to remove the bullets in her body. The gunmen killed her mother and her sister in their house after burning down her mother’s shop.” He added that the assailants were angry that the woman, a food vendor, was against their activities in the community, adding “They burnt the shop down, came to her house and gunned her down and when two of her daughters came out, they (gunmen) shot them too. “One died on the spot while the other one who sustained bullet injury was rushed to the hospital and is receiving treatment at the intensive care unit. Two other boys were also killed by the gunmen. The local government chairman said he has set up a committee to unravel the immediate and remote causes of the attack which also lead to the destruction of properties. Confirming the incident, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Geoffrey Ogbonna, said “We have heard about that but waiting for an official report that would help the police know the details.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com