The Federal Road Safety Corps on Monday charged drivers to conduct medical health check-up regularly so as to be healthy while travelling on a journey. It also warned drivers against keeping petrol in the boot of their cars. The Sector Commander of FRSC, Kwara State Command, Mr Jonathan Owoade, gave the warning while speaking at a Health seminar organised for members of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria in Ilorin, the state capital. The health seminar was in collaboration with the Zonal Clinic of the FRSC RS8HQ as part of activities marking the zone’s Clinic Health Week tagged ‘Know Your Numbers’. He said, “I urge you to desist from carrying petrol in your cars, and ensure you install Speed Limit Device. “A directive has been passed that any vehicle without SLD will be impounded until the device is installed. You must ensure that your cars are in good condition and avoid night journeys,” Owoade said. Owoade stressed the need for the association to create the opportunity to conduct health check-up for its members. According to him, it was important to conduct eye tests for commercial drivers because most drivers do not see properly. He said that accidents in the state have been incessant recently, owing to overspeeding. “I urge everyone here to maximise the opportunity you have today, to do all the tests, the eye test, HBP test, urine test and random blood sugar tests so that you will know your health status and know how to care for your health. “You must be healthy to be able to drive well. A good driver must be physically and mentally healthy. The Chairman of RTEAN in Kwara, Alhaji Olayinka Onikijipa, advised all members of the association and motorists to ensure they go for routine medical checks. Onikijipa said most people who collapse or slump have unknown illnesses that they are not aware of and the resultant effect is when they collapse or slump. “I urge all of you to ensure you do the tests, it is for our own good, I have done mine and I have been told what I need to do. “The FRSC has not come here to play, it is because of the love they have for us and we appreciate them for always having us in mind in order to ensure we are healthy and have safety on our roads”, the chairman said. One of the participants, Mr Ajamu Williams, appreciated the association for organising the medical outreach while praying for the progress of the association and the FRSC. “We are very grateful to God for this privilege and we also thank our chairman because he is always looking out for our progress “We have never experienced this kind of initiative and we are very grateful indeed. “We are also grateful for the tests, especially, BP, eye test and urine test. I thank God because I was told I am very fine, there is no negative health challenge that I have. “We pray that the association will move forward, the state will move forward and the nation at large,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com