Experts in the shipping industry have said the Russian-Ukraine war should not affect the importation of fuel and other products into Nigeria because oil vessels can avoid the Black Sea route by passing through the Turkish channel as an alternative Since the war began last week, stakeholders in the shipping industry have expressed concern over how the war may prolong the over three weeks scarcity of Premium Motor Spirit in the nation, as the bulk refined products coming into the country go through the Black Sea. However, in an interview with our correspondent, a ship captain, Adewale Ishola, explained that since Turkey has not blocked its channel, bringing in fuel and other products into the country would not be hampered. He said, “If the Turkish channel is unblocked, there shouldn’t be any issue importing products into Nigeria. “There is no problem on the Mediterranean Sea, it is only on the Black Sea which has Ukraine, Romania, and Bulgaria. If the problem is coming from Ukraine, then the product should be coming from other places like Romania and Bulgaria. “People should stop speculating unnecessarily, the Black Sea is not totally closed as long as Turkey doesn’t close its Istanbul channel since it is the access way into and out of the Black Sea. The Black Sea has an entrance through the Turkish channel and Turkey has not said anything about that. “Their Istanbul channel is open, meaning the Black Sea is open. The people looking for an excuse as regards the scarcity of fuel in the nation need to look for another one as that is not the only channel through which we import petroleum products.” According to another expert, the scarcity of petroleum products in the nation is unlikely if the vessels are not coming from Russia or Ukraine. A seasoned maritime lawyer, Emeka Akabogu, said, “If the vessels coming in are from a Russian refinery or refineries with Russian interest, then there is a case for fuel scarcity. “Also, if the suppliers of fuel into the nation are companies affiliated to or resident in Russia then they might be impacted by sanctions currently in place which might then impact on tankers coming to Nigeria”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com