The Indigenous People of Biafra has alleged politicians were behind the killings, arson and other criminal activities going on in the South-East geopolitical zone. According to the group, politicians created the unrest in the zone using the ‘thugs’ they recruited, to implicate it and its security arm, the Eastern Security Network. The group’s spokesman, Emma Powerful, stated this in a statement, on Monday. “We, the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, under the leadership and command of our great leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, based on intelligence available to us, want to expose those behind the senseless killings and burning of innocent people’s properties and houses in Imo State and other parts of South-East region. “Those, who created criminals, political thugs, cultists and unknown gunmen behind the kidnapping, snatching of people’s cars and raping of our mothers, wives and sisters wanted to implicate IPOB and ESN. But they have shot themselves in the leg,” the statement read in part. It added, “We are warning Hon. Chris Azubogu, representing Nnewi North and South Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, and his co-travellers to be careful over their call for the military to besiege Lilu, and Orsumoghu communities. “We don’t have ESN camps in these communities including Orsu, Oru West and East of Imo State. Those calling for military action in the communities should be ready to take responsibility for any innocent Biafran that will be killed by the blood-thirsty soldiers. “ESN and IPOB volunteers are not involved in these criminal activities going on in the South-East region. Operatives of Ebubeagu security outfit, created by these politicians, are responsible for these atrocities. “Our intelligence unit has uncovered some politicians involved in the recruitment of thugs behind the ongoing madness in Imo State and other parts of Biafra. “Our people must hold them accountable if anything untoward happens to these communities because they invited soldiers to besiege them. These criminals, recruited by Hope Uzodinma’s men and Hon. Chris Azubogu of Nnewi, are political thugs hired to execute their election projects. “The guns they gave them during the election season have not been retrieved. They are now using the same guns to commit so many crimes and blame them on innocent members of IPOB and ESN “They started using the AK-47 rifles in killing our people after elections. Now the politicians who engaged them are still keeping them against 2023. “ESN has camps in every part of Biafraland, why then is it in Imo State that senseless killings are going on unabated? Politicians are behind the carnages not ESN operatives.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com