The Managing Director, Lagos Ferry Services, Mr Abdoulbaq Balogun has said the immediate solution to the usual Ajah-Lekki traffic in Lagos is commuting via waterways. This is as he revealed that his agency officially commenced operations from the Badore Terminal, Ajah to Addax Jetty, Victoria Island to Five Cowries Terminal, Falomo Ikoyi. Recall that the usual traffic gridlock along the Badore-Ajah-Lekki-Victoria Island axis worsened in the last couple of days due to long queues at filling stations along the road. Commuters have had to spend upward of four hours in traffic for a journey from Badore to Victoria Island, which alternatively should take 20 minutes by boat from same Badore to Victoria Island or to Five Cowries Terminal, Falomo, Ikoyi. Speaking during an inspection tour of operations at the Badore Terminal, the LAGFERRY boss urged road users to make use of water transportation as a means of decongesting road traffic. He explained that the boats deployed to the route are of world class standard, safe, comfortable, fast, reliable and eco-friendly, adding that all passengers are also insured on all trips. He said, “We need to embrace the waterways as a viable alternative to road transport and means of decongesting traffic on Lagos roads. This administration is investing massively in water transportation by procuring world-class standard boats, constructing and rehabilitating terminals/jetties. Every passenger boarding our boats receives an instant message informing them that they are insured on each trip. All these are meant to ensure passenger safety and confidence”. He stated that the Badore Terminal, which has commenced full operations, has ample space for passengers’ cars and can be boarded between 6.45am and 9.00am to Victoria Island and Falomo, Ikoyi. A passenger, Laolu Alimi, speaking on his experience from Badore to Five Cowries Terminal, Ikoyi, stated that he had a smooth and fantastic ride with a professional crew, promising to recommend LAGFERRY to everyone in his Badore neighbourhood in view of the current situation in the axis. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com