The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), Sunday in Abuja, formally congratulated the Abdullahi Adamu-led 79-member National Executive Committee of the All Progressives Congress that emerged at the just
concluded convention in Abuja.
He also said the unity of members put on display puts the party on a firmer footing for victory in next year, 2023, General Elections. This is according to a statement signed on Sunday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, titled ‘President Buhari welcomes new APC leaders, commends members for Abuja show of unity.” Buhari who returned to the Convention ground at the Eagle Square, Sunday morning, along with the Vice President and the Senate President to witness and celebrate the inauguration of the elected party executives, remarked that the smooth conduct of the election raises the prospect of a mouth-watering APC victory next year. He said, “The APC Convention hosted this weekend sets the scene for an APC victory in the presidential and general elections next year. It is a victory over naysayers who believed the party was divided but are now disappointed.” He expressed belief that it is equally a victory for him who ensured unity across all party positions; and it is a victory for Nigerian voters who can now be assured of a smooth succession to new leadership in 2023. He noted that what the Convention made clear was how the media has been peddling fake news of division, when the hard reality of unity, cohesion, and indeed personal warmth between members of the party’s leaders – incoming and outgoing – was evident for all to see. Buhari blamed the main opposition, Peoples Democratic Party, for doing the work all these years only to divide the country, leading to all manner of separatist agitations. “But this is not the wish, nor is it in the character of the citizens, as was clear for everyone to see at the Eagle Square. “When their fake news of disunity was undone by the facts, some in the opposition could not help themselves but took to the newspapers and the airwaves to find another way to shore up their reputations. “That some of the APC’s new leadership were once in the opposition was the new line to take to the media, somehow suggesting that those who have left one party should not hold positions in another. Yet, do the Scriptures not teach us of the virtue of sinners who repent and change their ways?” the statement read. The statement noted that what the Scriptures say less is of sinners who repent, change their tune, and then choose to re-sin in full public view by returning to their former ways. Given that most important leaders of the opposition PDP first left the party before they returned to it, the President said it is expected that the media’s criticism of them is damning and absolute. “The stage is now set for the APC primary elections later this year when the party’s new flag bearers will emerge. “No doubt some will attempt to argue the impossible – that an APC primary election is a source of division while an opposition primary election is a source of consensus. “But the good voters of Nigeria can see through such acrobatics and know the facts that, when the contests for 2023 come, APC offers a track record of success and leadership, while the opposition has only decades of failure and complicity in response,” the statement read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com