The Lagos State Government has urged the people of the state, especially residents of Lekki and Ikoyi, to show understanding ahead of the proposed reopening of the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge toll plaza by the Lekki Concession Company Limited. The PUNCH had reported that the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge toll plaza was closed by the LCC after the #EndSARS shootings of October 2020. According to a statement on Wednesday, the Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso; Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederick Oladehinde and Commissioner for Home Affairs, Anofiu Elegushi, disclosed this during a stakeholders’ meeting held in Lagos. Omotoso and his counterparts assured the residents that the government will look into all the requests and recommendations made by the stakeholders which included the President of Lekki Estates Residents and Stakeholders Association, Olorogun James Emadoye; human rights activists, the media and several other residents of Lekki and respond appropriately. He said, “We are here to seek your understanding as a government about the matter at hand. We are also citizens of Nigeria. We are all Lagosians. I have listened to all of you talking about our rights, privileges and how government should be responsible for everything. I also feel that as citizens, we should have some responsibilities. “Lagos is a city of about 25million people and out of the 25million people there are about six million taxpayers and among six million taxpayers, only 4.2million are active taxpayers. So, let us reflect on all these things. I know how people feel and I understand what has been said but I believe that the matter at hand is about seeking your understanding. It is a matter of showing some compassion for people who have one thing or another to do with this company.” Oladehinde explained the decision of the government to re-open the toll plaza was not to punish people but to create an enabling environment for more jobs through private sector participation. “What Lagos State is trying to do is to create an enabling environment to create more jobs and when you create more jobs. We should not be shortsighted. The only way to create jobs is to create an environment where we can attract the private sector to build more infrastructure in the state. Let us look at the issue from the view that we are trying to resuscitate the economy of Lagos State,” he said. Elegushi, said the purpose of the stakeholders’ meeting was to engage key stakeholders on the matter of reopening the toll plaza and appealed for cooperation from the people to work together with the government. The Managing Director of LCC, Mr Yomi Omomuwasan, said the resumption of operations was necessary for the company not to default on its payment of local and international loans as well as to cater for the welfare of its workers. LCC has also introduced new technology and innovations to make movement at the toll plaza seamless and faster for commuters. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com