Chief Ologbo Biakpara, the husband to late Mrs Comfort Biakpara, has said no part of her body was missing when she was buried. The deceased’s brother, Mr Paul Ezeamaka, had raised the alarm during Comfort’s burial, saying her tongue and eyes were missing. Speaking to journalists on the matter in Asaba, Ologbo denied the allegation. He said, “My wife died on January 2, 2022, at the Federal Medical Centre, Asaba, after childbirth. The Ologbo Biakpara family is consoled that the baby boy survived, but the child cannot take the place of his mother who was the source of joy and happiness to me. “On burial date, March 5, 2022, both Ezeamaka and Biakpara families went to the mortuary to prepare and collect the corpse. “Mr Paul Ezeamaka and Mr Chuks Ezeamaka, direct younger brothers of the deceased, and other family members were present. Mr David Biakpara, Roland Ombe and others represented the Biakpara family. “The corpse was inspected, bathed and placed in the coffin for the final journey to Ubulu-Uku, her hometown for the funeral service. “No one from the deceased’s family complained or raised suspicion over the purported disappearance of body parts. “The journey was hitch-free; the rites of passage began. Midway in the solemn ceremony, things took a dramatic twist as Mr Paul Ezeamaka, brother to the deceased, halted the ceremony, alleging that the corpse’s eyes were missing. “This was alarming, unexpected and quite embarrassing. After all, Paul was present at the FMC mortuary, Asaba, and was privy to all that transpired.” He alleged that Paul and Chuks instigated the youth to block all access points to the funeral arena and threatened to shoot anyone who attempted to leave the funeral ground. The retired senior officer of the Nigerian Air Force said the coffin was opened and the corpse stripped naked, adding that the body was found to be intact. Ologbo said despite failing to establish his claims, Paul alleged he could not find the eyes. He said to clear doubts, the family called the FMC mortician on phone, who stated that the eyes were there and that they sank slightly into the skull because of the delay in embalming the body. “Another mortician, a native of Ubulu-Uku, was also summoned to inspect the body. After examining the corpse, he confirmed the eyes were intact and that no parts of the deceased were tempered with. “The family spokesman took a microphone and informed the audience that morticians had cleared the air and the funeral service would continue,” he added. The deceased’s husband said after the dust settled, his wife’s family came up with “ridiculous conditions” to be met before the burial would be done. He said, “The development led to total chaos on the funeral ground.” He noted that guests, who were held captive all along, scampered for cover as many jumped into their cars and fled. The ex-commissioner of Delta State said the family later buried the woman.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com