The new Attah Igala, Mathew Alaji Opaluwa Oguche, has officially received his staff of office with a call on him to unite the Igala Kingdom towards contributing to the socio economic development of the country. The Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, made the call for unity during the official presentation of the Staff of office to the new Attah Igala in Idah on Friday, as the 28th Attah of the ancient Igala Kingdom. The new Attah was administered his oath of office and allegiance at exactly 1:12pm by Barrister Dangana Ocheja in the presence of thousands of attendees who converged at the Palace. Bello officially presented the staff of office to HRM Matthew Opaluwa at exactly 1:17pm in his capacity as the President of the Kogi State Council of Chiefs. Bello congratulated the new Attah Igala on his emergence and described it as his administration’s determination to uphold equity, justice and in following due process and the rule of law. He also paid a glowing tribute to the immediate past Attah Igala, Late Chief Michael Idakwo, describing him as a man passionate about peace and development. In his response, HRM Matthew Opaluwa promised to use the Ata Igala title in galvanising the people to the socioeconomic development of the country. In his remarks at the occasion, the President, Major General Mohammadu Buhari (retd.), represented by the Minister for Police Affairs, Mohammed Dingyadi, described the new Attah as the right choice, urging him to unite the Igala people towards socio economic development of the Country. The occasion was attended by former Governors of the State, top monarchs led by the Sultan of Sokoto, Captains of Industry, politicians from various divisions, and Igala sons and daughters from across the globe. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com