Barring any last-minute change, the national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, will today meet with the APC Senate caucus over his plan to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in 2023. The meeting is coming ahead of the ruling party’s national convention scheduled for March 26, 2022. Confirming the development, the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, said the former Lagos State governor would meet with the Senate caucus of the party by 2.30 pm. He added that the meeting is scheduled to hold at the Senate President’s conference room The Senate President disclosed this while reading a letter during the plenary on Wednesday. The letter was signed by the Senate Leader, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi (Kebbi North). “There will be APC Senate caucus meeting with His Excellency, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu today, February 16, 2022,” Lawan said. The PUNCH had reported that Tinubu had last week conveyed an invitation to the APC caucus in a letter written to Lawan and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, which they read out on the floor at the plenary on March 8, 2022. The presidential aspirant urged the lawmakers to meet with him to exchange ideas on how to run the country. In the letter to Gbajabiamila titled, ‘Request for a meeting with the APC caucus’, Tinubu wrote in part, “May I convey my warm greetings to you and through you to the honourable members of this hallowed chamber of the National Assembly. “After helpful and enlightening consultations with my family, traditional rulers, political associates, and ordinary citizens, I believe it is appropriate that I contest for president of this country. “Indeed, I see this as my duty and my own moral obligation…that you grant me the chance to address the honourable members of our party’s caucus and sympathisers in the House of Representatives on March 16, 2022. Venue: Ladi Kwali Hall, Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Abuja.” Tinubu added, “I make this request with the utmost sense of responsibility and humility because this Assembly is unique as an important representative of our people at the national level. “It will be appropriate for me to establish a discourse with members regarding our political and policy ideas for the nation and how we can best bring to the people the security, progress and prosperity they do clearly deserve. I want to share my vision for the nation with the caucus members and to hear likewise from them. “Mr Speaker, to borrow the words of our honourable members, I respectively move that you grant me this humble but important request. I thank you and our honourable members in advance for accepting to meet with me to discuss the future of our nation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com