After public outrage trailing the gruesome murder of 22-year-old Bus Rapid Transit passenger, Oluwabamise Ayanwole, the Lagos State Police Command on Monday revealed the name of the bus driver that allegedly kidnapped the victim. The police identified the BRT driver as Andrew Nice (male) but kept back his photograph despite growing demand for the photograph of the prime suspect by many Nigerians on social media. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Adekunle Ajisebutu, in a statement, announced that Nice has been arrested and the dead body of the victim found. According to the PPRO, the suspected ritualists dumped the dismembered and uncompleted remains of the lady on the Carter Bridge by Ogogoro Community. Ayanwola got missing while returning to Ota from Ajah on February 26 when she boarded a BRT bus with number 240257 going to Oshodi at about 7pm at Chevron Bus-Stop. The victim, who worked as a fashion designer in Ajah spent her weekends in Ota, Ogun State, with her sister, had sent some voice notes to a friend when she sensed danger on the bus. The police in its statement titled, ‘Death Of Oluwabamise Ayanwole: BRT Driver Arrested,’ further said the driver was arrested by operatives of the Department of State Services. The statement read, “This is to further inform the general public that the BRT driver, Andrew Nice, ‘m’ suspected to be responsible for the adoption and murder of Oluwabamise Ayanwole, who got missing on board a BRT bus on 26th February, 2022 has been arrested by operatives of the DSS and has been handed over to the police. “We want to reassure the public that the suspect (driver) will be arraigned in court very soon to face justice. “We, therefore, appeal to aggrieved persons and sympathisers not to take the law into their hands as the command is doing everything legally possible to prosecute this case.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com