After more than two days of deliberation, the United Nations General Assembly on Wednesday reached a resolution that “demands” Russia to “immediately” withdraw its troops from Ukraine. An overwhelming 141 out of 193 member states voted in favour of the resolution. China was among the 35 countries which abstained from voting. Meanwhile, the five countries that sided with Russia include Eritrea, North Korea, Syria, Belarus, and Russia itself. Nigeria was among the number that opposed Russia at the UNGA. Lecturer of History and International Relations at the Lagos State University, Dr Dapo Thomas, shared insights as regards the foreign policy implications of Nigeria’s position at Wednesday’s UNGA vote. “I do not think that the decision of Nigeria to vote against Russia at the United Nations General Assembly has any special implications,” the university lecturer said during an interview with The PUNCH on Thursday. According to Thomas, the UNGA vote is a “general thing” and has nothing to do directly with Nigeria, thus shielding the nation from any unsavoury consequences. “There are over a hundred nations that likewise voted against Russia, even nations that have diplomatic relations with them [Russia]. The only nations that would surprise Russia would be China, North Korea, Belarus. Possibly India,” he added. Thomas opined that in times as such, the best policy is to “go with the majority,” adding that failing to do so would have been “disastrous” for Nigeria. “We stand to lose a lot if we had stayed with Russia. Russia can not even help us, because Russia itself is being dealt with economically. Whatever we may need from them cannot go beyond economic aid. And how often does Russia give aid? Russia isn’t a nation that gives aid, because it needs aid itself,” he said. Thomas says that there’s no need to revise Nigeria’s foreign policy at the moment, as events are still unfolding and are yet to reach conclusion. The UNGA vote, Thomas said, would “add some kind of moral dimension to the conflict.” “As I’m speaking to you, I’ve not heard any nation, besides Ukraine, that has severed ties with Russia. Maybe that will happen with time, with each nation recalling its diplomats. That is when we can now start entertaining fear of repercussions. But as long as we have not recalled our diplomats, it still means that we have trade and diplomatic relations with Russia,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com