The Bayelsa State Government has said it will not be distracted from the business of governance and the development of the state by unfounded allegations being peddled in some quarters. It also stated that attempts by detractors to cause disaffection between the state legislature and the executive arm of the government would fail. The Commissioner for Information, Orientation and Strategy, Ayibaina Duba, said this in a statement on Monday while reacting to what he described as “spurious claims about the programmes, projects and policies of the prosperity administration without providing a shred of evidence” in a section of the online media. The statement was titled, ‘Orchestrated media attacks against Bayelsa State Government will fail’. Duba said the government believed that the propaganda, which was carried out by a certain politician, sought to set a selfish political agenda by attempting to ‘’destroy reality and tarnish the administration’s celebrated people-oriented works in the last two years.’’ He said the government was committed to working for the people and the development of Bayelsa. He clarified that members of the state executive council had been invited by the House of Assembly on several occasions and the legislators had also visited project sites as well as monitored budgets and policy implementation. Duba said, “The mischievous analyst named some of the projects that the administration has done in a failed attempt to talk the projects down. We urge him to visit the neighbourhoods where the 20 newly constructed internal roads in the state capital are located to hear the views of residents there. It is likely that their commendation for the governor will wake him up from self-delusion.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com