The Maritime Workers Union of Nigerian and Nigerians Association of Road Transport Owners have signed a Memorandum of Understanding in a bid to boost the welfare of truckers in Nigeria. Speaking during the programme in Apapa, the Deputy General Secretary of MWUN, Eroje Abdul, disclosed that over 12,000 trucks ply Lagos roads daily and because of lack of space and parking facilities, they park on the roads. He said, “As we all know there is a high rate of importation in Nigeria and because of this, more than 12, 000 trucks are on Lagos roads daily. “And because of lack of space and parking facilities, you will see drivers parking on the road and at times, the Lagos state government through the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, will come out and start arresting drivers indiscriminately. “And we felt that drivers who move goods and services around the country must not be used as scape goat. So, with this collaboration we are going to come out with fliers to engage the drivers. You don’t park on the government road to obstruct other road users. “The same way we are going to interface with the state government. We would be working with NARTO on this.” He added that the two associations would be interfacing with the Lagos State government to ensure proper management of the roads especially at the port axis. The President General, MWUN, Adewale Adeyanju, said, “This is a new dawn in the history of MWUN and NARTO, we pray to have this collaboration before now but God knows why He made it possible today.” The National President, NARTO, Yusuf Lawal, added, “So for the sake of fostering our relationship we have found a great partner in MWUN. “I have no doubt that we are going to benefit from the relationship, we have a lot to benefit from MWUN, and MWUN also has a lot to benefit from us.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com