Gbade, the elder brother to late Timothy Adegoke, on Monday, said he saw bloodstains on the wall of the room where his brother lodged at Hilton Honors Hotel, Ile-Ife when he and some operatives inspected the room. Gbade, who was the third prosecution witness while being led in evidence by the prosecution counsel, M. Omosun, also said he observed during the visit that the door to the room was damaged and repaired. But while being cross examined by K Eleja, SAN, counsel for the hotel owner, Dr Ramon Adedoyin, admitted not writing that there were bloodstains on the wall and that the door to the room was damaged in the two statements he wrote before the police, which were earlier admitted as evidence by the court. Gbade also told the court he was approached by one Edmund on phone to accept a sum of N50 million, while the wife of the deceased, he said, was offered N70million to settle the matter. He however said Adedoyin did not personally offer him money. He also said the receptionist on duty the day late Adegoke lodged in the hotel, Adesola Adedeji, after she was arrested told the Investigative Police Officer in charge of the case that lodger’s register of the hotel had been doctored. Giving her testimony before the court, the wife of the deceased, Bolatito, who could not control her emotion and broke down in tears, said the last meal eaten by her husband was the one he ate on the evening of Friday, November 4. She also insisted that her husband was not sick, and while being cross examined by one of the defence counsel, Kunle Adegoke, SAN, on why she was making frequent calls to her husband, Bolatito said calls to her husband on the day the incident happened were not unusually persistent. Also testifying before the court, Adetola Adewoyin, a relation to the late Adegoke also said she was contacted by the wife of the deceased to assist her in checking the campus where her husband was supposed to write examination when she could not reach him on phone. Earlier, Justice Adepele Ojo in her ruling on the bail applications of all the 7 defendants namely; Adedoyin, Adedeji Adesola, Magdalene Chiefuna, Adeniyi Aderogba, Oluwale Lawrence, Oyetunde Kazeem and Adebayo Kunle, dismissed the applications. Ojo said the health reasons that the applications were based, could not be relied on as the defendants’ health could not be said to be threatened with their detention. Justice Ojo after listening to the testimonies of the three prosecution witnesses in the proceedings which lasted about 6 hours, adjourned the matter till Tuesday for the continuation of the hearing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com