No fewer than 180 support groups on Saturday gathered in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State capital to mount pressure on Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to join the 2023 presidential race. Also, a coalition of youths from the 19 Northern states and Abuja on Sunday, asked the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Governor, Godwin Emefiele, to contest the 2023 presidency. The groups supporting Osinbajo, made up of professional bodies, said the Vice President possesses the qualities and the charisma needed to lead the country from 2023. A leader of the All Progressives Congress in Akwa Ibom State, Ita Toyo, disclosed this while answering reporters’ questions after reading a communiqué issued at the end of the Uyo event. “There are 180 support groups and all are calling on Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to contest,” Toyo said. The communiqué issued at the end of the event read, “While we await his decision, we shall intensify our drive across the country to raise partners and supporters for him. We shall equally continue the process of building structures in all the wards to bring to reality our dream of Osinbajo presidency. “We call on all our members from across the length and breadth of Nigeria to storm Abuja on March 26 to demonstrate to the party their love and support for this patriot and nationalist. “We call on Mr President to stand solidly behind this tested, loyal and true apostle of him and ensure that a man of conscience like him who truly abhors corruption succeeds him to continue where he stops.” The groups further resolved to “align with the Kano Declaration” to mobilise funds to purchase the APC expression of interest and nomination forms for Prof Yemi Osinbajo in furtherance of our total commitment to the noble course of compelling the Vice President of Nigeria   Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, to contest.” They also resolved to appraise current political trends in the APC and the Independent National Electoral Commission’s timetable and engage more prominent Nigerians, the academia and civil society groups among others on the need to elect Osinbajo as the next President. A coalition of youths from the 19 Northern states and Abuja on Sunday, asked the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Governor, Godwin Emefiele, to contest the 2023 presidency. The coalition, comprising 40 groups from the region, said they would work for Emefiele to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). The groups noted that Emefiele’s ingenuity in his introduction of the Anchor Borrowers programme for rice farmers across the country endeared him to their hearts. The programme, the youths said, had pulled hundreds of the poor from the poverty lane over the years. The groups’ spokesperson, Aliyu Sani, while addressing journalists shortly after a rally held in Kaduna on Sunday to drum support for the CBN boss, noted that Emefiele’s policy formulation has over the years assisted greatly in growing indigenous industries such  as Dangote, Peugeot Automobile Nigeria Limited, Olams Industry, Vicampro, Tomato Jos, and Gujeni Integrated among others. Sani said, “The Unified Northern Nigeria Youths Forum is a coalition of 40 socio-cultural, socio-political and socio-economic groups with members spread across all the wards of the 19 Northern states and the FCT Abuja. “The essence of our gathering and street procession today is to call on Mr Godwin Emefiele, the serving Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria to aspire for the number one seat in the country to enable him to consolidate on the gains our country is making. “Reasons for calling on him to contest include but are not limited to the fact that he introduced the Anchor Borrowers Scheme which has helped to massively reduce poverty that was seen to be endemic in our region through the provision of farm inputs and one digit interest rate facility. “His policies have enhanced the establishment of many industries in our region worthy of mentioning are, Dangote Peugeot Automobile Nigeria Limited, Olams Industry, Vicampro, Tomato Jos, Gujeni Integrated, Iron Ore Mining and Processing Plants, Tiamin Rice Mill, MAFA Rice just to mention but a few. This also has created employment and wealth in our region.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com