Peter Dada, Akure The Visitor to the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, and  Governor of Ondo State, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, on Monday, inaugurated the newly established business school of the university. At the inauguration in its Akure location, Akeredolu said the school was a lofty signpost in his administration’s commitment to the kind of education it envisioned to drive economic growth, self-reliance among the people, and all-round development in the state. He said, ” This business school will offer specialised and professional courses for entrepreneurship oriented graduates, career persons and corporate organisations through its internal resources and meaningful collaborations with other world-class business schools and institutions around the world. “As a government, we are immensely pleased to see the institutions under our watch prospering and working in this direction. We will continue to provide an enabling environment for businesses to thrive and for creative ideas to be birthed and nurtured.  We are also resolute in our desire to continue to do our best to fund our higher education institutions, despite fierce competition and shrinking government resources. The governor called on individuals and corporate organisations in the country to support the education sector of the state. Soliciting assistance for the development of higher education of the state, Akeredolu said, “it has become clear to all that government alone cannot fund education for very obvious reasons. Therefore, I seize this medium to call on philanthropists, relevant stakeholders, corporate organisations and well-to-do citizens to join hands with us to expand the frontiers of infrastructural development of our institutions in the state.” In his remarks, the Vice Chancellor of the AAUA, Prof. Olugbenga Ale, said the business school would not only serve as an academic hub to offer long term Executive Master in Business Administration programmes and short-term certificate courses for career persons and corporate organisations, but will also collaborate with other world-class business schools and institutions around the world that could provide academic support and meaningful academic exchange in the administration of its prospective courses. “This promising initiative would be renowned as the second strategically-positioned business school in the whole of South-West, Nigeria, and also expand the university’s academic programmes towards benefitting corporate individuals and organisations,” Ale explained. He also expressed assurance that competent hands would be engaged to maintain the structure and to keep both the external and internal contents of the school in pristine condition at all times. The don said, ” Efforts would also be made to ensure a round-the-clock guarantee of the safety and security of the complex.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com