Former Governor of Borno State and National Chairmanship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, Ali-Modu Sheriff, Wednesday in Abuja, said he will throw his support behind any consensus candidate that emerges from the deliberations between the party and the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Sheriff also said he is not aware of any candidate anointed by the president. The former governor said when he briefed Correspondents in a press conference to address the controversies around the consensus candidacy. According to him, “Of late, I have been inundated by insinuations and rumors that President Muhammadu Buhari has zoned and endorsed a candidate for this all-important position in our party’s leadership. “It has become very pertinent and exigent to address these concerns. “I am not aware of any official statement or position by Mr. President on endorsement of any particular candidate or/and zoning of the Chairmanship position of our great party. Mr. President and indeed the Party is yet to issue a formal Statement on these issues.” Sheriff who affirmed that he is still in the race for the National Chairmanship because of his “strength of character, capacity and competence” said his intentions are clear and for public good rather than self-interest. He promised to stick to the decision of the party as determined by the President. “As a loyal party member, I will abide by the decisions of Mr. President at any time he makes an official decision on zoning or endorsement of any particular candidate. I have unequivocal confidence in Mr. President’s capacity to make the right choice for the growth of our party. “I am totally committed to work with anyone/everyone to reposition our party towards actualizing a resounding victory in the 2023 general elections and beyond,” he said. He said his guiding principle would be the Party’s Constitution and Manifesto, and he will be committed to it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com