THE Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has expressed the support of his administration to the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation for initiating its housing project in Ikoyi. Sanwo-Olu said this on Monday during the flag-off event of the Grand Panorama Apartments developed by CCECC in Ikoyi, adding that the project is an employment-generating investment. He said, “The CCECC is not only a local contracting company, it is indeed a partner to us as the government of Lagos State. “The company sees what our attempts are to provide for the various spectrum of housing requirements for our citizens – from the low and middle income to the high income earners – and as we see other partners like CCECC also trying to improve the housing stock needs of Lagosians, the least we can do is support them and believe it further deepens the partnership between Nigeria and China. “We know that in two years, the GPA project will be finished and it will further change the skyline of Ikoyi residence and all of the developments in this corridor. I want to challenge you that as you are doing this high end, we will also look for land for you so as to meet other spectrum for low and medium earners as well, in order to speak to the needs of our people.” The Chinese Consul General in Lagos State, Mr Chu Maoming, noted that China is willing to partner with Nigeria to develop more projects. “Lagos State is the home to the local Chinese community and a state of excellent people and things. This housing project is a worthy investment in the state and I want to let you know that China is ready to partner with African countries, including Nigeria, to execute various development projects,” he said. The CCECC Chairman, Mr Jiang Gao, said the housing project, after completion, will mark a watershed in real estate construction and redefine luxury apartments in the state and the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com