An Oyo State-based cleric, Rev’d Peter Adelowo, has urged Governor Seyi Makinde to review the cases of sacked principal officers of the Emmanuel Alayande College of Education, Oyo, by the past administration of the late Governor Abiola Ajimobi. The cleric, who is the pastor in charge of Good Shepherd Christian Church, Ogbomoso, said this in a statement on Wednesday. He urged the governor to redress the alleged injustice meted out to the principal officers, whom he said were sacked on political grounds. The management of the state-owned College of Education led by Dr. A. O. Alabi (the Provost), were in 2011 sacked by the former governor of the state, who refused to reinstate them in spite of passionate appeals and political interventions. He said, “I passionately urge Governor Makinde to use his good offices to call for the review of the cases of the sacked principal officers of Emmanuel Alayande College of Education, Oyo, between 2009 and 2011. “Our governor is no doubt sent by God to reposition and bring succour to the state. The appeal becomes imperative because since his coming to power, he had reviewed many similar cases, especially as regards the backlog of salary and pensions of workers owed by the immediate past administration. “There is no doubt that the sacked management officers of Emmanuel Alayande College of Education, Oyo, were not given fair hearing. Governor Makinde has received accolades from well- meaning Nigerians, not only Oyo State people, for his welfarist approach to governance and for making policies with human face as against the dictatorship of the past regime. Payment of backlog of salaries and emoluments owed workers and pensioners by Ajimobi administration has wormed Makinde into the consciousness of the people. “Reviewing the case of the sacked principal officers would put the case at rest since they would be given a fair hearing. If they are found guilty, so be it. I believe that the treatment meted to the officers had political undertone because they were accused of mobilising voters for the PDP then, and the PDP is in power today. “Alabi and his management were barely two years in office out of their mandatory four years renewable tenure when they were unceremoniously booted out of office. Governor Seyi Makinde is a man of wisdom and I believe he would know how to bring succour into the life of Alabi and his team who have been made to suffer unjustly for 10 years. Reviewing the case would further increase Makinde’s popularity,” the cleric said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com