A 14-year-old babysitter, Chiamaka Odo, has confessed to killing her mistress’ son, Jayden Osokolo, in Lagos State. Speaking on behalf of the state Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, the spokesperson for the command, CSP Adekunle Ajisebutu, said Odo strangled Jayden. He stated this on Monday while parading Odo alongside other suspects arrested in connection with a series of crimes committed in different parts of the state. Ajisebutu said, “On February 6, 2022, a 14-year-old female nanny strangled her mistress’ son, Jayden Osokolo, kept in her custody to death. The suspect, Chiamaka Odo, confessed to being a member of the Ogoloma cult in Enugu, Enugu State. “During interrogation, she disclosed that members of the cult requested her to bring the blood of the deceased to the spiritual world, hence she carried out the dastardly act.” Narrating how she was initiated, Odo said one of her primary school friends initiated her into the ‘spiritual’ cult with biscuits. She added, “After I ate the biscuits at night, I found myself at a place and they welcomed me. When I was coming to Lagos, they said I should bring blood, but I told them that I did not want to shed any blood. “They asked me what I would be doing in Lagos and I said I would be working as a nanny. So, they said I should make someone sad. On Saturday night, they asked for the baby; they said if I did not bring the baby, they would strangle me. “They gave me a bowl and told me to call the baby’s name four times, which I did and blood filled the bowl. That was what happened and it happened spiritually in my dream when I was sleeping. In the dream, I do find myself in Ogoloma, which is the name of the group.” The police also paraded a 26-year-old woman, Oluwatoyin Joshua, for allegedly stabbing her lover, Olayinka Adebayo, to death in the Shangisha area of the state. Ajisebutu said the lovers were fighting over N3000, adding that during the scuffle, Oluwatoyin stabbed her 27-year-old boyfriend with a knife. The suspect, however, told PUNCH Metro that she acted in self-defence. She said, “He (Adebayo) sold drugs. We were playing together when he left. One of his friends, Abraham, who is a fraudster, came and gave me N3,000. He told me to give my boyfriend N2,000, while I take N1,000. “When he returned, he said all the money was for him, but I dropped his N2,000 on the table and he took the money and threw it at me. He started punching me; he also broke tiles on my head. So, I reached for a knife in the kitchen and stabbed him in the neck. He died during treatment in a hospital.” The police spokesman also confirmed the arrest of one Oluwaseun Aremu, 30, over the death of a 33-year-old man, Tunde Ibrahim. He said the two men were fighting at their residence on Donatus Close, Elegushi, Ikate, Lagos, when Aremu hit Ibrahim’s head with a stick. “As a result, the victim sustained serious injuries and was rushed to a hospital where he was confirmed dead. The suspect has since confessed to the crime and is in police custody, while the police await advice from the DPP,” Ajisebutu added. The police also confirmed the arrest and arraignment of no fewer than 220 suspects for murder, robbery, cultism, rape/defilement between January 24 and March 1, 2022. During the parade, the PPRO noted the arrest of a female cultist, Blessing Gabriel, 30, suspected to be an armed robber. He said, “During her arrest, a miniature English pistol concealed in a bag and a substance suspected to be hard drug tucked under her bra were recovered.” Also paraded were suspected robbers who posed as e-hailing drivers to rob unsuspecting members of the public of their valuables. Ajisebutu said, “The duo of Sunday Gabriel, 29, and Kenneth Agbehi, 24, devised a criminal modus operandi by pretending to be Uber drivers, preying on unsuspecting passengers in some parts of the state. “On February 27, 2022, the two suspects held a female victim hostage, robbed her of her ATM card, cash, and other valuable items. The suspects thereafter unlawfully withdrew the sum of N2,400,000, from the victim’s bank account. “Following diligent investigation, the suspects were nabbed in their hideout on Adeola Odeku Street, Victoria Island, where they were planning another operation. Upon interrogation, the suspects confessed to the crime. The suspects are in police custody while awaiting legal advice from the DPP.” The PPRO also confirmed the rescue of some workers from the den of kidnappers who engaged policemen in a gun duel in the Langbasa area of the state. The victims were said to be working at a site around Sangotedo, Ajah, when the kidnappers stormed the site and took them to the Gberigbe area of Ikorodu. “The police team stormed a bush at Langbasa waterside, where the kidnappers were waiting to collect N11m ransom. On February 27, 2022, the kidnappers came in a boat to collect the ransom as agreed. “However, on sighting the police, they started shooting to demobilise the team. The courageous and resilient police anti-kidnapping squad responded with superior firepower. “As a result, the hoodlums, some of whom escaped with varying degrees of injury, were forced to abandon their victims. The victims were immediately rescued and taken to the hospital for post-traumatic examination,” Ajisebutu said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com