Sonia Patterson Cares Foundation was bore out of the philanthropic personality of Miss Sonia Patterson. It is a foundation that cares for the elderly and needy in third world countries. Sonia Patterson was born in Portland, Port Antonio on a beautiful island of Jamaica. She is a businesswoman who resides in Florida in the United States of America; at her leisure time, she’s a Nollywood actress and comedian. She has worked closely with actors and producers like Emeka Amakeze and Browny Big B Ifeanyi. She is currently the President of the Patterson Youth Sport and Samaritan Club in Portland, Jamaica. She is also a director for Miss Portland Competition, promotes the Portland Curry Festival and Gospel Festival in Portland, Jamaica. The Coronavirus that hit the world in 2020 necessitated the philanthropist to care more for the elderly and needy in the third world countries that lost their source of livelihood to the pandemic. Over the past years, she has been able to feed thousands of the elderly most especially in Africa. She has also been able to pay for medical bills of the indigents in Africa. Her philanthropic projects include giving out books to encourage the black community during the black history month, completing the 14 church communities in Portland. She has also collaborated with other philanthropists in the United States of America and most especially Africa to care for the needy and put smiles on their faces.  Furthermore, there have been successful Community Development Program that includes Free Medical Outreach, Food & Relief Materials Giveaway, Orphanage Home Visit & Educational Support. All the above projects were joint efforts of Sonia Patterson Care Foundation and other philanthropists like Newlink Production, Realest Youth Shawn, Lucan Wint, Rtr. Lucy C. Damian, Uche Odoputa, Uche Jeremiah and so on. At the moment, she plans to have more collaborations from NGOs, International Organizations and individual philanthropists as the urge to help people is ever increasing. She hopes to get more collaborations and she also hopes to never give up on her philanthropic personality. Sonia Patterson Cares Foundation can be reached via Instagram @soniapattersonofficial, Facebook and YouTube @soniapattersoncares for supports and collaboration. Together the world can be a better place for us all. 