Over 160 cases of human rights violations and police brutality have been taken to the ECOWAS Court by Avocats Sans Frontiers, also known as Lawyers Without Borders, its Country Director, Angela Uwandu Uzoma-Iwuchukwu, has said. The organisation said the decision became necessary because
of the increase in the spate of human rights violations by the police and security agencies. Uzoma-Iwuchukwu stated this in Abuja during a situation room meeting organised for the police and civil societies organisation with the theme: ‘Strengthening the national actors’ capacities and a advocation for ending serious human rights violation in Nigeria.’ “So far, we have received between 2019, when the projected started, 160 cases of rights violation by the police and security agencies. Out of that number, 110 have actually been taken up for litigation at the ECOWAS Court,” she said. Uzoma-Iwuchukwu explained that the meeting was aimed at fortifying the relationship between security agencies and the public, putting an end to extrajudicial killings and unnecessary detention. According to her, the organisation has established an office domiciled in the Nigerian Police Force, where complaints of human rights violation would be lodged for investigation and prosecution. “We are here for the second police and civil society organisation situation room which is set up on the platform of the SAFE Project. “The SAFE Project is an EU and AFP funded project aimed at promoting human rights and addressing issues of torture and extrajudicial killings arbitrary detention in Nigeria. “It is to promote human rights. It is a project that is implemented by Avocats Sans Frontiers. “We are here to create a platform for the police and civil societies to collaborate to promote respect for human rights in a democratic society and accountability for human rights violation. “It is very important for the civil society to work together with the police to improve and strengthen the internal accountability mechanisms that already exist within the Nigerian Police Force. “And we know that this kind of partnership can only bring justice closer to the people to ensure that their voices are heard and obtain redress when their rights are violated. “We have created a platform where organisations can engage with the police public complain response unit which reports directly to the office of the Inspector General of Police through the Office of the Force PRO to ensure that instance of human rights violation by officers of the police force is promptly reported and addressed. “The programme will trickle down to the grassroots because those who will end up enjoying the benefits of today’s meeting are ordinary Nigerians on the street. “We as a civil society organisation will be amplifying our voices. We will serve as representatives of the people and guide them on how to report to the police,” she added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com