The Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria on Sunday said competence should be the main focus of citizens as they go to the polls to choose a new President for the nation in 2023. The organisation also called on Nigerians to resist the temptation of falling into a divisive political campaign ahead of next year’s general elections. The President of CBCN, Archbishop Augustine Akubeze, said this in his speech during the opening of the organisation’s first plenary in 2022 held in Abuja. Akubeze said, “We cannot run away from the fact that very often, people get the kind of government they deserve. Yes, this is true. The numbers of Nigerians who vote are very few. “For those who do not vote, they have already voted by allowing a few to determine the future of the majority. “The argument that INEC or other agents may not make our votes count is no longer acceptable. We must exercise our right to vote and then speak to protect our votes. “We call on all Nigerians to get their Permanent Voters’ Card, and get ready to vote according to their personal conviction of who is capable of leading Nigeria or the state to a better life. “Vote for those who can ensure the security of life and property. Vote for those who have shown that they have the capacity to unite us as a people. “Vote for people who possess the capacity to make Nigeria into an industrial hub for Africa. Vote for people who can make Nigeria a land of opportunity for all. Vote for people who can make our dreams come to life. Nigerians must resist the temptation of falling into a divisive political campaign.” The Catholic Archbishop of Abuja Diocese, Ignatius Kaigama, regretted that Nigerian leaders were not ready to die for the masses. He said, “We are yet to find leaders who are prepared to die for our nation, as in the case of the late President of Chad, Idriss Deby, who died leading his people in battle, or recently, like the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who is courageously leading his people and stoutly defending the territorial integrity of his nation by an invading hostile power. Please pray for Ukraine as requested by the Holy Father.” A former Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Kanu Agabi, outlined measures that should be put in place, including stopping the appointment of wrong people in positions, strict enforcement of laws and examining the structure of the states to make the country better. He said, “We must stop appointing unqualified people into high offices. There is urgent need to examine the structure of the states. “As presently constituted, they are easily open to manipulation and exploitation by one man – particularly since all executive power is vested in one man under the constitution. “We must enforce the laws. As Marcus Cicero said, the nation is founded not only on laws but also on men. Men, by themselves alone, however great and numerous, do not suffice to make a nation unless they have laws.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com