A Senator representing Anambra Central Senatorial District, Uche Ekwunife, has said the administration of Governor Chukwuma Soludo, would herald economic development for the state. Soludo, a professor of Economics and former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, was sworn in as the sixth governor of Anambra State earlier on Thursday. Ekwunife, who took to her Facebook page on Thursday, said the emergence of Soludo signified a remarkable day in the history of the state. She urged the governor to employ a transparent, accountable, gender-inclusive and people-centred governance. She also tasked religious, traditional, political figures and other stakeholders irrespective of party affiliation to rally round the governor and work for the actualisation of the vision, goals and dreams of the state’s founding fathers as the Light of the Nation. She said, “Earlier today, I joined other well-meaning Anambrarians to witness the inauguration of Prof. Chukwuma Soludo as the Governor of Anambra State. “The inauguration signified a remarkable day in the history of the state. I’m hopeful that Soludo’s administration will herald economic development in all the sectors of governance in the state. “I urge the new governor to employ a transparent, accountable, gender-inclusive and people-centered governance. “I remind him to restore law and order by prioritizing the security of lives and property of the people of the state which remains the primary responsibility of every responsible government. “I equally congratulate the deputy governor, HE Dr. Onyedikachi Ibezim, and enjoin him to work together with the governor for the greater good of the state, while praying God to give Prof Soludo the wisdom and knowledge to pilot the affairs of our dear state. May his administration be successful. Amen.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com