An indigenous oil firm, Seplat Energy Plc, has called for technology adoption in educational development across the country. It said in a statement that Seplat Energy and its partner, the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company, had awarded certificates to a total of 220 persons comprising 214 teachers and six chief inspectors of education in Edo and Delta states under the Seplat Teachers Empowerment Programme. The company said the STEP certificate awards ceremony took place in Benin, Edo State, alongside the Seplat education roundtable, which had educational experts and professionals in an engaging panel session. “The keynote speaker for the day was Prof. Fabian Ajogwu, SAN, an independent non-Executive Director at Seplat Energy,” the statement read in part. It added, “Over the years, Seplat Energy has made significant impacts with critical initiatives focused on providing quality education for states and the country. “To consolidate its achievements on Sustainability Development Goal-4 for inclusive and equitable quality education, the company introduced STEP, a customised training programme for secondary school teachers.” It stated that to commemorate the certificate presentation ceremony held on March 17, 2022, Seplat Energy hosted the Seplat JV Education Roundtable, with the theme, “Harnessing the Role of Technology in Nigeria’s Education Sector” It said the Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, who was one of the special guests, was represented by Mrs. Muna Onuzo-Adetona, a Special Adviser to the minister. The statement quoted Prof. Ajogwu as saying, “Education is a collective responsibility. What Seplat Energy is doing is noble and commendable. It is supported by both Edo and Delta state governments. “These states should be model states that should be emulated. Other corporates should also be invited to do the same. Spending on education gives us future returns than subsiding consumption. “Seplat Energy believes that empowering teachers is the first point to awakening education and education has a cost. What we have done is to take part of that cost.” He said the government had a role to play as well as other organisations and stakeholders, adding that “we should acknowledge this cost and invest in it.” On his part, the Edo State Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, said, “Education via technology will promote children to be global competitors and this can only happen through adequate knowledge of technology. “I congratulate Seplat Energy on this initiative and Edo State will continue to partner the company on education.” In her remarks, Seplat’s Energy Director of External Affairs and Sustainability, Chioma Nwachuku, said, “The STEP programme is important because it plays a key role in the socio-economic growth of the country. “It supports the attainment of quality education which is the SGD4. The objective is to take science and technology education to the teachers. We encourage the teachers to transmit their experience with this programme to other colleagues in the sector and the students.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com