A wanted suspected cultist, Rasidi Hammed, aka Rasidi Baale Oko’lu, has threatened to unleash violence on Ede, Osun State, unless the police and members of the Oodua People’s Congress desist from hunting him and residents of Isale Osun, Ede. Rasidi, a welder by vocation, is being trailed by security agents for allegedly causing the death of many people in the Ede community. He was recently linked to the death of Hassan Adedeji, a Higher National Diploma graduate of Banking and Finance of the Federal Polytechnic, Ede, who was awaiting his call-up letter for the National Youth Service Corps scheme, as well as an okada rider, whose identities were not made known. Before that, he and his gang were alleged to have been involved in clashes with the OPC men at different times in the community, which had resulted in the death of many residents. But in a voice note obtained in Osogbo on Thursday, Rasidi said his decision not to join the OPC because those that invited him were involved in crimes, was the genesis of his travails. Speaking in Yoruba language, Rasidi also accused the Timi of Ede, Oba Munirudeen Lawal, of using some OPC members to hunt him and called on elders of the community to intervene, or he would return to the town and cause unrest. Rasidi said one Doki Oodua of the OPC and Oriade had invited him and his boys to join the group, but he declined because of the advice from those who were already members, who told him that those that invited him were armed robbers. He stated, “I am a thug and I was earning money on the street. I don’t steal. I am not a thief. I am an artisan. I am a welder. They wanted me and my boys to join them in the OPC. But then, I have people I regard as mothers and elderly ones, who are OPC members. Those people told me that those who invited me to the OPC were thieves. In my presence, one of those that invited me to the OPC went to steal iron rods and he killed someone at the scene about five years ago in Ede here. “Despite their antecedents, some elders in the community still indulge and continue to associate with them. I rejected the invitation to join the OPC. That made them attack my base. They came in the early hours of February 2, 2020, but we dealt with them. Those that came were OPC members. Because they suffered heavy casualties, they went and joined forces with a member of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad from the Osun State Police Command. “The Timi of Ede ordered us not to get involved in violence again and we all abided by the order. But after that, the OPC men still attacked me on December 4, 2021, and two of my younger brothers were killed right in front of a police station. And one other, who ran into the police station, was traced into the station and he was killed in the presence of the policemen. “A few of the elders, who spoke to me, only pleaded but no action was taken to punish the perpetrators. I listened to the pleading and I mourned the dead. I bought gifts, made stickers campaigning for peace in Ede land. I funded a street light project in our area; I distributed food items to all the mosques in our area. After all the efforts, these OPC men still attacked and killed my elder brother at Owode, Ede. Apart from the deceased named Kehinde, my younger brother was shot in the stomach and I was also shot at several times and they went away with my vehicle. “After that, Doki Wakili, Oriade and Jagunlabi went and killed my mother. She was killed on Tuesday, February 22, 2022. I hereby appeal to all indigenes, the Osun State Government and the Federal Government to intervene. All royal fathers in Osun should also intervene.” Oba Lawal, however, denied involvement in the disagreement between the OPC and Rasidi, adding that he never ordered that the man’s head should be brought by anyone. The monarch, while speaking at the turning of the sod of 180 housing units for civil servants in the state in Abere on Thursday, said, “It (insecurity in Ede) was an issue between the OPC men and cultists. I am not supporting any of them, because I don’t know any of them. “The people disturbing the peace of Ede land are few in number. I don’t know them and neither do I send them to go and bring me the head of Rasidi. He has sent out a lot of voice notes in which he insulted me. Ede is a peaceful land. I am calling on the government to please come to our aid and save us from this situation and find a permanent solution to it.” Meanwhile, the state police command has declared Rasidi wanted, saying anyone that harbours him will also be treated as a criminal. A statement by the Police Public Relations Officer for the command, Yemisi Opalola, said Rasidi was wanted in connection with offences of murder, arson, ritual killing and armed robbery. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com