The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike and former Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose, on Wednesday, in Abeokuta, officially declared support for the governorship ambition of a Peoples Democratic Party aspirant, Oladipupo Adebutu. Both Wike and Fayose briefly met with the Alake and paramount ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo and joined the party faithful at the Ake Palace, Abeokuta. While addressing PDP members drawn from the  20 local government areas of the state, Wike lauded  Adebutu for holding the party strong in Ogun State, saying it is his time to reap from his effort. The Rivers State governor promised to work with Adebutu as governor of Ogun State come 2023. He said he was ready to help the PDP to take power at the centre when he emerged as the President. He said, “As Fayose said, four years ago, I knew the struggle. It’s unfortunate, what happened. This man has kept faith believing that God will do it in His own time. So, I commend your people for standing firm and I am believing that when you win, you will also remember them. “APC has failed Nigeria and I know that as you take power from APC in this state, you must join me for us to take power from APC at the national level. “ Earlier, Fayose said he would never play hide and seek politics, insisting that his physical presence at the declaration shows that he is with Adebutu for the PDP ticket. He said, “Adebutu has made  sacrifices and heavy financial investments  to sustain the PDP in Ogun State and  this is the time for him  to reap his efforts.” Addressing the gathering, Adebutu expressed delight over the turnout of over 4,000 party executives from the state, local governments and the 236 wards. Adebutu said he was happy with the show of support and solidarity by the party faithful and members. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com