The Public Complaints Commission on Wednesday intervened in the unrest emanating in the state from students’ reaction to the ongoing industrial action embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities. PCC Commissioner in Ekiti State, Mr Kayode Bamisile said the commission waded into the matter as a Federal Government’s agency seeking to end the feud for students to return to their campuses, coupled with complaints being received from the public over blockage of Ado-Iworoko-Ifaki road by students, causing economic damage to the state. Bamisile, who spoke in Ado Ekiti during a meeting with ASUU and the students under the aegis of National Association of Nigerian Students, said every right-thinking Nigerian must be disturbed by the lingering strike in the universities and the attendant crises. After listening to the two unions, the PCC boss said: “I love the way you have conducted yourselves. I will take your position to our Chief Commissioner in Abuja for onward transmission to the Minister of Education because part of our administrative duties is the peaceful resolution of industrial disputes. “We are all worried about the current trend where all campuses are under lock and key. Our university system must be strong to enjoy global patronage. I am optimistic that our intervention will yield good result”. The Chairman, NANS/Joint Campus Committee, Ekiti axis, Felix Olanrewaju, said that as much as the students were angry with FG for reneging on its promises to academic staff, ASUU’s position on the closure of schools was not the best option. “ASUU and FG must come together and settle this as matured groups of individuals. That is our unyielding position. Nigeria can’t be building its future leaders this way, if they continue with this strike, it means we have no future. We are ready to be on the streets until the right things are done,” he said. Federal University, Oye Ekiti ASUU Chairman, Dr Gabriel Omonijo, who expressed disgust at the ways ASUU’s members were being treated, said it was worrisome that the salary structures operational in universities were approved in 2009. Omonijo said, “Regrettably, ASUU members are among the least paid workers in Nigeria. Our universities in terms of infrastructure are nothing but relics and we have made it clear that our universities must not die the way our primary and secondary schools died. Hardly can you see any parent now sending his wards to public schools. “The issue is very simple, the Federal Government must listen to us. They must fulfill the agreements reached with us on funding of universities, autonomy, the issue of IPPIS, and our general welfare to stop the brain drain and the killing of our educational system,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com