FORMER Governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, on Wednesday in Abuja purchased chairmanship form ahead of the All Progressives Congress national convention slated for March 26. He purchased the form despite the party’s arrangement which zoned the seat to the North Central. The PUNCH observed that some individuals wearing Yari-branded shirts stormed the party’s national secretariat to obtain a form for the former Northwestern state governor. Speaking on behalf of the pro-Yari’s group after obtaining the form, Senator Tijani Kaura told journalists that the former governor is a party man and that the national chairmanship position belongs to the Northern region. According to him, “We have just purchased the form for Sen Abdulaziz Yari to contest for the position of the party’s national chairmanship.” Asked if Yari isn’t kicking against the party’s zoning arrangement by picking a form, Kaura said “As far as we are concerned, there are contending issues concerning zoning. First of all, we are fully aware that the national championship has been zoned to the north and the presidency has been zoned to the South. “As you are aware that all positions of the party that were hitherto in the south will go to the north, Zamfara being in the north is well qualified.” Speaking of Yari’s readiness to lead, he said, “Yari being one of the founding fathers of this great party has contributed immensely and greatly to the betterment and welfare of this party. He is ready to lead the party and will not allow it to die. “What the party needs now is a unifier. This was a party which was formed by the coming together of many parties. If care is not taken, the party will be so divided but Yari as a founding father will ensure that the party does not disintegrate.” Another chairmanship hopeful and former Governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Adamu, has also obtained the N20m form. Adamu’s form was obtained on his behalf by the Director-General of his campaign troupe, Lawrence Onuchukwu. Speaking to journalists at the national secretariat on Tuesday, Onuchukwu who said Buhari’s endorsement was a “rumour” added that the speculation has helped to boost Adamu’s chances of emerging Chairman. Asked if the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) has indeed anointed the lawmaker as APC Chairman, Onuchukwu said, “If that rumour is anything to go by, it is a boost for us. Mr President, as a man of integrity I’m sure, will not want to associate himself with someone who does not have capacity to actualize the vision of this party. “And you are also aware that we must not pretend that the party has some challenges and you need an administrator, a politician, you need a person who can handle the party.” On what an Adamu chairmanship has in stock for the APC, he said “If you have been following the antecedents of Senator Abdullahi Adamu, you will know and agree with me that this is the man that has capacity and the capability to pilot the affairs of this great party. “You will also agree with me if you are a member of this party that he was the chairman of a nine-member committee saddled with the responsibility of reconciling the party that made us have some Governors who joined the party. That alone is a major reason for us while he should come and pilot the affairs of this great party.” He boasted that under Adamu, “APC will not lose to any political party. I can assure you.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com