A leading global manufacturer of motorcycles and scooters, Hero MotoCorp, has announced the winners of its ‘Hero Hunter Super Oga’ motorcycle campaign in Nigeria. While announcing the winners of the competition at a ceremony in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, on Monday, the Country Manager, Hero MotoCorp, Mr  Ovi Siddhartha, said the campaign was aimed at empowering the riders and showcasing the capability and endurance of its products. He said the Hero Hunter Super Oga competition began last December in five states of Nigeria, namely Oyo, Ondo, Ekiti, Kwara, and Gombe, with 20 contestants per state. He said each Hero Hunter motorcycle was fitted with a GPS device to capture real-time information on the distance and location of the riders. He said, “The first season of Super Oga saw seven winners who clocked more than 29,000kms each. All the participants covered a total of 2.7million kilometres in 60 days of the competition.” “Three winners are going away with seven Hero Hunter motorcycles each, while the other four winners received four Hero Hunter motorcycles each.  The other 86 participants were handed over the motorcycles on which they participated. The Head, Global Business, Hero MotoCorp, Sanjay Bhan, congratulated the winners, saying the Hero Hunter was specially designed and developed for the Nigerian market. He said,” This campaign has proved the superior capabilities of the Hero Hunter under the harshest conditions. It helps the most seasoned riders with its ability to handle immense rigor. “The motorcycle will contribute to the economic empowerment of all the winners. Super Oga has provided the opportunity to the participants to become self-reliant and also create employment opportunities in the country. Following the hugely successful first season, we will launch Season 2 of the campaign in September 2022.” He said that Abubakar Ahmed covered the farthest distance of 46,529 kms while Oyeyemi Sunday covered 46,055kms in 60 days – a distance that usually takes Okada riders nearly nine months to complete. This, he said, clearly highlighted the grit of the riders and the superior capabilities of the Hero Hunter. Both Ahmed and Sunday expressed their excitement over the campaign. Bhan added that in line with Hero MotoCorp’s focus on diversity and inclusion, a female rider Jumoke Fadoju, also participated n the campaign, completing 12,238 kms and she also received the Hero Hunter motorcycle. Adekunle Mayowa and Adeyanju Adedayo, the winners of the ‘Hero Hunter Super Oga’ campaign from Oyo State hailed the company for empowering riders with the.motorcycles. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com