An Anambra State-based lawyer, Mr Nwafili Okwuosa, has asked a Federal High Court sitting in Awka to stop former military Heads of State from being members of the Council of State. Joined in the suit are the Attorney-General of Federation and Accountant-General of the Federation. In suit number FHC/AWKCS/27/ 2021, Okwuosa is asking the court to stop former military rulers, Yakubu Gowon, Olusegun Obasanjo, Ibrahim Babangida and Abdusalam Abubakar from participating in the meetings of the Council of State and collecting emoluments as members. He prayed the court to declare their membership and benefits accruing to them as members of the council as illegal and unconstitutional. Okwuosa also wants the court to stop the former military rulers and their families from benefiting from the country’s resources as former leaders, since they were not elected by the people of Nigeria through constitutional means. After hearing the prayers, the presiding judge, Justice Nnamdi Dimgba, adjourned the case till May 20, 2022. Speaking shortly after the court session, Okwuosa said he was challenging the former military leaders’ membership of the Council of State, because they came to power through an undemocratic and unconstitutional process. According to him, getting power through military coup was not part of the constitutional provision that makes one a member of the council. He stated, “My position is very clear; they were in the military, took over power and ruled the country until they were tired, and for whatever reason, stepped aside. These people are not supposed to be treated as heroes under the constitution they distorted. “The extant constitution we are running does not make provision recommending that they be members of the Council of State. The constitution does not say they should be treated as former leaders.” According to him, allowing them into the council is to legitimise coups as long as the plotters succeed. Okwuosa said, “If that is what we are saying, we should apologise to those coup plotters executed when they failed. It means they were killed unjustly, simply because they failed in their coup plots.” “We are recognising and legitimising coup plotting by allowing them to be in the Council of State. “The message we are passing to the young military officers is that if you want to plot a coup, make it successful even if it is bloody and we will treat you as heroes if you succeed.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com