Super Eagles coach Austin Eguavoen has rued his side’s missed chances in their goalless draw against Ghana in Friday’s first leg of a 2022 World Cup play-off in Kumasi. Both teams played out a tense but entertaining 0-0 draw at the Baba Yara stadium in Kumasi with the Eagles having a clear-cut chance to score an away goal in the encounter. The Eagles best chance fell to Moses Simon in the 55th minute when he raced on to a pass from Kelechi Iheanacho but he failed to shoot past the exposed Black Stars goalkeeper. VAR then ruled out a penalty for the Super Eagles in the 75th minute after a replay showed Baba Idrissu of Ghana was fouled before he handled the ball inside his own box. Eguavoen, who has recorded four wins, a draw and a defeat since he replaced Gernot Rohr on an interim basis last December, admitted that the tie wasn’t over yet but was happy his side left Kumasi without a defeat. “Ghana are a very tough team,” Eguavoen said. “We had two clear chances to just finish Ghana, but I think getting a draw is good even though we wanted to win here (in Ghana).0-0, I think it’s still good enough. “The biggest positive we take from this is that we did not lose. We got a good result and our team was very organised and disciplined. But it was a good game and we are happy with the result.” “This is not over,” he said. “It is just the first half of this game, and there is still the second leg to play. I was not happy with the way we were letting them win some balls and get into spaces, but we will sort that out in the second leg. “We don’t expect an easy game in Abuja, but we are confident that we can win and qualify.” Nigeria will be the happier of the two sides ahead of Tuesday’s second leg but with the away goals rule in place, Ghana know any score draw – at the Abuja Stadium where Nigeria have not played a home match in over a decade – will take them to their fourth finals. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com