The President and Chairman of Governing Council, Institute of Directors Nigeria, Dr Ije Jidenma, has said that it is important for directors to improve their knowledge to adjust to emerging trends in the financial system. She spoke during the member’s evening in Lagos with the theme, ‘Emerging trends in financial reporting: The role of directors in upholding standards’. “This underscores the importance of improving directors’ understanding of emerging trends in financial reporting and their role in upholding standards and compliance,” she said. According to her, recent and unfolding developments in the global economy, especially the challenges created by the COVID-19 pandemic and now the raging war in Europe between Rusia and Ukraine, have worked together to compound the uncertainties and complexities that subsists. She said this was creating new accounting and reporting challenges for most organisations, especially in the effective engagement with critical stakeholders, accurate forecasting, as well as adequate and proper internal controls. The National Bureau of Statistics, she said, revealed that Foreign Direct Investment in Nigeria had been declining due to the global perception of investment risk in Nigeria, which in part, was attributable, to the limited financial reporting and disclosures made by reporting entities in Nigeria especially in the public sector. This, she added was because potential investors, especially international investors, do not get adequate economic data that will enable them to understand the risk profiles of Nigerian entities for informed judgements and decisions. She said, “High-quality financial reporting promotes private sector growth and reduces volatility in the economy. “By strengthening the country’s financial reporting architecture, we will reduce or at least present a better understanding of the risks.” She said the IOD Members’ Evening has become part of the institute’s tradition, where its members engage and network with one another. The event, she added, also provides the platform for members to exchange views and opinions about socio-economic and business trends in our environment, make acquaintances with other members of the Institute and take time to relax away from the hustle and bustle of their businesses. “We have continued to canvass for good corporate governance practices of all private and public sector organisations in the country and will continue to partner with all business and thought leaders from both the public and private sectors to push forward our innovative ideas for our collective benefits,” she said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com