A former senatorial aspirant in Cross River State and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Dr. Ray Morphy, on Sunday in Abuja, lauded the Niger State governor, Abubakar Bello, for inspiring the party to what he called “a superlative national convention.” In a statement he signed late Sunday, Morphy, who was a member of the national convention Media Sub-Committee, noted that the annals of the just concluded APC national convention could not be written without the role of the governor due to his courage, spirit of sacrifice, loyalty, and selflessness to the party. According to him, recall that preparation for the APC National Convention was in a lull until Governor Sani Bello, who also doubled as the Chairman, North Central Governors Forum, took over as the Acting Chairman of CECPC, on March 3, 2022, following the absence of Governor Mai Mala Buni on medical grounds. “His subsequent actions became the catalyst that propelled the APC Convention. It should be placed on record that, immediately he took over, he reinforced the inevitability of holding the Convention on March 26, 2022. “That declaration came at a time of huge uncertainties for the party, and became the needed vitality for members, who committed and redoubled their efforts towards a successful Convention.” He noted that Bello, when he assumed acting Chairman weeks ago, immediately moved into actions geared towards meeting the set date for the National Convention. They include the inauguration of State Chairmen of the Party, adoption of zoning formula from the Zoning Committee, adoption of some relevant documents and inauguration of sub-committees for the National Convention, among others. Morphy added that “Governor Sani Bello received accolades from the CECPC Chairman Mala Buni upon his return from medical trip as he was satisfied with the level of preparations towards the Convention, thereby validating all that was done under the leadership of Governor Sani Bello. “On the day of the National Convention, Governor Sani Bello was at the venue early enough to see that things were carried out without hitches; going as far as visiting delegates from various states, interacting with them to give them a sense of belonging.” He noted that the efforts were worthwhile, having produced a successful and rancour-free National Convention and a new National Working Committee. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com