The Chairman of Ebonyi State Universal Basic Education Board, Hycinth Ikpor, has alleged that the Peoples Democratic Party is working in connivance with powerful forces to forestall the presidential ambition of Enugu governor, David Umahi, The UBEB boss, who faulted the judgement of the Federal High Court Abuja that sacked Umahi and Kelechi Igwe, as governor and deputy governor respectively, observed that Umahi’s defection to the All Progressives Congress averted a political omen, which was in the waiting for Igbo people. He stated this during a press conference, in AAbakaliki late on Friday. He said, “Yes, Umahi won election on the platform of the PDP. On November 16, 2020, he left the PDP and joined the APC. People were asking him why he left. He said the party didn’t have any agenda for the Igbo man, that the PDP does not have any intention to consider the Igbo man for presidency. “People misunderstood him then; but of course today, it’s obvious that what he saw and left the PDP is happening today. The party does not have any good intention for the Igbos. And it’s happening before the very eyes of those who doubted him then. He saved the Igbos so much political pains for leaving the PDP. “Of course, you don’t expect the PDP members to be happy over the governor’s political rising and his exit from their party. If they claim to be happy, why did they keep quiet since 2020 and stated now (2022), the governor started gunning for the presidency? So, it’s now they remember to go to court. They have mischief at the back of their mind. “Their sole aim is to forestall the presidential ambition of Engr David Umahi and nothing more. The PDP is behind all this and it’s working with powerful forces to forestall Umahi’s presidential dream. “The idea of going to court and all this noise about Umahi’s defection to the APC, are all targeted at scuttling his presidential ambition. “As one of the founding fathers of the state, the point I’m trying to make is that this demonic agenda won’t work. David Umahi is still our governor and will he there, till 2023. “And so, those who are wishing to take over from him, should go and prepare. At the appropriate time, all of us will be here to know who will take over from him. But, at the moment, I urge Ebonyians to stand firm and support Umahi.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com