A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja will, on Friday, deliver judgment in a suit filed by the Peoples Democratic Party against Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State. The PDP, through its counsel, Emmanuel Ukala (SAN), had filed the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/975/2021 before Justice Taiwo Taiwo for an order sacking the governor and his deputy over their defection to the All Progressives Congress. The PUNCH gathered on Tuesday from Court 7, where Justice Taiwo presides, that judgment in the suit would come up on Friday. Justice Taiwo had on Monday ordered two House of Representatives members from Cross River State and 18 lawmakers from the state’s House of Assembly to vacate their seats over their defection to the APC. The judge gave the order in a suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/971/2021 filed on August 27, 2021, by the PDP to challenge the 20 lawmakers and governor’s defection to the APC on May 20, 2021. Justice Taiwo dismissed the defence argument that the PDP had no locus standi to institute the case. He also dismissed other preliminary objections raised by the sacked lawmakers. The judge, who granted all the reliefs sought by the PDP, held that it was disheartening that politicians in the country were treating the citizens as if they did not matter once they got into office. “A day must surely come when elected officials must either resign from their offices or ask the people who voted for them before defecting to other political parties, instead of defecting to another party without recourse to the law and the citizens,” Justice Taiwo stated. The affected members of the House of Representatives from the state are Michael Etaba, who represents the Obubra/Etung Federal Constituency, and Legor Idagbor, the representative of the Obudu/Obaliku/Bekwarra Federal Constituency. The affected state lawmakers include the Speaker, House of Assembly, Eteng Williams; Joseph Bassey, Odey Agbe and Okon Ephraim. Others are Regina Anyogo, Matthew Olory, Ekpo Bassey, Ogbor Udop, Ekpe Okon, Hillary Bisong, Francis Asuquo, Elvert Ayambem, Davis Etta, Sunday Achunekan, Cynthia Nkasi, Edward Ajang, Chris Ogar and Maria Akwaji. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com