Some youth groups across the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria have inaugurated a new political movement called We2GedaNG. The group said it is using the platform to address the country’s failed system. Addressing journalists in Awka, on Saturday, an Oyo State lawmaker, representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/IWajowa Federal Constituency, Mr Shina Abiola Peller, disclosed that over 2.3 million youths across the six geopolitical zones have registered. Peller explained that the movement was formed to realise a new and unified Nigeria, with the youths as the driving force. He added that the initiative was in partnership with the Reality Family Organisation and facilitated by the National Association of Nigeria Students and Civil Society Organisations with a view to achieving a more united Nigeria, irrespective of tribe, ethnic, and religious sentiments. According to him, Nigeria is suffering from a failed economic and social-political system. He said, “Whether we like it or not, the country is suffering from a system failure, like; bad roads, poor education system and insecurity. One person can not solve the problem alone and which is why the We2GedeNG has come to assist by addressing the problems collectively. “This is the time that we must develop a system that will strengthen unity and progress of our country. We have members from the APC, PDP, YPP and others across all zones.” The Chairman, Board of Trustees, Ibrahim Hussein Abdulkarim, said the movement was not just about them, but for the generations yet unborn. He disclosed that the movement has also been unveiled in Kano State for North-West, Adamawa for North-East, Plateau State for North-Central, Akwa Ibom State for South-South, Lagos State for South-West and now in Anambra State, South-East. In their separate speeches, the lawmaker representing Njikoka I State Constituency in Anambra House of Assembly, Timothy Ifediorama, and the National President, National Association of Nigerian Students, Comrade Sunday Ashafa, admonished the Nigerian youths to shun thuggery and violence come 2023, adding that the electorates should be re-orientated positively ahead of the forthcoming election. They said the youths must come out from their shell and take charge of the country before it is too late. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com