The Delta State Commissioner for Information, Charles Aniagwu, has debunked the rumour that Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and the former governor James Ibori were not in good term, insisting that their relationship was still intact. Aniagwu, who stated this on Thursday while briefing journalists in Asaba, said both Okowa and Ibori understood each other. He said, “Okowa and Ibori’s relationship is still intact contrary to what people are saying. “In the comment of Ibori last week, he commended Okowa very well for his good work and he will want Okowa to produce the best candidate that can win election.” On Okowa’s daughter’s State Assembly ambition, he urged political agitators to rather address issues and not attack the individual for political cheap blackmail. “I am from the council area and I urged the agitators to stay with issues and not attack individuals. Okowa’s daughter is eminently qualified to run for the State House of Assembly. “Gov. Okowa is reluctant but people of the community and the LGA are pushing, knowing her pedigree and competence, intelligence and creativity and that she has the ability to represent them. “In our various local areas, it is a usual good prayer that children will be greater that parents. “So, what is wrong if Okowa’s daughter runs for Assembly? A particular section of the people of Ika North East had for 20 years occupied the political space in the State House of Assembly, that it would not mean asking for much for the other section to take their turn. “If the governor’s daughter is qualified, why not? People with divergent views must not look for people to pull down. A particular section of the council area has occupied the position in the past 20 years. “The governor’s daughter is a youth, and the youths have a role to play. Besides, we are towing the part of equity to allow persons from the other area feature.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com