Former Governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, on Wednesday in Abuja, purchased the chairmanship form ahead of the All Progressives Congress national convention slated for March 26. This comes despite the party’s zoning arrangement which zoned the apex seat to the North-Central. The PUNCH observed that some individuals wearing Yari-branded shirts stormed the Party’s National Secretariat to obtain a form for the former Northwestern state governor. Speaking on behalf of the pro-Yari’s group after obtaining the form, Senator Tijani Kaura told journalists that the former governor is a party man and that the national chairmanship position belongs to the Northern region. According to him, “We have just purchased the form for Sen Abdulaziz Yari to contest the position of the party’s national chairmanship.” Asked if Yari isn’t kicking against the party’s zoning arrangement by picking a form, Kaura said, “As far as we are concerned, there are contending issues concerning zoning. First of all, we are fully aware that the national championship has been zoned to the north and the presidency has been zoned to the South. “As you are aware that all positions of the party that were hitherto in the south will go to the north. Zamfara being in the north is well qualified.” Speaking of Yari’s readiness to lead, he said, “Yari being one of the founding fathers of this great party has contributed immensely and greatly to the betterment and welfare of this party. He is ready to lead the party and will not allow it to die. “What the party needs now is a unifier. This was a party that was formed by the coming together of many parties. If care is not taken, the party will be so divided but Yari as a founding father will ensure that the party does not disintegrate.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com