The Chairman of the Association of Approved Aviation Training Organisations in Nigeria, Mr Bankole Bernard, has called on the government to clamp down on mushroom aviation training schools. Bernard, who is also the Academy Director at Lagos Aviation Academy, stated this over the weekend at an award ceremony to celebrate the International Air Transport Association’s Overall Best Students in Nigeria during the January 2022 diet. He said, “In Nigeria today, we have too many mushroom training schools scattered all over the place. Sadly, a lot of people cannot differentiate between the standard schools and the mushroom schools. This is one area the regulators should also pay attention to in order for us to have seasoned professionals joining the next generation industry players.” This was contained in a statement by the academy’s Public Relations Officer, Olamide Oni, titled, ‘Lagos Aviation Academy Students Emerge IATA Best Performers In Nigeria’. The statement said Lagos Aviation Academy produced the Overall Best Performers in Nigeria during the January 2022 diet of the IATA Foundation in Travel & Tourism course and the IATA Managing the Travel Business Course. According to Oni, Michael Ozoalor made a distinction in the January 2022 diet of IATA Foundation in Travel & Tourism course, while Oluwatosin Jolayemi, made a distinction in the January 2022 IATA Managing the Travel Business exams and both became IATA Overall Best Performer in Nigeria. Congratulating the duo, the Head of Global Partnerships and Innovation at IATA Training, Mr Ivica Kovacic, said, “On behalf of IATA Training, I congratulate you on successfully completing the Foundation in Travel and Tourism with Amadeus course and acknowledge you as the student with the best performance in your country for the January 2022 exam session. As our Best Performer, feel free to use this recognition as a reference in any future job application. IATA Training will gladly act as a referrer in your career journey.” Also congratulating the students on their success, the academy’s director (Bernard) said, “We are proud of your achievement, this surely is a reward of hard work and excellent performance. You have not only made yourself proud but you have made Lagos Aviation Academy proud too with this feat. This is the fifth of its kind in our five years of operations and we are poised to reproduce similar results as we go on. Our resolve remains that we will continue to deliver the best training experiences to all our students and prospects.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com