A presidential aspirant on the platform of the Accord Party, Amb Solomon Winning, has admonished the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to immediately address the socio-economic crisis in the country. He noted that the current social and economic situation may provoke a mass uprising which could be more devastating than the #EndSARS protests. The aspirant pledged to address the inadequate power supply in the country to ensure accelerated socio-economic development if elected in 2023. Winning expressed concern about the insecurity in the country, saying he would restructure the nation’s security architecture to better respond to threats and protect the citizens. Addressing journalists in Abuja on Saturday, Winning, who hails from Ebonyi State, said he would empower the youths and encourage them to deploy their creative energies for national development and growth. According to him, it is a shame that Nigeria was rated the poverty capital of the world despite its abundant human and natural resources, which he said successive administrations had failed to utilise. Winning explained that his government would tap and exploit the ingenuity, experience and global connections of technocrats, noting that their expertise would help in placing the nation on the path of economic advancement. The aspirant stated, “Nigeria as Africa’s most populous country, the largest economy and a major democracy on the African continent is now faced with a myriad of troubles and setbacks in its social political and economic sphere arising from a weakening economy, rising insecurity, violent conflicts in most parts of the country threatening the progress made in our democratic development. “I, however, call on President Muhamadu Buhari and his cabinet to sit up to address the shameful situation as the current trend, if not urgently addressed, could spark an uprising across the country that would be more consequential than the #EndSars protests.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com