Royal Air Maroc says its integration into One World, a global airline alliance, will pave the way for a stronger relationship with the Nigerian aviation sector. The Moroccan carrier stated this on Friday at a press conference in Lagos to officially unveil the airline as the first and only African airline to join the One World alliance. Speaking at the event, the Chief Financial Officer, Royal Air Maroc, Mr Karim Benchekroun, said the airline had completed the process of admission into the alliance as of early 2020, but decided to delay the official announcement due to the sudden outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said, “We are very happy to be here in Lagos to celebrate the integration of Royal Air Maroc into the prestigious alliance which is One World. It took us a lot of effort and a lot of time to be part of this big alliance. Now, Royal Air Maroc is a full member and shareholder of One World, which is the first African airline to join this alliance. It’s an honour to be here in Lagos to celebrate Royal Air Maroc’s joining of One World.” “We know that our airline in Nigeria is not so strong, but we have an interest in developing our business through this country because of many reasons. Nigeria is an important aviation market for obvious reasons and we do have a big customer base here constituting of diversified segments; tourism, culture, business travellers, and shockingly, many Nigerians now fly to Morocco to continue to other points of our network.” Asked if the carrier had any plans to collaborate with local airlines with regard to plying domestic routes towards a mutually beneficial goal, Benchekroun answered in the affirmative. “We fly to Nigeria because there is an agreement between both civil aviation authorities. Nigerian airlines are welcome to fly to Morocco. For example, some partners in One World, fly together on the same route to bring more value to both countries. So we are really open to that (partnership) to see all the opportunities we can have with local airlines to set up partnerships.” Also speaking, the CEO of One World, Robert Gurney, described the partnership as one that would boost tourism, commerce and trade and also connect more markets to Nigeria. He said, “We are excited to be celebrating the second anniversary of Royal Air Maroc joining the One World alliance. As you have just heard, Royal Air Maroc joined One World in 2020 and due to the pandemic, we had to put some of those celebrations on hold until now. “As global travel starts to recover, and I think we’re seeing some very positive indications to that, Royal Air Maroc will be a very important, strategic contributor to One World. When the airline joined the alliance, more than 30 new destinations were added in Africa to the One World network. Africa was extensively covered by other One World members, but there has been an additional 30 points that have been added. With Royal Air Maroc’s strong network of more than 80 destinations, One World is very well positioned as the alliance of choice for customers travelling to various regions. Royal Air Maroc will connect more markets to Nigeria as a consequence of this alliance, which is obviously going to be great for tourism, great for commerce and trade.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com