UNION Bank has said that its employees are committed to ensuring community development through corporate social responsibility. A statement from the bank said for the third consecutive year, Union Bank and its employees celebrated their Employee Volunteer Day with donations and projects, aimed at improving the lives of Nigerians. The statement said in line with the bank’s efforts to drive sustainable impact and accelerate community development, EV Day is an employee-funded initiative that allows Union Bank and its employees the opportunity to give back to the community through various projects and activities that drive positive social change. It stated that, “The latest instalment of the initiative tagged ‘It starts with U’ involved a bottom-up approach where employees were encouraged to identify needs within their host communities that required timely attention after which they pooled resources to solve some of these identified problems in these areas. “Through the initiative, 20 impactful projects were executed and commissioned in different communities across three regions in the nation. “The projects which directly impacted over 253,000 people were centred around creating strategic development with a clear focus on health and wellness, environmental sanitation and education and welfare in Nigeria.” The statement said three projects were executed and commissioned in the South West region where the Regional Executive for South West, Bolade Jegede, led the team of Union Bank volunteers to the Island maternity Hospital Lagos and donated medical equipment to the neonatal unit to support existing facilities and help reduce neonatal mortality rate. The Chief Executive Officer, Union Bank Emeka Okonkwo, said, “Union Bank is known for leading the charge for social impact. The theme for this EV Day tagged ‘It Starts with You’ is a necessary reminder of the role each of us must play as individuals in upholding and driving sustainable impact in the communities we serve. “I am so inspired by team union and incredibly fortunate to work with colleagues that prioritises our vision of community development and corporate citizenship.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com