Eyitayo Ogunmola is the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Utiva, a tech talent development company. He tells ABIODUN SANUSI about running a start-up in the tech industry and other issues Tell us about your educational background. I have a degree in Medical Physiology from the University of Ilorin. Upon graduation from the university, I got into the technology and education sectors and stayed there for about seven years before thinking about getting a master’s degree. I went on to the United Kingdom, where I bagged a Master’s degree in Business Strategy from Heriot-Watt University. What inspired you to start Utiva? In 2015, I had the opportunity to move to the United States of America as an Atlas Corp Fellow and one of the things I was doing in that capacity was to build a platform called CreativeU. At that time, it was one of the best learning management platforms for international development professionals. I worked with some of the best minds and I felt so privileged but I quickly realised that I could democratise this opportunity for millions of Africans. We are so talented but opportunities are not evenly distributed here. Meanwhile, one of the ways to democratise opportunities is to give equal access to skills. I thought to myself that a strategic thing to do was to run a company that would help people learn premium technology skills and also give them opportunities to move into high- paying jobs. To be honest, one sees less talented people around the world having more opportunities, while in Africa, people with desire and hunger to succeed have less opportunities. I wanted to change that. I felt responsible to replicate the same thing for millions of Africans, and help us become a better and more competitive continent. What challenges did you face when you started Utiva? Many of the technology start-ups out there have a major challenge, which is choosing the right model. The questions were, ‘Do we just build a content-based platform’? ‘Do we want people to learn physically’? Or ‘do we want to run classes remotely’? Funding was also a challenge. One wants to grow fast and deliver value to one’s customers. One would also want to be out there but all these need serious financing that is not readily available. Then, there was the issue of manpower; finding people with the right mindset, skills and capacity to build with one. That is a major challenge for technology start-ups. How would you describe your experience running Utiva? For the first one year, we were trying to test the waters and understand the climate. In the second year, we were doubling down on the lessons of the past year, building the engine, technology platform, system, and hiring the right people. Building a business has been exciting. I like the adrenaline pump. That feeling of waking up every morning and thinking about the next big thing. Nigeria is a very exciting place to build a business because there are so many problems to solve every day. It has been challenging but fun. What are some of your major achievements at Utiva? What I consider a very big achievement is our team. We have a very interesting and solid team of 27 people. Everyone contributes at different levels and there are different problems they solve. Also, in 2020, we were selected as one of the companies for the Facebook Accelerator programme. We were also chosen for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s SOLVE programme, and the Japanese government’s JICA and ACT Foundation. All of them came with funding support. Now, we have a network of 13,000 learners, almost 200 faculty members, and students from about 30 cities. How have you been able to manage your team and maximise its efficiency? I think we have an exciting dynamism within our team. Everyone acknowledges their strengths, as well as the areas where they need improvement. The team is vulnerable enough to see their strengths and weaknesses, and seek help where necessary, which is the hallmark of leadership. This has led to a sporadic growth in our numbers because our team recognises the need for collaboration and supporting one another. Aside from being an entrepreneur, what else do you do? I love my country, so I am actively involved in politics, as I believe the youth cannot avoid it if we must change this country. Also, I like to have fun. It is very important to me. I have so much going on and I usually feel the need to detoxify. I encourage every young person to do the same. Many employers have complained about many job seekers being unemployable. In what ways has your company been able to make an impact in that area? We are doing two things (in that regard). First, we are lowering the entry barrier for many people that would like to learn skills but do not have the financial capacity to do so. Our learning programmes are very affordable. Also, we have offered many people the opportunity to partake in our intensive training programmes without having to pay upfront. After that, we connect them to employers, and the employers would pay (for them). If you look at this from that angle, we are actually helping employers to find talent. What keeps you going? Ultimately, it is God. As an entrepreneur, I always try to get better because there are many things to do as an entrepreneur. There is always the need to find a voice greater than one’s own and for me, that voice is God’s. Sometimes, I wake up in the middle of the night, trying to solve problems and that voice speaks to me, telling me what to do. Then, I figure it out. How did you become a Fellow of the Global Good Fund in 2019? I was in the United States of America in 2015, and I attended a couple of events, one of which was the Global Good Funds conference. I realised that the platform was a good opportunity to improve one’s business and grow, so I ‘jumped’ at it. I actually applied twice. On the first occasion, I was not qualified. But, I applied again and got in. Many of the global opportunities I have got required purposefulness, and demanded that I continuously and vehemently push (myself). What were the highlights of your time as a Chevening scholar? It is one of the best experiences I have ever had. More than just the classes, I gained a lot from the relationships and network I was able to develop. Chevening gives one access to over 10,000 people from different industries, organisations and countries, so I had the opportunity to build networks and connect (with like-minded people). Indeed, it was a game-changing experience for me. Beyond Nigeria, what other countries do the activities of Utiva cover in Sub-Saharan Africa? Right now, we have students from 30 different countries, including Ghana, Cameroon, Kenya, Uganda, Botswana, Kenya and South Africa. Interestingly, we also have students from India, Pakistan, Canada, UK and US. We are quite a global organisation. Do you have plans to expand the company to other parts of Africa and the world? Absolutely. In the next two years, we plan to create content in other languages such as Swahili and French. Also, we would be having country managers in those different countries, so that we can really optimise for expansion in all those nations. How have you been able to combine work with family? One must understand that being an entrepreneur is a sacrifice. There is so much that one needs to do. I think people underestimate the level of work one needs to put into running a company. However, communication is the most important thing. One needs to be able to communicate effectively with one’s family members. Ultimately, we are doing all we do for our families. Family is very important to me and I don’t take them for granted at all. How often do you travel? I practically travel out of the country in every two months. I believe that the more global knowledge one acquires, the more insights one has into how the world is designed, the better one would be able to offer the world. I think one needs to travel to understand how the world works. It is not something one can experience through a movie. One needs to be out there. Even if one does not have the resources to travel, one does not have to go to Europe or North America. One could travel to a (neighbouring) country such as Ghana. What do you do for leisure? I really love to travel. I also love ‘hanging out’ with my friends, and I practically do that every Friday night with friends I have kept for over 15 years. What advice do you have for young people who want to become successful entrepreneurs? My biggest advice, especially from where I am now, is that success is replicable. It is not a myth. If you want to achieve success in a particular field, look for someone who has done it before and learn. Don’t live in isolation. If you want to build a company, look for someone who has done it before. If you want to raise funds, then look for someone who has been able to do that. More importantly, learning helps one to become successful. What’s the next big thing the world should expect from you? We are trying to go beyond training, and help employers across the continent hire the best talents in the technology space. You can think of it as a platform that does more than just connect talents to employers. Rather, we help employers to find talents. From your experience, what are the issues that hinder entrepreneurs from being successful? I think the biggest issue is the mindset. I don’t intend to sound overtly inspirational but everything starts and ends in the mind. Whatever barrier you are currently experiencing can be broken if you have a totally different mindset. Before starting my company, I could have said, ‘Nigeria is a very difficult place to run a business’. But, there are people running businesses here and they are doing well. I could have also said that it’s very difficult to raise money, but there are people who are raising money in excess. Focus your mind on your goal and you would achieve it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com