Leicester City forward Kelechi Iheanacho believes the Foxes are gradually building momentum at an important time ahead of Sunday’s trip to the Emirates, Saturday PUNCH reports. Iheanacho who was on target as Leicester City defeated French club Rennes 2-0 in the first leg of their UEFA Europa Conference League Round of 16 tie on Thursday believes the current FA Cup champions are stronger offensively and defensively. A belter from Marc Albrighton put the Foxes in front before Iheanacho added a second of the game in the third minute of injury time. The goal ended his five-game goal drought across all competition. Speaking ahead of his 160th EPL game, the Nigerian says Foxes win over Rennes will offer them more confidence heading into the league fixture. “I’m happy,” Iheanacho told LCFC TV. It’s been a while now, so I’m happy getting that goal and I’m getting my confidence up. It was a fantastic goal and it was great work from the team to get the goal. “Football is ups and downs, but you have to be patient for your time to come. When it comes, you have to take it, so that’s what I did. “This game (against Rennes) will get our confidence up going to Arsenal. “I think we’re strong now, defensively and offensively. So, we’ll continue like that and hopefully, the wins will come. Iheanacho has made 159 EPL appearances, scoring 35 goals since he made his debut in the English topflight division. Brendan Rodgers side will be aiming to record their third straight league win and five in a row in all competition against Arsenal who are unbeaten at home in their last three EPL games. Meanwhile, City remain without Jamie Vardy (knee), Jonny Evans (hamstring), Wesley Fofana (COVID-19), Timothy Castagne (thigh) and Ryan Bertrand (knee) for the game.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com