A medical doctor, Owen Edo-Ojo, is battling for his life after security agents suspected to be naval ratings stabbed him in the neck and shot his thigh and pelvis. The incident happened on Gbamgbala Street, Elegushi, in the Lekki area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that the doctor, who wanted to attend a spa session, parked his vehicle in front of a building when the ratings accosted him. An argument bordering on where Edo-Ojo parked his vehicle ensued and in the process, the naval personnel allegedly brutalised him. His mother, while lamenting the torture, made a video recording of her son writhing in pain on a hospital bed. She said, “The incident occurred on Saturday evening, around 7.30pm, on March 19, 2022. My son, who is a medical doctor, went to have a spa exercise and he parked in front of a building. A man came out in a mufti and he caught him knocking on his vehicle. He wound down and said what is it and the man said move the vehicle or I will move you. “He said you should have said it calmly, is that why you want to break the windscreen? The next thing, he said I will flog you and the Federal Government will give me thanks. He thought it was a joke, but the man and three other persons invaded where he parked, dragged him out of the car and started giving him the beating of his life.” The aggrieved mother noted that after her son managed to get the police involved, the ratings brought out a knife and stabbed him in the neck. She said the ratings then went on to shoot him in the thigh and pelvis, adding that a thorough investigation should be carried out to identify the assailants. The woman said, “He managed to go to a police station to invite the police to see what had happened, but one of them brought out a knife and stabbed his neck. The other one gave him a cut in the hand. Nigerian people, see what security (agents) has done. “The police came with him when he went to report at the police station. Lo and behold, the men came out with a gun and shot him in the thigh and pelvis. They bruised his mouth when he is not a criminal. Look at his face, how they beat him up. Look at his pelvis, one (bullet) has been removed, two are still inside him. Look at the (bullet) that was extracted from his thighs. “I want the government, the navy, army, and police to look into this matter and find out the man and how my son deserves this ill-treatment that has been meted out to him because he parked. He was not resisting them not to remove the car. People trying to exhibit the kind of power they have in society.” The video clip recorded by the aggrieved mother was reposted on an Instagram platform, Instablog9ja. The victim’s neck, thigh and pelvis were bandaged on the hospital bed. A picture showing two uniformed men suspected to be naval ratings was also attached to the post. The spokesperson for the Nigerian Navy in Lagos, Edward Yeibo, said the allegations would be investigated. He said, “I saw a clip where a lady was alleging that personnel stabbed her son. The Navy is responsible for a series of operations, especially if they concern internal security operations that have to do with the protection of lives and property. “The navy will make a thorough investigation and of course, if anybody is found wanting, the person would be punished accordingly.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, confirmed the incident, adding that the victim reported at the Illasan Police Division. He said, “It is true that he was shot and stabbed, but by the time the police got there, the suspects had fled.  We are investigating the case.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com