The absence of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, from the Federal High Court in Abuja, on Thursday, stalled hearing in a suit instituted against his office by the Nigerian Bar Association. Although Malami was served with the hearing notice in the suit marked FHC/ ABJ/ CS/ 77/2022, he neither appeared in court nor was represented by a legal practitioner, and no explanation was offered for his absence. Counsel for the NBA, Ibrahim Ameh, SAN, expressed displeasure over the absence of the AGF in court in the suit in which he is the sole defendant. Ameh informed Justice Donatus Okoronwo that the AGF had filed a memorandum of conditional appearance and counter affidavit to the originating summons of the NBA served on him and wondered why the defendant did not deem it fit to be in court. The senior lawyer, however, urged the court to give an adjournment for the defendant to have another opportunity to appear in court since the matter was for mention. Justice Okoronwo confirmed that the AGF was duly served with the hearing notice and originating summons and had even taken steps in filing the memorandum of appearance and counter-affidavit on record. He, however, granted the request for adjournment and fixed a new hearing date for May 12, 2022. Thursday’s proceedings were witnessed by the NBA President, Olumide Akpata, and a retinue of members of the bar from various units across the country. The Incorporated Trustees of the NBA had dragged the AGF before the court challenging the validity of the Rules of Professional Conduct for Legal Practitioners (Amendment) Rules, 2021 (S.I. No. 15 of 2020) enacted by the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation. The NBA, while faulting the rules as being unlawful, is praying the court to void and set it aside in the interest of justice and fairness to practicing lawyers in Nigeria. The association specifically asked the court to interpret sections 1, 11, 12 and 20 of the Legal Practitioners Act and determine whether the AGF, who is just a member of the bar, could act alone in the discharge of the functions of the NBA Council without the inputs or contributions of other members of the council or in consultation with them. The NBA also prayed the court to further interpret the sections of the Act and determine whether the AGF could validly and without any recourse to the general council of the bar or consultations with other members to amend, purport to amend, or to have amended the Rules of Professional Conduct for Legal Practitioners through the instrumentality of the Rules of Professional Conduct for legal practitioners dated September 3, 2020, and contained in Nigeria’s official gazette number 140, volume 107 of September 7, 2020. It would be recalled that Malami had in a gazette he issued and marked S.I N0.15 of 2020 made the Rules of Professional Conduct for Legal Practitioners (Amendment) Rules, 2020. The gazette read in part, “In exercise of the powers conferred on me by section 12(4) of the Legal Practitioners Act Cap L11, LFN 2004, and of all other powers enabling me in that behalf, I, Abubakar Malami (SAN), Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, and President, General Council of the Bar, make the following rules: “The Rules of Professional Conduct for Legal Practitioners 2007 is amended by deleting the following rules, namely: 9(2), 10, 11, 12, and 13. “These rules may be cited as the Rules of Professional Conduct for Legal Practitioners (Amendment) Rules, 2020.” Rule 9(2) relates to the default in payment of practicing fees, and rule 10 relates to the issue of stamp and seal for legal practitioners. While rule 11 relates to the mandatory continuing professional development, rule 12 relates to annual practicing certificate for legal practitioners. Also, rule 13 has to do with the obligation to give notice of the commencement of legal practice to the branch of NBA responsible for the jurisdiction in which the practice is located. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com