THE Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria has raised concern over the proliferation of fake drugs in the market. It emphasised that only tough punitive measures against quacks would tame the trend. The organisation also appealed to Nigerians to desist from patronising  unregistered pharmacists who disguised as patent medicine dealers, to sell adulterated drugs. The President of PSN, Prof. Cyril Usifoh, stated these in an interview with journalists at a two-day national executive officers retreat, which ended on Tuesday, and launching of the Leadership College of Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria with the theme, ‘Advancing solutions to the challenges of community pharmacist’. He said, “There is no profession that does not have quacks but there is a difference between a pharmacist and a quack. “And if you patronise a pharmacist and a quack, the difference will be clear. It is left for Nigerians to know who pharmacists are. But I must say with all forms of humility and sincerity that people who make money out of people because of the way they fake things or use adulterated drugs are not doing well for the country. A pharmacist will not do that. “A pharmacist will be compassionate and willing to listen to you. But people who are interested in making money by selling fake drugs that are unwholesome  should be fished out and appropriate action meted out on them. “In fact, if the Pharmacist Bill is signed into law, some of these things will be properly checked because when somebody knows that if he commits a crime and what he needs to pay according to the old law, which is less than a N1000 he will continue to commit the crime. “But when it goes through and the President assents to it, we will have more punitive measures for people who decides to contravene such laws.” Usifoh said that although there would, as always, be challenges, community pharmacy was the reference point for all pharmacists in Nigeria, adding, “it is the first place of call, even when somebody is sick you need to get community pharmacy before even getting to the clinic or hospital.” The Chairman, Board of Trustee of ACPN, Dr. Nelson Uwaga said pharmacists were working towards getting loan facilities from banks to purchase modern technology in order to better the practice. He said that members would integrate the distribution of drugs in order to track fake drugs. “Some of the things we are talking about are beyond the welfare of pharmacists, but we need more funds into making the practice more technically compliant. “We are also talking about how we can become more integrated in our practices and how we can tackle the issue of quackery and fake drugs in the system,” he added. The chairman, ACPN, Adewale Oladigbolu, said the organisation would open up community pharmaceutical  centres where citizens could be vaccinated for free. Oladigbolu stated that the gesture was to assist the government and simmer down the rate of COVID-19 infections. He, however, lamented that rural dwellers did not have enough information on vaccination, adding that ACPN would double its efforts in ensuring that the message gets to them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com