Nigeria is a country stranded in dereliction, sleepwalking from one avoidable tragedy to another, never learning any lessons. Last Monday’s blasting of rail lines and subsequent attacks meted to passengers on the Abuja-Kaduna route, the second in six months, is a story of incompetence, muddle and ineptitude. As in previous tragedies, official action begins after the horse has bolted from the stable and relations and friends are counting the dead and the wounded. The mishap, let us remember, was preceded by an attack on the International Airport at Kaduna in which close to 200 bandits reportedly stormed the venue leaving a security official dead. That event itself should have been an alarm bell to get security ready for what was to follow barely 48 hours later. It did not, giving the terrorists the leeway they needed for completing the murderous project they would have planned over a period of time. Reportedly, they came to the scene on motorbikes and buses with which they transported the captives to their dens.  Let us ask the question; after the first attack, which could have been predicted as I argued in Astonishing gaps in scenario planning (The Punch, Friday, October 29, 2021), what changes have been made in security planning between then and last Monday? After the event, the Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, informed us that his efforts at purchasing digital equipment for surveillance and protective cover were sabotaged by his colleagues. But with all due respect, is this not a familiar story of excuses for failure after a tragedy has occurred? Would it not have been more convincing if the minister, knowing that the stakes are high, had gone to the president to make a case or even leak to the press his frustrations so that a remedy could be sought? It is a cold comfort that, after a man has died, someone begins to say that he made efforts to save the man but some people frustrated those efforts. What we were told before this narrative is that security issues had been prioritised and that there is usually no delay when matters of life and death are involved. So, why was an exception made on an issue that could easily lead to mass deaths and injuries? There are more questions to ask such as why relative official silence apart from visits to the hospitals prevailed, especially concerning the many who were carted off to the bush by the terrorists? Apart from a consoling apology to the nation and relatives of the dead by the governors, not many officials or politicians have spoken up since the tragedy. Official activities, ceremonies and events go on as usual with several of them not exercising the conscience and courtesy to ask the audience to observe a minute’s silence to honour the dead. One of the dead is Dr. Chinelo Nwando, a medical doctor who worked at a hospital in Kakuri, Kaduna State. In her terminal throes, she had written on her Twitter handle, “I have been shot by the terrorists, please pray for me.” A little while later, she took her final breath, another sacrificial offering to a governance altar that has already consumed so many bright hopes and lives. It is important to bring human faces to the run of statistics, which tends to cover up or even dilute what has become a humanitarian tragedy in order to raise alert concerning officials and politicians who prefer to side step a nation’s running grief.  In the aftermath of the calamity, experts have come up with suggestions on how to protect those who are forced to commute by train because the roads have become highly dangerous for human and vehicular traffic. One of the suggestions is the purchase of predator drones, which have the capability not just to monitor but to do battle against intruders, used with remarkable success by the Americans in Afghanistan. That is a good suggestion. though, it is surprising that it took two disasters to learn such vital lessons. It should not be forgotten, however, that technology cannot completely replace human intelligence and agency. Recall that when the Nigeria Defense Academy was stormed by terrorists, we were informed that the CCTV cameras were easily disabled because those who manned them had fallen asleep at the time. True or not, this writer does not recall that sanctions had been meted out to those behind this and other woeful acts perpetrated by criminals and their accomplices. The obscene gaps between crime and punishment is one reason why terror grows wilder and defiant. This is so elementary that one wonders why a nation so besieged has not learnt it. It also raises the issue whether those who have the writ to punish crimes are in a sense complicit since they carry on usually as if the escalating toll in human deaths are non-events or can be simply disregarded. At this point, we should bring up the fact that an earlier reported list of sponsors of terrorists is yet to attract justice even as a legal activist, Femi Falana, SAN, shouts himself hoarse asking that something be done about the list. Going back to Monday’s tragedy, it took a while for the public to know exactly how many passengers were legally on the train. Even after the release of the manifest containing 342 names, speculations continued that the figure may have been higher leaving a window that some of those who masterminded the speculation may have found their way to the train in order to ensure a hitch-free operation. We cannot easily verify this claim but it should warn us that there are several loose ends in the war against insecurity which we must close if we are to win in the end. Everybody knows that security is porous regarding transportation vehicles, more porous than it ought to be for a nation so challenged. One other area of concern is the role of the communities that live in the stretch between Abuja and Kaduna. In earlier reflections on this matter, I have drawn attention to the issue of insurgent governance whereby disaffected communities hardly enjoying civilised amenities cooperate with terrorists and gleefully warehouse kidnappers. This is not peculiar to Nigeria but it underscores the failure of local governance in the midst of excruciating poverty in the land. It also strengthens the argument that state and community police should replace the overstretched and ill-equipped federal policing system which has served the nation so poorly. Unfortunately, the recent review of the 1999 Constitution appears not to have grappled with this vexing problem. If the war against terrorism is to rise above its current lamentable status, it must take on board various dimensions of the problem including why it is so easy for these criminals to take leisure walks around our communities, plan, strategises with no intelligence radar capturing their activities. Hopefully, the recent catastrophe should jerk us awake even as the terrorists are currently reportedly making calls to the families of the victims to get in touch with them for the purpose of paying ransom for their loved ones. What a dark night for this beloved country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com