The Lagos State Government has condemned the attack on its officials by thugs while on enforcement activities and removal of illegal constructions and shanties in Ajao Estate area of the state. The officials attacked were drawn from Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority and the Lagos State Building Control Agency. It was gathered that the officials had gone to remove the illegal construction at 1, Robinson Gbagi Street, Ajao Estate when they were attacked by thugs. Confirming the development, the LASPPPA General Manager, Tpl. Kehinde Osinaike, said the joint team of LASPPPA and LASBCA was attacked by “some thugs armed with guns, cudgels, cutlasses, and other dangerous weapons.” In a statement on Friday titled, ‘Lagos condemns attack on officials’, Osinaike added that the thugs stormed the area and started shooting at officials and in the process causing mayhem in the area. According to him, one of LASBCA operatives who was macheted on his head and shoulder had been rushed to the hospital while others who sustained various forms of injuries are presently receiving first aid. The general manager noted that prior to the removal, a stop-work order had been served on the site but rather than comply with government directives, the owner broke the seal and continued with his activities while planning a well-orchestrated attack on government officials who were only carrying out their lawful duties. He decried the incessant attacks on government officials on lawful assignments, warning that government would henceforth take decisive actions against perpetrators of such heinous acts. He urged residents to always cooperate with LASPPPA/LASBCA and other agencies in the built environment of Lagos state, as they were out to ensure a seamless development of the state through sustainable practices in building construction. He said, “developers and owners of properties should take heed and do the right thing by getting the necessary permits before starting building construction, failure to do this will attract the full wrath of the law as Government will continue to maintain zero tolerance for illegal, unauthorized and haphazard building construction in the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com