THE umbrella body of estates and communities from 1004 Estate to Epe, Lekki Estates Residents and Stakeholders Association, has appealed to businessman, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, to help provide transportation infrastructure in the area. According to a statement on Thursday, LERSA made this appeal in a letter to Dangote, signed by the President, Olorogun Emadoye, and Vice President, O. Ladega. The association expressed delight at the economic development in their area such as the Dangote Refinery, but noted that there was the need for transportation infrastructure to support the huge investments made by Dangote and other investors in the area. The letter read, “We at LERSA believe that the development of an alternative road and/or alternate mode of transportation such as rail is required to support the massive development and population explosion in the area. “The construction of the Lekki Coastal Road or the construction of a rail system from Epe to Marina are suggested options for reducing the impending disaster when the refinery commences work. We are optimistic that as a businessman, you will be able to decide on the best (Coastal Road or rail) option for your intervention. “We trust that you will use your connection and influence to work with the government to ensure that this urgently needed infrastructure is put in place. Over the last two years, the wave of investments has led to population explosion in the axis, a development that has had a negative impact on the Lekki/Epe Expressway, the only road to the axis.” LERSA added that traffic congestion in the Lekki axis has increased due to population growth. “Traffic congestion in and around the Lekki axis is at an all-time high due to the population growth and the single road for ingress/egress in the axis. Commuters plying this axis daily are currently experiencing wasted man-hours in traffic, making life a living hell for residents. “It is also instructive to note that the various projects, including the Dangote Refinery and the Lekki Deep Seaports, are coming into operation soon and we cannot imagine the disaster this would cause to commuters on this single road in this axis. We express our readiness to partner with Dangote Group and government agencies to ensure that the infrastructure is provided,” the letter added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com