The Senator representing Cross River North, Agom Jarigbe, has stated that contrary to the assertion of Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, the Peoples Democratic Party in Cross River is at peace and formidable, with the assistance of Governor Nyesom Wike. This is as he also urged Obaseki to leave out Cross River politics in his move to settle his differences with Wike. According to Jarigbe, if Obaseki is referring to the defection of Governor Ayade, as the ‘destruction’ of the PDP in Cross River State, then we totally disagree with him. It is rather seen as good riddance to bad rubbish. In a statement made available to journalists on Monday, the lawmaker said, “At some point, Governor Ayade became an albatross in our party, and when he left, there was jubilation. In fact, if Ayade left the PDP because of Wike, a fellow governor, then it is testamentary to how clearly handicapped Ayade was in the context of being influential and committed to the party. “While Governor Wike supports PDP states that do not have governors, financially, physically and otherwise, Governors like Obaseki are complacent, laidback and not forthcoming with any support for the party in states, like ours. “Please, Governor Obaseki should leave Cross River State PDP out of the hullabaloo he created in the Edo PDP. Cross River State PDP is together and does not need the membership of any governor, who has performed abysmally. We do not want a baggage.” He added, “The issue with all of us is that, when Governor Wike goes out of his way to support our states, we see him as a good man; but whenever his interest conflicts with ours, he becomes a terrible man. That is the paradox of life. I wonder if politics is no longer a game of interest. This constant demonisation of Governor Wike because of his interests is puerile. “Be assured that Cross River PDP is stronger and better than when we had the Governor and let us all learn to reciprocate support. When Governor Wike comes to support our states, we go on our knees in gratitude and when we win, he becomes a bad man. Very unfortunate.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com