No fewer than 1,945 landowners in Gombe have received provisional clearance in the ongoing verification and re-certification exercise. Announcing this development in a media briefing on Thursday, Chairman of Project Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Team Professor Namala Keftin, said that the committee achieved this within seven-week since its inauguration. Keftin explained that the verification and the clearance was informed by Governor Muhammadu Yahaya’s desire to transform the state, clarifying that its exercise would not take ownership of citizens’ lands. According to him, seven weeks today into the exercise, we have successfully issued 1,945 provisional clearance as follows; GDP 16- 958 representing 81 percent of the projected numbers, GDP 16A- 181 representing 67 percent of the projected numbers, GDP 16B- 82 representing 55 percent of the projected numbers. “Others are; GDP 4- 115 representing 46 percent, GDP 4A- 6 representing 6.3 percent, GDP 5- 198 representing 32 percent, and GDP 12- 402 representing 38 percent of the projected numbers in the audited report,” he added. The chairman also disclosed that, following it, due diligence multiple allocations were discovered and resolved amicably, stressing the team had created window for those who missed the exercise. He said, “20 unresolved cases in GDP 16, four unresolved cases in GDP 16A, seven unresolved cases in GDP 16B, and two unresolved cases in GDP 5. “The exercise established a total of 106 title plots that fell into Federal Teaching Hospital/ Medical College premises, that has been well documented and we will do the needful. We also discovered a gross error where a block, where maternity was domesticated and an adjacent one in the TPO containing 47 other valid plots disappeared in the survey plan we were given.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com