Nigerian Exchange Group of Companies and the Minister of Women Affairs have said they are exploring partnerships on gender equality. They spoke during a virtual event, when the NGX joined over 100 securities exchanges across the world to celebrate the 2022 International Women’s Day and rang the bell for gender equality in collaboration with the International Finance Corporation, Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative, United Nations Women, United Nations Global Compact and World Federation of Exchanges on Tuesday. The event with the theme, ‘Break the bias: Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow’ had in attendance the Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, and Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Amb. Mariam Katagum. In his opening remarks, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Exchange Group Plc, Mr Oscar Onyema, said, “The global finance industry has a critical role to play in achieving gender equality. “As the world clamours for increased reallocation of finance to address the Sustainable Development Goals, climate change and other pressing issues, there is a pressing need for stakeholders to reconsider the role of finance in addressing gender issues. “If promoting gender issues was conceived as a business opportunity or a transaction, favourable policies would need to be implemented to enable investors recoup their investments. “At NGX Group of Companies, we remain committed to playing our part by implementing various initiatives aimed at promoting gender diversity and empowering women.” Tallen expressed the willingness of the Ministry of Women Affairs to collaborate with NGX to promote gender equality. She said, “Partnerships is at the heart of our intervention philosophy at the Ministry of Women Affairs. “We welcome innovative initiatives that can create a future where women are economically empowered as business leaders and entrepreneurs and take on leadership positions in all spheres of endeavour.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com