A leading research and consultancy group, Wood Mackenzie, says the Seplat and ExxonMobil deal offers huge upside for oil as well as gas. Seplat Energy Plc had on February 25 announced an agreement to acquire the entire share capital of Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited, a subsidiary of ExxonMobil. However, Wood Mackenzie said in a recent insight that in the energy transition era, both ExxonMobil and Seplat would be pleased with the deal, adding that the deal offers huge upside for oil as well as gas. According to the research firm, due to the fact that the deal is a corporate acquisition, the NNPC have no rights to pre-empt a deal under the Joint Operating Agreement, which governs the JV, noting that ministerial consent would be the only hurdle remaining. Mackenzie, however, warned that nothing could be taken for granted. MPNU has a 40 per cent operated interest in a Joint Venture with the NNPC (60 per cent). The JV includes OMLs 67, 68, 70, 104, the Qua Iboe oil export terminal. MPNU also has a 51 per cent interest in the Bonny River NGL Recovery project. Seplat has agreed to pay $1,283 million plus a contingent consideration of up to $300m. Seplat’s debt financing of $825m is fully committed by a syndicate of Nigerian and African banks, and energy and commodity traders. It states in part, “If it completes, the deal will be transformational for Seplat Energy. It is already the leading indigenous company in Nigeria, but this will triple its working interest production to over 140,000 boe/d. In total, Seplat will operate 15 percent of Nigerian oil production.” It added, “There is also possible upside from the Petroleum Industry Act fiscal terms. Our analysis shows the JV portfolio would more than double in value if Seplat converts. However, this is far from certain, since it would have to relinquish up to 60 percent of its acreage and much of the resource it has just acquired. A thorough review of its now extensive portfolio to identify the most advantaged barrels will be an urgent priority. The deadline for converting to the new fiscal terms is February 2023,” it added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com