The Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, has called for unity of all caucuses in the All Progressives Congress for the overall interest of all. The former governor of Abia State said this amid the leadership crisis rocking the Caretaker/Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee of the party. The Governor of Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello, had on Monday declared himself as the Chairman of the APC-CECPC in acting capacity. However, a letter he wrote to the Independent National Electoral Commission concerning the APC’s national convention was rejected by the electoral body on the grounds that it was not coming from the Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, whom the Commission recognised as the APC-CECPC chairman. Orji Kalu, in a post on his verified Facebook page, said the APC must avoid selective leadership, nepotism, arrogance and disregard for the rule of law. “I am appealing to the various caucuses of our great party, the All Progressives Congress, APC, to unite and harmonize for the overall interest of all. “It is imperative that we put the interest of our great party ahead of our individual interests for the good of Nigerians even after the 2023 general elections. “Therefore, I’m calling on those in charge of the party’s leadership to carry every caucus along in the affairs of the party. “Selective leadership, nepotism, arrogance and disregard for the rule of law should be avoided to save our party. “The leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari as the leader of the party is Supreme. The Senate President, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Serving Governors, Former Governors, Serving and Ex-Ministers, Serving and Former members of National Assembly and other leaders of the party must rise to the occasion and defend the unity of the party,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com