Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has kicked off the construction of a network of roads in Garo town and neighbouring communities of Kabo Local Government Area of the state. This is contained in a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Abba Anwar, and issued to newsmen in Kano on Sunday. Ganduje was represented by the Commissioner for Local Governments and Chieftaincy Affairs, Murtala Garo, and supported by the Commissioner of Works and Infrastructure Development, Eng. Idris Wada, at the ground-breaking ceremony on Saturday. Garo assured that the Ganduje administration would work round the clock to improve rural infrastructural development. “There is an 18km road from Kanye-Kabo-Dugabau, which crosses eight Wards out of the ten Wards of Kabo Local Government. The project started in 2018 and was abandoned halfway. “But the contract was revoked after construction of 9km. It was re-awarded, for the completion of the remaining 9km. The total cost of the contract is N1.6 billion. “There is also another road construction within Kabo town, which cumulatively stands at 3.9km, at the total cost of over N800 million. He said when completed, would facilitate the movement of citizens and farm produce from rural towns and communities to major markets across the state. “Experts believe that the project, when completed, would immensely assist movement of farm produce among the communities, apart from easing the movement of individuals without any hitches. “This project, like similar projects across so many rural communities in the state, faults unsubstantiated claims by some people that, rural communities are abandoned in the infrastructural development of this administration as similar projects could also be sighted elsewhere,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com