A former Governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, has bemoaned the rising insecurity in the country, particularly the North West, where the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) hails from. He said it was regrettable that insecurity in the zone has lingered and worsened under Buhari’s watch. Makarfi stated this while commissioning the 2.4km long Ahoada-Ekpena road project in the Ahoada East Local Government Area of River State, on Thursday. While commending Governor Nyesom Wike for the level of security achieved in the state, Makarfi said that the Peoples Democratic Party needs to return to power at the federal level to ensure safety of lives of all Nigerians. “You mentioned issues of security, you are largely secured here compared to where I come from. Of course, it’s not the PDP governing there. “We are not all secured all over the zone, which is the North-West zone. We are largely insecure and we have a president from that zone. It is regrettable. “Therefore, the only way out is for the PDP to come back to power, and we shall come back to power by the grace of God,” he stated. Makarfi acknowledged that the development pattern adopted by Governor Wike was balanced, spreading across rural communities and cities, saying it was what Nigeria needed to experience to move it forward. “The pace of project execution and commissioning in Rivers State is unprecedented in any state in this country. “The kind of development going on here is a balanced development. You see development in the cities, you see development in rural areas. “Development in all areas of infrastructure and social services, be they roads, schools, hospitals and social programmes. “That is what we need in each state. That is what we need in this country. We need balance development that will take Nigeria forward.” In his remarks, the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, said the PDP has the capacity to reverse the suffering inflicted on Nigerians by the rudderless administration of the ruling APC. Wike pointed out that it was maladministration that has cost the APC gross failure, which has increased the sufferings of Nigerians because they are lost on ideas and lack leadership audacity. Wike assured that the PDP remains the only hope for Nigerians, because it has the magic wand to change the current sufferings they experience. “You have seen the failure of the APC-led Federal Government. They make promises upon promises, but what we are getting is failure upon failure. “So, all of us must brace up to say this suffering that God has helped us to survive, we cannot allow it to continue. “The mere fact that God has made us to survive it does not mean that you’ll continue to suffer that way. PDP has the magic wand to change the failure of this APC led government at the federal level,” he said. He insisted that with the non-performance of the APC, Nigerians are now a better judge to know the difference between the PDP and the APC. He asserted that the PDP remains the only party that can bring about a positive change across the country, saying the appropriate time for Nigerians to brace up to end the suffering is in 2023 to vote out the ‘bad government.’ “Continue to have faith in the PDP. It is the only party that has hope for Nigerians. You have tried another party at the national level and it has failed you. “The time has come that Nigerians must brace up and say look, we cannot continue with this. You have come out in your large number today to receive us for this commissioning. “You can’t complete this without also mobilising yourselves in 2023 to make sure that you vote out bad government,” Wike added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com