OYO State Governor, Seyi Makinde, on Thursday, declared that his administration is embarking on massive delivery of road infrastructure across the state to expand the economy of the state and to stem the migration of people in the rural areas to the urban centres. The governor said this on Thursday at the Asipa Junction, behind the Palace of the Alaafin of Oyo, in Atiba Local Government, Oyo Town,  shortly before the inauguration of the 5.25 kilometres Gedu-Oroki-Sabo-Asipa Road. This was contained in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Taiwo Adisa. The governor was joined by his Bauchi State counterpart, Bala Mohammed, to inaugurate the road project. The Bauchi governor said, “I congratulate the people of Oyo State for electing a man who is showing that Oyo State is the centre of civilisation. He has become the centre-point of our reference point as governors, as he came into governance with a plan. He is using the available resources to improve the quality of life of the people. “I could not wait to come to Oyo, because we had been hearing and seeing what the governor is doing. In terms of infrastructure and poverty alleviation, why were they not done before? Where is the money now coming from? These are the questions the new generation of Nigerians should be asking.” Makinde said he was happy because of the reactions of the people of the state to the projects which his administration had been delivering. He said, “Very soon, in fact, in the next two months, we will be counting three years in office. And we will be presenting our scorecard. The good thing is that our scorecard is not hidden. In road construction alone, we have over 550 kilometres of roads, both completed and ongoing. “We have successfully laid the proper foundation for engineering a modern Oyo State. As we have said repeatedly, we believe that anywhere that roads go, development follows.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com