The National Youth Service Corps has reviewed its Memorandum of Understanding with the Independent National Electoral Commission for a more robust welfare package and enhanced security for corps members and NYSC officials during elections. NYSC Director-General, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, during the signing of the reviewed MoU at the INEC headquarters in Abuja, on Tuesday, said the involvement of corps members in the country’s electoral process has brought more credibility to the electoral process. He promised that the Scheme would continue to sustain the relationship with INEC, adding that corps members are always willing to contribute their quota to the overall development of the country, especially in the enthronement of credible elections. “I want to urge INEC that we will continue to sustain the relationship. I can assure you that corps members are willing, patriotic and ready to put in their best in the service of the country,” he said. The INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, in his remarks said Nigeria is fortunate to have a Scheme called NYSC, adding that the Scheme’s participation in previous elections in different states across the country was commendable. “I cannot imagine the conduct of credible elections happening in Nigeria without the NYSC. Youth Corps members are among the most educated, most committed, most patriotic and the most readily available election-duty staff in Nigeria,” INEC Chairman said. Mahmood said the reviewed Memorandum of Understanding has identified eleven obligations on the part of INEC and ten obligations on the part of the NYSC. The INEC boss promised to make security and welfare of corps members on election duty top priority. He added that the MoU also provides insurance for all ad-hoc staff under the INEC Personnel Electoral Hazard Policy during election. “This covers injury, permanent disability, loss of life or property; or any person declared missing in the course of carrying out the commission’s assigned duties. “I want to assure you that we will continue to take our obligations with our youths very seriously. I want to thank you for standing by Nigeria and the electoral process, for standing by credible elections and standing by our democracy,” Mahmood said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com