A coalition of civil society organisations on Wednesday protested against the call for the removal of the Head of Service of the Federation, Folasade Yemi-Esan, describing it as mere distraction. The coalition led by the Civil Society Forum of Nigeria and eleven other groups described those behind the “frivolous campaign” as mischief makers that should not be taken seriously. The PUNCH reported that the HOCSF had come under criticism over allegations of gross misconduct, retrogressive tendencies and alleged moves to frustrate recruitment into federal tertiary institutions and other government departments and agencies. But the spokesperson of the CSFoN, Adeniran Taiwo, at a press conference in Abuja, said the demand for removal of the Yemi -Esan is an attempt to jeopardise the current reforms in the civil service initiated by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). He maintained that the federal civil service under the current leadership had witnessed many remarkable achievements. Taiwo said, “Most prominent among these is the great work being done to transform the service from a paper-based system of administration to one that is driven by technology. “We also acknowledge the work done by the Administration on the upward review of Duty Tour Allowances which is benefiting all civil servants and by extension their families and Nigerians. This is in addition to the implementation of Insurance cover for Public Servants through the Federal Government Group Life Assurance scheme for the years 2021-2022 and also the introduction of Performance Management System in the civil service. “The administration has also taken bold steps in ensuring that it is not business as usual for ghost workers because a lot of work has been done to sanitize the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System, and to flush them out of the system because of their activities which have eaten deep into the national treasury.” Taiwo alleged that those seeking the removal of the HoS were sponsored by anti-change proponents within and outside the civil service who he said were “no longer able to benefit from the formerly weak and compromised structures within the service.” “As a result, and in a very desperate attempt to destabilize the laudable milestones recorded by the Buhari administration in the public sector, the miscreants cook-up and peddle lies and all manner of falsehood to bring the office of the HoS to disrepute. “This is highly unprofessional and we also use this medium to caution the group and their sponsors to repent from their baseless and self-serving activities which are tantamount to sabotage”, he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com