Although crypto had a slow start, it has progressively evolved to become acknowledged as a means of exchange. Unlike in the past, crypto payments are now accepted by businesses, particularly online brands and eCommerce websites. Big brands like Microsoft and Tesla accept Bitcoin payments for their products. Even recently, El Salvador, a Central American republic, has made Bitcoin legal tender. This isn’t surprising as the crypto community is increasing and interestingly, holders want to be able to shop with crypto and not just save it. According to a survey, 93% of cryptocurrency owners want to use their coins to make online transactions. Fifty-nine percent of non-crypto owners stated a willingness to use crypto to make online purchases. Also,60% of cryptocurrency owners choose crypto as a payment method because of privacy and security. As a business owner, adding cryptocurrency to your payment options expands your business’s potential market to nearly 200 million people. However, integrating crypto payments into your business requires an efficient crypto payment gateway to complete transactions. You’re probably wondering where to go for a reliable crypto payment solution for your business. You should use the Remitano Payment Gateway rather than going on a voyage of discovery. The Remitano Payment Gateway is a cryptocurrency payment system suitable for all types of businesses. Please keep reading to learn more about the gateway and how to integrate it into your business.  The Remitano Payment Gateway is a simple and efficient crypto-payment solution that allows customers to pay for goods and services using their preferred coins. It offers a cryptocurrency-based alternative to traditional payment methods. With Remitano Payment Gateway, consumers can make purchases without converting their cryptocurrency to fiat currency. They make purchases and payments with their coins at no extra charge. The Remitano Crypto Payment Gateway allows merchants to accept cryptocurrency payments smoothly. It is also a safe, fast and scalable payment method that eases transactional burdens and difficulties. Remitano Pay was designed to manage the intricacies of crypto payments in real-time, including price movements, storage mediums, speed, and scalability. Here are important reasons why you should integrate the Remitano payment gateway today 0% Transaction fee Remitano Pay has a zero percent transaction charge policy for all your customers. With this method, users can make payments for goods and services without incurring additional or processing fees. Instant coin deposits With Remitano pay, your customers can instantly deposit their crypto to complete transactions in just seconds. You receive every payment immediately after it is completed; no stories! 24/7 online support for all merchants and customers One of our core values is ensuring adequate customer satisfaction both for you as a merchant and your customers. So if you ever experience any difficulty or have questions at any time, we are just a message away. Receive your payment in stablecoin (USDT) We recognize that the cryptocurrency market can be extremely volatile, resulting in temporary losses. We care about the long-term viability of your business. Thus, we’re willing to pay you in USDT, a stable coin that is immune to price volatility. Take advantage of discount programs and bonuses By integrating Remitano Pay, you will be eligible to participate in our discount and bonus programs offered regularly. Your customers also stand a chance to qualify for discounts and incentives whenever we open such windows. Get listed on our Merchant Directory and boost your visibility and revenue With Remitano pay, you will get listed on our merchant directory, which exposes you to our crypto community of more than 3 million users. Your brand and product will be on the directory, and users can make purchases with crypto, review your services or visit your website directly. (Remitano is currently seeking gift card merchants in Nigeria to join our growing merchant directory). We believe that this is an opportunity for your business to increase online revenue from crypto customers worldwide without cost! .  The Remitano Merchant Directory is a one-stop shop for almost all cryptocurrency-based purchases. The list features a diverse range of products and crypto-accepting eCommerce sites. The good news is that the directory isn’t static; new items and vendors are added regularly. Being featured in the merchant directory allows you to reach out to a massive crypto user community of over 3 million people. Users can also make payments in Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum, Binance Coin, and Ripple, among other cryptocurrencies. Below are the steps required before you can integrate Remitano pay into your business and start accepting crypto payments. To use the Remitano payment gateway, you must first register as a merchant. Click here to create your merchant account. Fill out the form with your correct information and click the “Register” button. Please don’t hesitate to leave a message to help us better understand your business and accept your request faster. Your information will be assessed within 1 to 3 business days, and the outcome will be communicated to you via email. If your request has been denied, please follow the instructions in the email or contact us for more information.  You may also explore our merchant page, which contains a full list of products listed and all businesses currently registered and using Remitano pay to reach new markets, create trust, and serve users who want to shop with crypto. After you have successfully registered as a merchant, follow the ensuing instructions to start accepting crypto payments. The best time to integrate a crypto payment gateway into your business was in the past; the second-best time is now. If you are going to build a global brand that is people-centric, then implementing crypto payments is non-negotiable. Visit the Remitano website now to integrate an efficient crypto gateway.