The agitation for the creation of more homogeneous Ijaw states was renewed in Bayelsa State on Saturday as some Ijaw leaders rekindled the advocacy for additional two states for the Ijaw nation. They spoke at the 25th remembrance anniversary of one of the founding fathers of Bayelsa and monarch of Kolokuma, late King Geoffrey Aganaba, which was organised in Yenagoa. Former President Goodluck Jonathan, Governor Douye Diri, and an ex-military administrator of old Rivers State and monarch of Twon-Brass, Alfred Diette Spiff were among other prominent leaders that celebrated Aganaba at the event. Speaking, Diri called for the creation of two additional homogeneous Ijaw states, arguing that the Ijaw ethnic nationality deserved more than one state in the Nigerian federation. He recalled that the founding fathers had requested three states before the military junta of the late dictator, General Sani Abacha, created only Bayelsa. The governor described the Ijaw as the fourth largest ethnic nationality in the country, and lauded Aganaba for his contributions in the creation of Bayelsa, saying that it was not the end of the clamour for more Ijaw states. While paying tribute to Aganaba for his sacrifices for Ijaw people, Diri said, “The creation of Bayelsa State is not the end of it; it is indeed the beginning of it. “We still have other two states that we proposed that have not been created and we must make that clear to the Nigerian government that the Ijaws are still craving for the creation of two additional homogenous Ijaw states.” “Today, most of us; governors, past and including myself serving, permanent secretaries, heads of service, speakers of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, members of the state House of Assembly, commissioners are all enjoying the sweats of people like Geoffery Filinti Aganaba. We cannot but honour and recognise our heroes past”. He said his government established the policy of recognising and honouring Ijaw heroes saying it was the reason he named the Bayelsa Media Complex after the great Ernest Ikoli. In his remarks, Jonathan, who was represented by a former Deputy Governor of Bayelsa, Rear Admiral John Jonah (retd), appealed to Ijaw people to rally around one another, describing Aganaba as “a man with an exemplary lifestyle.” He noted that succeeding generations would judge the efforts of present leaders with standards far higher than what is currently obtainable. The former president said, “All of us have a duty to this state to ensure that this state get to a point that succeeding generations will come and judge us with standards far higher than what we have now. Things are changing, it is a computer age; they will scrutinize us. But if they do that, can you stand out? He, Aganaba, has actually passed that test”. On his part, Diete-Spiff, who was represented by the monarch of Ekpetiama Kingdom, Bubaraye Dakolo, said that Aganaba worked very hard for the creation of Bayelsa. He further said, “The late Aganaba was born at a time when it was difficult to go to school when he took 28 days to get to Lagos by canoe and then later when he took three days to get to Lagos by engine boat. In spite of all these odds, he was able to make it to primary school, secondary school, and the university.” Also speaking, the Chairman of Rivers State Traditional Rulers Council and monarch of Opobo Kingdom, Dandeson Douglas Jaja, said the name Aganaba signified a man who came into the world to liberate his people. He observed that Bayelsa had been at the forefront of celebrating and recognising those who contributed to and fought for its creation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com