The Director General of the National Youth Service Corps, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, has charged the over 2,000 corps members deployed to Akwa Ibom State to demonstrate high level of discipline throughout their service year. He also charged them to always promote ideals that would enhance national unity and not to spread hatred using social media platforms. Ibrahim gave the advice during the swearing-in ceremony of 2022 Batch ‘A’ Stream 2 Corps members at the NYSC Orientation camp, Ikot Itie Udung, Nsit Atai LGA, on Wednesday. Represented by the Akwa Ibom State Coordinator, Mrs Chinyere Ekwe, the DG urged the corps members to demonstrate high level of discipline, adding that the regimented nature of the camp was intended to instil discipline and build resilience. “I implore you to sustain the high level of discipline and enthusiasm you have demonstrated so far, especially by remaining compliant with the camp rules and regulations. You must continue to distance yourselves from cultism, drug abuse and other social vices. “I also urge you to avoid using the social media for spreading fake news, fuelling of hatred and other negative purposes, and instead deploy same for the promotion of national unity and development. “You are strongly advised to be security conscious at all times, and to report any suspicious characters or activities around you to the appropriate authorities,” Ibrahim said. He urged the corps members to avail themselves of the opportunities for self-employment offered through the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Programme during the orientation exercise. While enjoining the corps members to avail themselves of this once-in-a-life-time opportunity by participating actively in all camp activities, the DG commended the House of Representatives for the progress made so far in the legislative processes on the Bill for the establishment of the NYSC Trust Fund. He added that the Bill when passed into law would boost the skills and entrepreneurship development programme aimed at empowering corps members for self-employment and wealth creation. Highpoint of the event was the administration of oath of allegiance on the corps members by the Chief Judge of Akwa Ibom State, Justice Ekaette Obot, who was represented by Justice Ntong Ntong. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com