A former Governor of Borno State, Senator Kassim Shettima, has decried the lack of Federal Government’s presence in Chibok, Gwoza and other communities ravaged by Boko Haram insurgency in the state, noting that N12bn should be allocated to them annually for their rehabilitation. Shettima, who is representing Borno Central Senatorial District, noted that Damboa/Gwoza/Chibok and Askira-Uba/Hawul Federal Constituencies do not have any federal presence. The ex-governor said this in Abuja on Wednesday at the public hearing organised by the House of Representatives’ Committee on Health Institutions on 10 bills seeking to establish new health institutions across the country. Shettima had backed the bills to establish a Federal College of Nursing, Midwifery and Health Science in Chibok and a Federal Medical Centre in Gwoza, both in Borno State. He said, “To the people of Gwoza, Damboa, Chibok, poverty is not a subject of philosophical dispute but the reality of everyday life. The people are conditioned in the furnace of poverty and destitution.  There is an incestuous relationship between economy and ecology that gave rise to the insecurity that has ravaged the North Eastern part of Nigeria. “Gwoza and Chibok are by-words for disaster. Chibok is about the most famous community in Borno State.  We have the moral obligation to make the people have a sense of belonging. There is a need for federal presence in these two communities of Gwoza and Chibok. “They are in the heart of what is called the Sambisa Forest. They do not have any medical facilities. For these communities, there is some sort of time capsule, trapped by insecurity, destitution and hopelessness. So, we have a moral obligation to give hope to the people.” According to the lawmaker, the beauty of establishing such facilities is that the multiplier effect is unquantifiable. He noted that apart from creating employment opportunities for the local people, “the infusion of N2bn to N3bn every quarter into the local economy would have a quantum leap in the purchase of the people.” Shettima added, “New cottage industries would flourish. Before you know it, the depressed economy of those localities would start prospering.” Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, who declared the hearing open, noted that present 9th House of Representatives, at its inception in 2019, set out for itself a Legislative Agenda whose implementation “will surely bring about a tremendous improvement in the living condition/standard of our citizenry.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com