The Federal Government of Nigeria has been accorded the African Road Safety Award, for its meritorious service toward ensuring the overall safety of lives and property on the Nigerian roads. This was disclosed in a statement by the Corps Public Education Officer, ACM Bisi Kazeem, made available to journalists on Friday in Abuja. Kazeem lauded the FG’s commitment to excellence in the implementation of the African Road Safety Action Plan. The maiden edition of the award was organised in recognition and honour of five African countries that have made astounding contributions towards the effective implementation of the United Nations Decade African Road Safety Action Plan between 2011 and 2020. The five countries included Nigeria, South Africa, Morocco, Namibia and Ghana. While Nigeria bagged the Excellence in Road Safety Management award, Ghana earned the award of Excellence in the Implementation of the African Road Safety Action Plan. Also, South Africa was graced with the award of Leadership in Mobilising Resources for Road Safety; Morocco won Leadership in Road Safety Data Management award, while the Leadership in the Ratification of the Africa Road Safety Charter award went to Namibia. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi had received the Nigerian award on behalf of the FG. The President of Ghana, Nana Akufo-Addo, who was one of the eminent attendees of the award ceremony, had likened road traffic crashes to global pandemic and public health issues, which must be holistically and surgically addressed. Other distinguished guests at the event included the Permanent-Secretary, General Services, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, not excluding the amiable Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Commission, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi. The visibly delighted corps marshal commended President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, on the improved state of affairs of the road safety service institution in Nigeria. “I must applaud Mr President for his unflinching support to the FRSC through the provision of basic operational and rescue tools, since the inception of his administration. “This support has immensely impacted on the operations of the Corps and we are glad to be recognised, not only nationally, but also within the African sub region,” Oyeyemi extolled. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com