With a Cumulative Grade Point Average of 4.9, 21-year-old Ekenedilichukwu Okonkwo finished with first class honours from the Department of Accounting, Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State, and was also named the best graduating student in his 2019/2020 set. He speaks with GODFREY GEORGE about the feat How exactly do you feel finishing with first class honours and being named best graduating student in your class? To be very honest, I always knew I was going to finish with first class honours and even be the best graduating student in my department. I even aimed as far as becoming the best graduating student in my college and in the school at large. I had done really well in my secondary school –  Air Force Secondary School, Ikeja –  where I was the Senior Prefect and also the best graduating student during my time. So, coming into the university, I had the goal of not only finishing with first class honours but also finishing as the best student in my department. What was growing up like for you? Growing up for me was really different from the experience of a lot of people my age. I was quite shy and introverted. Being the first child in an Igbo family is really a lot to handle and then being the first son also has to be a lot of work. I was reminded every day that I had a lot ahead of me and my siblings and everyone around depended on me. My most remarkable childhood experience was sneaking out to go play football with my friends when my mum had instructed that I stay indoors. I really loved playing sports and my mum didn’t understand that back then, so I had to do what I had to do. Would you say your academic excellence is somewhat something you got from your parents? I wouldn’t say I got it from my parents because they weren’t as privileged as I am to go to school and my mum who barely managed to finish primary school couldn’t go any further. My parents had to do their very best to put us in good schools so we could attain heights they weren’t able to reach. So, yes, I can say my academic excellence is somewhat something I got from my parents; they are hard-working pacesetters, excellent-minded and whatnot. Their childhood stories and knowing where they came from made me more focused and determined to do something great with my life. How would you describe your parents? My parents are beautiful people. I am really grateful for all they have done for me and my siblings and all they continue to do. My dad is the strongest arm of the family – a mentor, a businessman and one of the smartest people I know. My mum is a queen, kind-hearted, sweet and full of love. They both helped greatly to shape me into the man I am becoming today. How did your childhood prepare you for the task ahead? My childhood sort of spurred me to aspire for greatness. I knew a lot of people depended on me and were looking up to me. I knew I had to make it at every step of the way. I knew I wasn’t built for nothing and I am very well made for something great. So, that sort of inspired me a lot. My parents allowed me to start making a lot of decisions early enough. I picked my secondary school, university, clothes to wear, food to eat etc., all at an early age; so, that sort of made me understand that I am absolutely responsible for the outcome of my life and I needed to make decisions that will not just make my life better but also better the lives of the people around me. What was it like schooling in a religious university? Schooling in a religious university becomes normal if you actually practise your religion and do as is expected of you. It was really a good experience for me if I am being honest. The ‘God factor’ that was constantly instilled in us has steadily been manifesting in my life. It was definitely not so easy a lot of times because some activities in school were compulsory most of the time and with the workload of my course, I needed a lot more time to put into work; but aside that, the experience was beautiful. Were there things you must not be found doing? I think everyone knows what and what not is allowed in Covenant University. So, in school, we weren’t allowed to make use of mobile phones, for example, and at some point it was needed because the Wi-Fi in school sometimes became slow and for a final year student I needed proper Internet connection for my research project. But there were definitely places with better and faster Internet connection so I would use the connection there for my project. Majority of the rules set were properly thought through and even the ones that kind of sound strange were as a result of how students mismanaged them. Did this affect you in any way? Well, sometimes some of the rules affected me but with time, you get used to them. With my phone example, I mean it would have been easier if I had a phone for my final year project but then, I did make do with what I had and I graduated in grand style. I scaled through by believing that these rules weren’t to harm me but to build and mould and also instil the core values into me. Why did you choose Covenant University and why Accounting? I never wanted to try out any public university not because of any other reason but because of the number of years it takes to finish studying the course in these universities. Four years often turns out to be five to seven years and that really discouraged me. I had to then search for the best private university in Nigeria and Covenant University met the criteria. I have also really loved Accounting from my senior secondary school days. I had a favourite teacher back then that really picked interest in my studies and he motivated me a lot and I saw myself doing way better than my mates in the course. Were you influenced by your parents at any point to choose this career path? My parents were always supportive of my decisions and picking a career path was also not a problem. When I told them, I wanted to study accounting, it was a funny experience because their idea of that was that I was going to be sitting behind a desktop computer in a bank, attending to people. I had to explain to them all the opportunities open to a financial accountant, so they were happy as far as I was happy. What was your most challenging moment in school? My most challenging moment was when I had to juggle all other activities and engagements in school with my academic work. I took up so many leadership positions and also participated in several sporting and extracurricular events while in school. It wasn’t so easy but it was a learning stage for me. What were some leadership positions you took up in school? I was a student leader in the Student Council where I was the Head of Residency. I also was the President of the Nigerian University Accounting Students Association. I was also the vice coach for the athletics team. I held all these in my final year. While in my 300 level, I was the Assistant Financial Director for the Nigerian Universities Accounting Students Association. Was there a time you ever felt like giving up on your first class goal while in the university? Well, there were really tiring times as it wasn’t all rosy. Sometimes, I fell ill, cried and whatnot. But I definitely always prayed and got myself up. I was motivated easily and I knew it was all a step to attain my goal. I was reminded that tough times never last but only tough people do. What motivated you to keep going even after all that? My biggest motivation has always been my family, especially my parents. Considering the fact that they never had the opportunity to see the four walls of a university and they really wanted all their children to do exceedingly well. I had to always remind myself that I have people depending on me and that always pushed me to get up and work even harder. You are quite young. Do you see this as a disadvantage? Honestly, I don’t see myself as young because really there is nothing new under the sun. No matter the feat I have been able to attain during my stay in the university, they have been achieved before. So, age doesn’t really matter to me and I don’t see it as a disadvantage. Instead, I see it as an advantage that I have a lot of time ahead of me and I can achieve even greater feats. What was your study pattern like? After classes, I went with my friends to the university library where we studied together and taught ourselves things. It was really beautiful. It was so beautiful that we had our spot in the university library. If you were looking for me and my friends in the library, it wouldn’t be hard to find us. At night, studying was even more intense. I believe that what you do when people don’t see you is even more important than what people can see. I made sure I studied every day. Was there a time you felt you would not pass a course and how did you scale through? No, I was sort of always ready for my exams and tests. So, I prepared hard for them. Did your determination to finish with first class honours cost you friendship or relationships? Well, I feel like when your priorities are not aligned with some people, you should just let them go. In my case, people around me knew what I was aiming for, so it was either they aligned or they moved on by themselves. I had really good friends that really helped me and I had to learn from. How did you manage the opposite sex, such that you were not distracted? Well, most of my friends were/are girls. They really helped me a lot, so they weren’t a distraction rather they were a major factor as they helped me in reaching my goal. It is not news that females are really smart and very efficient. All of my female friends finished with first class honours, just like me. So, it was truly a beautiful feeling. What is next for you after this? I have a strong interest in finance and business so I would love to explore that space and grow that pursuit. I already served my country in Abuja. In five years’ time, I should have completed my professional degrees and also completed my master’s programme in a reputable institution. My dream job would be one where I get to own a solid company. I have always wanted to have my own company that doesn’t just thrive but also stands the test of time. I might not be able to give a clearer detail right now but yeah, that’s what my dream future looks like. Who are your mentors? I have a number of people around me that I call my mentors. My dad has been a huge part of my life and is one of my biggest mentors even though I don’t say this often. Mr Uka Eje (CEO of Thrive Agric) is also one man I am hugely learning from.  From a large scale, Warren Buffet is also someone I love, learn and read about. What kind of books do you like reading? I enjoy reading business and finance books. I also enjoy reading autobiographies. My Bible is definitely not left out. When you are not studying accounting and balancing worksheets, what would you be doing? I’d be found networking, watching movies, going for a drive, taking a course or listening to music. What would be the Nigeria of your dreams? The Nigeria of my dreams would be a country where every Nigerian child has access to the basic needs of life and gets quality education. Also, I’d love to see a Nigeria where tribal issues are completely eradicated. Do you share in the sentiments that the National Youth Service programme should be scrapped? The NYSC was introduced to foster national unity and cohesion and also to enable the Nigerian youth to acquire the spirit of self-reliance by encouraging them to develop skills for self-employment. This is a good initiative and I don’t think the idea should be scrapped but I believe that it could be improved upon. More skill acquisition opportunities should be introduced and a better standard of living should be given to corps members. Some corps members travel to places they haven’t been to before and they basically depend on themselves. The government should try to improve the NYSC rather than scrap it.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com