Last week, the management of the Nigeria Customs Service gave 30 days grace period for clearing of the backlogs of trapped imported vehicles due to the strike by agents. In this write-up, ANOZIE EGOLE examines what should be expected from the service at the expiration of the grace period For the past two decades, there have been constant pressures from clearing agents on the management of the Nigeria Customs Service, for a total overhaul of the duties payable on imported used vehicles. The practitioners fingered discrepancies on duties payable on vehicles of the same make, year and model at different ports in the country as reason for the clamour for a total overhaul asking for uniform values on vehicles of the same year, model and make irrespective of the ports it came through to Nigeria. Customs officers were even accused of high handedness and manipulating the values by these agents because of their inability to come up with a uniform duty on imported vehicles. In what could be seen as responding to the call for the uniformity of values, earlier this year, the management of the NCS, introduced Vehicles Identification Number, for valuation of imported vehicles which is an artificial intelligence manual which drives documentation processes in an electronically digitized format. Naturally, one should expect applause from these practitioners to the NCS for coming to their rescue, as that will bring standardisation in values, instead this came with condemnation by the agents and even withdrawal of service for two weeks. Interventions by the Customs for the striking agents to go back to work fell on deaf ears. The strike was so serious that Lagos State Car Dealers association not only joined the strike as they close marts for 10 hours, they also threatened to take a legal action against the NCS if they didn’t withdraw the VIN implementation. Grievances The agents accused the VIN of hiking the duties payable on imported vehicles instead of bringing what they described as the actual duty. The agents accused customs of not involving the stakeholders before introducing such policy and as such, were not comfortable with the implementation of the platform and how it works. The National Secretary of the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders, Stanley Ezenga, explained that with the introduction of the VIN, older vehicles pay more duties than newer vehicles. “We find out now that duties on newer vehicles are cheaper than what we pay on older used vehicles” he said. Interventions In a bid to ensure that normalcy returns to the ports, several government agencies  including the Nigerian Shippers Council, Nigerian Ports Authority, NCS amongst others intervened and held several meetings with these agents. During a meeting with the NSC, the striking agents agreed to commence clearing of cargoes but insisted not to clear vehicles until the VIN was addressed as according to them, the VIN was hiking the values of imported vehicles as against what they used to pay before. At the meeting, the Executive Secretary of the NSC, Jime Emmanuel, advised the clearing agents that shutting down the ports impeded economic development reiterating that shutting down the ports was tremendous and had huge economic consequences. “Return to work as we will engage the management of the NCS but, we won’t want to go into a meeting with one person hands tied. Also, we have seen that you are not against the VIN valuation policy but, against the methodology used in generating value for your members” he said. In what seems like succumbing to pressure, the management of the Customs few days after the meeting with the stakeholders announced the suspension of the VIN for 31 days. However, announcing the decision of the NCS, the National Public Relations Officer of service, Timi Bomodi, said the agency suspended the policy for 31 days to allow for clearance of vehicles trapped in the ports. In a statement, titled, “VIN Valuation: Approval of Grace Period to Clear Backlog of Vehicles”, the NCS said the service had approved a grace period of one month to clear the backlog of vehicles trapped at the ports. As a result, Bomodi said a uniform application of rebates would be used for all vehicles, using correct values for assessment during the exercise. The statement read in part, “Sequel to recent Customs/stakeholders town hall meeting held in Lagos on VIN-Valuation, the Comptroller General of Customs having listened to public outcry, has graciously approved one-month window to enable the clearing of the backlog of vehicles held up in the ports as a result of strike action. Meanwhile, uniform application of rebates will be used for all vehicles using correct values for assessment during the exercise” However, Bomodi maintained that the VIN protocol would still be in place. “For the avoidance of doubt, the VIN-Valuation protocol is still in operation as reviews and updates are being captured in our systems to reflect the genuine concerns of stakeholders. As a responsive and responsible agency, Nigeria Customs Service will sustain its consultations with stakeholders in line with Article 2 of World Trade Organisation, Trade Facilitation Agreement for a smoother Customs Stakeholders relationship,” he concluded. Losses It has been estimated by some practitioners that within the two weeks of the strike, trapped vehicles at the ports should be well above, 18,000 whose demurrage should be approximately N800m. Expectations Meanwhile few days since the suspension of the VIN, experts have called for a proper engagement and enlightenment of stakeholders by officers of the NCS for an easy implementation of the platform. The Chief Executive Officer, Center for the Promotion of Private Enterprises, Muda Yusuf, in a exclusive chat with The PUNCH on Sunday explained, within this period, the service should be able to come up with appropriate framework that would mutually benefit both the service and agents. “The 31days suspension will enable the Customs to engage properly with the stakeholders so that together they will bring in appropriate framework that will mutually benefit both the customs and the stakeholders. I think that is what this period should be used for apart from using it to clear the backlog of all the vehicles that were not cleared during the strike. What will happen during the period is to have a much more robust engagement to come up with a mutually accepted frame work for this valuation that is what I think should happen” Muda, reiterated that, if the service fails to address some of these challenges the agents may go back to strike. Also speaking, Secretary of the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders, Stanley Ezenga, said, “We welcome the VIN valuation it is a good innovation as far as we are concerned, our grudges at that time was the method of implementation we were not given enough notice. Because we know that for any new policy, the government normally gives 90days grace period for those who already have contract with their suppliers to liquidate whatever thing they have” The vice president of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents, Kayode Farinto, said, “Uptil now, there is no waiver yet except for Ports & Terminal Multipurpose Limited and we appreciated that, I think they waved 70% of the storage others we are still negotiating with them” A logistics expert, Obiora Madu, said, “I think the expectation is that at the end of the 31days period, the backlog would have been cleared and after that you will bring down the hammer as form of penalty on anyone that defaults. If during this grace period, nobody says anything it means they have agreed with Customs” he concluded. In his reaction, the head customers’ service, Five Star Logistics, Chuks Okereafor, said they gave them 50% discount. “We gave them waiver if we didn’t do it you would have heard from them, we did and over did self. You know we handle Roll-On Roll-Off so we always want them to leave as quickly as possible. You cannot stack vehicles but you can stack containers. We gave 50% waiver and we even extended and for more than four days, after giving them the 8days we still extended” he concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com