The National Association of University Students, Osun State chapter has threatened ‘drastic action’ over the persistent strike of the Academic Staff Union of Universities. In a statement made available to The PUNCH on Monday, and jointly signed by the Chairman, the Secretary-General and the Publicity Secretary; Eruobami Ayobami, Olaniyan Saleem Opeyemi and Lawal Idris Tomiwa, respectively, the student body bemoaned the persistent closure of schools, stating that the feud between the striking lecturers and the Federal Government had remained a hindrance to the academics of Nigerian students. The statement read in part, “for years and still counting, it has become glaring that the issue of the feud generated through the seemingly unending clash of interests between the Federal Government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, that has desisted to fade away in any bit has undoubtedly become an insurmountable hindrance for the academic proceedings of all affected Nigerian Students, who happen to be the majority.” The students argued that, in all the strike actions of ASUU over time, there had always been claims and counterclaims from both the lecturers and the government, arguing that the government seemed to be deriving fun from the unfortunate menace. “Any ASUU strike that surface over time, the current one inclusive, is always surrounded with several stories and claims from the end of ASUU and corresponding counterclaims from the Federal Government. Regardless, all are still pointers to the fact that our leaders seem to be picking fun in all these disruptions caused to our lives. “Despite the relentless wailings and yelling from the students whose lives are being toyed with, and our parents whose only retirement plan are us, their children, such issues like this that have us as the bearers of the brunt are noticed to be consistently addressed with the least of readiness and promptness from our leaders,” the students argued. The students further threatened to take action, stressing that they had been pushed to the wall, and were with no other choice. “This has been pushing us and to which adaptation has been our incapacitated response, but now, we are at the wall and we may have no choice than to respond with severe agitations. In the course of this, the leadership of this association is hereby using the responsible medium to call on all necessary offices, emphasis on the Federal Government, to see this as an urgent point of call as it should be and make all necessary provisions and adjustments that will not only fix this current ASUU strike but also for continuous sustainability of our academic system afterwards with immediate effect. “As agitations through protest are expected to be the last resolution, this is us being so cordial by letting our voice and stand known via this respected medium, we hope the appropriate quarters respond accordingly by doing the needful so as to avert having this followed by a drastic and unwanted decision by the leadership of this association,” the statement read further. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the striking lecturers, on March 14, declared an extension of its warning strike by eight weeks over the failure of the Federal Government to meet its demands. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com