The Zuba High Court sitting at the Gwagwalada High Court Division, Abuja, has sentenced four men to death by hanging for armed robbery. The convicts-Tochukwu Uwalaka, Gideon Igbabo, Miracle Amaechi, and Jamil Abdulsalam, had lured the 10-year-old daughter of their victim at gunpoint to get access into his house at Kuje District in Abuja, on August 23, 2016. The suspects, thereafter, attacked the victim and his family with dangerous weapons, and carted away valuables which included a 2006 Xterra Jeep, a 2008 Toyota Camry, two HP laptops, phones, a digital camera, cash sum of N200,000, jewellery and other valuables. The matter was transferred to the Intelligence Response Team of the Force Intelligence Bureau where operatives swiftly apprehended one of the suspects who led them to his three accomplices. A statement on Sunday by the acting force spokesman, CSP Muyiwa Adejobi, said, “The honourable Justice Ebong, after hearing evidences from the prosecution, the defendants and the respective witnesses, affirmed the guilt of the defendants and sentenced the four suspects to death by hanging for the offences of criminal conspiracy, armed robbery, house trespass, and assault in contravention of the provisions of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provision) Act, 2004, and the Penal Code Law.” It said the Inspector-General, Usman Baba, lauded the achievements of the investigation units and tactical squads of the Nigeria Police Force for various convictions that had been recorded in cases investigated and charged to courts. The IG commended the judiciary and the IRT under the leadership of DCP Olatunji Disu, and the doggedness of the operatives in ensuring justice in the matter and for following through on operational successes with prosecutorial prowess which has led to the conviction of these suspects. “He equally reaffirmed the commitment of the force leadership to ensuring that all matters reported to the police are properly followed up until conviction is secured at courts of competent jurisdictions,” the statement read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com