The family of Johnson Moses has raised the alarm over his whereabouts after he left home for work and did not return. His wife, Bright Moses, told journalists in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, that he left the house over two weeks ago, adding that he was taken to work by his bosses. She identified them as Kenneth Obiafuna and Arinze Okeke. Mrs Moses said her husband works at Cart, a German company that specialises in the sale of sound-proof generators and construction equipment along the Trans-Amadi axis of Port Harcourt. She said, “My husband travelled on February 24 and since then, he has not returned. Things are difficult for me; my children are sick. They are missing their dad. “I feel lonely and I want him to come back. I am not feeling well now because I really miss my husband. I can’t live without him; he is my heart and everything. “It is only God I hope on. Let my husband come back to me.” The victim’s mother, Victoria Iche, appealed to the state Governor, Nyesom Wike, and security agencies to come to their rescue. “Arinze (Okeke) is my son’s manager. He sent my son to meet Kenneth (Obiafuna). Till today, we have not seen him. Two of them have not brought my son back. “I need my son. They should bring him to me. Wike, come and help me remove shame from my face so that I can see my son. I don’t have anybody,” she added. Speaking on a news programme on Rhythm 93.7 on Wednesday, Okeke said he was not part of the journey. “Actually, I was not the one that travelled. It was my regional manager,” he stated. Also speaking on the radio station, Obiafuna said he would not give further details since the matter was in court. “Our legal team is already addressing it. Their family asked their counsel to write our office concerning this issue,” he stated. The state Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka, urged the family to write a petition to his office. He said, “Advise them to report to the nearest police station or submit a petition to my office.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com