The Federal Executive Council on Wednesday in Abuja approved N92.12bn for the construction of a second runway at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. This came barely 24 hours after the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), while inaugurating the new terminal building at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, directed the Finance Minister, Dr Zainab Ahmed, to source special funding for the project. The Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, disclosed to State House correspondents after a virtual council meeting of FEC presided over by the President at the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Sirika noted that the contract was divided into five lots and would be completed in 12 months. He said, “For Lot A,  we have the construction of the runway, taxiways, links, fencing of the operation area of that particular runway, not the entire port, internal perimeter, crash roads, service roads, services and drainage. “This is awarded to Messrs Civil Engineering Construction Company Limited, CECC, at the sum of N72, 341, 479, 217. 22k.” He noted that Lot B of the contract was for the construction of a water pumping station, with reservoir, water supply reticulation, and fire-fighting hydrants. The contract for this lot was awarded to Messrs Trimark Engineering Services Limited for N1,789, 374, 587.50k. He further explained that “Lot C is for the procurement and installation of airfield lighting, navigational aids, communication and meteorological equipment, procurement, installation and training.” This, he said, was for the sum of N10.5bn. For Lot D, a contract was awarded for the provision of power supply, high voltage, medium voltage, low voltage, and tertiary, including the construction of power stations with AFL switch room. The project was awarded in the sum of N6.8bn Sirika stated that Lot E, which is for procurement, inauguration as well as training would gulp N712.6m. Quizzed about the government’s strategy for raising the fund for the mammoth projects, the aviation minister said the regime would explore the same avenues it had used to raise funding for similar projects. Also, the Council approved over N14bn to train 50,000 non-graduates of N-power for nine months. The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Farouk, who revealed this to State House correspondents, explained that over N14bn would be used to engage four federal government agencies to train non-graduates for nine months. Farouk added that at the end of the exercise, the 50,000 trainees would be handed starter packs to begin their businesses. Also speaking was the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, who said the council approved the Business, Facilitation and Miscellaneous Provision Bill, to consolidate the reforms and enhance productivity and value. Malami explained that the bill was part of the government’s efforts to sustain the legacies achieved through the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council. He noted that the bill will be forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com