As Nigerians prepare for the upcoming 2023 elections, the debate regarding celebrities’ participation and endorsement of political figures rages on. Media personality, Ifedayo Olarinde, popularly known as Daddy Freeze, has encouraged his colleagues in the entertainment industry to render services to political aspirants without fear of criticism from the public. On Saturday, the On Air Personality took to his Instagram page where he argued that voting, not artistes’ performances at political events, will determine the results of the upcoming elections. “PVC and voting are what guarantee election victory, not artiste performance,” he wrote. “Also, remember that if you don’t want to be a hypocrite, don’t clamp down on artistes alone, remember to include caterers, event venue owners, drink suppliers, ushers, security personnel, etc, at the events.” Daddy Freeze also declared his intention to interview political leaders who intend to use his services or platform for a fee. He further advised artistes to reject “emotional blackmail”, but remember to carry out their job “as professionally as possible.” “Interviewing a candidate or performing at an event is different from endorsement, know the difference. Earn your pay, Nigeria is already hard enough!” He said. Daddy Freeze’s comment comes shortly after actor, Akah Nnani, advised colleagues to turn down money for performance from politicians. Akah tweeted, “If you pray at a political event or you sing for a politician, you have endorsed that candidate.” “It’s not by screaming about what’s wrong with the country when it’s convenient. It’s hard sometimes, but you have to turn down that money. We already know who our enemies are. “From now, you have to decide on whose side you are on. Are you for the people or are you for the old systems?” Nnani wrote on his Instagram page on Friday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com