The Justice Development and Peace Caritas has said that as an intellectual, the people are expecting a unique and different form of administration from the Anambra State Governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, which he must not fail to offer. The group also stated the need for every stakeholder in the state to partner with the state government to ensure it gets the best out of the new administration. The Executive Director, JDPC, Fr. Edwin Udoye, stated this on Sunday, during the JDPC -Foreign Commonwealth Development Office Project Outcome Presentation and Final Report Sharing with stakeholders in Anambra. Udoye also said the group would support any policy of the government that would bring security and sanity on the roads and streets across the state, which had in recent years been taken over by violent thugs operating as revenue agents. Also speaking, a Director in the state Ministry of Economic Planning, Budget and Evaluation, Mr Arthur Iwuanya, said the governor of the state had travelled wide and had served the country at various capacities and as a former Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, saying that the state expects a unique style of administration from him. “We are happy that he has the unique style of administration the people expects from him by cutting costs that would have been wasted on his inauguration or swearing-in. They told him the millions it would have gulped and he shocked them by cutting down the number of people that would grace the occasion and made it a low key event,” she noted. In his welcome speech, the Manager, JDPC Onitsha/FCDO Project, Mr Alphonsus Nwoye stressed the need to improve the election processes in the country for better outcomes. The JDPC-FCDO Partnership project which centred on peace, security, peaceful election and service delivery, had JDPC stakeholders from across the 21 Local Government Areas in the state. The National Orientation Agency, Anambra State, through its Deputy Director, Joseph Uchendu, promised to intensify its enlightenment campaigns to mitigate electoral shortcomings, including the growing cases of void votes in elections in the state, ahead of the 2023 general elections.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com