Chrisland University, Ogun State, has received accreditation from the National Universities Commission to commence Law. A statement by the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Chinedum Babalola, said the approval was based on adequate resources provided by the University, adding that the approval came after the authorities of the NUC undertook a diligent assessment of its facilities and lecturers for the College of Law. She added, “The University which started with just two Colleges during its inception in 2015/2016 academic session with College of Arts, Management and Social Sciences, and the College of Natural and Applied Sciences) has grown into three colleges, that of Basic Medical Sciences, as well as the College of Law as the 4th and latest addition.” Meanwhile, Nobel laureate and former President of Timor-Leste, José Ramos-Horta has advised the Nigerian government to build on the success recorded in the creative and technology sectors to grow the economy. Chrisland University said Ramos-Horta gave the charge during the virtual public presentation of a book, titled, ‘Nigerians Views on National Peace, Progress and Development’ and written by Nations official and Head of Chrisland University’s Departments of Political Science and International Relations, Prof. Babafemi Badejo. While discussing the book, he said, “The book rightly pointed out how Nigeria can maximise her significant progress in selected economic sectors like creative and tech industries to build on some major wins.” The lead discussants were Prof. Olawale Albert, Prof. Steven Commins, Prof. Adele Jinadu, Dr Olubukola Adesina, Dr Chukwuemeka Eze, and Dr Temitope Bello. Babalola, revealed that the exciting aspect of the book was the thought-provoking research, which would go a long way in addressing the problem of human insecurity in Nigeria and really beyond.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com