The campaign organisation of a former Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, on Saturday said it had uncovered a plot by a group masquerading as a civil society organisation to launch a smear campaign against Ekweremadu over his governorship ambition. The organisation disclosed this in a statement issued by its Director-General, Ogbonna Asogwa, saying its commitment to an elevated political discourse towards the 2023 general election. It, however, warned that it would not fold its hands and watch anyone or group destroy the reputation he had built over the years. The statement partly read, “We have credible information regarding sinister plots by persons masquerading as a CSO and funded by people in the government of Enugu State to launch a smear campaign on the person of distinguished Senator Ike Ekweremadu, by latching unto malicious petitions and reports of several years ago, some of which have even been settled in his favour by a court of competent jurisdiction. “It should be recalled that Senator Ekweremadu, a few years back, briefed Nigerians about malicious petitions made against him by discredited persons to security and anti-corruption agencies, stating that it was pure political persecution, as his hands were clean. “It is instructive to note that the petitions were authored by persons, who were already disgraced out of office by the National Judicial Council, and are standing trial for corruption in various courts. “It is equally imperative to state that the court ruled in the senator’s favour in the matters brought against him over baseless assets declaration by the defunct Special Presidential Investigation Panel on the Recovery of Public Properties headed by Mr. Okoi Obono-Obla. “We therefore call on the media to be watchful as these sponsored smear campaigners roam from one media house to another, shopping for an unfortunate stead that would buy their rotten wares and their evil agenda. “We equally call on Nigerians to disregard such smear campaigns, as they are meant to distract the senator and the good people of Enugu State from the real issues in the Enugu 2023 governorship contest.” C Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com