The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.); the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Wase; and some state governors among others, on Monday, congratulated a national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who clocks 70 on Tuesday (today). Buhari’s birthday message was contained in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, titled ‘President Buhari hails Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu at 70.’ The President affirmed the contributions of the party stalwart to the political, economic and social development of the country, setting a standard in leadership, governance and philanthropy. He saluted Tinubu’s “courage, resilience, selflessness and nobility in always placing the welfare and unity of the nation above self.” These actions, he noted, are backed with a vision of a greater Nigeria through investments in people, institutions and governments, without minding tribe or creed. The President said he joined family members, friends, business and political associates in celebrating the septuagenarian, who has diligently and progressively risen on the nation’s political ladder since 1992, fighting for democratic rule against many odds, angling for people-focused development and supporting visionary and purposeful leadership. Lawan described Tinubu, a presidential aspirant, as an astute administrator who laid a solid foundation for the modernisation of Lagos State, and a visionary political leader with a track record of building people and organisations. The Senate President said this in a statement issued on Monday by his Special Adviser on Media, Ola Awoniyi, titled ‘You are a leader of leaders, Senate President hails Asiwaju Tinubu @70.’ Lawan said, “Asiwaju Tinubu has lived a life of service, impacting many lives in several decades of active political participation and public service. This has made him a political pathfinder, leader of leaders and a legend in his own lifetime. Today, he is not just a principal actor in Nigerian politics, but also one of the main issues. “I wish the Jagaban Borgu a happy birthday and many more years of impactful service to our beloved fatherland, Nigeria, and its great people.” Also, Gbajabiamila paid glowing tributes to Tinubu, saying the Jagaban of Borgu kingdom has demonstrated “an uncommon and unyielding commitment to a progressive and prosperous Nigeria.” The Speaker, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, titled ‘Gbajabiamila pays tribute to Tinubu at 70,’ noted with delight, the ex-governor’s invaluable contributions to Nigeria’s democracy in the past decades, saying he has unmatched credentials. The Speaker stated that with these, Tinubu’s services to his fatherland are most needed at a time like this. Gbajabiamila recalled how Tinubu used his acumen to turn things around in Lagos State when he served as governor for eight years. Wase, in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Umar Puma, said the life of Asiwaju had always been full of service to humanity and uplifting the lives of others. The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in a congratulatory message issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile, said Tinubu is consistent in his thoughts and actions about the development of Lagos State and Nigeria. He said, “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, like a colossus, bestrides Nigeria’s socio-political space with vigour and vision. “He stood firmly on the side of the Nigerian people, even at the risk of losing his life and personal belongings during the dark days of the military junta. “A position he took along with other progressives during the annulment of the June 12 struggle led to the end of the military interregnum and was replaced with normal government, which we all enjoy today.” Ekiti State Governor and Chairman, Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi,  in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, titled, ‘Fayemi congratulates Tinubu at 70’, described the APC leader as “a celebrated democrat, pragmatic leader and visionary statesman who has an insatiable appetite for championing good causes in pursuit of a better Nigeria”. The governor noted that “Tinubu played pivotal role in the fight against military dictatorship, de-annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election and has continued to play significant roles in sustaining the current democratic experience in the country”. He described the presidential hopeful as “a dogged fighter in the causes he believes in,” adding that the former Lagos Governor had, through his actions and engagements, inspired many to stand up and be counted in the areas of political participation and excellent service  delivery. Members of the Lagos State House of Assembly also described Tinubu as a man who contributed immensely to the development of society. The lawmakers gave their accolades at a special parliamentary session in honour of the APC leader to commemorate his birthday. The Speaker of the House, Mudashiru Obasa, said Tinubu paved the way for the increased revenue generation of Lagos State. He said, “This is an opportunity for us to recognise all that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has done for us as a leader.  In the face of opposition, he resolved and insisted to be on the opposition leaning towards the Federal Government. It is better to celebrate people that have contributed immensely to the development of the society. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com