…Buni to resume office soon The Secretary of the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, on Tuesday, faulted claims that the ruling party was embroiled in a leadership tussle. This is as he also affirmed that the Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, remains the CECPC Chairman, adding that the Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello, only filled the vacuum in Buni’s absence. The PUNCH had earlier reported that Akpanudoedehe returned to the Wuse 2 headquarters of the APC amid tight security and jubilation among the party staff. He returned to the party secretariat on Blantyre Street and was escorted to his office by four AK-47 wielding policemen. His return followed the botched moves by some governors including Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai to remove Akpanudoedehe and Buni. The plan was to install Bello as the substantive caretaker chairman of the APC at a National Executive Committee meeting slated for March 17, 2020. However, the attempt was botched by a letter from the Independent National Electoral Commission which affirmed Buni’s leadership. INEC also stated that it would only recognise correspondences from Buni and Akpanudoedehe. But while addressing journalists at the APC National Secretariat in Abuja on Tuesday, Akpanudoedehe affirmed that the party’s leadership remains “intact and functional as originally constituted.” He noted that contrary to leadership tussle claim, the CECPC was committed to “delivering a seamlessly successful National Convention for the APC on March 26, 2022.” He said, “The CECPC, therefore, informs the Press and the General Public as follows: “That the CECPC was appointed, and has always done her best, to steer the affairs of the APC in line with the mandate invested in her at inauguration by the National Executive Council (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress. “That on the 28th day of February 2022 the CECPC Chairman took a long-delayed trip abroad on health grounds, leaving behind written authorisation for other members of the CECPC to continue work in his absence, particularly the day to day management of the APC. “That in his absence, sundry activities earlier scheduled for action appeared to develop fresh urgency in order to satisfy the Timetable for the 2023 General Elections released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), thus galvanizing some within the CECPC to act in their best understanding of both the situation and the leadership dynamics in the Committee/Party. “That all such actions were clearly identified at all times as happening in an acting or proxy capacity, and under the auspices of the substantive Chairman, His Excellency, Governor Mai Mala Buni, contrary to widespread speculations that the Chairman, Secretary or some other officials of the CECPC have been removed from Office or otherwise replaced; “That the CECPC is intact and functional as originally constituted; and “That delivering a seamlessly successful National Convention for the APC on March 26, 2022, is top on priority for the CECPC and we shall continue to execute such assignments as are legal pending the return of the Chairman who is on his way back to the country and shall resume Office on arrival with the full support of all members and other stakeholders.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com