Some stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress have raised an alarm that any further postponement of the party’s convention would impact the party negatively. In a separate press statements at the weekend, the APC Convention Mandate Group and APC Young Legislators Forum asked that all party members should support the zoning formula already put in place. Separate statements signed by Mustapha Usman, the Chairman/Convener of APC Convention Mandate Group and Hon. Kasimu Maigari, Chairman Forum of the Young Legislators Forum said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) decision to zone the chairmanship of the party to North Central ahead of the party’s national convention come March 26 was in good light that should be supported by all. Usman said: “The consensus reached during a meeting with APC governors at the State House on Tuesday to zone the Chairmanship of the party to North Central and the consequent endorsement of Senator Abdullahi Adamu is, no doubt, a right step that would guarantee the success of the APC. “The endorsement of Senator Abdullahi Adamu by the President was carefully done with the idea of reinforcing the party to clinch victory in the forthcoming general elections. The APC has come to say. We all must be under the obligation to help in championing this cause – the cause of ensuring that the party clinches victory at the polls and remains invincible.” Usman added that: “Going through the dossier of Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, one may be forced to surmise that the technocrat has all it takes to steer the affairs of the party at the national level. Astute as he is, Adamu had at various times when he held notable positions within and outside his state demonstrated high sense of responsibility, sagacity, perspicacity and wisdom in the discharge of his mandates. “It behoves any APC member to rally to the support of Sen. Abdullahi Adamu; for, he has the hallmarks to steer the wheel of the party at the national level. There is nothing the party needs now than to have an experienced person as its Chairman, who can smoothen over the intra party wrinkles and make it robust to face the challenges that lie ahead. And in Sen. Adamu, we have the man for the job; one who can, with consummate ease, see to it that the next President of the country comes from our great party, the APC. “It is against this background that we, under the APC National Convention Mandate Group, unanimously nod our approval to the endorsement of Sen. Abdullahi Adamu as the APC National Chairman. We believe he has all it takes to pilot, expertly, the affairs of the party and take it to greater, promising heights. We are 100% in support of President Muhammadu Buhari. Any party member whose idea is to contribute to its success must, as a matter of necessity, go by the endorsement of Sen. Adamu by the President and the party leadership.” Maigari, on his part, said: “Following the endorsement of Senator Abdullahi Adamu by President Muhammadu Buhari at a meeting with APC governors held at the State House, we wish to sincerely write to back the zoning of the Chairmanship of the APC and the endorsement of Sen. Abdullahi Adamu as the National Chairman ahead of the national convention. “This arrangement, in all honesty, is in the best interest of the party as we need a competent Chairman with requisite experience to lead the party. And Abdullahi Adamu, a two-term governor and seasoned legislator with pool of experience, is the man that can effectively wear the mantle of the party’s national leadership. “The consensus option, we understand, is the best, keeping in view the fact that meticulousity had been employed in serving justice to all the geopolitical zones in zoning the national positions of the party. Our Forum, concerned about the progress of the APC, is calling on all party members to respect the arrangement and await the ratification of the endorsement come March 26, 2022.” He added that: “This is a critical time where all attention should be tilted towards ensuring that the national convention of the party holds as planned. The APC Young Legislators Forum wishes to reiterate its unflinching support to Sen. Abdullahi Adamu and his endorsement as the party national Chairman.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com