Numerous fascinating blockchain projects exist, with many of them capable of generating substantial long-term returns. However, Baby DogeCoin (BabyDoge) and Seesaw Protocol (SSW) are two that I believe are most likely to experience incredible growth. Both cryptos have aggressive marketing strategies and are building strong communities, which are essential ingredients for long term growth in the cryptosphere. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) Seesaw Protocol (SSW) has increased over 2000% in value since its launch in January 2022, jumping from $0.005 to over 0.115. Given that it is only halfway through its presale, some analysts believe that SSW could easily increase by another 2000 to 3000% by the time it officially launches on April 8th. Investing now could result in significant gains, and due to the fact that Seesaw Protocol is still in presale, its value cannot fall. This may instil some confidence in nervous investors, particularly given the current political climate surrounding Russia. Apart from its continued presale success, SSW provides real-world utility by bridging Binance’s Smart Chain (BSC), Polygon (MATIC), and Ethereum (ETH) – allowing holders to exchange value quickly and cheaply between them. Additionally, Seesaw Protocol’s team wishes to make education accessible through the Metaverse, which, if successful, could increase its value. Baby Doge Coin (BabyDoge) Baby Doge is a meme coin created by Doge meme fans to benefit dog rescue organisations. Additionally, it recently surpassed the Shiba Inu, a popular dog-themed rival token (SHIB). At the time of writing, BscScan data indicated that BabyDoge had 1,403,016 owners, while Etherscan indicated that Shiba Inu had only 1,171,465 owners. Shiba Inu was one of the most popular meme coins in 2021, with a year-over-year increase of more than 70,000 per cent. In terms of total holders, Baby Doge has surpassed SHIBA, which bodes well for the young pup. Baby Doge’s year has gotten off to a whirlwind start. On Jan. 18, Baby DogeCoin was listed on “Coin Ex” (a Hong Kong-based exchange), allowing it to continue its upward trajectory. Bitget Global, a Singapore-based cryptocurrency exchange, announced on Jan. 27 that users can now trade Baby DogeCoin, and on Feb. 3, Baby DogeCoin announced a partnership with TSG Hoffenheim, a German soccer club. This collaboration is a vital component of Baby Doge’s aggressive marketing strategy. Baby Doge appears to be nailing its marketing mix while also serving its thriving online community on Twitter, Telegram, and Discord – putting Baby Doge in a strong position to be one of 2022’s top gainers. For More on Seesaw Protocol: Presale: https://presale.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/
Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL
Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol