A political pressure group in the All Progressives Congress in Ogun West Senatorial district has declared that the long dream of producing a governor from Ogun West extraction of the state is not feasible in 2023. The group under the aegis of West to West For Dapo Abiodun Convergence also endorsed governor Dapo Abiodun for re-election and called on a Senator from Lagos West, Senator Solomon Adeola, known as Yayi, to vie for Senate in the district in 2023. Members of the group in their thousands who met in Ayetoro, the Headquarters of Yewa-North Local Government Area of the State, said Abiodun deserved to be re-elected based on his performance in office as Governor of the State. The group made these resolutions and issues a communique signed by their leaders – Bisiriyu Popoola, Olawale Bankole, Rotimi Oderinde, Major Emmanuel Olubiyi(rtd), former Ogun Assembly member, Sunday Kojeku, Dr. Kunle Salako, Folashade Yemitan, and 13 others at the end the meeting. The group said a governor of Ogun State from Ogun West zone is only possible when the incumbent governor, upon re-election, will have completed his two-term of eight years. The ‘West to West 4 Dapo Abiodun Convergence’ which consists of political groups, women groups, associations, and political groups, also claimed that major contenders from Ogun West senatorial district were yet to express interest in the 2023 governorship seat. It submitted that even if such ambition exists, it is not achievable between now and 2023 general elections. The communique read “that Prince Dapo Abiodun is eligible to be re-elected for the second term as Governor of Ogun State based on the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended. That Prince Dapo Abiodun deserved to be so re-elected based on his performance in office as Governor of the State. “That at the end of the second term tenure in 2027, Prince Abiodun will no longer be entitled to re-election. This scenario will therefore present the shortest route to an Ogun Westerner becoming the Governor of Ogun State considering the fact that no Ogun West politician has so far demonstrated a serious interest in the governorship seat via the upcoming 2023 general election,” the communique reads in part.” On Yayi’s ambition, the group argued that Adeola is a bonafide son of Yewa in Ogun West and has garnered worthy and enviable experiences as a politician, legislator, and administrator par excellence from his many years in politics serving at various levels in Lagos State. The group said “That his current performance as senator representing Lagos West Senatorial District in the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is quite remarkable and outstanding and that this makes us Ogun Westerners very proud of the achievements, he has recorded thus far in the various capacities he has served. “That despite not currently carrying the mandate of Ogun West Senatorial, Senator Adeola has impacted positively in many ways on Ogun West Senatorial District and has over the years contributed his quota to the development of the district. “That Senator Solomon Olamilekan Adeola YAYI is hereby strongly implored to throw his hat into the ring by contesting for the seat of Senator representing Ogun West Senatorial District from June 2023.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com