AS the clamour for a young Nigerian to succeed the President, Maj.-Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in 2023 becomes louder, 700 women groups across Nigeria trooped to the streets of Umuahia, the Abia A capital, on Thursday, to solicit support for the presidential ambition of the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello. The women insisted that they would use their number to ensure that Bello succeeds Buhari through the 2023 presidential election. The walk was tagged, ‘One Million Women March for Yahaya Bello 2.’ The women groups, with members across the six geo-political zones of the country, are drawn from key sectors, including non-governmental organisations, civil society organisations, religious groups, professional bodies, and women in the media. Others are women in politics, Nollywood, market women, as well as top women entrepreneurs. They gathered under the umbrella of Women United for Yahaya Bello. They noted that Bello had demonstrated enough capacity in key areas of governance to make him the best man for the job, adding that he is the only governor in Nigeria that had given women the right voice in governance. The Vice President, Nigerian Women Arise for Nigeria, South-East, Mrs Josephine Orauno, who represented the Global President, Dr Hannatu Adeeko, said women were more united now than ever to ensure they support “the one governor who had shown to the others the real worth of women in governance.” She stated, “That governor is Governor Yahaya Bello. This is the reason we are gathered here to let him know that he has the strong support of South-East women, and indeed, the women of Nigeria, to go for the higher assignment of the presidency. I was not actively involved in the election processes before, but this time, we will go all out for Yahaya Bello.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com