The Kano State Executive Council has approved a bill seeking the establishment of the Kano State Mineral Development Agency. It said the bill would empower the state to effectively supervise the development of the solid minerals sector for economic development. The Commissioner for Information, Kano State, Muhammad Garba, disclosed this while briefing newsmen on the outcome of the weekly council meeting. He said the council had directed that the approved bill be transmitted to the state House of Assembly for passage into law. Garba stated that the creation of the agency would facilitate access to grants and development funds from the Federal Government, which include but not limited to the ecological funds, solid minerals funds, among others. The commissioner said the development would ensure environmental management and protection by tackling illegal operations, as the few employees of the Federal Government could not cover the vast area of land where such illegal activities were being carried out. Also, he disclosed that the council had approved the disarticulation of 1,571 Junior Secondary Schools to the State Universal Basic Education Board. Garba said approval had also been given by the council for the release of funds to facilitate the completion of the Technical College, Kumbotso in Kumbotso Local Government, which was awarded in 2013. He said the council adopted the reviewed bills of quantity of the contract awarded and augmentation of the sum of N22,965,415.74 to cover the current rate of some building materials, which brought the revised contract sum to the tune of  N200,941,284.70. He said the contract awarded at the sum of N34,400,149.13 for the repairs/renovation of dilapidated structures at Giginyu Special Primary School had been completed and put to use. The commissioner further stated that the council had approved the release of N24,780,000 for the training of 66 zonal directors and four key ministry officers on enhancing and strengthening leadership and management skills by the Administrative Staff College of Nigeria at Topo, Badagry, Lagos. He said the funds covered training fees, accommodation, return-tickets, and duty tour allowance of the participants, adding that the choice of residential training at ASCON premises in Lagos was to ensure active participation, punctuality and concentration. Garba also stated that the council had been formally informed on the review of National Examination Council and National Board for Arabic and Islamic Studies registration fees and cost of examination materials. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com