The Theatre Commander, Joint Task Force, North-East Command, Operation Hadin Kai, Major General Christopher Musa, has charged troops serving in the area to be professional in their operational responsibilities in the counter-insurgency war in the region. In a statement by the spokesperson of the command, Captain Nantip Zharkom, the theatre commander was quoted as giving the charge on Friday during an operational visit to the 5 Brigade, Damasak, in the Mobbar Local Government Area of Borno State. Musa said the military hierarchy, through the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Faruk Yahaya, had provided all the resources needed to prosecute and end the war against terrorism and insurgency, which had bedevilled the North-East in the past 12 years. “Being a former theatre commander himself, the CoAS has provided all that is needed to end the insurgency in the North-East. With the much needed resources provided, troops must reciprocate by using the equipment professionally to end terrorism in the region,” Musa stated. According to Zharkom, the theatre commander called on the troops to remain focused, dedicated and committed in the ongoing operations in the area, and urged  them to be professional at all times as any unprofessional conduct would attract severe sanctions. “The theatre commander emphasised the need for troops to continue to be law-abiding and not to violate the fundamental human rights of law-abiding citizens, who they are paid to protect,” the statement added. Musa charged commanders at all levels to be good managers of men and resources for the prosecution of the war against the terrorism as anything short of that would attract the wrath of the military hierarchy. He charged the senior non-commissioned officers to live up to the expected standard and justify their ranks by having full grips and control over their subordinates. He urged them to see it as a rare privilege to serve in the North-East, saying the privilege placed them ahead of their colleagues. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com