Prophet Emmanuel Omale started off his ministry at the age of eight in the city of Anyigba, in the eastern part of Kogi State, North Central Nigeria. The ministry was born out of a pure unadulterated yearn for the love of God and the liberation of humanity. He is graced with a distinct Gift of Prophecy, backed up with signs and wonders with at least one solid proof in every individual that has come across him. His focus on God however dogged has the rarest touch of love and compassion for lives that are in need, bondage or oppressed. His journey has been one graced with profound spirituality and truth. With a steady and onward rise; Prophet Emmanuel Omale founded The Divine Hand Of God Prophetic Ministries International. A ministry run on the real tenets of the teachings of Christ Jesus, bringing healing and freedom to countless many. The headquarters is located in the city center of Abuja and has weekly a physical audience of close to 15,000 members in attendance.  There is also a strong viewership and follower-ship on all online platforms like YouTube, Facebook, and Instagram. The Ministry runs a 24hour not-for-profit TV channel called Divine Hand Television, watched all around the world and accessible on countless media streams. It has both local and international Partners who financially support the smooth running of the Channel and have experienced the power of God in there businesses and carriers. Prophet Omale’s life has been one of endless proof that God still works wonders through men, this is evident in the countless accuracies in Prophecies spoken through him to men and nations that have come to pass. He is happily married to Pst. Mrs Deborah Omale and are blessed with two amazing children. His passion and zest for seeing and bringing out the good in every man is amazingly indiscriminate. Prophet Omale sees his life as one fashioned to Lead men to God, Liberate people, remove tears and bring joy into lives; and foster unity amongst people. Instagram: @prophetemmaomale Facebook: Prophet Dr Emmanuel Omale YouTube: Prophet Dr Emmanuel Omale Twitter: @prophetdromale Tiktok: @prophetemmanuelomale Published by Amedu Simeon A.