The Kaduna State Government has confirmed that an object suspected to be Improvised Explosive Device was detonated around the Yazufa junction, Hayin Danmani, Igabi Local Government Area of the state on Saturday. Residents of Hayin Danmani were thrown into confusion as the IED was detonated near a Point of Sale operator’s shop in the area. The explosion injured the PoS operator, who was rushed to hospital. The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, who confirmed the incident, said the explosion caused serious injuries and affected the PoS operator and another yet-to-be identified person. The commissioner explained that the PoS operator, identified as Mohammed Hassan, at the end of the day’s business had gone to pick up his motorcycle from “where it was parked close to his shop and upon starting the engine, it exploded.” Aruwan said personnel of the anti-bomb squad of the state police command had visited the scene of the incident and evacuated the debris. He added that operatives successfully disabled the second device planted in the area by some criminal elements. The commissioner stated, “Security agencies reported that a suspected Improvised Explosive Device was detonated around the Yazufa junction, Hayin Danmani, Igabi LGA, after it was planted in a motorcycle belonging to one Mohammed Hassan, a PoS operator in the area. “According to preliminary investigations, Hassan had at the close of business gone to pick up his motorcycle where it was parked close to his shop, and upon starting the engine, it exploded. “The explosion resulted in serious injuries to Hassan and a yet-to-be identified passer-by. There was also damage to the roof of a nearby structure. “Personnel of the police anti-bomb squad arrived at the scene to remove the debris. They also disabled a second device found planted in another motorcycle. “The injured duo is receiving treatment in a medical facility as investigations proceed.” The commissioner quoted Governor Nasir El-Rufai to have expressed shock and sadness over the incident, and called for increased vigilance on the part of residents. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai expressed shock and sadness over the report, and wished the injured persons speedy recovery. He reiterated calls for increased vigilance by citizens to the threat of explosives being placed by terrorists to cause harm and destruction. Investigations are ongoing into the incident.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com