Osun State government in collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme and the Norwegian government, on Tuesday, launched an application and situation room for the report of Crisis Early Warning and Earlier Response Signal. Speaking at the launch of the initiative held at the premises of Osogbo Government Technical College, Osogbo, Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, said the initiative was designed to strengthen security framework in and around the state. Oyetola, who was represented by the deputy governor, Benedict Alabi, also commended the Norwegian government for giving 200 victims of violence drawn from all parts of the state opportunity of vocational training. He said, “The Crisis Early Warning and Earlier Response Signal, CEWERS, was designed to collaborate and strengthen the security framework in and around the state and further facilitates attainment of sustainable peace and stability in the state. “Crisis Early Warning and Earlier Response Signal situation room is a welcome addition to our emergency 293 short code call system through which citizens report emergency cases. This system has helped in no small measure in controlling potential crisis situation and it has ultimately helped in coordinating and responding to diverse emergency needs. “The aspiration and objective of our development plans are aimed at achieving inclusive and sustainable economic growth with full and productive employment that ensures high standard of living for all residents of the state and also increase the revenue base by providing enabling and secured business environment which will attract and detain investors and expand existing businesses.” Also in his remarks, In his remarks, the Trade Counselor, Embassy of Norway in Abuja, Mr Hans Peter Christopherson, said the training program for the victims of violence in the state, would provide solution to the problem of idleness from different angles which includes vocational training and productive engagement. He said, “This program attacks the problem of idleness from different angles which includes vocational training to enable you to be active, have a job and it also involves training to be able to cope with your bad experiences, so that you can live a normal life. “We are coming back in the next two years to check on how far you have profited and yielded.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com