An Ogun State-based general practitioner, Dr Shina Ajidahun, speaks to GODFREY GEORGE about asthma and its management What is asthma? As a way of introduction, asthma is from a Greek word, which means ‘panting’. It is a disease of the airway in which these airways become hypersensitive and in the process get blocked because there are a lot of chemicals released and a lot of other things going on. This would make the person have difficulty breathing and chest tightness. What causes asthma? The world of science is still trying to understand very much the causes of asthma. There have been a lot of hypotheses and a lot of researches. To some extent, we know there is an interplay between the environment and genetics. For genetics, we know that there are some genes, when they are mutated, can predispose one to having asthma. It has also been proven that asthma can run in families. The kind of environment one grows up in too can be a factor. Environments with a lot of pollution like you have in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, where you have a lot of sooth in the air and other environmental and air pollution, are not healthy for anyone to live in. There are things that can trigger asthma. Tobacco smoking and other exposure to allergies are things that can predispose one to having this condition. There have been other hypotheses like what we call the hygiene hypothesis. Here, we say, a low level of hygiene can predispose one to having asthma. In a dirty environment, a child is exposed to a lot of bacteria and all that and the immunity may not be well-developed, so the child can pick up asthma just like any other disease.  This is just a hypothesis – the hygiene hypothesis. Are there types of asthma? There are different types of asthma? We have early-onset asthma, which happens before the age 12. There is also the late-onset, which occurs later in life. Exclusive breastfeeding may reduce the risk of a child getting asthma. When a child is exclusively breastfed, it would help the child to withstand these issues, studies have shown. Breastfeeding reduces the chances of a child having asthma to the barest minimum. Someone that is exposed to things like smoke and other toxins have a higher likelihood of contracting asthma. Usually, asthma for children starts when they have this shortness of breath, where one may be feeling that they cannot really breathe. Because of this, you will see this feeling of chest tightness and you would find them always coughing, and may be coughing out sputum. These are the classical factors. There are other allergic conditions that a child may have and when you visit the hospital as a parent, they would tell you it is asthma. For a lot of people, it is until they have an attack that the diagnosis is first made. Else, it is hard to tell whether or not a child is asthmatic. What should a mother do when they notice signs of asthma in their child? Such a mother has to get to the hospital and get a clinical diagnosis. The doctor needs to confirm that the condition is really asthma by using what is called a spirometry. The first thing to counsel a mother whose child is asthmatic is to avoid the trigger. From what I explained, there are a lot of things that can trigger asthma, such as dust, smoke, pollution, etc. The first thing is to avoid all that. Another thing you should do is to train the mothers and their children on how to use the inhalers. You never can tell, a lot of things, both emotionally and physically, can trigger an asthmatic attack. Some exercises and drugs can also be triggers, even a chest infection. So, it would be in the best interest of the doctor to teach the mother how to use the inhaler and monitor the progress to be sure it is working. There are different types of asthma which can go from mild to moderate and to severe. There is a ladder in medical practices, so if the child doesn’t respond to a particular drug, doctors know what to add. The basis of the whole treatment is identifying triggers. There are also lifestyle modifications. If you are staying in a place like Port Harcourt, the best thing is to relocate since you cannot stop what is going on. If they are smokers or have someone smoking around them, they should also avoid all that. Also make sure the environment is clean and rid of dust because this dust can trigger these attacks. Are there conditions associated with asthma? There are a number of conditions that can accompany asthma. It is not something that happens to everyone. There are some people who develop allergies to food. People who may begin to have anxiety disorder can be said to be associated with asthma. Some links are also trying to establish a lead between obesity and asthma. What advice would you give to people who take asthma medications that don’t seem to work? Asthma is not something you would say you want to keep the host at home. The child should be taken to the hospital. There is a way we grade if someone is having a mild, moderate of severe asthma based on the level of attacks. It helps to grade the severity. Some people can have acute exacerbation, which is like an attack. So, we put all that together to see the severity of the asthma and the best way to administer help. When one has an attack and the person can be admitted to a clinic, there are different medications that can be given to them. If it is not working, we know when to go to the next level. If we see someone whose oxygen circulation is low or one whose chest is silent, we know what to do. If worse comes to worst, we may need to admit the person in the intensive care unit. Is it possible for one to outgrow asthma? It has been shown that some people can outgrow asthma. It is a possibility, and that also depends on the type of asthma. Studies have shown that some people can actually outgrow asthma but this is not for everyone. It is a possibility. Are you saying it can be cured? Asthma does not have a cure, but it can be treated and managed. There is no drug or medication one can be administered that makes asthma just go like that. One can improve the symptoms where the person can function and access their day-to-day activities and would not have an attack late.  One can manage it very well. If one has an asthmatic attack and there is no inhaler nearby, what should the people around do to help this person? I will be very honest. If it were an ideal country, I would advise these bystanders to call 911 and wait for the ambulance to come. But if this person collapses on the road in Nigeria with an asthmatic attack, there is little a bystander can do other than rushing the person to the nearest hospital. You cannot put your hands in the person’s lungs to  open it up. If there are emergency responses in the state where it happened, that is the best place to start. A lot of treatment of the exacerbation, which is the attack, is something which only the hospital can give to the patient. How would you react to Nigerians who do not like finishing the doses of their medications once they feel better? The worst that can happen to this set of people is death, because asthma can kill. That is why we do multidisciplinary management when it comes to managing asthma. We get a lot of people to join in the fight against ignorance. Asthma is a big deal. It is not just coughing. If it’s not attended to on time, the person can die. If there is a delay in getting to the hospital and there is no inhaler nearby, it could get really worse. All asthmatic patients must have their inhalers nearby. It would be a very stupid thing for one to say because they haven’t had an attack in a while, they shouldn’t go around with their inhalers. It is a very dangerous thing for one to do and I would not advise that. In this period of COVID-19 when people have to wear masks; what would be the fate of asthmatic people? Face mask is physically protective against the COVID-19 virus we are all trying to run away from. There is also a lot of space for one to breathe. There are a lot of chemicals being released that shuts down the airways. So, people who have asthma should continue to wear their masks. But if they are having an attack, you have to take it away so you can breathe properly so it doesn’t get too bad for the patient to be on oxygen.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com