The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has called on citizens to work together to fix the country for the current and next generations. According to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile, on Monday, Sanwo-Olu made the call while receiving the Silverbird’s Man of the Year Award over the weekend. The governor said, “Our journey to a greater Lagos is not complete; our work is not done yet. We are convinced that with the support of all of our citizens, we are on the right track. “We get to fix things, because we have no other country. Whether we are youths, middle-aged or senior citizens, we have one property in common; our country. We all must get to work, roll up our sleeves and contribute efforts to fix this country for the current and coming generations. I strongly believe we have the potential, energy and commitment; it is only the leadership we must get right. “The awards are indeed an expression of what it means to be of humble service to the people. For every breath that we have, I will continue to ensure that all the promises that we have made to Lagosians, we keep them.” The chairman, Silverbird Group, Senator Ben Murray-Bruce, who presented the plaque, was quoted as saying that the governor has achieved great things in office. “Sanwo-Olu got the highest number of votes to win the prize. What we are seeing here reflects the wishes of the people of Nigeria. “The approach adopted by the governor in the implementation of his administration’s THEMES agenda, showed he fully prepared for the position of leadership and had been discharging on his mandate with good results,” he said.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com