Yoruba rights activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Igboho, has warned against war. He said this in a video that surfaced after his release from detention on Wednesday. In the video, Igboho was seen discussing the war between Ukraine and Russia. “Let’s hope that this Ukraine crisis won’t lead to a third world war. May God not let us witness war in the world,” Igboho said. The PUNCH had reported that Igboho, who fled the country to avoid arrest was given a conditional release from prison in neighbouring Benin eight months after he was detained there. Igboho had been detained in Benin’s commercial capital Cotonou on accusations of “criminal association”. His lawyers told The PUNCH that Igboho can’t leave Benin until the completion of his case. Igboho, who escaped from a deadly raid on his Ibadan residence by the operatives of the Department of State Service on July 1, 2021, was arrested in Benin Republic on his way to Germany on July 19 together with his wife, Ropo. His wife was released earlier. Police at the time accused Igboho and his associates of planning to wage a violent insurrection against the Nigerian state. During the bloody raid on Igboho’s Sooka residence, the Department of State Services arrested and detained 13 of Igboho’s associates. Two of Igboho’s supporters, identified as Adogan and Alfa, lost their lives during the raid. DSS also presented seven AK-47 rifles allegedly recovered during the raid on Igboho’s house on July 1, as well as three pump-action guns, 30 fully charged AK-47 magazines, 5,000 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition, five cutlasses, one jack-knife, one pen knife, two pistol holsters, a pair of binoculars, a wallet containing $5, local and international driving licences in his name, ATM cards, a German residence permit No. YO2N6K1NY bearing his name, two whistles, 50 cartridges and 18 walkie-talkies. Others were three charm jackets/traditional body armour, two laptops, one Toshiba and one Compaq laptop, Igboho’s passport and those of his aides. However, the aides were later released after a court injunction. An Oyo State High Court also awarded N20 billion in damages in the activist’s favour. The court also restrained the Department of State Security and Attorney General of the Federation from arresting Igboho.
Nigeria has been seeking his extradition since July 2021, when he fled following a raid on his home in the city of Ibadan. Officials said they had found military equipment and other weapons at the house. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com