The former Commonwealth Secretary General, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, has described former President Olusegun Obasanjo, as the most visionary political leader Nigeria has ever voted into political power since the return of democracy in 1999. Anyaoku said this on Tuesday during the 2022 edition of the Maiden Symposium of Emeka Anyaoku Institute for International Studies and Diplomacy at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka. He called on the incoming leaders that would emerge in 2023, including the Anambra State governor-elect, Chukwuma Soludo, to emulate the people-oriented policies Obasanjo’s administration implemented. Anyaoku who also used the opportunity to mark his 89th birthday, said that Nigeria’s standing and diplomacy in the world cannot, but be greatly influenced by the country’s domestic situation. He said, “As the most populous African country, Nigeria has a special responsibility for obliterating the abiding legacy of the slave trade by winning respect and genuine acceptance of the nation of human equality among the non-black races across the world.” He commended Obasanjo for his continuous strong impacts and interventions in numerous political issues in the country and the world in general. He pointed out that the former President’s “historic accomplishments as Nigeria’s President are legendary to be emulated by younger generation.” He said Obasanjo reformed the banking sector, revolutionised the telecommunication industry and keeping the country in peace through his continues advocacy for good governance. Obasanjo, on his part, advised Nigerians to maintain the already existing unity in the country irrespective of ethnic, political, religion and tribal affiliation. He commended the state governor, Willie Obiano, on the operational passenger/cargo international airport.
He also urged residents in the state to support the incoming administration of Chukwuma Soludo. The keynote speaker at the Symposium, Prof. Akinjide Osuntokun, Baapitan of Oyo State, in his visual speech, says Nigeria must ensure an inclusive government built on equality, equity, fairness and justice for its effective foreign policy. He said in these 62 odd years of Nigeria’s independence, Nigeria had made a success of its foreign policy and diplomacy but there is no doubt there will room for improvement but it is clear that its foreign policy based on its unchanging national interest will remain unchanged. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com