Gloria Okolie, who was arrested for allegedly being a spy for the Indigenous People of Biafra, has been released from detention after perfecting her bail conditions. The 21-year-old was released on Wednesday after being detained since June 17, 2021, by the Nigerian police. The PUNCH had reported how Gloria was earlier detained at the IRT office in Owerri, Imo State before she was transferred to Abuja. The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja on November 23, 2021, had granted bail to Okolie in the sum of N10 million with two sureties. Okolie turned to a maid, washing, cooking in detention –Activist A rights activist and Director General, Behind Bars Initiative, Harrison Gwamnishu, had posted about Okolie’s unlawful detention on Facebook and how she was allegedly turned into a ‘maid,’ washing clothes and cooking food at the IRT office in Owerri, before she was later moved to the unit’s headquarters in Abuja. Cash transaction slips of N220,000 allegedly collected by the policemen from Okolie’s relations were also attached to the post. The post read in part, “21-year-old Miss Glory Okolie, who enrolled for the 2021 JAMB exam, has been in police detention since 17th June, 2021 till date. She left the house and never returned. “Since 17th June, her family had searched for her in hospitals and mortuaries but couldn’t find her. Ending of June 2021, a young man who was freed from the IRT office Tiger Base, Owerri, told the Okolie family that he saw Glory in the custody of IRT officers cooking and washing clothes for them. “The family immediately went to the IRT office and requested to see Glory and bail her out and till date, it’s been one story or the other. The IRT officers allegedly continued to extort the family and denied them access to see Glory. Our team launched an investigation and discovered Glory has been transferred to Abuja and tagged an IPOB/ESN member.” She’s a spy girl – Police In a statement by the police, Okolie was accused of being a member and spy of the Eastern Security Network controlled by the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra. Part of the statement had read, “Operatives of the Nigeria Police Force, working with the Military and other security forces, have arrested one 22-year-old female suspect, Gloria Okolie, for her complicity in the series of deliberate and well-coordinated attacks on security formations, other critical national infrastructure including INEC offices and killing of security operatives in the South-Eastern part of the country. “The suspect, a native of Umutanza in Imo State, was arrested following ongoing investigations and implementation of special operation, Operation Restore Peace, to amongst other things, break the information, drugs and arms supply chain to the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its armed wing, the Eastern Security Network in the South-East region. “Police Investigations revealed that Gloria Okolie is a member of IPOB/ESN in Imo State who worked closely with one Benjamin Uzoma Emojiri a.k.a “Onye Army”, one of the ESN commanders earlier declared wanted by the Police for his lead roles in planning, coordinating and executing the attack on the Imo State Police Command Headquarters and Imo State Headquarters of the Nigerian Correctional Service. ”