THE Secretary to the Katsina State Government, Alhaji Mustapha Inuwa, declared on Wednesday that his ambition to become the state governor in 2023 is not a “do-or-die affair.” He made the declaration in Katsina during an interactive session with journalists. Inuwa was asked when he would resign his appointment as the SSG in line with the provisions of section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act that was recently signed into law. He explained that as a law-abiding citizen, he would do the ‘’needful at the appropriate time’’. The SSG clarified that those seeking elective posts can resign on the eve of the primaries of their respective parties. Inuwa recalled that all those elected into political offices in the state in 2014 were not occupying any elected offices before the election, declaring, ‘’If the law says I resign tomorrow, I will resign. I am a law-abiding citizen and a loyal party man. I need to add that my ambition to rule the state in 2023 is not a do-or-die affair.’’ Although the SSG said he contacted Governor Aminu Masari and other stakeholders before making his governorship ambition public, courtesy demands that his discussion with them remains private. Inuwa declared,” I have been around for some time and I have seen it all. I have been participating actively in politics since the late Umaru Yar’adua’s regime in the state. I enjoy a very cordial and warm relationship with our Governor, His Excellency, Governor Aminu Masari and I consulted him about my gubernatorial ambition. Courtesy however demands that since it was a private discussion, it is better it remains so.” The SSG said he was joining the  2023  race to further contribute his quota to the development of the state, insisting he had what it takes to rule the state in terms of academic qualification and political experience.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com