Some Nigerian students who migrated to Poland from Ukraine due to the Russia-Ukraine war have begun moves to legalise their stay in the country. It was gathered that the students preferred to continue their studies instead of returning to Nigeria to face the uncertainty that might affect their studies. They spoke to Saturday PUNCH in a phone interview where they lamented their predicament on Friday. Tochi Otuokwu, a 500 level student of Uzhgorod Medical University, claimed that with the help of associations like the Nigerians in Diaspora in Poland, and the Nigerian Students Association, she was able to get shelter, clothing, and purchase a new phone. Otuokwu said this happened after the Federal Government evicted them from the hotel they lodged them in Poland for two days. She said she would need some form of psychotherapy because as much as she had taken it upon herself to cook for other Nigerians who were sheltered, she had not been able to eat well since she left Ukraine. Although Otuokwu said that the exchange rate between Poland and Ukraine was higher, which could lead to socioeconomic strains, they were glad they were safe and would continue their education as soon as possible. “The NIDOP got the information for us, they are pressuring everyone everyday to make sure that everyone is registered. I think that it is the privileged the EU gave to us, and it is left for us to take it. The guarantee is from the Polish government with the aid of NIDOP who got the lawyer to help us with our stay. “I just got a phone now and I am about registering so that I will not be led off (from the country) because the date of registration should be on or before 15 days prior entry into Poland. ‘’I am just trying to recover; I wish I could have psychotherapy treatment; this is something that I am exposed to for the first time. So I am still shocked.” Mose Anthony, a master’s student said he was left with seven months to the end of his programme in a Ukrainian university before the war commenced, leading to the suspension of his studies. “I sold all my things, even the things I used for business (in Nigeria), just to come and study here in Ukraine, and I will just go back to Nigeria like that, I don’t know when the war is going to end. I don’t know when the temporal residency is going to expire before the war ends. I was not prepared, that is why I am here. I don’t know what will happen in Nigeria, so I will keep myself here,” Mose said. While the students remain in Poland under a special status, with the help of NIDOP, lawyers have begun to advise them on ways to become legal residents of the country through its academic programmes in Polish universities. Meanwhile, Mose criticised the Nigerian government for allegedly abandoning them after it offered only the option of repatriation without considering their loss, or helping with any form of psychotherapy. “No therapy, as I am here now. I was ill for two days. The Nigerian embassy keeps making us get scared by sending us warning messages that we should return back home, else we are going to suffer for it and be deported back to our country,’” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com