Asides from choosing the All Progressives Congress’ next set of substantive leaders, some delegates took the presidential campaign of their preferred aspirants to the Eagle Square, Abuja, venue of the 2022 APC National Convention. Our correspondent, who was on the ground, observed two of such groups. A pro-Emefiele presidency group, under the aegis of Emefiele Solidarity Vanguard, asked the APC leaders to allow the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Dr Godwin Emefiele, to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in 2023. Addressing journalists at the convention ground, coordinator of the group, Daniel Enyi, said they were at Eagle Square to “celebrate the anchor borrower’s scheme of the Federal Government, which has led to agricultural revolution; the monetary policy that has stabilise the economy; the Forex Policy; the transformation of the automobile industry; the ease of doing business; social investment programme; and many more. The FG is lifting Nigeria out of poverty. “Today, we say thank you to the Governor of the Central Bank Nigeria, Dr Godwin Emefiele, for his steadfastness and patriotism in discharging his duty as the head of our apex Bank. “As the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari is coming to an end, the Nation needs a very strong will, and ideologically transformed personality with justifiable evidence of patriotic services like Dr Godwin Emefiele as the next President of Nigeria.” Also spotted on the Convention ground was the embattled Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, who was flanked by a huge crowd of supporters wielding a banner inscribed with “Umahi for President.” Umahi, who did not speak to our correspondent circled, the convention ground with his supporters. Meanwhile, at least 20 aspirants vying for various offices in the APC National Working Committee, non-National Working Committee and zonal offices, have pulled out of the race. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com