At least 26 people, including children and women, were feared killed and scores of others injured when suspected armed Fulani herders attacked Tor-Damisa community in Donga Local government Area of Taraba State. Residents said hundreds of houses were burnt and property worth millions of naira destroyed in the attack which happened in the early hours of Monday. Our correspondent gathered that the attack was in reaction to attack on a Fulani man in the area who was allegedly shot on the leg by a suspected Tiv farmer. The victim is currently receiving treatment under police custody. The head of the community, Zaki Uma, told journalists on the telephone that more bodies were still being recovered. Uma explained that there was a misunderstanding between Fulani herders and some Tiv farmers in the community and that he made efforts with the Fulani leaders to restore normalcy. He said, “Some farmers had an issue with Fulani herders, but we reached a truce and they assured us of peace. “I was taken aback as we woke up this (Monday) morning to witness a massive attack on our community, affecting over 15 villages. “As I am talking now, we are yet to recover all bodies, but more than 26 corpses have been recovered. “We are in a situation of despair as we don’t know if the attack will continue. I am calling on the state to provide security and as well intervene with relief materials for thousands that have been rendered homeless.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Abdullahi Usman, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, said six people, including a woman, were killed and that the police have sent personnel to the community to maintain peace. “Members of the joint patrol of 93 Army Battalion and the police are currently combing the bushes in the area to trail the attackers,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com