The Katsina State House of Assembly on Monday evening assured a level playing ground for all aspirants under its members’ political party who are eyeing elective posts in 2023. All the thirty- four members of the Assembly belong to the All Progressives Congress. The Speaker of the House, Tasiu Magarin, gave the assurance when the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Mustapha Inuwa met the lawmakers at the House of Assembly to consult them about his 2023 Governorship ambition Magarin said although Inuwa was the first among other aspirants to formally consult the lawmakers about his ambition, the doors of the Assembly remain open to all political office seekers. The Speaker lauded Inuwa for consulting the lawmakers, wishing him the best of luck in his ambition. Maigarin declared” Each and every member of the House knows who Dr. Mustapha Muhammed Inuwa is. He has contributed in one way or the other to the current Assembly. The SSG is also the only aspirant who has so far come to us for consultation. We need to remind all that our doors are open to all political office seekers. We wish the SSG the best of luck in his ambition.” The SSG had earlier told the lawmakers that he decided to visit and consult them over his political ambition because he held them in high esteem. He reiterated that his desire to join in the Governorship race is to consolidate on the achievements of the APC- led government in the state. Inuwa declared” I am here to consult you because I hold you in high esteem. I consider your contribution very important in my desire to become the state Governor. I am eyeing the Governorship seat to contribute my own quota to the development of the state. My intention is also to consolidate on the achievements of our great party, APC in the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com