Anambra State Governor, Prof. Charles Soludo, has submitted a list of 20 commissioner-nominees to the State House of Assembly for approval. The list which was submitted on Tuesday, had some of the former governor Willie Obiano’s appointees which were Mr Paul Nwosu, whose name appeared on Information; Ifeatu Onejeme for Finance; Mr Collins Nwabunwanne for Local Government and Chieftancy Matters, and Chief Chikodi Anara for Home Land Affairs, amongst others. The list also had a Nollywood actor, Mr Don Onyenji and Mrs Ifenyinwa Obinabo, who served as Transition Committee Chairman of Orumba North Local Government Area. Onyenji is listed to serve as Commissioner for Entertainment, Culture and Tourism while Obinabo was nominated as Commissioner for Women’s Affairs. Prof. Chika Ifejeme was nominated to serve as Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice; amongst others. The Speaker of the House, Mr Uche Okafor, announced the submission of the list during Tuesday’s plenary while reading a letter from the governor. Okafor said Soludo also sent another letter requesting the confirmation of 15 nominees for the post of Special Advisers. The Speaker, however, asked the House Committee on Screening to duly screen the commissioner-nominees. The majority leader moved a motion for the confirmation of the 15 special advisers and they were approved after a voice-vote. Some of the other commissioner nominees are Mr Ifeatu Chinedu, Prof. Ofonze Amucheazi, Mr Ifeanyi Okoma, Ms Chiamaka Nnake, Dr Afam Obidike, Mr Patrick Aghamba, Mrs Ifeyinwa Obinabo, Dr Obinna Ugonnadi, Mr Julius Chukwuemeka and Prof. Ngozi Chuma-Udeh. Others included Mr Paul Nwosu, Dr Foster Ihejiofor, Mrs Patricia Igwebuike, Mr Felix Odimegwu, Mr Chikodi Anara, Prof. Chika Ifemeje, Mr Collins Nwabunwanne, Mr Donatus Onyeji, Mr Anthony Ifeanya, and Mr Paulinus Onyeaka. Also at the plenary, the House read a resolution asking Soludo to urge the Commissioner of Police to return checkpoints and patrol teams across the state. The House resolution followed a motion raised by a member, Mr Onyebuchi Offor, representing Ekwusigo  Constituency. According to Offor, the absence of the checkpoints had increased insecurity which is causing serious threat to lives and property in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com