Operatives of the Department of the State Service have reportedly killed a young lady baker, identified as Chinenye Opah, a native of Mgbowo in Awgu Local Government Areas of Enugu State. Although the reason for the killing of the young lady was yet to be ascertained, sources told The PUNCH on Monday that the incident happened at Ologo Street in the Coal Camp suburb of the state capital on Friday, March 18, 2022. An eyewitness who preferred to remain anonymous told our correspondent that the DSS operatives had stormed the area in two Hilux vehicles. According to the eyewitness, immediately they alighted from their vehicles, they started shooting sporadically and in the ensuing confusion shot and killed the young lady who was a bread baker. “This young lady, Chinenye Opah, was on Friday, March 18, 2022, gunned down by the DSS operatives along Ologo Street Coal Camp Enugu. “The operatives stormed the location with two Hilux vehicles and started shooting sporadically causing a stamped. “In the ensuing commotion, one of them pursued Chinenye who ran like every other person for safety and gunned her down. The operative shot her severally at a close range,” the source said. Meanwhile, a family source told our correspondent that Chinenye had three bullet holes around her upper region, showing that the operatives clearly targeted to kill her. The family source, who said they had reported the incident to the Ekirike Police Station, disclosed that their daughter’s body had been deposited at Eastern Nigeria Medical Center Enugu. Efforts to get the reaction of the State Police Command were not successful as the Command’s spokesman Daniel Ndukwe, did not take his calls as the phone rang out. Meanwhile, a source from the DSS zonal office in Enugu told our correspondent that the service did not have a record of such incident. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com