The National Vice President, South-West, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, Archbishop John Osa-Oni, has berated the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.),  over the security and economic situation in the country. According to him, the economy of Nigeria has collapsed under ‘’this government who came to power on the mantra of change.’’ Osa-Oni said the regime did not tell Nigerians the manner the change would take so they could be wary. In a statement by Osa-Oni sent to Sunday PUNCH, the Christian body stated that many Nigerians could barely live on their income and corruption had become ‘somewhat institutional’. “This government came to power on the mantra of change. Perhaps, what it did not tell millions of Nigerians while it was campaigning for change is the manner the change would take. “We observe that virtually all economic indices are not friendly at all. The naira keeps going down in value. The purchasing power is growing weaker by the day. “Many Nigerians can barely live on their income. This is the reason corruption has become somewhat institutional. A lot of workers now take advantage of their offices to exploit fellow Nigerians. The clerk in the office asks for a bribe before he can lift a file. “The gateman wants to be bribed before he performs his duty. The cleaner has an entitlement mentality. Many civil servants are now compromised because of the need to survive. “Recently, many filling stations jacked up the pump price of PMS known as petrol and nobody is saying anything. As we speak, petrol goes for between N200 and N250 in some parts of the country. This is really worrisome. For how long are we going to bear this pain? How long are we going to live with this government of empty promises?” part of the statement read. The PFN, however, begged the regime not to tear the country apart before it left office in 2023. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com