NIGERIA’S weak security system is falling rapidly apart. Exploiting this, terrorists twice attacked the Kaduna International Airport in the eponymous state capital on Saturday. Numbering about 200, the invaders seized the navigation equipment, disrupted flights and openly confronted troops. Before Nigerian Army and Nigerian Air Force troops repelled them, they had inflicted further massive damage to the national psyche. Critically, security has degenerated abysmally in the past seven years under the watch of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Urgent action is required to avoid total state collapse. Nigerians are still in shock. As the President and other members of the ruling All Progressives Congress were cavorting in Abuja at their party’s convention, audacious terrorists struck at the Kaduna airport, 188 kilometres away. They attacked first around 12 am; repelled, they returned hours later in greater numbers. They occupied the runway, hijacked the airport’s flight system and confronted military troops. They shot a Nigerian Airspace Management Agency official to death. Although terrorists have carried out major attacks in the past on the UN Headquarters complex in Abuja, and in Kano, and kidnapped hundreds of schoolchildren across the North, a major attack on an airport by so-called “bandits” is unprecedented. It strongly advertises Nigeria as a failing state. If the first attack was surprising, the second was completely inexcusable. It calls to question the capacity of the security agencies, especially the police, military and the State Security Service to secure strategic assets, lives and property. Since the state has been under severe security stress, including almost daily raids by bandits and Fulani militia, and an attack in August last year on the Nigerian Defence Academy, where two officers were killed and another kidnapped, the security agencies have no excuse for being caught napping again. They have to explain how about 200 bandits were able to move across long distances on 70 to 80 motorcycles right up to the airport undetected and un-intercepted. Is there no 24-hour surveillance/patrol/intelligence system in a state under siege by criminals? Buhari, a retired major general, continues living in denial; he refuses to take charge. Yet, the country is facing its worst security challenge ever. In July 2021, self-styled bandits brought down a military Alpha jet in the Zamfara/Kaduna states’ border. Surprisingly, the military did not react with the expected ferocity against the insurgents. The feeble response emboldened the terror agents to attack the NDA the following month. Under Buhari, not even the military is safe. The airport breach rekindles widespread fear that Nigeria is on the brink. Kaduna is home to major military and other security institutions. From the Army’s 1 Mechanised Division, to the Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji, NDA, the NA Training Depot, Zaria to the Nigerian Military School also in Zaria, and the Air Force Institute of Technology to the Nigerian Army School of Artillery in Kachia, the state is a virtual fortress. There are also the SSS Training Academy, the NAF Flying Training School and a police college. Ordinarily, these formations should offer a sense of protection to their immediate communities. Apart from the airport attack, terrorists/bandits and Fulani herdsmen have wreaked untold devastation there. At least 94 persons died in Kaura and Giwa local government areas from attacks in the past week. Over 100 others were abducted. The Kaduna State Government Security Tracker reported 323 deaths and 949 abductions in first quarter 2021. Amnesty International said at least 78 people were killed and 160 abducted by bandits between July 3 and August 5, 2021, including 121 schoolchildren. The Council on Foreign Relations estimates that terrorists slaughtered 5,067 Nigerians in 2021, with Kaduna and Zamfara recording the highest casualties. Fatally, many things have gone wrong. With a clueless President perpetually abdicating his responsibility, analysts fear that things will likely get worse. The terrorists, having succeeded in the airport, could one day storm a government house. This was the modus operandi of the Taliban, culminating in its takeover of the Afghanistan government last August. Nigeria might not be too far off from a similar scenario. Undoubtedly, it is not only the single police structure that has failed so abjectly. Along with it, the intelligence and the military components of security system have been incompetent. The SSS is hectically chasing shadows. It believes wrongly that hounding journalists and self-determination agitators, and regime critics is its raison d’être. These do not constitute existential threats to Nigeria; it is the bandits, Fulani militants and terrorists that un-neutralised could destroy the tottering union in due course. On its part, the military has been significantly weakened, over-stretched by ongoing internal security operations in the 36 states and the FCT. Terrorists are exploiting this weakness. Nigerians are toying with their destiny. Uncaring and utterly selfish, the politicians are preoccupied with the 2023 elections, while the country is literarily crumbling. To stave off the coming ruin, weighty voices should demand action from the Buhari regime. Following the 9/11 terror attacks and the security failures they exposed, the United States immediately reformed its security apparatus. After President George Bush announced the war on terror, legislation by Congress created the Department of Homeland Security. This “represented the largest restructuring of the US government in contemporary history,” said analysts. Nigeria needs to urgently reform its security system. States should take up the challenge by organising well-armed security outfits to complement the inadequate and failing federal agencies. This war must be intelligence-led and technology-driven. The SSS must shape up; the military should protect its own infrastructure. The Nigerian security system is in its death throes. Buhari should face the bandits’ rapine head-on; overhaul the military hierarchy and replace incompetent commanders. Airports and other critical public assets should be secured. The SSS should direct itself more towards effective intelligence gathering. Police officers attached illegally to VIPs should be withdrawn and deployed in field operations. The National Assembly should exigently invoke the ‘doctrine of necessity’ to facilitate state police. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com