A professor of African Studies and the Jacob and Frances Sanger Mossiker Chair in the Humanities at the University of Texas at Austin, Prof. Toyin Falola, has advised that technical students should be allowed to observe a three-month practical apprenticeship with roadside artisans. Falola who was the guest lecturer at the Federal College Of Education (Technical) Akoka-Lagos, public lecture, titled, ‘Technology, Technical Education, Culture And Society,’ said this would help students to learn the basics in the skills & knowledge of the practical side of the business. “There is a need to emphasise local entrepreneurship. I want to suggest, however, an emphasis by higher education leadership on three months practical technical education/apprenticeship for students with roadside artisans (welders, mechanics, saw millers, etc.). The aim is to get students to learn the basics in the skills & knowledge of the practical side of the business.” Falola also told African leaders to have developmental mindsets. He said, “African government should prioritise development. Without that, we are wasting our time with other recommendations. No nation or people will make significant societal progress with consciously planning for it, and providing the enabling environment, policies, incentives, strategies and pathways for development. Individuals may prosper in the current state of affairs, but as a  nation and as a continent, a developmental mindset is needed to move us to   the promised land.” Provost of FCT (Technical) Dr Wahab Azeez, in his remark, said that the public lecture aimed at bringing knowledgeable and key personalities to support the college in academic and technical areas of focus. “The Governing Council and Management of the College have attracted one of the best brains in the world which justifies the importance of this lecture and we have both physical and virtual audience. Founder/Chief Executive Officer of Omooba Yemisi Adedoyin Shyllon Museum of Arts of Pan-African University, Lekki, Lagos, Mr Yemisi Shyllon, was Chairman of the event. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com