The Redeemed Christian Church of God on Saturday, March 5, 2022, commissioned a tourist centre in the Redemption Camp, Mowe, Ogun State. The commissioning was part of activities to mark the 80th birthday celebration of the General Overseer of the church, Pastor Enoch Adeboye. The proposed tourist centre, according to the planning committee, would be opened to people across the world who are interested in tourism. The Executive Lead of the committee, Pastor Felix Makanjuola said, “The infrastructure coming to the new City of God include an eco-friendly neighbourhood, a world-class medical centre, a wedding garden, a Christian mediation and meditation centre, a freshwater baptismal centre, a memorial garden, sporting facilities, gymnasium, a five-star hospitality accommodation, museum of faith and restaurants. It will also have standard shopping malls, effective transport network, and uninterrupted electricity and water supply. “We congratulate our esteemed Daddy GO and Mummy GO (Foluke Adeboye) for the grace to see a day like this. We felicitate our coach, mentor and teacher on the occasion of his 80th birthday. We wish him more grace and anointing. “The vision for the Redemption City of God was conceived at the 2019 Solemn Assembly when Daddy GO asked us to pray for our purpose in RCCG and in God’s kingdom at a time like this. The Lord then gave me a clear word that it was time to activate the city that he had given to his son, Pastor Adeboye.” Emphasising that the project would be a tourism booster, Makanjuola said, “It is my humble declaration that this tourism project would metamorphose into a Nigerian national project envisioned by the RCCG Missionary Movement.” Some of the guests at the event were a member of the RCCG Board of Trustees, Elder Gbadebo Lawal; gospel singer, Dupe Olulana; Pastor Johnson Odesola, Pastor Obayemi and Pastor Sola Oludoyi.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com