Gunmen have killed one Fwangshak Plang, identified as the step brother of the Special Adviser on Public Affairs to the Plateau State Governor, Diket Plang, in the Pankshin Local Government Area of the state. The late Plang was said to have been fatally wounded when the assailants, suspected to be kidnappers, invaded Takas village on Friday night. A resident in the community, Solomon Dickson, told our correspondent on Saturday that the attacker stormed the home of the governor’s aide and abducted his stepmother and a girl. Dickson added that the late Plang who had been asleep was woken up by the noise in the compound and was attacked when he came out to see what was going on. “It was last night (Friday) that the gunmen came and attacked the house of Diket Plang, who is a special adviser to the governor. When they (kidnappers) arrived at his house in Takas that night, the governor’s aide was not in the house at the time. So, they broke into the apartment where his stepmother and a young girl staying with her were sleeping and abducted them. “So, the step-brother, Fwangshak Plang, who was woken up by the noise in the compound from another apartment where he was sleeping came out to know what was happening. The kidnappers, on sighting him, attacked him and wounded him badly. “Unfortunately this morning, (Saturday), he just died from the injury inflicted on him. As I’m talking to you, we have not seen the stepmother of the governor’s aide and the young girl staying with her since they were taken away by the kidnappers last night. And we don’t know where they have taken them to. The incident is really very unfortunate,” he said. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Ubah Ogaba, could not be reached as of the time of filing this report as he did not respond to phone calls. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com