The House of Representatives, on Wednesday, urged the Federal Government to investigate the circumstances surrounding the death of 22-year-old Oluwabamise Ayanwole, who got missing after boarding a Bus Rapid Transit vehicle in Lagos State. Her corpse was later found in the Ebute Ero area of the state. Particularly, the House urged “the Federal Government of Nigeria through the Nigeria Police Force and the national security intelligence to fast track the investigations and ensure that her killers are brought to justice.” The House also mandated its Committees on Police Affairs and National Security and Intelligence to ensure compliance with the resolution, while the lawmakers observed a minute silence in honour of the deceased. The resolutions were sequel to the unanimous adoption of a motion of urgent public importance moved by the Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu, titled, ‘Rampant Cases of Violence, Incessant Rape and Ritual Killing of our Women Folks: A Call for Urgent Intervention.’ Elumelu said, “The House notes with serious concerns the rising cases of violence, incessant rape and ritual killing of female Nigerians by criminally-minded persons in various parts of the country.” He noted that the trend was becoming “alarming, worrisome and, therefore, the need for urgent reaction.” The lawmaker said the attacks were hindering national productivity as they affected people in the productive age group who had to deal with the negative physical and psychological consequences of the vice. He said in the last six weeks, “many incidents have occurred that have made headlines,” adding that the recent was that of Oluwabamise. Elumelu said, “The House is further disturbed that many of these cases are under-reported because of the stigma attached to such incidents and the molestation attached to it by security agents when such reports are made. “The House is worried that according to the Nigeria Stability and Reconciliation Program, approximately 80 million Nigerian women and girls are victims of gender-based violence, which in turn fosters the spread of sexually transmitted diseases such as HIV, lack of self-confidence of victims and in most recent cases, death.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com