Elders of Akwa Ibom state under the auspices of Ibom Patriots have threatened to work against any governorship aspirants found making inciteful comments capable of jeopardizing the prevailing peaceful atmosphere in the state. They said they would resist every move by politicians to take the state back to the inglorious days of politically-motivated assassinations and kidnappings which dotted the political landscape between 2007 and 2015. Chancellor of the group, Obong Bassey Inuaeyen said this while addressing journalists in Uyo on Tuesday. “We urge political office seekers to moderate their utterances so as not to heat up the polity. We also advise them to advise their followers to conduct themselves with decorum and maintain peace. “If the motive is to serve our people then no one should intimidate anyone, insult opponents or prevent others from the ongoing electioneering consultations. “The history of politically-motivated violence and assassinations is a closed chapter that the state must not, cannot, and should not reopen, not now, not ever. “We remember the atmosphere of fear and insecurity that enveloped the state. We remember our mothers, fathers, sons, and daughters who were kidnapped, maimed, or in most cases killed most gruesomely. We remember how it was difficult to move freely about in our state”, he said. The chancellor warned the youths to shun petty monetary enticements and inducements from politicians who want to use them to cause mayhem ahead of the elections. “We don’t want to cause violence and turn away investors who would guarantee employment opportunities for the youths, he said. He disclosed that elders of the state under its platform have joined in endorsing Pastor Umo Eno as the next governor of the state adding “We believe that with Umo Eno after Governor Udom Emmanuel, the future is assured, our youths and rural areas shall continue to be the focus. “We believe that the developmental strides already started by Governor Udom Emmanuel shall be continued, the peace and safety we enjoy shall not cease”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com