EMTECH, a fintech company for central banks and regulators, and Global Infoswift Consulting have launched FINREG Learn, a capacity-building programme to empower financial services regulators and players in navigating the fintech and financial inclusion boom on the continent. According to the firms, the programme will cover three core and interrelated areas, Central Bank Digital Currency, Regulatory Sandbox Framework, and API & Open Banking. In a statement, the Executive Director, EMTECH, Africa, Tunji Odumuboni, said, “‘FINREG Learn’ focuses on the implications of financial technology and regulatory innovation on the future of money and payments. “That’s why the agenda covers topics such as ensuring consumer protection, mitigating cybersecurity risks, AML risks, balancing financial inclusion with financial stability objectives in the regulatory sandbox framework, and bridging the regulator and innovator data and language barriers with APIs.” According to the firms, the programme will enable regulators to create regulatory environments that promote innovative products to market faster and safely while delivering modern digital financial services infrastructure for universal financial inclusion and financial market resilience. The founder and CEO, EMTECH, Carmelle Cadet, said, “African central banks and regulators are moving forward with their innovation and digitisation efforts to build resilient and stable financial markets across the continent, and in today’s world, there is a crucial need for collaboration and regulatory innovation to enable successful and sound outcomes that will impact more than one billion Africans across the continent.” Founder and CEO, Global InfoSwift Consulting (GIC) Limited, Afolabi Oke, added, “We are excited to welcome senior financial regulation and financial service professionals’ registrations via finreglearn.org. “The programme is designed with those involved in areas such as policy and regulation, strategy, innovation, compliance, risk management, IT, financial market infrastructure policy and oversight and payments management in mind.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com