GLOBAL Citizen, an advocacy organisation, has launched a campaign aimed at addressing the issue of poverty in Nigeria and other countries of the world. According to the firm, the year-long campaign, tagged ‘End Extreme Poverty NOW – Our Future Can’t Wait’, will focus on empowering adolescent girls across the world, breaking systemic barriers that keep people trapped in poverty, and taking climate actions now. In a statement, the non-governmental organization said the campaign was supported by the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations, Amina Mohammed; President of the Republic of South Africa, Cyril Ramaphosa; President of Ghana, Nana Akufo-Addo; President of the Republic of Zambia, Hakainde Hichilema; Nigeria’s Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama; Minister of Environment of Rwanda, Dr Jeanne Mujawamariya; Former Executive Director of UN Women, Dr Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka; and presidents of nations around the world. Announcing support for the campaign, Ramaphosa said, “We join Global Citizen in continuing our stewardship to ensure a better world and future for all. “The past two years have highlighted the devastating impact on humanity when we choose individual goals over the global good. Together, we have to take concrete actions that will create a better future for our planet and its people, now.” The Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder of Global Citizen, Hugh Evans, said, “The global agenda to end extreme poverty, defend the planet and tackle inequity is in peril. And despite progress in a few countries before COVID-19 hit, the world was and continues to be wildly off-track from the 2030 target. “This moment of crisis demands new urgency and a renewal of purpose. We need a new compact built on mutual trust and respect – one that lifts up the voices of the people whose lives depend on its success and who suffer from its failure. An agenda built by and with them, to a timeframe set by those who understand all too well that every lost minute is a whole new tragedy.” While reacting, Onyeama was quoted as saying, “It is alarming to learn that even during the Covid pandemic, the very rich have been getting richer and the very poor, poorer. This is untenable and a threat to the future of mankind. Global Citizen is right, we must be our brothers’ keepers. We must act right now!” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com