Nigerian Low-code development company RadSystems has announced free release of USD 40k worth of its software license to developers and institutions in countries receiving immigrants from Ukraine. In light of the ongoing war in Ukraine which began on the 24th of February 2022, which has led to the total destruction of lives and properties of the people of Ukraine, Radsystems has decided to release 100 free developer licenses for to developers/ programmers in the various countries receiving immigrants. This is to express their sheer solidarity with the people of Ukraine and the rest of the world as the communal fight to end the despicable invasion happening in Ukraine. Radsystems owns the infamous low-code/ no code software PHPRad (phprad.com) and RadSystems studio which includes these lines of product packages- PHPRad, PYRad, NodeRad, ASPRad- robust integrated development environment tool and Low-code software that facilitates rapid application development process. In a tweet from the managing director Radsystems @humphreyokeke, he announced that the company- Radsystems will be releasing 100 RadSystems Studio license activation keys worth over USD 40,000 for free to developers/ programmers in the receiving European countries like Poland, Hungary, Romania, Greece, Germany etc. who have been humane enough to accept and accommodate all these immigrants whiles caring for them as well. He explained that the release of the software licenses for these developers, is aimed towards enabling them develop applications that will enhance data collection, processing and analysis of these immigrants much faster. This is the second time Radsystems is taking up such a humanitarian assignment upon them to assist people in distress, it could be recalled in the year 2020 during the pandemic, the young Nigerian company- Radsystems gave out over 100 developer licenses to developers from around the world for free, encouraging the ‘Work from Home’ strategy to stop the spread of the virus, and to enhance data collection and statistical activities. He went further to encourage other companies to follow suit, in order to foster assistance to the people of Ukraine and supporting Nations to bring the ongoing catastrophe to an end. Interested developers are advised to write RadSystems through their official website radsystems.io or phprad.com
Radsystems could also be reached through their social media handles; https://web.facebook.com/myradsystems Tweets by myradsystems https://www.instagram.com/myradsystems By. Priscilla Makafui Aklorbortu