A group, Rochas Peoples Movement, on Sunday, asked the leadership of the All Progressives Congress to zone its presidential ticket to the South-East geopolitical zone. In a statement on Sunday, which was issued in Owerri, the Imo State capital, by Chief Njoku Okechukwu, National Coordinator, and Eze Ugochukwu, National Secretary, the group said that it is consensus and patriotic for the APC to allow the South-East zone the opportunity to produce the next president of the country. The group said that Nigeria currently needs a president that can unite the country, create wealth by engaging jobless youths and who can care for the weak and indigent ones in the society. The statement read “We, the members of ROCHAS PEOPLES MOVEMENT, with strong belief in Equity and Justice, have met and deliberated extensively on the ongoing political debates, with regard to the 2023 presidential election. “As you are all aware, the issue of the Presidency in Nigeria come 2023 has remained a major discussion in all the media spaces within Nigeria, as to geopolitical which zone the next President of the country should come from. “As those who stand for Equity and Justice, we wish to state as follows: “It is a consensus of patriotic Nigerians that the Igbos should be given a sense of belonging this time and avoid any political action that would make them feel as if they are not part and parcel of the Nigerian Nation. “We call for support for Nigerian President of South-East extraction which we hereby endorse. “It is, however, important to address the mood of the Nation to what type of leadership it deserves come 2023. “We are all aware of our present situation in the country and all efforts been made by the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration, particularly as it affects the nation’s life, VIZ; “Security of lives and property, Dwindling Economy, Youth Restiveness, Separatist Action, Hate and tribalism, Corruption and Selfishness, Out of school children and illiteracy, High level of poverty, High level of blood-shedding amongst others. “The question before us today is, therefore, what do Nigerians want and what kind of President do we need as a people?. We, as a Movement have identified three major problems of Nigeria today as follows: “Who can unite us as a people to stop these deadly agitations? Who can create wealth for our Nation and engage our jobless youths to address the issue of insurgence/criminality? Who will care for the weak and indigent in our society, the poor, and the needy?. A man or woman of generous spirit. This is why, we have, for over two years now, searched for a person with proven track record who can address these key issues. “We have also asked ourselves questions as to why our nation is not moving as expected and why Nigeria today is addressed as the poverty capital of the world. Why despite our God-given natural and human resources, we are still called a Third World nation. “All these have made us to review the antecedents of those aspiring to lead us in 2023. But this is not also to say that our leaders in the past did not do well or they failed our nation, but there are certain qualifications needed now under the present world situation for Nigeria and Africa at large to catch up. “Who then can unite us now as a people in 2023 and whose antecedents show a detribalised Nigerian. Most of our leaders seeking for the Office of President in 2023 are mostly regional or ethnic champions who promote only one tribe or religion with no record of investment or empowerment of people other than their tribe or religion, except for their political allies. “After a thorough analysis of all possible Presidential aspirants, we found one Nigerian, luckily from the South-East, Owelle Anayo Rochas Okorocha, as a true Nigerian, a detribalised Nigerian. “Though an Igbo man but also loved in the North and West, though a Christian but has more Moslems in his companies and Foundation. According to Maitama Sule, “Rochas is uniting Nigeria through his foundation”. “Today, Rochas foundation is found in all the geo-political zones and states of Nigeria namely Sokoto, Kano, Yola, Jos, Bauchi, Ibadan, Enugu, Owerri, Ogboko, Calabar and Zaria. There is no Presidential aspirant today with such track record of uniting the people despite the ongoing IPOB saga and other secessionist activities.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com