***slams EFCC over maltreatment of Obiano The National Working Committee of All Progressives Grand Alliance has flagged off the process for the 2023 general elections with the sale of Nomination and Expression of Interest forms slated to commence on Tuesday next week. A communique issued by APGA after its National Executive Council meeting, signed by its national chairman, Victor Oye, and National Secretary, Labaran Maku, said the sale and return of Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms would be between March 29 and April 11, 2022, at the national secretariat in Abuja The party also announced that the screening of National Assembly prospective aspirants would hold between April 20 and 21, 2022, while the screening of Presidential and governorship aspirants would hold between April 22 – 23, 2022. According to the communique, female aspirants and aspirants living with disability shall pay only 50 per cent of the fees stipulated for both the Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms. Meanwhile, the leadership of APGA has paid a glowing tribute to the immediate past Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano, for uncommon performance in eight years of his administration in the state. The NEC also condemned the unprofessional conduct of the operatives of the Economic and Financial Crime Commission, when the former Governor was under its custody. The communique reads, “The NEC commended former Governor Willie Obiano for a brilliant job done in Anambra State in the past eight years of his meritorious service to the state. “The NEC noted that former Governor Willie Obiano had rendered people-oriented service to the people of Anambra State, having left behind an unprecedented number of legacy projects in the state, some of which included the building of an International Cargo/Passenger Airport of global acclaim, a 13,000-seater International Convention Center that is the largest in the entire country, and a stadium of international rating. “The NEC, therefore, condemned in strong terms the unprofessional treatment meted out to the former governor by the operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. “The NEC is of the considered and firm view that given the constitutional presumption of innocence, suspects must be treated with respect and dignity until pronounced guilty by a Court of competent jurisdiction. “Hence, the NEC urged EFCC to eschew media trial, conviction by propaganda and imbibe the tenets of rule of law and fair hearing in the handling of allegations against former public office holders.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com