Less than twelve months from today, Nigerians would have gone to the polls to decide on the next set of rulers or leaders to steer, hopefully, the sinking ship of the country to safety. The journey to the presidential lodge in Abuja and various state houses has started with many politicians declaring their interests to contest in the next elections. It is normal to see many politicians jostling for positions of authority particularly elective offices and it is the duty of the electorates to choose amongst them based on some evident criteria. We must resume developing the criteria for the advancement of democracy and electoral processes. This started some years ago when debates amongst presidential or governorship candidates were introduced. The presidential debate between Chief M.K.O. Abiola and Alhaji Bashir Tofa (now late), and between their vice-presidential candidates, was partly instrumental in shaping that election and its outcome in 1993. In the presidential debate of 2014, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) did not participate in the main debate and the electorate could not pin him down to any statement either on behalf of his party or for himself. Of course, the party and the candidate knew they could take the electorate for granted. The party also knew that most Nigerians were looking for a way out of insecurity, corruption and economic recession that pervaded the environment at that time (even now) and had the right candidate to present. After all, they knew votes would only count to some extent. Votes and voting hardly count in Nigeria. Albeit, we need to move towards rectifying this anomaly. If electronic voting takes full roots in our electoral processes, rigging will be minimised and votes will definitely count. For the forthcoming general elections, we should take a step forward towards setting criteria for candidates seeking to lead us. Chief Obafemi Awolowo was reported as relying on research outputs in preparation for elections and even in making comments on the economy. Some of my teachers were involved in the preparation of the campaign documents he used for the 1979 and 1983 elections. Apart from the Unity Party of Nigeria’s political manifesto, which provided broad guidelines of the programmes it intended to pursue over the course of some years, the presidential candidate, and in that case, Chief Awolowo had a more detailed document on current socio-economic and political problems with proposed solutions. One can recall that in 1982, or thereabout, Chief Awolowo warned the Federal Government of NPN that based on the report before him, the country’s ship was heading towards hitting a rock and something had to be done quickly. He was called the Prophet of Doom and many unprinted names. Three months later, the economy was in recession! I understand that it had been Chief Awolowo’s style even at the elections before Nigeria’s independence in 1960 to prepare personal election documents on the political economy of the nation. As campaigns were going on, he would be releasing facts and figures from the document to convince the electorates of his preparedness and readiness to serve. But Nigeria was not a knowledge based political environment to make such efforts count. When I was campaigning for election in the student union in my undergraduate days at the University of Benin, I adopted that method and it worked because of the environment. During the campaign, I was tagged ‘LIG,’ meaning Low Income Group candidate. That was our slang for low profile, irrelevant or ‘non-starter’ and inconsequential candidates. Of course, I was a poor student who just thought he had something to offer. Some of my friends, who believed in me, printed about 50 posters which were distributed on the two campuses of the University. For most part of the campaign period, I was wearing a white vest with the inscription of the position I was vying for. The inscription was done with a waterproof marker. However, I was not totally strange. Some students knew me through campus journalism and my criticism of the then outgoing Students’ Executive (not Students Union Government like today) but that was not a guarantee for winning elections. Finance really served as a constraint to my movement and campaign. I was truly LIG. The Manifesto Night changed everything when I started reeling out figures on tables and chairs in the cafeteria, the shortages and how we would take care of such. I told them about the number of standing fans we would need in the central library since the air conditioners were not working. Before I finished with all my statistics, the students were already shouting AWO! AWO!  It was a landslide victory for a LIG candidate but that was not unconnected with the fact that a university environment is always knowledge based and that method was appreciated. Let me save you the details of my service or more appropriately, leave the assessment of my tenure to the people I served. I was remotely involved in Chief Moshood Abiola’s economic blueprint for Hope ‘93. I was merely co-opted to supply data and present a two-page writeup by one of my professors who was deeply involved in Nigeria’s project based on patriotism. Apart from Chief Abiola’s Social Democratic Party’s manifesto, he had about three volumes of write ups on how to move Nigeria forward. At the presidential debate between him and Alhaji Tofa, it was clear that one candidate was more attuned with Nigeria’s problems than the other. That was the last time I knew or heard that a presidential or governorship candidate had a personal document on Nigeria’s problems and probable solutions. The current precarious situation in Nigeria calls for some level of seriousness in the choice of leadership. Political aspirants at all levels, particularly for the positions of president and governor, must show some in-depth level of understanding of the country’s problems and the solutions to those problems. At the presidential and governorship debates, the candidates should bring their economic blueprint to the table. We need candidates that are very much concerned about and prepared to change the fortune of Nigeria for the better. The National Assembly recently, and rightly, upgraded the education requirements of candidates for a number of elective positions. This is indicative of the need to upgrade general requirements or demands from those who will henceforth put themselves forward to serve the country. Preparation for elective office does not include how many times a candidate has aspired or put himself/herself forward but the ability to articulate existing problems and ways to tackle the same with some timeline. Any candidate that keeps away from debate should be regarded as unprepared and has no respect for democracy. An economic blueprint does not necessarily mean a document on economic issues only but can contain social and political issues as well. It can as well carry a related title but it is more like a mini national or state development plan detailing problems in various sectors of an economy, evaluating the potentials of each sector and identifying opportunities in the sectors for solving the problems. So asking for an economic blueprint from a potential candidate for a position does not imply printing a pamphlet on intentions. More appropriately, however, the candidates must be conversant with the workings of the Nigerian political economy within the context of national and international perspectives. From the blueprint, no one should be left in doubt as to the prospect of competence of the candidates in tackling current socio-economic and political problems as well as emerging locally and internationally induced problems. It is not enough to pray that 2023 elections should be a watershed to bad governance, rather, those who matter such as the civil societies or the non-governmental organisations, the academia and other elite associations owe it a duty to rescue Nigeria from this decline into abyss. Thus, all hands must be on deck from now onward.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com