The All Farmers Association of Nigeria on Saturday lauded the Federal Government for banning direct sales of farm produce involving indigenous farmers and foreign nationals. According to a press statement issued by AFAN’s National Publicity Secretary Muhammed Magaji, the ban would help reduce processes where farmers were short-changed, adding that the government’s position had been the desire of association over the years. AFAN noted that the latest decision of government would solve myriads of issues affecting food sufficiency in the country, as well as block wastages of resources which contributed to losses faced by farmers. The statement partly read, “As you are all aware. the Federal Government has banned any direct purchase of farm produce involving indigenous farmers, and foreign nationals, this has been the position of our great association. “This stand was taken to protect our farmers from being short-changed and therefore direct all foreign nationals to go through license locals to do business with our cherished members ( the farmers). “In view of this, the All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), wishes to appreciate the Federal Government for banning any direct purchase of farm produce involving indigenous farmers and foreign nationals.” While commending the Federal Government’s current efforts AFAN urged CBN to support the association with loans towards attaining food security, to curtail farmers from falling prey to foreign entreaties. “AFAN is seeking for an intervention of the Federal Government through the Central Bank of Nigeria/ Bank of Agriculture to avail our members with harvest loans to enable harvest their crops with ease without being forced to dispose their produce to these foreign national out of scarcity of funds at the period of harvest,” Magaji added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com