As the National Convention of the All Progressives Congress draws near, Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, has cautioned stakeholders and members of the party in the state against making provocative statements that could overheat the polity. Speaking on Wednesday in Lafia at the inauguration ceremony of the State Executive Committee of the APC, Sule said it was important for members of the party to guide their utterances because two former governors of the state, Abdullahi Adamu and Umaru Al-Makura were contesting for the national chairmanship of the party. He said, “Do not destroy the party simply because you think you cannot get what you are looking for. Anyone who does things to destroy the party is not a democrat. So, members should put the interest of the party against their personal interest”. “Senator Adamu and Senator Al-Makura are vying for the national chairmanship of the party and the both them are eminently qualified and have the capacity to lead the party to victory in 2023,” he added. While urging the newly inaugurated officials to settle down and mobilize the people towards the success of the party in the forthcoming 2023 general elections, Sule expressed gratitude to party stakeholders in the state for their support during the recent visit of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), who inaugurated some federal and state governments’ projects in the state. Earlier, the APC Chairman in the state, John Mamman, who spoke for the newly sworn-in officials, expressed gratitude to the governor and other stakeholders for their relentless support, and promised to operate an open-door policy while assuring that the leadership of the party would lobby other states to support Nasarawa state for the national chairmanship position. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com