The Aragbiji of Iragbiji, Oba Abdulrasheed Olabomi, on Wednesday, accused Osun State Commissioner of Police, Wale Olokode, and Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone XI, Joseph Gobum, of shielding an anti-riot police operative, Adamu Garba, and others allegedly involved in the killing of one Saheed Olabomi in Osogbo. Oba Olabomi, who spoke to newsmen in his palace in Iragbiji, also accused the Commandant MOPOL Base 39, Osogbo, Sebastian Moorkwa, of frustrating efforts by the family of the deceased to get justice. The monarch also said since July 27, 2021, when the deceased was shot around the Oke Onitii area, Osogbo, efforts at ensuring that Garba and others involved were tried by the police through an orderly room trial, had failed. He added that though family members of the deceased were made to believe that Garba had been dismissed and that he would be prosecuted, “for more than six months, the suspects were not arraigned. Our family had to seek take-over of the matter by the state. “Yet, it took several months before the file could be released to the ministry. On inquiry, it was discovered that the AIG, Gobum, was said to have been pressured by the Commandant MOPOL 39, Moorkwap to subvert justice and exonerate a murder suspect in a celebrated murder case. “On behalf of the Olabomi family of Iragbiji, I hereby call on President Muhammadu Buhari to kindly intervene in an attempt to bury a clear case of murder all because the perpetrator is a police personnel. “I also call on the Inspector General of Police, Mr Usman Baba, to direct the AIG Zone XI and his other co-travellers to revisit the matter and allow justice to take its full course on the culprits.” When contacted for reaction, the spokesperson of the state police command, Yemisi Opalola, however, denied allegations that police leadership was shielding the suspects, saying after the incident, Garba was arrested and detained for almost one month, during which he was subjected to orderly room trial. “The policeman was dismissed by the Osun State Police Command. But he appealed against his dismissal at the higher level. Such appeal is allowed as it falls within his right. “We urge the family of the deceased to be patient and allow the policeman exhaust his right of appeal. Justice will be served,” Opalola said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com