Sokoto State Governor and Presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Aminu Tambuwal, has said Nigerians must not experiment with someone who does not understand the intricacies of governance. This comes after he promised to give special recognition to women in his presidency. Tambuwal who spoke with a forum of former Deputy governors in the PDP on Thursday evening in Abuja lamented that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) despite his background as former Minister and former Head of State has failed to unite the country along ethnic and religious lines. This, he said, necessitated the election of a unifying leader in 2023. The former Speaker, House of Representatives, said he is in the race because he has a track record that places him ahead of other aspirants. He also noted that the 2023 election should not be used to compensate any aspirant or reward loyalty but to rewrite the history of the country for good. “This is a time that Nigerians must not experiment with someone who does not understand democratic governance. “It is important that we are doing this exercise of selecting who is going to be the standard flag bearer of our party, we must deliberately seek out someone that understands this country, someone who has been tested in democratic governance, appreciating how to run a federal government. “We cannot afford to have another president that will be more in the villa without connecting with the people, engaging the people and finding local solutions to local problems”. On zoning, the Presidential hopeful said geography must not blind the party to competence and capacity. “This is a time that we must all be wise, that we must reduce as much as possible the quantum of sentiments that we have in our thought process. This is a time that requires a lot of sober reflection and patriotism. “We need a higher dosage of patriotism and pan Nigerianness for us to de-emphasize those issues that divide us.  We must all shield our swords and be talking about Nigeria, its unity, its stability, its forwardness. “The President, coming from your state, coming from your home, coming from your village may not make any meaning as long as he lacks the competence, the capacity and basic understanding of fairness, equity, inclusivity in leadership,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com