The Director, Medical Laboratory Services, Ekiti State Hospital Management Board, Prince Adebayo Adesanmi, on Thursday, emerged as the monarch-elect of Ogotun Ekiti in the Ogotun/Igbara Odo Local Council Development Area of Ekiti State. There was heavy security personnel presence in the area to ensure a smooth and hitch-free election of the traditional ruler. The security agents, who were on assignment at the Ologotun palace, venue of the election, included men of the Nigerian Army, the Nigeria Police Force, Department of State Services, Amotekun Corps, Peace Corps and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps. Tension enveloped the community as the indigenes, who thronged the palace to witness the process, waited for the announcement of the Ologotun-elect to fill the stool vacated on September 26, 2021, by the late Oba Oladapo Oyebade. However, Adesanmi, who is from the Ojopekun ruling house, emerged victorious among the six contenders to a loud applause by the people. He garnered seven votes, while two other aspirants, Prince Adekunle Adeyeye and Prof Jide Oluwajuyitan, got two votes each. The Ologotun-elect, who thanked the kingmakers and the community for choosing him as their ruler, said he would strive to take the town to higher heights by attracting development, creating the enabling environment for growth and ensuring security of lives and property. “My vision for the town is unity, peace and progress. I want the people of the town to unite. I want peace to reign in the town and I want the progress of the town. I want to advise my good people that they should allow peace to reign, because it is in the atmosphere of peace that development can take place,” Adesanmi stated. The Ologotun-elect, who lauded the smooth selection process, which he said was transparent and devoid of government interference, urged other communities to take a cue from the orderly succession process in Ogotun Ekiti. While assuring the Ogotun people of adequate security during his reign through quarter-based security groups and sensitisation, Adesanmi called on the state and federal governments to step up efforts on security to make life better for Nigerians. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com