The Managing Director, Leadway Assurance Company Limited, Mr Tunde Hassan-Odukale, says the critical role women play in the organisation has helped to advance the company’s vision and performance in the African insurance marketplace. A statement from the firm quoted him as saying this during the 2022 International Women’s Day celebration. He said, “Women in our organisation form the most vital nucleus of our core values, strategy formulation, innovation, governance structure, business continuity model and superior customer service delivery. “These values have been the DNA, or dare say, the secret of our exemplary corporate existence and globally celebrated performance. The indisputable reality is that our women are the centrepiece of our strategic importance.” He said the entire leadership of Leadway Assurance strongly aligns with this year’s theme of the International Women’s Day of “Breaking the bias”. The managing director said, “It is essential that organisations like ours eliminate management and operational structures, toxic corporate culture and HR practices that remotely allow bias against women in the workplace. “Even with the appropriate structures in place, it is equally important to continuously re-evaluate policies and consistently build internal awareness to check against unconscious bias against women from the board level cascading towards the entry hierarchy. “We must realise, as leaders, that the workplace is complexly dynamic and continually evolving, especially in the 21st century where we have three sets of generational talents; with parallel orientation, beliefs, value system and expression, coexisting, interacting and working together. “These complexities with limited intersections may create room for relationship friction, therefore today’s leaders must be mindful of creating a work environment with zero tolerance towards every form of discrimination, especially against women.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com