Nyima Nwagua scored against his former employers Kano Pillars, as Rivers United ran off with a 1-0 win at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium in Kaduna, while Plateau United ensured they kept the pressure on the leaders after recording a 2-0 win at Lobi Stars at the Aper Aku Stadium, Makurdi in their match-day 16 fixtures. Rivers needed to consolidate their position on top of the league table but faced a difficult task against four-time champions Pillars. After 70 minutes of play, Nwagua, who left Sai Masu Gida at the start of the 2021/22 season, provided the goal that handed his new owners the maximum point as they kept their lead at the top of the table. Second-place Plateau United recorded their seventh win in eight games, with a 2-0 win over Lobi Stars. Chimezie Izuchukwu opened the scoring in the 32nd minute, while Albert Hilary’s 90th-minute goal ensured there was no comeback for the hosts. In Aba, Enyimba returned to winning ways with a hard-fought 2-1 win over Remo Stars. Victor Mbaoma put the eight-time NPFL champions in front in the 37th minute, his fourth goal of the season, while Ekene Awazie added the second in the 49th minute. Remo got one back in the 70th minute after Junior Nduka converted from the penalty spot, but their search for an equaliser proved fruitless. After their embarrassing 3-0 loss to Plateau United in their match-day 15 fixture, champions Akwa United proved too strong for visiting Wikki Tourists with a 2-0 win. The Promise Keepers scored both goals in one minute through Adam Yakubu and Leo Ezekiel in the 49th and 50th minutes. In other games, Katsina United demolished struggling Dakkada FC 4-1, while Michael Tochukwu’s 64th-minute goal salvaged a point for Nasarawa United, who played out a 1-1 draw with Kwara United. The visitors had taken the lead in the 19th minute through Alao Danbani. In Ijebu-Ode, Sunshine Stars beat Heartland 3-1, handing Erasmus Onuh his first loss since taking over the Naze Millionaires. MFM FC continued their survival push with a 1-1 draw at Niger Tornadoes, the Olukoya Boys are unbeaten in their last four league games. In Ibadan, Chinedu Enuademu rescued a point for Shooting Stars as they were held 1-1 by Enugu Rangers, who had gone in front through Elijah Ani in the 45th minute.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com