Futureview Group has said emphasis should be placed on diversification of portfolio to maximise return on investment and minimise risk. In a statement, it identified inflationary pressure as a major risk to return on investment across assets classes in its corporate analysis of the current analysis of the Nigerian investor psychology. The statement said at the moment, many investors were apprehensive of the likely impacts of energy crises on the earnings of quoted companies at the end of the first quota this year. This had created another level of uncertainties in investment decision, it said. The Managing Director and Chief Executive Office, Futureview Securities, Ijeoma Amaechi, advised Nigerian investors to focus more on the stocks of companies with strong fundamentals to minimise risks. Amaechi said, “One of the key challenges facing investors in the Nigerian market is inflation. To earn real return on investment, investors need to earn ROI that is higher than inflation which is currently at 15.7 per cent. “This return can be achieved in the stock market because of the low interest rate regime in the fixed income space. “Unfavourable macroeconomic factors as well as uncertainties surrounding pre-election year are also negatively influencing investors’ appetite for risky assets. “Investors should diversify their portfolios and have a mix of risk assets and fixed income assets. The risk assets will provide opportunity for high returns while the fixed income assets will provide buffer against unexpected negative returns from the stock market. It is also noteworthy that investment in mutual funds is a hedge against inflation.” She added, “Investors are advised to invest in stocks of companies with good fundamentals. They should contact stockbrokers for proper analysis of the companies’ financials. “The securities professionals also conduct technical and fundamental analysis to identify underpriced stocks and determine their fair values  as well as the right entry prices that will enhance their return based on the upside potential of the stocks.” She said most investors were either not savvy enough or did not have sufficient time to conduct proper research analysis before investing. “So they are advised to take advantage of the mutual funds managed by professionals that have both the expertise and the time to do proper analysis and make right investment decisions on behalf the investors. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com