…says it’s in PDP constitution, started by founding fathers The debate about power rotation in the 2023 election in Enugu State was on Wednesday put to rest by Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s Special Adviser (Media), Steve Oruoruo, who said the zoning arrangement was started by the forefathers must stand and would not stop. He also said that the rotational governorship was well enshrined in the constitution of the Peoples Democratic Party. According to him, the clarification became necessary against the background of attempts by “a few overzealous politicians to heat up the polity in Enugu State through needless arguments” about the power rotation arrangement “that has not only been in existence in the state, but well enshrined in the constitution of the PDP.” Oruoruo said in Abuja that governor Ugwuanyi was committed to serving Enugu State people who gave him their mandate on two occasions and would not be distracted from his assignment by overzealous politicians. He explained that the governor would continue his programme of quiet infrastructural and human capital development to the end of his term. Oruoruo said it was normal for politicians nursing various ambitions to make spurious claims about their capacity or influence, especially as the 2023 general elections draw near. He said, “The Enugu people know that it has been a tradition to move the governorship from one Senatorial District to another. The power-sharing arrangement was not the making of Governor Ugwuanyi, but that of the founding fathers of the state. “It is possible that some people want to destabilise the government in Enugu State, but as you can see our peace-loving governor has maintained his focus. Notable leaders and elder statesmen have spoken and the situation is clear that zoning exists and must continue to exist in the state. “Peace and harmonious social co-existence mean the world to His Excellency, who, as a child of God has continued to restrain himself from joining issues with those whose stock in trade is stoking misunderstanding.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com