As the world marked the International Women’s Day on Tuesday, the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, has declared his support for women development in the state. The support for women was contained in a statement he personally issued on Tuesday. The governor, in the statement, condemned the recent rejection of the gender bill by the National Assembly. The statement read, “It is with an admixture of hope and despair that I identify with our women folks. “Be hopeful because the journey to the final berth of the most desirable moment shall remain undaunted. Remain focused. And, it is, undoubtedly, a sting of despair that there are still, fundamental existential challenges confronting us all in this journey. “Specifically, last week’s rejection of the Bill by the senate to create the required leverage for our women is unarguably, a great disincentive. “Without prejudice to the sense of judgement of the senate, we have, as a nation, embarked on an insidious self-denying trip. It is a great set-back because we have derobed ourselves of an ample opportunity for progress and development. The World is watching ! “I am convinced, extraneous issues may have been allowed an uncanny space in taking a decision on that Bill. We have moved backwards in the most discernible inexplicable manner. We have taken a painful decision that seeks to insulate and detach our dear nation from modernity. “In unambiguous terms, our women have come of age; their virtuous and indelible marks of honour as well as dexterous individual determinations, not only toward self-development, but their displayed benevolence and compassion for humanity are huge narratives that cannot be discountenanced by society. “At this point, I must salute the courage of the House of Representatives that has demonstrated its readiness to align with the mood of the Nation. The Green Chambers, by the decision to revisit the Bill clearly shows that all hope is not lost, after all. I, Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu, SAN shall, alongside persons of like-minds, leverage on this window of hope to break the yokes of oppression against women.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com