VICTORIA ADENEKAN asks a cross-section of Nigerians if after they have passed on they would love to donate their body parts to help persons with disabilities and those who may need them to stay alive I can and it must be for free Mr Abdulramon Adegunju I can donate my body parts but it has to be for free. I can’t collect a dime for donating any part of my body for the sake of those who need them. It’s just like blood donation; I can donate for free because God gave it to me freely. No matter the amount offered me for my blood or any part of my body that I have in excess or that is not useful for me but can be useful for someone else, I can give the person free without collecting a dime. My religion permits it; that is the doctrine of my religion, that even though I want to donate any of my body parts, I should donate it for free. There’s nothing wrong with it Mrs Oluwakemi Oladehinde I can give people who need the organs after my death, but God won’t let me die now. My religion is not against donating organs after death. Of course there are people who don’t want to be buried without their complete body parts, but I believe there’s nothing bad in donating those parts after one’s demise. What I won’t do is to give them when I’m alive. It’s just sad that all kinds of things happen in this world that we are in and you hear very scary stories every day. May God have mercy on us. It will be a gift to humanity Mr Ebuka Ebonine This is actually a hard decision to make, considering the type of world we live in; you don’t know what people would say after your demise. However, what are we after death? We don’t even know where we are; we don’t know what is being done to us and we don’t even know who is talking about us. Of what use are my body parts to me after death? They are practically of no use to me. If the parts can go a long way to save someone from dying or give someone a new lease of life, I will freely leave an instruction for such body parts to be harvested after my demise for the benefit of those who need them. I would see it as a gift to humanity and wherever I will be going after my demise, I will be glad that I have impacted someone in a very remarkable way. I can donate even when I’m still alive Mrs Ifeoluwa Olamigoke I can donate them because there is no life after death. Those body parts are not useful to me after death and they will surely decay, so why not let those who need them have them. The only challenge is that in this country, there are different cases of using human beings or certain body parts for money rituals every day, they might want to use that person’s body for another purpose. It’s not everyone that will be able to agree to this, but as for me, I can, even when I’m alive. Let’s say any of my family members needs any organ to survive, I can donate mine. It’s better to donate than allow them decay Mr Babalola Abayomi I can donate my body parts to anyone who needs them. Honestly, I don’t care if my religion is against this or not, we are talking about helping someone to live a better life after we are gone forever. No one knows what happens hereafter. I think it’s a simple issue to analyse; these religions that people use as reasons are borrowed. It’s because I was born into a Muslim home in Nigeria that makes me practice the religion (Islam). I don’t care what religion would say about this. At the end of the day, we all know the body parts would decay in the grave even after some days, not to talk of months or years. So, why not use it to save other people’s lives and they could even still live long to do many good things on earth. I have nothing against it Mrs Abidemi Musa I can donate my body parts after death. Those body parts are going to decay in the grave after all, so why not use them to give someone another chance. I have nothing against that practice, even though it’s not a popular one in this part of the world. So, whether the person is a family member or not, I’m fine with donating my body parts. As long as it won’t be used for money rituals Mr Gbenga Ojatula There’s absolutely nothing wrong with that, and I will love to, since it will help to give someone or people a new lease of life after I must have passed on. I think there should be a plan for that in this country for people to survive without paying for it. I understand it’s something we are not used to, but it’s good. However, how sure am I that they won’t use it for ritual? With the rate at which people get involved in money rituals, can we rule it out that some would try that? Some Nigerians would likely misuse that opportunity. But if it’s strictly to help people survive or live better lives, they can harvest them after my demise. It will no longer be useful after all Mrs Tope Ogunnaike I can donate my body parts to those that need them. It is for them to survive, and as long as they won’t be used for anything bad. All the body parts will later decay and they won’t be useful to me. I think I would rather donate them to the people they would be useful for. I want to come back complete Mr Kola Fasipe I can’t, I want to come back to the world whole. Having to donate any part of my body is not what I would do willingly. I have heard stories of people who died through accidents and you would see that scar on a new baby born in the man’s family. This gives us reasons to believe there is a high tendency that people come back (reincarnation) after death. For the fact that I would want to come back with my whole body void of scars (people call it birthmark), I can’t donate any part of my body. Those parts can give someone a new life Mrs Helen Adeloye Yes, l can donate my body parts. What’s the use of the parts when I have passed on? My religion is not against it, neither is my culture. l don’t hold that belief that people must be buried with their complete organs. I know some people have reservations about these things, maybe because it’s not popular here, but the truth is that they are not of use to me after death. Rather, they can give someone or even persons a new lease of life or another chance. So, I can do it.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com