TEK Experts and Microsoft have announced their partnership to recruit more women into technical careers through the Microsoft Leap Programme. According to the firms, the Microsoft Leap Programme recruits, develops and trains women for employability in the technology industry. They added that since 2019 till now, 28 women have completed the curriculum. They said this year, 45 women across three Tek Experts’ locations in Nigeria, Rwanda, and Bulgaria would benefit from the programme. In a statement, Tek Experts Chief Executive Officer, Steve Heffron, said, “We are pleased to partner with Microsoft to deliver the third cohort of the Microsoft Leap Programme, which will be held on two continents across three countries – Nigeria, Rwanda, and Bulgaria. As part of Tek Experts’ commitment to diversity and inclusion, this initiative is tailored to promote inclusion in the IT industry. “We will focus on investing and empowering women to gain the skills and knowledge to develop a successful technical career. This will help close the gap the IT industry faces with under-representation of women in the workforce which has limited the potential for enhanced creativity, innovation, and efficiency.” The Country Manager of Microsoft Nigeria, Olatomiwa Williams, added, “Microsoft remains committed to our mission to empower every person and every organisation on the planet. “The Microsoft Leap Programme paves the way for individuals to be equipped with the right skills needed to play a vital role in advancing engineering processes and accelerating innovation. We are excited to be partnering with Tek Experts once again. Their efforts bridge the gender gap and create a diverse and inclusive culture in the tech industry.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com