The Special Assistant to the Governor of Ebonyi State on Media and Publicity, Francis Nwaze, has urged the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, to accept the challenge to a debate put forward by his principal, Governor Dave Umahi. Umahi, while addressing State House correspondents in Abuja, on Thursday, had called for a debate with Wike following the Rivers State Governor’s reaction to a court ruling sacking him as Ebonyi State Governor. Wike had slammed Umahi for the comment he made in reaction to the court ruling that sacked him and his deputy for defecting from the Peoples Democratic Party to the All Progressives Congress. “Look at a governor making a reckless statement simply because a judge made a judgement according to his own opinion, which you are entitled to appeal up to Supreme Court. “You have called somebody a thief in the market and you’re saying I’m sorry, it is late. That your sorry, we the members of the public, we won’t take it,” Wike said. “You carry the votes of another party and join another party. Can you transfer votes? You work hard for somebody to win election and tomorrow, the person says ‘I have defected’. “If you have defected, leave the seat if you know it’s easy. And this will checkmate most of these political harlots who will never sit in one place,” he added. The Rivers State Governor then went ahead to say he played a role in the sacking of Umahi and his deputy from office. “I am involved, PDP is behind it, we are all PDP members… I am involved. You can’t take what is our property and say we should close our mouths. We can’t close our mouths,” he said. Reacting, Umahi slammed Wike, stating that the Rivers State Governor could only boast because he depends on public funds unlike him. This is as he challenged him to a debate that will enable both men to showcase their effort in governance. “You heard him on Channels boasting that he is the main man! that depends on the breath of God, I pity illiteracy. It’s a shame. “You are boasting of removing another Governor, what qualifies you, just because you are packing money, that is public fund, not intellectual material but just packing money and you are boasting about it. “Otherwise who were you? I was a billionaire at the age of 25. And I have worked all my life. I have asked him to come for a public debate. “I do not commission 3.4-kilometer road, I commission 34 km road; I commission twin flyovers running to 1 km. I commission megaprojects with little resources. “If he says he has done well, he is Mr. this or that let him come for debate. Let’s start with our childhood. I’m not disturbed,” Umahi said. His aide, Nwaze, in a post on Facebook, backed the Governor’s call for a debate, saying such should be organised by a major national television. Nwaze said, “Let him accept the challenge. A major national TV should organize it, let the two Governors make public what they have and how they have used it for the benefit of their people. “Believe me, if this is done, lessons must be learned, those who pride themselves so big will learn to become moderate and Governor David Umahi will be celebrated more.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com