A Social Democratic Party chieftain and House of Representatives aspirant in the 2023 National Assembly elections, Toyin Obayemi, said on Sunday that the June 18 Ekiti State governorship election would end the dominance of the All Progressives Congress and Peoples Democratic Party in the state. Obayemi said the expected victory of the SDP governorship candidate, former Governor Segun Oni, “Would change the narratives for the two parties that had been rotating power in the state and have all along failed to make a meaningful positive impact on the land and people hence their rejection and the electorate’s show of love and support for Oni’s ambition”. The aspirant for Ado/Irepodun/Ifelodun Federal Constituency, who spoke during a meeting of SDP Ado Ekiti Ward 9, where he declared intention to contest the federal constituency seat, said that service to the people was his vision and passion, promising to emplace people-oriented and wealth creation programmes for everybody including women, farmers, youths, students and the unemployed. Obayemi said, “In Ekiti State, we in SDP believe that by the grace of God, we are going to win the June 18 governorship election. We are well accepted throughout the 16 local governments. Again, we have a great edge in the calibre of people we put forward for the governorship race, Engr Segun Oni as the candidate and ‘Ladi Owolabi as running mate. “Oni has been governor of the state, he has been tested and trusted, so, the whole state is waiting for him and ready to vote for him. Oni is the candidate to beat in the coming election on June 18 in the state. “PDP is already a dead party because you cannot have a one-man party and believe that you are going to succeed. APC too is to be buried on June 18. The electorate has resolved to come out en masse to show the parties where they belong. We are going to teach the APC and PDP a lesson in Ekiti that we are here in SDP to win the election for Oni. “The electorate, who are longing for dividends of democracy, are our strategy, power and strength in the June 18 election. The electorate has resolved to come out en masse to show the parties where they belong. The logo of SDP, which is white horse signals the peace to allow for the return of dividends of democracy to Ekiti as obtained when Oni was there.” The SDP chieftain also called on the Independent National Electoral Commission “to extend the time of registration because most of the people, the electorate, have not yet registered or collected their Permanent Voter Cards. We have made our position known to INEC on this”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com