Altcoin is the way to go A new week means fresh and exciting opportunities. There are plenty of ways in which one can start this second week of March 2022 in a stimulating and productive way. Going to the gym, improving and promoting a healthier lifestyle can be one, tidying the house working on mindfulness, and cutting out personal moments is another one, investing in cryptocurrency, enlarging and increasing a digital portfolio is the third and these days, always a good idea. Investing now in crypto can generate high returns if the investments are smart. Below, are three altcoins that are envisioned to become the next great thing. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) Smart, Fast and Low Fees This week Seesaw Protocol (SSW) has grown and become more valuable. Yet again. SSW is now trading (in presale sage 2) at $0.123 USD. The growth has been exponential considering that just over a month ago, it was being sold at its starting price of $0.005 USD. The second presale stage for SSW means that the opportunities of profiting big now before the token’s launch on the market (8th April) are tangible and high. According to analysts, the price is set to surge again by launch day, potentially making SSW token value reach anywhere between $0.45 and $0.50 USD with a projected 7000% growth. The +2300% (and counting) increase since the start of the pre-sale in January is making investors very positive for what is still to come. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) is based on a smart platform that provides a variety of incentives to its users to encourage them to utilise it. Every investment has the potential to yield positive benefits. Investors and holders receive incentives in the form of fee sharing. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) is up 10.35% throughout this week. This is what we mean when we say smart investment. Litecoin (LTC) the “Lite version of Bitcoin” Litecoin is a cryptocurrency based on the Bitcoin (BTC) network. It was founded in the autumn of 2011 by Charlie Lee – one of the greatest names in the crypto industry. Its usage and merchant acceptance have grown since then, and it has consistently been among the top ten cryptocurrencies by market capitalization ($6,975,335,703 USD). Litecoin (LTC) is a cryptocurrency meant to enable rapid, secure, and low-cost payments via blockchain technology. LTC is trading currently at pennies over $100 USD and is down – 3.43% on the week. Of course, the market is unpredictable, however, Litecoin can be a very profitable venture to mine and invest in both as a solo or a pool mine. Chainlink (LINK) – No Interference Policy Chainlink was started in 2017 to make it easier for smart contracts to be connected across different blockchains. Chainlink is a decentralised oracle network that allows blockchains to securely interact with outside data feeds, events, and payment methods. This allows complex smart contracts to become the dominant form of digital agreement. This is how the Chainlink Network works: It’s run by people who share data, run nodes, write smart contracts, look for security flaws, and more. Chainlink is currently down on the week by -5.51% trading at $13.03 per LTC. Enter Presale: https://presale.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol