Gospel singer, Damilare Odunuga, aka Dare Melody, had a ghastly accident on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway in November, 2020, and his car was badly damaged. However, the singer says God gave him a better car after the accident. He told Sunday Scoop, “It was the grace of God that sustained me. Though I lost my car, with divine grace from above, I was given a better version beyond my imagination. I am grateful to God for that.” Speaking on his current projects, the singer said, “I am working on the house of God project.” Melody also noted that though the COVID-19 pandemic posed a serious challenge to him and other entertainers, he has been able to bounce back. He said, “The COVID-19 pandemic really affected me as there were no events for a certain period. But with the grace of God, I overcame all challenges and God restored me.” The singer, who is a father to three girls, stated that they bring him great joy. He said, “It is really wonderful having girls as children and I have never had any issue with that. I am very close to my daughters, so that makes us friends. We are so close and relate freely with one another. “I have not really established whether any of them wants to follow in my footsteps as a musician but they are all gifted entertainment-wise. Those that don’t sing can dance very well. Time will tell if any of them will be passionate enough to choose music as career.” Acknowledging the role his wife has played in his career growth, he said, “God gave me my wife and she understands me so much. She never stress me when it comes to my work. I always make sure I give so much too, especially when I am not working. I make sure I spend productive time with my family. I love my family so much and God has been faithful to me.” On the changes he would like to see in the gospel music industry, the Goodness and Grace singer said, “I always pray that Godly music should be restored to a standard that would impact, comfort and renew people’s lives. I want gospel to be more inspirational.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com