An Ondo State High Court sitting in Akure, on Thursday, dismissed a case instituted by the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, against the installation of Oba Olugbenga Ojo of Isikan community in Akure South Local Government Area of the state. Oba Aladelusi is challenging the appointment of the Isinkan monarch as a recognised chieftaincy by the Ondo State Government. The crisis began when the Deji appointed Chief Gbenga Adeyeye as the new traditional ruler of Isikan, as a quarter chief after Oba Ojo had been installed as the monarch of the Isikan community by the Akure South Local Government. In an originating summons in suit No AK/111M/2021 filed by the Deji on October 22, 2021, Oba Aladelusi claimed that the state government had no powers to recognise the Iralepo of Isikan as a monarch, stating that a judgment of the Court of Appeal had declared that the Iralepo of Isikan was a quarter chief under the prescribed authority of the Deji of Akure. Counsel for the Isikan monarch, Chief Sola Ebiseni, however, raised a preliminary objection challenging the locus standi of the Deji to institute the action when he is not a member of Isikan or of its Ruling House, adding that the claimants failed to fulfil the conditions precedent to instituting the action under the Chiefs Law of the state. He noted that the suit of the Deji lacked merit because the instrument of appointment of the Iralepo of Isikan made by the Executive Council on May 11, 2005 had not been challenged by the claimant or any other person in any court and on the basis of which Late Oba Joseph Olu Ojo (the immediate past Isikan monarch) was appointed in 1995. Justice Olusegun Odusola, in his judgment, however, dismissed the preliminary objection, holding that the claimant’s originating processes disclosed sufficient interest to institute the action which he said disclosed a reasonable cause of action. The court also upheld the views of the defendants’ counsel that the appointment of the Iralepo of Isikan as a recognised chieftaincy subsists as the instrument of appointment legally made by the state executive council had not been challenged or set aside. Justice Odusola dismissed the suit of the Deji and the Akure community, saying it lacked merit. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com