The Vice-Chancellor, Caleb University, Imota, Lagos, Prof. Nosa Owens-Ibie, has told its students to thrive to be globally relevant. Speaking at the 15th matriculation ceremony, Owens-Ibie in his speech titled, ‘First among the first’, said, “In the room are tomorrow’s millionaires, billionaires and trillionaires whose creativity, enterprise, dare-do, and inventions will prove Caleb University as a breeding ground for local and global game 3 changers. Some of you will be big-time entrepreneurs, Information and Communication Technology whiz kids, peculiarly configured architects, owners of media organisations, strategists for global causes, and Nigeria’s exports to a world that is desperate for solutions. The difference is that the graduates political icons, path charting professionals, technocrats of distinction, international consultants, from this university will be differentiated by being advocates and models of ‘Character in Leadership’, which is our mantra.” He explained that the College of Law which had taken off was matriculating its first set, saying the school witnessed a boom in the population of students. “This group of law students are brimming with an infectious enthusiasm for the programme, and I am convinced that we have in our midst the future Senior Advocates of Nigeria, Chief Judges, Chief Justice of the Federation, Judges at the International Court of Justice, Heads of major Law Firms, locally and internationally. “This set of 100 level students is the most special we have had so far. “It is the first time in our history that two halls of residence have been allocated to them. Susannah Hall had a new glow when on January 10, the girls moved in. “The 100 level boys moved into the brand-new Elisha Hall. As we speak, the hall is bubbling with like minds who have their peers to live and grow with.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com