The Nigeria Customs Service has disclosed that the introduction of its Non-Intrusive Inspection regime will help in decongesting the nation’s ports. It added that its new scanners would be able to handle 400 containers on a daily basis when they are deployed at the nation’s ports and border points. This was disclosed by the Assistant Comptroller General of Customs on Modernisation and Information Technology, Saidu Galadima, during a sensitisation meeting. He said, “This sensitisation is very key to the success of the Non-Intrusive Technology that Customs is set to commence at the ports. “The management of the NCS has directed us to come and sensitize stakeholders on the flow of how the new regime will work. The essence behind the new technology is based on trade facilitation. Only compliant traders will celebrate. “If you are compliant enough, you won’t have any contact with any Customs officer. Cargoes will be released without anybody needing to go to any Customs office. All activities will start after the scanning process has been completed. “When the vessel berths, the containers will be scanned before they are taken to the stacking area where cargo declarations will start. All the scanning processes would have been completed before agents made their declarations.” Galadima added that the commission had trained some officers specifically for the platform. He added that the manufacturers of the scanners have also agreed to share their technical expertise with the NCS. He said, “On who will be managing the scanners, we have qualified Customs officers who will be manning them. “Although, the manufacturer, under our agreement with them, will station their technical personnel to oversee the running of the scanners, which are brand new; our officers have been trained to man those scanners. “The scanners will scan 400 containers daily with four hours to rest. For every 20 feet container, the scanner will spend an average of 35 seconds each to scan. For every 40ft container, the scanners will scan them at an average of 55 seconds each.” According to Galadima, the scanners have been configured into the Nigeria Integrated Customs Information System 2 platform and do not need the presence of clearing agents during image analysis.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com