An Independent Investigation panel has ordered Inspector Paul Odey of Intelligence Response Team, Special Tactical Squad, Abuja, to appear before it to defend himself on allegations against him. The order was in connection to an allegation of unlawful arrest, detention and disappearance of one Ebuka Aniegu in May 2019 in a petition marked 2020/IIP-SARS/ABJ/202, the News Agency of Nigeria reports. Other respondents in the suit are: Officer Commanding, IRT, Tactical Squad, Abuja, OC Defunct SARS, Abuja, Commissioner of Police FCT, and Inspector-General of police. The National Human Rights Commission panel is investigating alleged human rights abuses by the defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad and other police units. Mr Garba Tetengi, SAN, who represented the chairman, Justice Suleiman Galadima (retd.), gave the order following the failure of the police to produce the respondent, who is the principal respondent. “Inspector Paul Odey is hereby ordered to appear before the panel, not only to defend himself, but to answer some questions relating to the whereabouts of the victim,” he ordered. The petitioner, Mrs Nnenna Aniegu, had earlier told the court that the victim was his younger brother staying with her at Kaduna. She said that her brother was preparing to travel abroad and was in Abuja, in May 2019, where he was picked by the police. Aniegu added that it was then she received a call from the first respondent, Odey, informing her to come to Abattoir police station where the victim was taken to, NAN reported. She alleged that Odey demanded for N1 million to release her brother when she got there. She said, “I told him I don’t have such money and as I demanded for my brother’s offence he, Odey, said my brother stole. “That’s not true, I know my brother; he is very intelligent and promising and wouldn’t do such thing,” she said. According to NAN, she said she went back to Kaduna and the family started looking for money, and eventually got the money and she went back to Abuja. She, however, said, that Odey told her that his brother has been taken to another place when she got to Abuja, and unless he was given the money he would not tell her where it was. She told the panel that she asked Odey to allow her get a Lawyer who would be there to witness when the money was given. “I brought a lawyer and it was recorded, the money was not given because Odey failed to produce my brother. “I want the panel to help me ask the Inspector to produce my brother and pay compensation of N500 million. “I prefer he produces him alive to the compensation. “Inspector Odey must be produced and be prosecuted,” she pleaded. Her counsel, Mr Ifeanyi Agu, then told the panel that he had closed his case. The police counsel, Mr Kenneth Ogbuchuwa, told the panel that they would send signal to the respondents before the next adjourned date. The matter was then adjourned until March 8 for further hearing. (NAN)