No fewer than 15 persons have been arrested by the Kogi State Police Command following a cult clash that claimed the lives of four persons on Monday night in Lokoja, the state capital. It was gathered that the crisis started on Monday night when members of two rival groups engaged one another in a fight which led to the killing and burning of a house in Kabawa. The crisis saw residents moving their family members from the area to secured places to avoid being engulfed in the crisis. A source said the crisis was as a result of reprisal attack by another group following the killing of one of their members few months ago. The source added that the cultists, armed with guns and other weapons, invaded some houses, attacked people and burnt houses they believed belong to rival group members. However, when the police stormed the area on Tuesday to calm down the situation, some of the cultists engaged the security agents in a gun battle which lasted several hours before they were overpowered. Some of the cultists jumped into river Niger to evade arrest. The state police command’s spokesman, William Aya, while confirming the incident, said 15 suspects have been arrested. He said only one person was killed and that investigation was ongoing to ascertain what led to the incident. The state government has warned that it will take proactive actions against whoever is involved in the crisis. The state Security Adviser, Duro Jerry Omodara (retd.), also confirming the incident, warned cultists and other miscreants fomenting trouble to be ready for the government’s onslaught, saying  the state government will not to allow anybody rubbish its successes in the area of security. Omodara spoke in a chat with our correspondent. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com