The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, will on Friday in Abuja hold a pre-convention conference with governors of the All Progressives Congress, at the Shehu Yar’Adua Centre. The secretary of the pre-convention policy sub-committee, Dr Garba Abari, disclosed this to journalists at the APC national secretariat on Thursday. According to him, the event themed ‘Consolidating Democracy: Scorecard, Impact and the Road Ahead’ would consider approaches for achieving an inclusive and coherent policy trajectory for the party. “The overall objective of the APC policy conference is to position thought leaders of the party and sector experts, deliberate on the current and future policy direction of the party and provide a reform agenda which the party will drive over the next phase of our administration building on the current achievements, including the outcomes for State and Local Governments. “The specific objectives are; to review the performance of the APC-controlled national and subnational governments, analyse introspective pathways towards mapping the future to bridge the gaps and unlock the productive potential of the country. “Harmonise a sustainable implementation agenda with the implementation framework as a follow-up to existing plans, policies, programmes and projects. The APC policy conference will be structured into different panel discussions that will focus on core thematic areas as follows: economy, governance, and human development,” he explained. Abari noted that this would enable resource persons and participants to create a central spine that holds the party’s development agenda since 2015. He said the sessions will be designed to be intense, interactive, and stimulating between the panellists and participants. The committee’s co-chairmen are Governors of Borno and Ekiti, Prof. Babagana Zulum and Kayode Fayemi respectively. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com