The Rivers State Government has announced the immediate demotion of 14 principals of public schools, as well as the withdrawal of the operational licenses of 21 private schools over their alleged involvement in examination malpractices. The State Commissioner for Education, Prof. Kaniye Ebeku, disclosed this while speaking to newsmen in Port Harcourt on Monday. Ebeku said the action followed a letter written to the state ministry of Education by the West African Examination Council containing a list of 35 schools secondary schools in the state that have been delisted and their offences with respect to some malpractices in the conduct of WAEC exams in 2021. The commissioner said,” We received a letter from the WAEC containing the list of.35 secondary schools in the state have been delisted for the purpose of writing WAEC examinations and their offences. “Especially bothered on the fact that they were discovered that there were some malpractices in the conduct of last year’s examinations. “Now upon receipt of the letter, we immediately invited the affected schools to a meeting. “We presented this information to them and found that those at the helm of affairs in the various schools allowed this sort of situation to arise. Following that, we decided on certain sanctions. “For all principles who are still in service and who superintended at the time this situation arose, we have directed that they be demoted. “For all schools that are found in the list, we have directed that their licenses to operate be withdrawn forthwith. This is the situation of things right now,” Prof Ebeku stated. He said the state government led by Governor Nyesom Wike does not condone any form of examination malpractices whether in public or private schools in the state. “We have said it again and again that we have zero tolerance for exam malpractice. The WAEC is aware and they (WAEC) have actually written a letter to commend the commissioner for his efforts in ensuring that there are no malpractices in the schools. “But we are living in human community and we have criminals, despite the fact that we have criminals justice system, criminals are still operating. So we don’t tolerate malpractice. We will never,” the commissioner stated. He pointed out that in the past the state government had disciplined and dismissed principals who are flouting the state government rules and regulations and also engage in malpractices in any form, saying,” nAd the public is full aware of this.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com