aA former governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso, on Tuesday ended speculations about his defection from the Peoples Democratic Party when he finally left the party for the New Nigeria Peoples Party and registered as a member in preparation for the 2023 election. He registered for the NNPP and obtained its membership card during a brief ceremony in Abuja.
According to him, he left the PDP because of the failure of its leadership and lack of internal democracy.
The former Minister of Defence, during a press conference held in Abuja, said in 2021, he was sidelined from the activities of the PDP and that he waited for the leadership of party to talk to him for over one year but got no response.
He said Nigerians were not satisfied with the achievements recorded under the ruling All Progressives Congress, and so are yearning for positive change in the state of the nation.
He said, “Today, those who are not certain about where I belong will be very sure that I am already in the NNPP.
“Politicians like my humble self are always open. In addition, there are ideological differences that we have with so many people, especially the leaders in the PDP and even in the APC itself.
“We had a situation in April last year where zonal positions were being shared among the states, and all leaders in the six other states were given opportunity to nominate.
“In Kano, some people thought I wasn’t that important. So, they had to do it the way they wanted. That was what triggered the issue of defecting). I spent almost one year now waiting for the PDP to talk to me. Even the new leadership does not want to talk to me.
“For that reason, I felt that there are irreconcilable differences between myself and many of the leaders. This is mainly based on the ideology.
“We believe in the masses of this country and that people should be given an opportunity not minding their ethnic or religious affiliation. That’s why we have the ‘Third Force’ party today.
“Everybody wants a new Nigeria, because nobody is happy with the status quo. I believe this country requires a positive change.
“I just registered. Probably I am the newest member of the NNPP. The name of the party is New Nigeria People’s Party.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com