The Chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, has expressed the Commission’s willingness to provide therapy for Nigerians who returned from Ukraine. This was contained in a statement signed by NIDCOM Media, Public Relations, and Protocol Officer, Gabriel Odu, on Saturday, following the visit of the global association of occupational safety and health professionals, the American Society of Safety Professionals, Nigeria chapter, to NIDCOM House, in Abuja. Dabiri-Erewa volunteered to provide post-traumatic stress sessions, through its behavioural and mental health department, to the young Nigerian students who were recently evacuated from Ukraine via neighbouring countries due to the war. The statement reads, “Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman/CEO, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, has stressed the need for post-traumatic therapy for the Nigerian-Ukrainian evacuees. “She stated this when the American Society of Safety Professionals visited the management of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission in Abuja on Friday. “The NIDCOM boss said she will be delighted to work with the leadership of ASSP to help counsel the young students. “Dabiri-Erewa added that she will connect the organisation with other diaspora bodies worldwide and encourage everyone to join hands together in matters concerning safety and standards. “She, therefore, urged the professional body to remain an agent of change uplifting, fostering Nigeria’s global image.” Earlier, the President of the ASSP, Nigeria chapter, Shehu Kabir, said the organisation was willing to volunteer in reintegrating Nigerian returnees since they also have a department in behavioural and mental health. He said that the good works of the Commission had prompted them to visit and seek a strong relationship with both organisations for greater opportunities. “He said that the organisation is bringing value on board to NIDCOM in resources, stressing that the Nigerian resources in the diaspora can be pulled back, especially on independent investigation and putting an end to accidents in Nigeria. “Kabir noted that it became necessary to partner with NIDCOM in order to broadcast and showcase the passion of ASSP, which Nigerians in the diaspora can freely network and engage with the organisation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com