The Peoples Democratic Party has mocked the ruling All Progressives Congress over the emergence of Abdullahi Adamu as its national chairman. PDP faulted Adamu’s emergence, saying that he was arraigned in Court on 149 charges of alleged fraudulent award of contracts and stealing of public funds estimated at N15 billion. The opposition party made this known in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, titled, ‘Convention: PDP mocks APC over Adamu Abdullahi’. PDP challenged Adamu to clear his name on corruption charges against him. It described the APC National Convention as “a jamboree, convention of lies, a celebration of illegality, corruption and arrogance in failure”, adding that “any leadership birthed through such process can only be overtly corrupt. debauch and illegal. “It is clear that with the combination of the corrupt, deceitful and rudderless Buhari-led APC government and the illegitimate Abdullahi Adamu-led party leadership, corruption, economic hardship and rudderlessness in the APC government will worsen in our country in the remaining one year of the APC in government. “The composition of the APC national leadership is a clear confirmation that President Buhari
has never been committed to the fight against corruption. “The PDP challenges members of the illegitimate APC national leadership, particularly Sen. Adamu to come clean on corruption charges against them. The new APC Chairman should inform Nigerians why he was not courageous enough to submit himself to trial at the Federal High Court, Lafia, Nasarawa State rather than hide under technicalities. “Senator Adamu should therefore come clean to Nigerians on the said case before parading himself as a saint. It is therefore pathetic to see Sen. Adamu showboating on stage to impress his puppet master by attempting to denigrate other Nigerians and our great Party, the PDP. “Our party has only pity for Adamu and does intend to confer him an undue relevance with a response. Adamu should however be conscious of the fact that time does not run against the State in criminal matters. He should therefore not have any illusion that being an APC Chairman will avail him a perpetual cover. “The PDP cautions aspirants intending to participate in the 2023 general elections under the APC to note that they are on a journey to nowhere with the APC.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com