The Obi of Awka Ancient Kingdom, Eze Uzu III of Awka, Obi Austin Ndigwe, has condemned the attack on the widow of the late Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu by the wife of the former governor of Anambra State, Mrs Ebelechukwu Obiano. Ndigwe said the action of Mrs Obiano desecrated Awka land. The monarch, in a press release he signed and distributed to journalists in Awka, on Friday, said he had given Mrs Obiano seven days to publicly apologise to the entire Igbo people or face serious consequences. He said the actions of the wife of the former governor were sacrilegious, and that as the monarch of the town, he will have to appease the gods of Awka land to avoid calamities. He said, “She should also tender an unreserved apology to the new Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo for her disgraceful conduct during his inauguration. The same should go for the chief judge of the state who was conducting the swearing-in when she descended on Bianca. “This grave sin was committed in the land of Awka which is known for peace and unity. Therefore, as the traditional ruler of the people and chief custodian of our culture, I am under obligation to perform some sacrifices to cleanse our land of this filth and pollution and to appease the gods.” The Obi of Awka said he has long spoken with Bianca Ojukwu who told him that what angered her was that Mrs Obiano walked up to her and called her unprintable names, including querying her presence at the swearing-in ceremony. He added that a study of the scene showed that Mrs Obiano’s action was deliberate, as she came very much prepared to disrupt the swearing-in ceremony. Ndigwe added that Mrs Obiano’s action was not only against Mrs Ojukwu, but against the late Ojukwu, who is the founder of APGA who his widow came to represent. “It must be pointed out that Bianca was not at that ceremony as Bianca, but as a direct representative of our late father and leader, Chief Odumegwu Ojukwu, her late husband who pioneered APGA. “Therefore, Ebele’s action of casting aspersion on her is an affront on the entire Igbo people. It was indeed on Odumegwu Ojukwu and not on Bianca as a person. This is an insult to Igbo and it must not go unpunished. “It is on record that I took Obiano and this his wife, Ebere to Bianca Ojukwu where they knelt down while seeking the party’s governorship ticket. Bianca endorsed Obiano and called on all APGA members including then Governor Peter Obi to support him. “Mrs Ebele Obiano has only seven days to apologise as demanded and directed or face serious consequences.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com