The New Nigeria People’s Party has inaugurated its new executive officials in Nasarawa State, who are to pilot the affairs of the party for the next four years. The party, while inaugurating the officials who emerged as consensus candidates from across the 13 Local Government Areas of the state during its congress, vowed to take over the leadership of Nasarawa State in 2023. Speaking in Lafia on Tuesday, the newly elected chairman of the party, Sidi Bako, said the NNPP was poised to engender effective leadership in Nasarawa in order to bring the dividends of democracy to residents of the state. He said, “The NNPP has a strong structure across the 13 Local Government Areas of the state and I am optimistic that our party will record a successful outing in the 2023 general election so that residents can enjoy the dividends of democracy. “We don’t support godfatherism and imposition of candidates because we don’t want anybody that’s not loved by the people. This is a party that allows the people to choose their own leaders. “The party has three vice chairmen from the three senatorial districts of the state and other officials who are fully ready to work for the progress of the party. God willing, we will take over power in 2023.” Earlier, North-Central Secretary of NNPP, Umar Auta, said the party was ready to engender effective leadership in the state and the country in general. Auta noted that the party’s plan was to bring credible leaders whose vision is to change the fortune of the country from the numerous challenges confronting the nation at the moment. Our correspondent reports that some of the elected officials are: Thomas Luka, secretary; Ladan Danlami, treasurer; Nasir Mariga, auditor general, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com