A group under the auspices of the National Transformation Movement has called on the Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, to throw his hat into the ring and contest for the 2023 presidential race. The group said its decision to choose the minister to join the race was based on his landmark achievements in governance in various spheres of human endeavours. In a press statement jointly signed by Ubong Idemudo, Victor Bassey, Daniel Ime Daniel, and Imo Effiong, on behalf of NTM, the group believed that Akpabio would build a formidable Nigeria if given the opportunity to pilot the affairs of the country. The group said Nigeria was in dire need of a transformational leader who can maximise the agricultural sector and scuttle the menace of food insecurity, and a man that has the zeal to interpret the root cause of insecurity in Nigeria for sustainable public order. According to the group, the minister has left enduring policies and legacies as the student Union leader of the University of Calabar, commissioner of Local government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Akwa Ibom state, Governor of the state for eight years, senator of the federal republic of Nigeria and as Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs. “We, the Nigerians fully represented here attributed our desire for you as a president because of your landmark archievements in governance spanning from your prominence and remarkable archievements “Your policies as commissioner of local government and Chieftaincy Affairs reorganized the traditional leaders to lead their subjects and maintain actual peace in Akwa Ibom state. “Your policies as a governor restructured and reengineered Akwa Ibom state psychologically, socially, infrastructurally and economically,” the group said. The group said despite poor economy and general disaffection in the country, quality education for children, restructuring of the refineries to full capacity, provision of quality and adequate infrastructures and others are still possible in Nigeria. While stressing that Akpabio has what it takes to reintegrate the North, South, East and West irrespective of religion and cultural bias, the group said it has developed ideology to reject any enticement in money, position and placement for the actualisation of Nigeria’s dream of building a formidable nation where the youths will be fully engaged in legitimate business rather than social vices. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com