As there are so many new cryptocurrencies circulating in the virtual Metaverse. It is worth doing your homework to find out what new cryptos are out there, to give you that long-term potential investment. New cryptocurrency Seesaw Protocol (SSW) is already being a force to be reckoned with. It has had a value increase of over 30% in recent weeks. As the crypto draws near to the end of its pre-sale phase 2, it could be the next crypto King to rival The Sandbox (SAND) and Uniswap (UNI). After Mark Zuckerberg announced that Facebook would be rebranded to Meta, it made Web 2.0 companies sit up and take notice of this profitable virtual world of the Metaverse. According to crypto investment giant Grayscale, the Metaverse market opportunity is estimated at over $1 trillion in annual revenue. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) is the must-have new crypto since its launch in mid-January 2022, the revolutionary coin has risen by almost 2250%. The coin has a great mission, which is to invest in and educate the younger generation on how to use the future technology centred around the Metaverse. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) will use 1% of its marketing pot, to fund global educational institutions. King of the castle, The Sandbox (SAND) is a blockchain that has made a big impression on the crypto market since its launch in 2011 by Pixowl so much so that using data from CoinMarketCap, if you invested from its inception just $100 you would have gain £18,000 return at its all-time high at the end of November 2021.  It has a virtual world that allows users to buy, build, create and sell digital assets in game form. So, this shows that investing early on into new cryptos like Seesaw Protocol (SSW) could be the answer to investors looking for the next best thing. It is very encouraging that Seesaw Protocol (SSW) has adopted The Sandbox’s (SAND) idea of investing in its platform. The Sandbox (SAND) raised $2.5million to develop its project and it has been able to design a retro-style pixelated game and the digital world which has allowed users to purchase plots of virtual Land, sell them and develop them with even sales being around $4.3 million in November 2021. So, there is a lot of scope for growth for Seesaw Protocol (SSW) being a new cryptocurrency. Currently, The Sandbox’s live price today is $2.96 with a 24-hour trading volume of $1054,194,277. The Sandbox (SAND) is up 8.96% in the last 24 hours, with a ranking of #38 on CoinMarketCap. Another reigning King of crypto Uniswap (UNI) has been very successful since its launch in November 2018. It is a very popular decentralized trading protocol that is known for facilitating the automated trading of decentralized finance (DeFi) tokens. Also, in September 2020 Uniswap (UNI) created its own governance token, UNI to past users, and this added profitability for users. With Uniswap’s (UNI) amazing developments, it is no wonder that the coin is up on the market by 2.82% in the last 24 hours. Uniswap’s (UNI) live price today is $8.75 with a 24-hour volume of $212,434,361 and a current ranking of #25 on CoinMarketCap. So, if you are looking for the next crypto investment which cares about the future generation’s education of the Metaverse, and with some analysts estimating that the price of SSW units could rise from $0.2 to $0.45 (between now and April 2022 when it enters its pre-sale phase 3), shows that this could be the crypto to rival and dethrone The Sandbox (SAND) and Uniswap (UNI) in the near future. Enter Presale: https://presale.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol