Over 25 years of providing top-of-the-line furniture across 7 African nations and employing more than a hundred in Nigeria alone… Adored by the elite, Casa Milano has become one of Africa’s longest-serving furniture dealerships with over 25 years of operation across Nigeria, Ghana, Zambia, Burkina Faso, Togo, Benin, Zimbabwe, and The Gambia. As an Afrocentric brand, it has also proven to be the first choice of many high-quality furniture lovers in Lagos, Nigeria. Employing more than a hundred people in Nigeria and many others across the seven African regions it currently serves, the Casa Milano brand continues to positively impact Africa. Located strategically alongside the popular Euro Homes Depot in Lekki, Lagos where you can get just about everything a home needs – with a touch of luxury, Casa Milano’s furniture showroom hosts a wide variety of Italian and Turkish sofa sets. The silver jubilee brand has fast become a symbol of class and style in its own right. Retailing exquisite furniture pieces at possibly the best deals in Nigeria, the luxury sofa dealership has swiftly captured the attention of the Lagos elite world with its variety of stylishly appealing and uniquely crafted European fabrics. You can’t deny the fact that Casa Milano is a name to study in both functional design and premium delivery in the African luxury furniture industry, and to understand how it became such a go-to for high-class designers and elite consumers alike, Casa Milano team had to tell it themselves. “The proportions of Casa Milano displayed furniture pieces are beautifully crafted or created, lending them an innate presence in every room. Their simplicity is also open and inviting. But then the leathers kick in with such an all-consuming and enveloping feel – they are so relaxed and effortless,” Alaa Sbeity, Managing Director, Casa Milano says. Finding the perfect furniture piece with all these elements is not easy, but our team has managed it and continues to provide our customers with the best choices for the best deals.” In terms of the Casa Milano’s furniture selection process, Ibrahim Hammoud, Casa Milano’s Showroom Manager, often returned to this key question: What would the most comfortable but luxurious sofa look like and what would it feel like? At first glance, Casa Milano sofas look simple, but Ibrahim clarifies that the makeup of each furniture piece is quite complex and they may even take several months to a year to design. In fact, he refers to every one of their furniture as a “Work of Art” Mahdi Nassereddine, Casa Milano’s Sales Manager, describes both comfort and luxury as critical components of Casa Milano’s popularity. “One main characteristic of an elite favorite is that it embodies or reflects both culture and class, and our furniture pieces do exactly that,” Mahdi notes. “In a world where we have all realized the importance of home, our luxurious furniture pieces fulfill an inner longing for comfort and connection without sacrificing style. Our variety of designs makes us neutral enough to support a range of interior styles, and Casa Milano is a brand that speaks to multiple consumers.” Ultimately, if you value your money why don’t you go for the best and most luxurious furniture pieces? Casa Milano’s exquisite provisions account for its ubiquity among consumers and interior designers alike. Despite its popularity among elites, their artistic simplicity in design and attention to detail reminds us that anyone and everyone should have access to comfort. You can reach us via the following channels: Office Address – 4, Elegushi Road, Ikate Roundabout, Lekki Phase 1 Phone calls / Messages – +2347049999000