Motorists in many states across the country are still battling with the over three-week scarcity of Premium Motor Spirit, popularly called petrol, as the situation continued on Wednesday. In a bid to address the development, the Edo State Government entered into a partnership with the Federal Government, security agencies, and relevant stakeholders in the oil sector to tackle the issues of long fuel queues, adulteration and hike in petrol price. This came as the National Secretary, Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria, Chief John Kekeocha, told one of our correspondents that the reason why many filling stations owned by IPMAN members were not selling petrol was that some of them still had the contaminated fuel in their tanks, while others lacked products to dispense. He said, “As we speak many stations are closed, not because they don’t want to sell, rather it is either they don’t have fuel or they have the contaminated fuel. “If you check very well the crisis which the contaminated fuel caused to filling station owners, you will marvel. When a customer comes in and takes bad fuel and it damages his engine, you (filling station owner) are going to be responsible. “So to avoid such problems, many stations that still have the bad fuel are not selling. They are even trying to see how they can evacuate them. So for them to get new products, it has to take some time.” On the partnership by the Edo State Government, the Commissioner for Mining, Oil and Gas, Ethan Uzamere, said this took place during an emergency stakeholders’ meeting on Wednesday with executives of the Nigerian Mainstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority, Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria and Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps. Uzamere stressed the need for uniformity in the price of PMS across the state and assured the stakeholders of the state government’s open-door policy. He urged the stakeholders to maintain a reasonable price margin for PMS being sold to Edo citizens. The commissioner, who frowned at the price disparity among petroleum marketers, said the Ministry of Mining, Oil and Gas, in collaboration with relevant stakeholders, would guard against product racketeering and ensure conformity with the agreed price benchmark. He said the government would intensify efforts to ensure more supply and distribution of PMS across the state. Uzamere said measures would be put in place to properly monitor the supply and distribution of petroleum products assigned to the state in order to avoid diversion. “We also want to call on the petroleum marketers, especially IPMAN to make sure they regulate the price margins with which their members are selling the product to the populace.” He urged petroleum marketers to reduce their pump price to the agreed benchmark pending when the state gets more supply of PMS. Meanwhile, the Kogi State Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corp, Suleiman Mafara, on Wednesday threatened to arrest any petroleum marketer selling petrol above the approved pump price of N162 to N165/litre. This followed complaints from motorists that a litre of fuel in Kogi State sold for between N250 to N500 at filling stations and black markets. Speaking during an interview with one of our correspondents, the Kogi State commandant said the command was aware of some sharp practices of petroleum marketers who were hoarding fuel or selling above the approved pump price. He said no individual or group of persons were above the law, adding that, any attempt to incapacitate the effort of government would not be entertained. Mafara said, “The command has received intelligent reports that some marketers are hoarding fuel and selling it to black marketers in the night for their own selfish gains. NSCDC under my watch will not allow this to happen. “We are working tirelessly to ensure that these ill practices, such as hoarding of petroleum products, diversion and selling above pump price are controlled. “We have re-strategised and updated our plans by commencing night operations. By God’s grace, the situation will be put under control. On our part, we will continue to operate within the scope of our mandate.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com