The Delta State Police Command and the Delta State University, Abraka, have synergised on ways of boosting security within and outside the University campus to achieve a conducive and peaceful environment for the staff and students. The partnership agreement was reached during a courtesy visit by the Commissioner of Police, Delta State Command, to the management of the University led by the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Andy Ugochukwu Egwunyenga, on Saturday. The CP who was warmly received by the Vice-Chancellor and the management of the University noted that “the University environment is one that must be policed properly as it comprises of vulnerable youths who needs to be properly guided against cultism, internet fraud and other related practices that will affect them negatively.” The CP assured the VC and management of the institution that the Command is ever ready to partner with the school to achieve a conducive and peaceful environment for the staff and students. The CP also noted that as a community policing driven officer, the need to partner with all stakeholders could be overemphasized. He, therefore, urged the management of the University to reach out to the Divisional Police Officer or the Area Commander whenever the need arose, and if they did not get the desired results, the office of the CP was open 24 hours to handle such issues. The Vice-Chancellor in his remarks described the CP’s visit as the first of its kind in the existence of the school just as he noted that the CP was a goal-oriented police officer who had his agenda well spelt out. The VC expressed the hope that with the agenda, the security in the state under the administration of CP Ari Muhammed Ali will be a very solid one. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com