THE Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said the proposed Lagos State University technology hub will promote creativity and innovation that will develop the state. Sanwo-Olu disclosed this on Thursday during the 25th convocation of LASU held in the university’s auditorium, Ojo. The governor urged the graduands to use their acquired education, knowledge and creativity to redevelop themselves and positively transform the world. He said, “LASU technology hub is one of the various measures adopted by this administration to achieve its vision for sustainable education and technology which is the third of the six-pillar development agenda of this administration. The state government has also mobilised the contractor handling the construction of the first ever LASU technology hub. “Availability of a befitting ultra–modern technology hub is crucial to achieving sustainable technological innovations in the West African sub region because the Sub Saharan Africa’s work age population is projected to grow by over 600 million by the year 2030. “The proposed LASU technology hub, upon completion, will among others, help to promote creativity and innovation for technological development of the state and serve as a tech solution centre for the development of the smart economy of Lagos State.” The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, advised the new graduates not to embrace a misdirected focus on the virtual world. “While we struggle through the economic mud, the world rapidly changes around us. We now bear witness to an expanding digital economy and virtual worlds. From the smart phone to the smart city; from houses of concrete to those fashioned of code. “You young graduates must find your place in this world of crypto currencies, non-fungible tokens and metaverses. But do not yield to the erroneous mindset that says the virtual world is the dominant one.” That a lucky few may strike it rich in this sphere does not make it the critical path to national prosperity. Without the tangible goods of the productive economy, the virtual realm is but an elaborate game,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com