Qatar Airways has announced the launch of four weekly flights to Kano and three weekly flights to Port Harcourt. According to the airline, these flights will connect to both locations through Abuja. In a statement, the airline said, “Qatar Airways will operate to Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport is one of the fastest-growing cities in the country, and the gateway to Kano’s rich historical treasures that have survived millennia. “Meanwhile, Port Harcourt, the largest city and capital of Rivers State, Nigeria will be served via Port Harcourt International Airport, a diverse and fast-moving city on the southern tip of Nigeria. More than a century of international trade has turned this former port town into a vibrant, fast-growing metropolis.” The group Chief Executive, Qatar Airways, Mr Akbar Al Baker, said, “This is a defining moment for Qatar Airways, with Nigeria becoming our most connected market in Africa with the launch of our new services to Kano and Port Harcourt. “We see tremendous opportunity in the region and these new routes are an important catalyst to further boost trade and commerce in the country. Our presence in Nigeria now covers four key markets and is a real affirmation of our support to the country. “Qatar Airways has stayed steadfast in its commitment to Africa throughout the pandemic, operating continuously and reliably to Nigeria. We have since increased frequencies and grown our network considerably, improving connectivity to and from the continent and providing travellers with more choice and convenience.” The airline added that with its two new routes, it will start operating 188 weekly flights between Africa and Doha. It said it was now serving 28 destinations across the continent. The Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, said, “The new flights provide important travel and trade links between Nigeria and the world. “As the largest economy in Africa, this enhanced global connectivity via the new Qatar Airways service will provide a vital network to move goods and people, as we recover from challenges of the pandemic and prioritise growth. “Kano and Port Harcourt are both important to this recovery. This new service also reinforces the close ties between Nigeria and Qatar, and it paves the way to explore new, untapped opportunities.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com