The Host Communities Producing Oil and Gas has identified some loopholes in the Petroleum Industry Act, as they also called on the Senate to effect the necessary modifications accordingly. The Senate had last Wednesday requested that the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), send a bill to the National Assembly amending the PIA, claiming that petroleum subsidies were not included in the 2022 budget after June. HOSTCOM, in a memorandum signed by its National President, Benjamin Tamaranebi, filed to the Senate Joint Committee on Petroleum Industry’s public hearing on the 2021 PIA (Amendment) Bill, outlined the grey areas. The memorandum, which was made available to journalists in Warri on Monday, noted with concern that the HOSTCOM members were not included in the inauguration of the steering committee and the appointment of the various governing boards of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, Nigerian Upstream Regulatory Commission, and Nigeria Midstream and Downstream Regulatory Authority. It also stated that no attention was paid to concerns impacting host communities during the meetings, as they decried the isolation of the host villages, who are meant to be the first in line for hydrocarbon investment and thus the first key stakeholder. The memorandum read in part, “We propose that Section 11(2) be revised to read: ‘The Board of the Commission shall consist of one non-executive chairman, two non-executive commissioners, and the commission’s chief executive officer (referred to as ‘the Commission chief executive’ throughout this Act).’ “There should also be two more executive commissioners in charge of finance and accounts, as well as exploration and acreage management, and one authority representative not below the rank of director. “Among other things, Section 28(2) should be revised to read, ‘The commission shall reimburse the commission’s chief executive, commissioners, or any official of the commission for any responsibility incurred as a result of deliberate misconduct or gross negligence’.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com