The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha, says the COVID-19 pandemic is still around as shown in Nigeria and other countries across the globe, adding that the pattern it will take is hard to predict. Mustapha, who is also the Chairman, Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19, said this when he gave a keynote address on “Safeguarding Nigeria against the COVID-19 Pandemic: The Journey So Far” at a two-day Primary Health Care summit on Friday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the PHC summit organised by the National Primary Health Care Development Agency has ‘Re-Imagining PHC in Nigeria’ as its theme. It aims to galvanise stakeholders to invest and collaboratively implement a PHC revitalisation strategy for the country. The SGF, who cautioned Nigerians against letting their guard down, added that sustained observance of the COVID-19 protocols would enable the country to conquer the variants. He added that there had been good progress on the country’s vaccination campaign rate. Mustapha added that amidst the global shortage of the COVID-19 vaccines, the vaccination drive in the country progressed in different phases, expanding the eligible target population to include all adults aged 18 years and above. He said, “Till this day, Nigeria recorded 255,092 confirmed cases of COVID-19 infection and 3,142 deaths. When compared with global figures, Nigeria has been able to curtail the spread and detrimental effect of this deadly virus in spite of overarching challenge of a weakened health system. “Over 67.9 million doses of four types of COVID-19 vaccines (AstraZeneca, Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson) were received through support of the COVAX facility and governments of other countries and we are expecting close to 47 million doses by the end of 2022. “Similarly, we have reached over 10 million Nigerians with both first and second doses of the vaccines.” He said, “You will agree with me that these digital innovations significantly supported COVID-19 case detection, response, control and management in Nigeria.” Also speaking, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Senator Ibrahim Oloriegbe, said Nigeria must address the issue of human resources to get its healthcare right. The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, said the country’s goal was to achieve Universal Health Coverage “and it begins with the transformation of PHCs”.