A new report has said investors are showing confidence in the economy of Lagos State. This was disclosed while unveiling a business and investment environment report titled ‘Barometer of Investment Climate in Lagos State by the Office of Sustainable Development Goals and Investment in Lagos. The report said, “There is high optimism on Lagos economy by businesses and investors. “Firms are also keen to increase the level of investment in the state as indicated by the overwhelming ‘yes’ responses, of more than 70 per cent across different business categories. “However, economic instability occasioned by poor exchange rate management as well as inflationary trend could undermine actualisation of the investment potentials.” The Special Adviser to the Governor on Sustainable Development Goals and Investment, Mrs Solape Hammond, said the investment barometer “is a report that tells us how people are feeling in Lagos, what their sentiments are on specific activities and there are specific recommendations.” According to the OSDG&I, the project was conceived to elicit perspectives of the private sector on the business environment. The report said Lagos State is relatively safe when compared with security situations in other states and Nigeria in general. However, it added that the uncontrolled migration and influx of foreigners into Lagos, the menace of unregistered actors, undocumented motorcyclists, and hawkers were potential security risks. It noted that the preponderance of commodities’ hawking was affecting core retail trade. The report also said there is a significant improvement in the healthcare system in the state in terms of access to public health facilities and cost. It added that the high cost of living is occasioned by an increase in the general price level of commodities, which erodes disposable income and undermines aggregate demand. The report said, “Business environment in Lagos State a highly regulated one with implications on business performance in terms of efficiency and financial implications. Regulatory challenges are so pervasive that even in the same ministry or agency, you see different departments carry out inspections on private companies.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com