Twelve years after the demise of fuji music originator, Sikiru Ayinde (Barrister), some of his widows are considering remarriage, the News Agency of Nigeria reports. One of the wives, 50-year-old Kehinde Balogun, stated that finding a good man after the demise of her late husband has been tough. She said, “It is not easy. However, if a good man comes along, I would remarry. (But), it is not easy to come across truthful men these days. “I was quite young when I got married to Alhaji (Barrister). Living without him has not been easy. But, we cannot question God. “God has been faithful though, (coupled) with the support of family and friends.” Another wife, Oluwayemisi, who is 50 years old, stated that if it was God’s will for her to remarry, she would. She said, “In life, one (should) never say ‘never’. One doesn’t know what God has destined for one, so it is important to always focus on the will of God. “If God says I would remarry, so be it. Marriage is a union created by God, and like most women, I’d want that too,” she said. Forty-year-old Temilola Balogun stated that 12 year years after the death of Barrister, who was also called ‘Alhaji Agba’, she had yet to find true love. She said, “If I find someone I love enough to share my life with him; why not. But, finding true love is not easy these days. One has to tread with caution. “If tomorrow I find true love, I would remarry but until then, I would keep praying to God for mercy and protection.” However, another wife, Adebisi, 65, stated that remarrying was not her priority as she would rather focus on her children and grandchildren. She said, “At this age, my focus is to live a healthy life surrounded by my children and grandchildren.” Sharing the same view with Adebisi, another wife, 58-year-old Yetunde, maintained that at this stage of her life, remarrying was a non-issue to her. She said, “What would I be looking for again? I am happy with the memories I shared with Barrister. My children are getting married now, so it is just grandma duties I am doing and living my life to the fullest.” Yet another wife, Yinka, who is in her forties, told NAN that she hasn’t noted that she had never given remarrying a thought. She said, “I have never thought about it, honestly.” Recall that Barrister was born February 9, 1948, and died on Dec. 16 2010. A colloquium was held in his honour on Wednesday, March 16, 2022. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com