THE Kaduna State Government has clarified that there was no herder’s settlement razed in Kurdan community in Zango-Kataf following the Sunday night’s killing of no fewer than 37 people in Agban Kagoro. On Wednesday, while giving an update on the security situation in Southern Kaduna, the state Commissioner for Infernal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan had said hoodlums attacked and burnt down two herders’ settlements in Zaria and Kurdan in Zango-Kataf. But on Thursday, the commissioner in another statement, recanted, saying that no settlement was burnt in the community as reported by security agencies. The commissioner said, “The Kaduna State Government has received a formal complaint from Kurdan community of Zangon Kataf Local Government, stating that no settlement was burnt in the community as reported by security agencies. “The complaint was submitted by Warrant Officer Danjuma Yaro (retd.), President of the Community’s Development Association. “The information was conveyed to security agencies for further checks and it was found to be an oversight; residents of the household deserted the location following tension in the general area, but the settlement was not burnt. “Security agencies while confirming the oversight on Kurdan community, have already submitted pictorial and video records of locations torched by hoodlums, excluding Kurdan community. “It is important to further clarify that in no instance did security agencies confirm complicity of members of the community, as is being peddled in some quarters to deliberately personalize the oversight.” Meanwhile, the state government has relaxed the 24-hour curfew imposed on Kaura and Jema’a Local Government areas of the state following Sunday night’s killing of no fewer than 37 people in Agban Kagoro. The killings at Agban Kagoro in Kaura LGA sparked off protests on Monday, forcing the state government to slam a 24-hour curfew on the two councils – Jema’a and Kaura, for fear of escalation of violence in the areas. But Aruwan, in another statement Thursday evening, announced the relaxation of the curfew from 6pm to 6am. According to him, the decision to relax the curfew was reached after a review of the security situation presented by security agencies at a peace engagement. “By this development, there will be movement in the areas from 6am to 6pm, while the curfew is to be observed from 6pm to 6am daily. “The government wishes to reiterate that the initial declaration of the 24-hour curfew was to avert escalation of violence. Monitoring of the situation will continue. Should security assessments necessitate it, the government will not hesitate to revert to a 24-hour curfew,” the commissioner added. Meanwhile, the Defence Headquarters said it has intensified efforts in order to bring those behind the recent attacks in Southern Kaduna to book. Speaking during a briefing in Abuja on Thursday, the Director, Defence Media Operations, Brig. Gen. Bernard Onyeuko, disclosed that serious operations had commenced in Southern Kaduna, assuring all that those behind the attacks would be fished out. He said, “The troops of Operations Thunder Strike and Whirl Punch, who operate within the area, have been on top of the game. “Before long, those criminals would be brought to book. We are already carrying out serious operations within those areas.” Onyeuko, also said between March 10 and 24, airstrikes killed key members of Islamic State of West African Province in Borno. “Troops carried out air interdictions on March 15 around Lake Chad and Tumbuns, close to Wulgo in Marte area of Borno. During the airstrikes, key members of Islamic State of West African Province were neutralised,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com