THE Anambra State Government has announced the sacking of all political appointees. A memo by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof Solo Chukwuelobe, obtained by our correspondent in Awka, on Monday, stated that all the affected appointees were instructed to surrender all government’s property in their possession to the most senior civil servants on or before Wednesday. The memo reminded them that the administration of Governor Willie Obiano would be winding down on Wednesday. While thanking the appointees for their services, the memo said those with tenured appointments were not affected by the circular, but they should await further directives by the incoming administration of Prof Charles Soludo. The memo read, “This is to notify all political appointees that the life of the present administration will end on Wednesday. Consequently, all appointees are informed that their appointments will terminate on the said date. “You are, therefore, advised to hand over all government property in your possession to the most senior civil servant in your office and the officer should acknowledge receipt as appropriate.” Meanwhile, the rooftop of the state international cargo airport, which was inaugurated six months ago, in Umueri, was blown open following a downpour in the state over the weekend. Our correspondent observed on Monday that the roofs, the control tower and some other fittings could not withstand the windstorm. Although journalists were barred from going close to the affected areas, an expert, who did not disclose his identity, said a close look at the finishing showed that the works might have been hurriedly executed in order to meet the political deadline for its completion. The outgoing Commissioner for Works, Marcel Ifejiofor, who was the supervising official for the job, could not be reached for comments as he did not take his calls and did not respond to text messages sent to his mobile telephone. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com