Four of the top female filmmakers in the country — Tope Oshin, Biodun Stephen, Mildred Okwo and Patience Oghre — talk to BLESSING ENENAITE about their careers and other issues What influenced your decision to become a filmmaker? I always tell people that when I was young, I liked the art of imitation. I was always imitating people, television acts and relatives. I used to enjoy re-enacting whatever they did. I think that entertainment trait in me came out when I began to understand that I could study Theatre Arts in the university. What were the challenges you faced in your rise to prominence? I will not say I have really risen to prominence. I keep rising and I hope to achieve more. When I started as a filmmaker, there weren’t too many women in the profession. Then, the roles of make-up artist, costuming and to an extent, acting, were left for women in the industry. Now, there are a lot of female filmmakers. As a matter of fact, one of the people I looked up to then was the late Amaka Igwe. I actually wanted to be in an area where I could make some statement. I had a lot of challenges telling people, especially marketers of those days, that I could actually do this. They never trusted their movies into my hands as a director. I thank God for Zeb Ejiro who gave me the first opportunity to actually work as a filmmaker. The late Igwe was also an inspiration to me and I had the opportunity of working with her before she passed on. The major challenge then was that women were not really practicing the craft. But today, it has gone beyond that. The little challenges we have now have to do with the environment we work in. Everyone knows the issue of area boys (louts), and people not allowing us to do our work. Then, the issues of poor power supply and having generator sounds everywhere, as well as traffic snarls. The challenges are quite much but they are common to practically every filmmaker. But, we are still able to put our heads above water. What are your fondest memories as a filmmaker? Every set is fun for me because it is what I like doing. Filmmaking is my life. I don’t own any shop or have any other business aside from filmmaking. In fact, I did not do the business part of it (filmmaking) for a while as a director. I just wanted to be creative, interpret roles, and ‘direct’ talents. But recently, I have done much of the business of filmmaking, and it has been exciting. It is a great experience being on set and seeing the script being translated to reality. I usually forget all the challenges and quarrels we had while on set. It (finished product) makes me feel like a mother who was just delivered of a baby. What do you consider to be your most notable works so far? I have always put in my best into every job I have done. It is generally believed that one is as good as one’s last job. I have done series and movies. I want people to choose whichever job they feel is my best. However, there are some stories that actually touch my soul and heart so much, especially those that have to do with women, rape and domestic abuse. I put in the same level of energy and creativity into all my jobs. I approach every job as if it would give me my next promotion. If you were not a filmmaker, what would you have become? If I were not a filmmaker, I would have loved to be taking care of old people. My father was young when he died. So, when I see old people, I wish my father was there for me. I don’t mind running an old people’s home. It gives me joy and it is what I can do without being paid.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com