The Imo State Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Cajetan Duke, tells CHIDIEBUBE OKEOMA that the Peoples Democratic Party could not have won the election after an occupant of the same seat in the House of Assembly abandoned the position How would you describe the last bye-election in Imo State? The outcome of the bye-election was a clear reflection of the sentiment of the people of Ngor Okpala. The people made a clear statement through the ballot. You will agree with me that the political history of Ngor Okpala people reveals that they are very politically sensitive, enlightened and conscious. On several occasions, they have always decided the direction of electoral process in the state. So, our people don’t pander towards things that are politically insignificant. We are always issue-conscious. For us as a political party, we are grateful to Ngor Okpala electorate who came all out to vote for the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Okenze Amajirionwu. This victory is a signpost of a new dawn for the people of Ngor Okpala. The victory is an eloquent testimony of the towering popularity of our party under the leadership of Governor Hope Uzodimma. This will be the third time the APC will be winning a bye-election in the state.  For the new state executive committee of the party, it’s a good start, and we will sustain the goodwill as we will maintain the fighting spirit and teamwork. On a personal note, I am so elated that my people of Ngor Okpala responded positively to my humble plea, because at a point, it became like I was in the ballot. As a member of the State Working Committee of the party and of course the spokesman, I saw the election as a defining project, an assignment that must be delivered. I ensured many ranks were closed, reconciliation made. Some leaders of the party, who felt undermined by the managers of the party earlier before the current leadership emerged, had their natural status restored and assured. For me, it was a test of leadership, and I’m grateful to God that we delivered. But the People Democratic Party in the state is insisting that there was no election in the state. That is outright primitive, baseless, unfortunate and regrettable; it is even senseless, to say the least. The truth is that some people are shameless. The PDP as a political party in the first place ought not to have any business with the said election, having failed to offer any explanation to the people of Ngor Okpala as to what happened to their former lawmaker elected on the platform of the PDP. As I speak with you, the people of Ngor Okpala are still in the dark as to the whereabouts of their son. The leadership of his party, to the chagrin of the people, has not shown any sign of responsibility. It would have been a case of re-enforcing ineptitude, failure and gross irresponsibility if our people had voted the PDP. I’m still confounded by the number of votes they secured anyway because every right-thinking Ngor Okpala person irrespective of political inclination share the same sentiment about the poor way the PDP handled Okereke’s abdication of office. The Imo State Chairman of the PDP, Charles Ugwu, specifically accused the APC in the state of conniving with the Independent National Electoral Commission to thumbprint ballot papers. What is your view on this? Honestly, like I said earlier, I strongly do not know where that allegation is coming from. Thumb-printing ballots with the BVAS technology employed? That sounds bizarre. I think the state chairman of the PDP, with his age, thinks we are still where we used to be when he ran his failed controversial governorship project in 2007. Our electoral system has gone beyond that. Check the margin; 9,000 plus against 7,000 plus votes, is a clear indication that it was a free, fair and credible contest. I think, and very strongly too, that the PDP has an intentional target to undermine the credibility of the electoral process, having failed to prove that Ngor Okpala is their stronghold, as erroneously claimed. It is strange that the PDP was expecting our people to vote for them in this bye-election. Do you think the APC can win the 2023 governorship election in the state considering the circumstances that brought it into power at the state level? We have won three bye-elections in the state, one senatorial seat, one federal constituency and then this last one. It’s an indication that the future is bright for our party in the state. Our governor on the other hand is busy providing leadership and critical infrastructure for the economic prosperity and growth of the state through the 3R-mantra (Recovery, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation) of his shared prosperity administration. Uzodimma has continued to endear himself to the people of the state through his exceptional political will and leadership dexterity in prosecuting the recovery agenda of his administration. It takes courage and statesmanship to recover stolen public properties from active state actors. Leadership is all about taking responsibility and Uzodimma has shown enough capacity in that direction. Our party is confident that our scorecard is impressive enough to earn us a resounding victory come 2023. What are the plans of your party to get victory in the 2023 general election in Imo State? Our target is to continue to sustain the support and solidarity of our people, through the implementation of quality people-oriented projects and policies. We are confident that our people appreciate the phenomenal infrastructural development dotting the entire landscape of the state courtesy of Governor Hope Uzodimma. The urban renewal initiatives, the recovery of looted public properties and assets and subsequent return to original owners through the implementation of government white paper on land allocation, rehabilitation of critical infrastructure in the state are amongst others life-transforming programmes of this administration that have earned him the admiration of our people. Just recently, the governor directed the commencement of over 158 kilometres of rural road reconstruction across the 27 local government areas, aside the ongoing rehabilitation of 305 health centres across the 305 electoral wards in the state. Recall the unfortunate outbreak of insecurity in the state compounded by the illegal release of inmates of the state correctional facility but the leadership maturity and statesmanship of the governor was brought to bear in restoring peace and security in the state. As a party, we have won one rerun and two different bye-elections in this state, and it’s an indication of the people’s preference and support. Going by our performance in these outings, I am certain that we will do better in the 2023 general elections. What is your take on the attack on traditional rulers in the state by gunmen? It is very unfortunate, disheartening, condemnable and regrettable. We are known to have respect for human life and cannot suddenly allow anybody to misguide our youths into an unconscionable life style. Thank God, the government of Uzodimma, through relevant security agencies and stakeholders’ collaboration is responding appropriately. Many say the bye-election was an indication of what will happen in 2023. Do you share the same view? Well, we will continue to rely and depend on the people. The people remain our pillar of support and growth. The governor has assured the people of his commitment to the continuous implementation of the 3R-mantra of his administration, wherein every community within the state will feel the positive impact of government. If you look at the performance of our party since the emergence of Governor Uzodimma, you will agree with me that the popularity of our party has increased courtesy of the uncommon goodwill of the governor. We do not intend to take this improved status and fortune of our party for granted.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com