There are anxiety and palpable fears of terrorists’ attack among residents of Shimfida and its surrounding communities in the Jibiya Local Government Area of Katsina State following the absence of troops of the Nigerian Army from one of their outposts located within the community. The military outpost has been there for about five years. The residents are alleging that the troops might have been withdrawn from the outpost since last Wednesday. Very credible military sources, however, said the troops had only changed their strategy of being static at the outpost to prevent being ambushed by terrorists. The sources added that some of the troops are currently engaged in the joint security operations going on at border areas of Katsina and Zamfara States. One of the military sources said, “You know there is a serious joint military operation going on in the fringes of those forests bordering Zamfara and Katsina States  and our troops, of course, are part of the operations. “We don’t need to tell the civilians our strategies as it is like disclosing your strategies to the enemy. Even if the troops are not at the post where people used to see them for years, that does not mean people in the area have been abandoned. There are still joint military patrols going on in the area you mentioned (Shimfida).” Residents, however, alleged that no fewer than seven persons, who were mainly children, died while trying to relocate from their communities to Jibiya after the troops’ absence was first noticed on Wednesday. A community leader, who pleaded for anonymity, disclosed that the seven victims were buried in Jibiya, on Thursday, after the 7 o’ clock evening prayers. The community leader also disclosed that some residents who fled Shimfida and surrounding communities out of fears of attacks by terrorists during the week have resettled inside the premises of Tundun Wadan primary school, along Jibiya/ Kaoran Namoda road. He added: “Residents of Shimfida and surrounding communities are now relocating to Jibiya out of fears of attacks by terrorists following the withdrawal of the troops who were hitherto based at an outpost in the area.” Attempts to get comments from the 17 Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Katsina, and the Katsina Police Headquarters on the development were unsuccessful as enquiries on the incidents were referred to Abuja. Governor Aminu Masari’s Special Adviser on Security, Ahmad Katsina, could also not be reached for comments. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com