The National Identity Management Commission has said it wants the National Identity Number to become a mandatory requirement for accessing all kinds of government services. This is according to the Director General, NIMC, Engr. Aliyu Azeez, who has solicited the support of the Bureau of Public Service Reforms. Azeez made the appeal when he led a delegation of NIMC management staff on a visit to Mr Dasuki Ibrahim Arabi, the Director General of BPSR, in his office. He said the visit was to register their gratitude to Arabi and his team at the Bureau, for facilitating the adoption of NIN in the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board’s Unified Tertiary Matriculation Exam and also the Nigerian Immigration’s International Passport. According to a statement shared by the Ministry of Information and Culture, Azeez noted that the number of Nigerians who have enrolled for their NIN has risen to 75 million, from a mere seven (7) million in 2015. “He further revealed that their agency has developed the NIMC mobile App, with which members of the general public can access vital information about their NIN enrolment and print out. “In his remark, Arabi, lauded the NIMC Director General for the ‘remarkable’ work he is doing to actualize the corporate mandate of the Commission, and to also facilitate the enrolment of millions of Nigerians into its citizens’ database. “He called on other management staff of NIMC to lend their support to Engr. Azeez, whom he said has remained steadfast and committed to actualizing the visions and missions of the Commission, being its Chief Enrolment Officer. “Arabi, assured that BPSR is ready to deploy its Self-Assessment Tool (SAT) program on NIMC, with a view to identifying the areas of weakness and challenges facing the Commission, amid the great successes it has also recorded,: the statement signed by Aliyu Umar Aliyu read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com