The Lagos State Safety Commission has announced its readiness to commence the sensitisation and occupational safety risk assessment of high-rises across the state as part of its ongoing 2022 Zero Accident Campaign. A statement by the commission stated that the exercise, which was in partnership with International Facility Management Association, was to proactively address the ineffective safety management system in place across such facilities within the state. The commission noted that over the years, the lack of commitment to safety issues, non-compliance to safety standards and guidelines and poor emergency preparedness plans had contributed to accidents such as fire and building collapse. The Director-General, Lagos State Safety Commission, Lanre Mojola, stated that the commission’s mandate was to ensure the safety of lives and properties in the state. He said the sensitisation and commencement of risk assessment at high-rise buildings would help to reduce to a significant level physical injuries, fatalities and property damage that might lead to lawsuits, reputational damage, and huge compensation. He added that sensitisation was one of the germane steps to be taken, as this would reawaken the awareness of relevant stakeholders on the need for adequate safety protocols at high-rises. According to him, accidents at high-rise buildings often lead to fatalities, serious physical injuries, and loss of properties, which were avoidable if effective safety management systems were in place. Mojola further stated that the scope of the assessments would include risks associated with fire, vertical transportation equipment, explosions arising from chemical/hazards storage, persons trapped in lifts and disease outbreaks, among others. He called for the cooperation of owners, occupants and residents at high-rises, towards the success of the exercise. In his remarks, the President, IFMA, Nigeria Chapter, Segun Adebayo, commended the Lagos State Safety Commission for the collaboration and assured them of his organisation’s readiness to work with the team to achieve the purpose and objective of the task. He agreed that the initiative was in line with the renewed purpose of the association as regards strategic collaboration with public institutions towards an excellent operation of facility management practice in the built environment.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com