The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, on Thursday, said no fewer than 30,000 repentant Boko Haram and the Islamic State’s West Africa Province insurgents terrorising the North-East had surrendered. Mustapha stated this at a stakeholders’ engagement on the security challenges confronting the North-West geopolitical zone in Kaduna. The engagement had as its theme, ‘Enhancing the role of local communities in the security architecture through awakening security awareness and consciousness’. The SGF noted that threats by separatist agitators in the South-East and the South-South over the years had ebbed. He added that the current regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had taken far reaching measures to tackle security issues in the country. Mustapha noted that one of such measures was the “increase in budgetary allocation as well as shoring up the equipment holding of the military and other security agencies.” Besides, he said approval was granted for the recruitment of 10,000 police personnel for three consecutive years, while the salaries of the personnel had been increased. Mustapha stated, “The choice of Kaduna is strategic as the old headquarters of the Northern Region and also one of the states most hit by armed banditry. “As you are all aware, Nigeria has been grappling with a number of security challenges across all parts of the country. These challenges have resulted in loss of valuable lives and displacement of several people as well as the destruction of property worth billions of naira. “The Federal Government is concerned with these challenges and has been working assiduously to reduce them to the barest minimum. In fact, tackling insecurity is one of the three priority areas of the present administration. “You are also aware that this administration has taken far reaching measures to tackle insecurity in the country. Some of the measures include increase in budgetary allocation as well as shoring up the equipment holding of the military and other security agencies. “Similarly, approval was granted for the recruitment of 10,000 police personnel for three consecutive years, while their salaries have been upwardly reviewed to boost their morale, enhance productivity and elicit hard work. “Troops of Operation Sharan Daji, in conjunction with personnel of the Nigeria Police Force and other intelligence/security and para-military agencies have sustained the onslaught against the criminal elements and the administration has taken far reaching measures to tackle insecurity in the country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com