Dear Madam Temilolu, I salute you with all my heart and thought to let you know that the world will hear your voice and adhere to everything you say and write about sexual purity, not only to girls but applicable to guys too. Honestly ma, I think you are the most beautiful woman in the world. I’m so thrilled and so encouraged by your stand on sexual purity at a time like this. I remain steadfast listening to more of your courageous messages. May God bless all your endeavours. Gift Dear Evangelist, I am addicted to reading your articles in the newspaper and on Facebook and most of the time, you talk about the reward for keeping one’s virginity. I want to correct the impression and false hope you are giving to unmarried virgins that their virginity will gain them the world and great men will beg to be with them, that is absolutely not correct! There are many who have married great men as non-virgin while too many virgins have ended up with wrong men. What will you say to that? I have kept myself for 30 years yet no man. No brother has ever approached me for a relationship talk less of marriage and I’m beginning to wonder if I have a spiritual problem that’s making men to avoid me. What happens to your false promises? Tina My dearest and rarest of gems, Tina, I clearly understand the way you feel but I must let you know, TO START WITH, no matter what anyone says RIGHTEOUSNESS EXALTS, RIGHTEOUSNESS EXALTS, RIGHTEOUSNESS EXALTS!!! If I begin to quote scriptures of the rewards of obedience, there would be no space to write on your angst and having a good marriage is the least of things God has prepared for those who love Him! God is super-committed to those who are committed to Him and can only ensure they have some of the best things in life! I must not fail to mention that non-virgins and promiscuous ladies can end up with a good man who’s not God’s plan for them after all. And we must also not forget God is merciful to whoever He chooses to be merciful to. Besides, what A can get away with could be what would destroy B’s destiny. Would Esther have become the queen of a foreign land from being a slave and ‘nobody’ if she was engaging in premarital sex? NO! Would Mary, the mother of Jesus, have landed the opportunity of bringing Jesus Christ into the world and effortlessly becoming the most famous woman in creation till eternity if she was fornicating? NO! On the other hand, do you expect the devil to be happy with a life which chooses not to defile the temple of God? I know ladies who married as virgins but ended up with brutes, not because they lacked good character but the following could be responsible. If you fail to discover yourself and your divine identity, you’d end up choosing the wrong person as a spouse. If your destiny/marriage is under attack, you’d end up with the devil itself. An evil foundation/ancestry could hand you over to a man that will massacre you. If you fail to activate the power of God in you and maximize your purity in the supernatural, the devil will fight you and ensure you end up with the wrong person or nobody. There are other reasons too. However, Psalm 25:14 says, “The secret of the Lord is with them that fear Him and to them He will show His covenant!.” 1 Cor. 2:9-10 says,  “What no eye has seen, what no ear has heard, and what no human mind has conceived are the things God has prepared for those who love Him— these are the things God has revealed to us by his Spirit.”  If you can painstakingly keep your flesh from defilement in this day and age AND GOD IS NOT TALKING TO YOU CONSTANTLY, I’M SORRY, THERE’S A PROBLEM. I encourage you to take a closer walk with God; be determined to rub minds with Him and find out why men are not coming to you for a relationship. Something’s obviously wrong somewhere. Ordinarily, you should be magnetising the best things in life and not only being swarmed by men because a virgin usually carries a heavy dose of the presence and power of God. You certainly have battles to fight. To think you are beautiful! YOU HAVE SO MUCH POWER, TOO MUCH POWER AS A SEXUALLY-PURE PERSON BECAUSE YOU HAVE YOUR DESTINY IN YOUR GRIP AND YOU’RE NOT POROUS TO A DEMONIC INVASION FROM STRANGE SPIRITS. PLEASE DON’T LET THE DEVIL DEMOBILISE YOU! UTILIZE YOUR POWER – THE SUPERNAL PRESENCE OF GOD IN YOU. May you end up with someone ten times better than your dream man! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin. You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open to all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com