Sometimes public figures make comments that get some of us wondering. One was made by the former governor of Osun State, Ogbeni Rauf Aregebsola, recently. He said his benefactor, the APC National Leader, Senator Bola Tinubu, “has turned himself to a god.” His comments followed the primaries held to elect his party’s governorship candidate in Osun. It’s a colourful comment, the kind politicians make to garner support for themselves. But it’s one worth interrogating and I do this from two perspectives. There’s more to be noted in Ogbeni’s comments though. He said he wanted Governor Gboyega Oyetola, his successor and the incumbent governor, removed from office. His reason? Oyetola hasn’t executed the programmes he (Ogbeni Aregbesola) designed for the state. So I ask: Does Ogbeni mean the programme he embarked upon which pitched the ever peaceful Osun people against one another on the basis of religion? That measure almost cost his party the governorship seat in the last election. Ogbeni went further still: “We came back home to reposition our party to where it was meant to be because we followed the lead of our leader (Tinubu) that we thought was a noble and reliable fellow. We followed him (Tinubu) dutifully with all sense of loyalty… We exalted him beyond his status and he turned himself to a god over us and we had sworn to ridicule anyone who compared himself to God.” Two Fridays ago, I asked: What do people think politics is? Today, I ask: What do people think political power is? Ogbeni has tasted political power. He knows that exercising power is like playing god. As state governor (and now minister), Ogbeni has favoured many people’s proposals, turning such persons into millionaires. That’s one phase of power. For me, like politics, exercising power means one can decide what happens to the other person—who gets what, when, how. So, if Ogbeni misrepresents this by categorising others as “playing God,” he’s right. But he belongs in the same category. When his benefactor exercises power in Osun the way he knows, however, Ogbeni accuses him of “playing God.” The derogatory manner he portrays this is what I can’t agree with because I belong to the Hans Morgenthau school of thought regarding power. I admire people who robustly exercise power. I admire people who smartly strategise and put themselves in power positions, which they then exercise. It’s the harsh reality of our world, the reason nations that acquire power are the ones that dictate what happens on the world stage. What Aregbesola mis-characterises is the very nature of mankind, the history of our world. Exercising power isn’t necessarily a negative thing. That’s my first perspective. The second perspective has to do with loyalty. Now, some of us can’t go gaga over this kind of comment Ogbeni made. Why? When one has an understanding of the harsh realities of politics, he wouldn’t be bothered by comments which show its maker as one who either doesn’t appreciate the realities of politicking or operates below the level of real men who the Yoruba say can sleep in the open during the worst harmattan. In the power game, real men don’t spill the beans. They take the best politics offers them and maintain a stoic silence regarding what it doesn’t. Whoever misses that misses what’s not manly in Ogbeni’s comments. It’s disloyalty. I easily overlook the fact that a fellow lacks other virtues but whoever shows disloyalty leaves me with a permanent impression; the disloyal person is a damaged good. I’m wary of such. It’s not that I don’t know what it may cost one to remain loyal. It costs much and it’s the reason I take silent but deep bow when I see loyal men. For me, loyalty is the highest test of a man’s character. Loyal men are worthy men. I admire them; they’re my best characters in plays that I’ve read, classic and contemporary. I stated in the past that politics isn’t the same thing as children playing in the backyard. Here we talk power. Whoever knows power knows you can’t afford to concede an inch of the ground to the opponent and hope to remain afloat. You can’t leave your flanks open. You can’t let your opponents take over places where your loyalists should be. Smart politicians know this. Now that Ogbeni is outsmarted in Osun, he’s assassinating the character of  other  politicians, calling a benefactor names. Across the world politicking has some basic features. There’re figures who’re part of the input and output process in every political system, not just in Nigeria. There’re the godfathers, the kingmakers, endorsers, power brokers, fundraisers, etc. They may not be so obvious but they’re always there, waiting for payback when their candidates get into power. For instance, just suggesting to the man in the White House a person for appointment is one category of benefactor at work. A benefactor helped Ogbeni in the past, now he’s disparaging his political benefactor. How would Ogbeni feel if he were given the same treatment? I point this out because young impressionable Nigerians mustn’t be misled. It’s hypocrisy on the part of a politician, who has exercised power, to call another person, who also exercises power the way he knows how, a bad name, just because the game is now skewed against him. What Ogbeni is doing smirks of disloyalty and nowhere is it pardoned in politics that’s never a one day event. Did anyone see Sajid Javid, the former UK Chancellor of the Exchequer? He disagreed with Prime Minister Boris Johnson and walked away from his post based on principle. But he maintained a principled silence. Johnson saw that and months later he brought Javid back into his cabinet. Also, when some Tory party members were speaking against their PM over some COVID-19 period garden parties at 10 Downing Street, the party hierarchy waved warning fingers at such disloyal members and some have since kept their mouths shut. With a political science background, what I do here is put in perspective what power or politics entails. It’s a raw fight; that’s the harsh reality. You can’t enjoy the benefits of the operationalisation of the harsh realities of politics and the day you don’t benefit you badmouth the same realities that produced you. Ogbeni benefitted from the raw deployment of power by his benefactor; it brought him into different political offices in the past and now that the same power display isn’t to his benefit, he assassinates other people’s character. For more than 20 years, Ogbeni has enjoyed the cover that Tinubu and the political structures he has carefully nurtured provides. Now he said he had initially thought his benefactor was “a noble and reliable fellow.” Is Ogbeni just realising this because no one dances to his tune in Osun State anymore?  He doesn’t come out of this matter looking good to me. He can’t because I don’t look at what a benefactor does or doesn’t do. I look at what the person who’s disloyal to his benefactor does. If something happens and you turn around to openly depict your benefactor as a monster, I question your character, the strength of your character, not your benefactor’s. Why? In the days the benefactor is meant to be your pillar, he stands as your pillar. On the day he’s no longer there, I take it that he’s not meant to be there. Express gratitude, walk away and execute your own plan but don’t disparage the benefactor to whom you’ve now chosen to be a rival. Anything different from this tidy and honourable measure is propelled by anger, jealousy, ego, pettiness and lack of strength of character, none of which is a virtue. Meanwhile, Ogbeni says he’s sworn to “ridicule” his fellow human being. He seems to take it for granted that he has the power to make what he wishes for another person happen automatically. It shows Ogbeni is playing God too. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com