Reality TV star, Terseer Waya, aka Kiddwaya, has criticized the use of stones to brace the stage the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) stood on during the inauguration of the new terminal at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport in Ikeja, Lagos State. Kiddwaya, who made his displeasure known in an Instagram post on Tuesday, described the development as a lack of standard. “How can the biggest economy in Africa be using stones to hold the stage the president of Nigeria is standing on? As in we no get standard or what?” he said. The Chief Press Secretary in Lagos, Gboyega Akosile, in a statement on Tuesday, said the terminal was established 43 years ago, adding that state Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, joined the president to unveil the new MMIA Terminal 2, designed and built under the rehabilitation programme of the Federal Ministry of Aviation. The statement read in part, “Lagos State, Nigeria’s hub of commerce, is set to witness a rapid economic growth, as a major remodelling project undertaken by the Federal Government at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, in Ikeja comes to fruition. “President Muhammadu Buhari, on Tuesday, commissioned the newly built international terminal at the international airport, creating a new travel experience for air passengers passing through the Lagos international airspace. “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu joined the president to unveil the new MMIA Terminal 2, designed and built under the ambitious rehabilitation programme of the Federal Ministry of Aviation in which 22 federal airports were marked for upgrade and remodelling. “At the occasion, Lagos State Government signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to construct ancillary road infrastructure that will create seamless vehicular connectivity to the airport through Alimosho axis.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com