Al Nahda of Saudi Arabia and Super Eagles defender Ifeanyi Anaemena talks on his journey as a footballer, his first invitation to the Eagles, love for Burna Boy and more in this interview with EBENEZER BAJELA How did your football career start? I started playing when I was very young and that was when I was less than 13. I started with the U-13 team of Great Lion back then in Onitsha. And since then I never looked back, I just kept moving forward. At what age did you wanted to be a professional footballer? I think I was 15 when I decided that I wanted to be a professional footballer. Then I was already playing for the U-15 of Great Lion. We won a tournament and I played as a right-back. It was a very good outing for me. With the praises from people and what everyone was saying about me at the tournament, I believed that I could become a professional footballer, that was how the real journey started for me. How supportive were your parents towards achieving this dream? We know how things usually are with Nigerian parents. Initially they were hell-bent on me going to school and getting a good career for my future. This made things tough until I got to the peak of my career. When things started working out fine, they started showing interest and they became my backbone. I want to applaud them for that and thank them for being there for me now. What were the challenges you faced growing up? I had a lot because growing up and playing football was tough and hectic. It wasn’t easy because of the facilities in Nigeria. It’s not encouraging, especially if you don’t have anybody to push you up at the beginning of your career. There was no one to push me, no one to recommend me even when I was doing my best. There were a lot of discouraging factors that almost made me want to quit football but then I was steadfast and believed that someday I’ll make it through. My target was to get to the topflight and represent my country, which by God’s grace had come to pass. You once played for Enyimba, one of the biggest clubs in Nigeria. How does it feel? Playing for Enyimba was a dream come true because Enyimba, Enugu Rangers are among the biggest clubs in Nigeria and as a footballer from the eastern part of the country, you always want to represent these clubs. But going to Enyimba was tough because even when you are good the club doesn’t sign you just like that, except you’ve played against them and shown good character or you are exceptionally good for them to consider signing you. For me, joining Enyimba from Giwa – a club in the North – was tough but it was a great move for me. I gave my all playing for them because they brought me to the limelight. Playing on the continent and getting an invitation to the Super Eagles happened during my time with Enyimba. The club will always be in my heart. What was your reaction when you first got invitation to the Super Eagles? My first invitation to the national team gave me joy and inspiration because I’d been expecting it a long time. It actually came as a huge surprise and that was in November 2019. It was former coach Gernot Rohr that called me to inform me to report to the Eagles camp in Uyo, that I had been invited for the AFCON qualifiers against Benin Republic and Lesotho. At first, I thought it was a prank but later I found out it was real. We were coming back from a match in Katsina. It all happened so fast and I took it that it was my time and God made it happen. I’ve always been working hard and keeping faith that one day it will happen and it did happen, so I’m grateful to God for the opportunity. Can you recount your first experience in the Eagles camp? The feeling was different the first time I was there, it was quite different from the club’s dressing room. The arrangement, pattern and intensity were quite different. People seem to be so much concentrated thinking of how to get a good result, some playing music while others cracked jokes. It was really fun though. Were you jittery when you met some of the big players you usually watched on TV? There was no form of discrimination in the camp, I must confess. I remember when I was invited, I was the only home-based player in the team and I was fully welcome. But as in every case, I knew there was a huge difference between the NPFL players and the overseas-based players. They are independent and everybody tries to respect each other, but I was not jittery or felt intimidated because Rohr tried to put everybody on the same level and we related with each other well. It was inspirational for me to meet the players I’ve watched on TV and now shared same dressing room with them. Which of the players made you feel comfortable? Almost all the players welcomed me, especially the coach. His approach and interaction helped me feel at home. So, I will say Gernot Rohr made things very easy for me in the Eagles camp. How do you relax? I always try to spend time with my family. I like to have quality time with my wife and children because they’ve been my backbone and once I’m not on the field it is usually with them. Who is your favourite musician? I listen to Burna Boy and Fela Anikulapo-Kuti but I love Burna Boy more. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com