The Nigerian Meteorological Agency has predicted hazy and thundery weather conditions from Thursday to Saturday. NiMet’s weather activities released on Wednesday in Abuja predicted thick dust haze on Thursday, with horizontal visibility of less than or equal to 1,000m over Northern parts of the country throughout the forecast period. According to NiMet, thick dust haze is expected over the North Central cities, while moderate dust haze with visibility range of 1km to 3km is anticipated over Niger and Kwara. “There are also slim prospects of isolated thunderstorms with or without rain over some parts of North Central cities, most especially over parts of the Federal Capital Territory, Benue and Nasarawa in the afternoon and evening period. “Hazy atmosphere with patches of clouds are expected over the Inland regions of the South with slim prospects of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Edo, Ondo and Ogun in the afternoon and evening period. “Cloudy skies are expected over coastal regions of the South,” it said. It anticipated isolated thunderstorms over Cross River, Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers and Akwa Ibom in the morning hours with isolated thunderstorms over Bayelsa, Rivers, Cross River, Delta and Lagos during the afternoon and evening hours. The agency forecasts moderate dust haze on Friday with visibility range of 1km to 3km over the Northern and North Central cities throughout the forecast period. It further forecasts hazy atmosphere with patches of clouds over the Inland cities of the South with prospects of isolated thunderstorms over Ondo, Oyo, Ogun, Osun, Edo, Imo and Abia during the afternoon and evening hours. NiMet envisaged cloudy skies with spells of sunshine over the Coastal regions of the South with prospects of isolated thunderstorms over Cross River, Delta, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Bayelsa during the afternoon and evening hours. “For Saturday, hazy atmosphere with intervals of sunshine are expected over the Northern cities with prospects of isolated thunderstorm over Kebbi and Southern Zamfara during the afternoon and evening hours. “Hazy atmosphere with patches of clouds are expected over the North Central cities with prospects of isolated thunderstorms over the Federal Capital Territory, Niger and Benue during the afternoon and evening hours. “Hazy atmosphere with patches of clouds are expected over the Inland cities of the South with prospects of isolated thunderstorms over Imo, Ondo and Edo during the afternoon and evening hours,” it said. NiMet predicted cloudy skies with spells of sunshine over the coastal regions of the South with prospects of isolated thunderstorms over Lagos, Cross River, Delta, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Bayelsa during the afternoon and evening hours. According to it, flight operations may be delayed as a result of poor visibility and airline operators are advised to get updated weather reports from NiMet for effective planning in their operations. The agency also suggested drainages and water channels be cleared of debris to prevent or mitigate the occurrence of flash floods. “For areas where thunderstorms are expected, strong and squally winds are likely, hence people should avoid parking and standing near tall trees and unstable objects. “People with respiratory issues should avoid inhaling dust in higher concentration. The public is advised to watch and listen to the weather forecast for proper planning of their daily activities through NiMet communication channels,” it said. (NAN)