EXPERTS in solar power electricity have advised manufacturing companies operating in Nigeria to embrace renewable energy to tackle the problems created by the rising cost of diesel and the collapse of the electricity grid in the country. The Managing Director of Nexgen Energy, Mr Uka Ibe, said this in an interview with our correspondent on the sidelines of the inauguration of Nexgen Energy Hub in Ibadan, Oyo State. He said communities, schools, religious organisations, and homes could also utilise the opportunities provided by renewable energy to power their equipment and appliances instead of wasting funds on the purchase of diesel and petrol whose prices have increased since. Ibe said, “Renewable energy will help Nigeria by providing solar electricity to address the epileptic power supply hampering the country’s potential to achieve economic growth. “The goal of Nexgen is to provide innovative solar energy solutions that can help power homes, communities, and small and medium-scale enterprises. “Although SMEs are the engine of economic growth like other industries, they have suffered from the poor public electricity supply, with several of them relying on fossil fuels (diesel) to power their operations. The option of using fossil fuels has been criticized for its negative impact on climate and high cost, making manufacturing in Nigeria uncompetitive. “Nexgen’s solar solutions, present an opportunity for communities and the industry to cut energy costs in the medium to long term and become globally competitive” The President, Renewable Energy Association of Nigeria, Segun Adaju, while also speaking in a separate interview with our correspondent, said solar energy could power industries now because of its advanced technology. He said solar-powered electricity had also become more affordable and was environmentally friendly. He said, “The solution to the energy problem lies in solar energy. Manufacturing companies can now use solar energy to power their heavy-duty machines unlike before. “Technology is advanced now and the amount of resources you have will determine how powerful your solar energy will be. It is cheaper, more reliable and environment friendly which fossil fuels lack.” The Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, who was represented by his deputy, Lucky Ayedatiwa, said the state had invested in off-grid solar-powered electricity. He added that the state was looking at using green hydrogen to supply electricity to its riverine communities.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com