The Nigeria Governors’ Forum has invited the Minister of Power, Aliyu Abubakar, to its third meeting of the year, scheduled to hold on Wednesday, March 23 2022, to discuss the lingering power situation in the country. This was contained in a statement signed by the NGF’s Head, Media and Public Affairs, Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo, on Friday. “As a reaction to the lingering power sector ineffectiveness of the last couple of weeks, power projects’ delivery across the states will dominate their conversation when Governors meet on Wednesday. “The Governors have sought the attendance of the Minister of Power, Engineer Aliyu Abubakar, according to an invitation issued to all Governors by the Director General of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, NGF, Mr Asishana Bayo Okauru, today,” the statement reads in part. The statement added that the meeting would also feature discussions with the Chief Economic Adviser to the president, Dr Doyin Salami, who was the Chairman of the Presidential Economic Advisory Council, on the Nigerian economy and new insights on it. The governors will also engage in discussions surrounding healthcare delivery and other issues with the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, and the Executive Director and CEO of the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency, Dr Faisal Shuaib. The statement continues, “The Chief Economic Adviser to the President is expected to address all issues on the domestic economy and present views on them to the President; closely monitor national and international developments, trends and develop appropriate policy responses; develop and recommend to the President national economic policies to foster macro-economic stability, promote growth, create jobs, and eradicate poverty, among others. “The 36 Governors will be seeking to know in which direction he will be rolling the economy. “Another critical sector that the Governors will be deliberating upon is Health Care Delivery in the country. The Health Minister Dr Osagie Ehanire will be briefing the Governors on Oxygen Supply and the rehabilitation of General Hospitals. Another top official of the health sector that will be meeting the governors at the meeting is the Executive Director and CEO of the NPHCD Dr Faisal Shuaib, who will be briefing the Governors on the forthcoming Primary Health Care Summit, 2022.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com