A relationship ends and the lamentation is “he has destroyed my life”. Another woman waltzes into the picture and the story becomes “she has destroyed my home” Does anybody really have such powers over your life? Sometimes, I think these sentiments are CONVENIENT because there are realities we would rather not face! A few weeks back, an actress incurred the wrath of many people on account of her marriage to a man that’s said to be the husband of another woman. There’s a certain TAKING FOR GRANTED that most people do in marriage: You take it for granted that you may not remain on the same page with a spouse. And that people REALLY drift apart emotionally. You take it for granted that life happens and the centre WILL NOT hold again. You have even convinced yourself that the oddities of life will “face front” in your marriage. You take it for granted that PEOPLE CHANGE. You take it for granted that they MUST NOT stay married to you, if they feel differently about things, eventually. You even thought yourself into believing that “for better or worse” is everybody’s sermon. And a lot of you are still taking it for granted that YOUR moral conviction is yours alone! What I truly wish for anybody in marriage or going into marriage is COURAGE. Courage to accept that A LOT in life is not really in black and white. And the courage to understand that the best response to certain issues is to hold a spouse to their decision/choices and nothing more. Whatever “home breaker” scenario that is playing out in your marriage is because your spouse made their choice! Some people are “married-ly” carried away that they are not even aware that their marriage exists in appearance only. And someone is TIRED of the charade. And has probably chosen to seek an emotional CONNECTION elsewhere. Do you know what DAMAGES  fast in matters of the heart? Being involved with someone, who would rather be with someone else! Physically, you share their space but emotionally…they are ALWAYS elsewhere. That’s someone who is INCAPABLE of giving you the best of themselves, right there! It’s only someone WITHOUT an iota of SELF-LOVE that clings to such status quo. Quitting certain marital reality is REDEMPTION too. I mean, there are marriages you quit and become a better, happier, healthier, saner you! There are marriages you quit and find your purpose/mission in life. There are marriages you quit and your mental health becomes improved. Sometimes, I feel the undue attention that we give to “the other woman” is because we are scared to meet ourselves at the other side of the door that is called COURAGE. It’s a door you pass through…being uncertain/afraid! But emerge stronger and wiser at the other end. NOBODY can destroy your home/life. Except YOUR MIND gives them such powers! Dear woman… You are NOT helpless…that another woman dictates the beat of your life. It is my conviction that if we really learn to say to our soul “What do you REALLY want?”…our energy will be channeled differently. The wind of “another woman” is often a pursuit of happiness that remains SHALLOW at the core. It has NOTHING on your life. I beg you, take it NOT for granted that no journey (especially marriage) of life MUST end as we wished, planned or even prayed for! Have courage to accept ANY reality whenever it strikes! “When you argue with reality, you lose.” I am not asking you not to have faith or hope for the best. I am telling you to learn to take life as it happens. And be ready to take the walk of COURAGE when life calls for it.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com