THE candidate of the Social Democratic Party in the last governorship election in Kogi State,  Natasha Akpoti has defected to the Peoples Democratic Party. Akpoti defected alongside the state Chairman of the SDP, Alhaji Muktar Atima at a ceremony held in her country home, Ihima, Kogi State, on Saturday. At the well-attended ceremony, the National Chairman of the PDP, Dr Iyorchia Ayu described the defectors as “a big fish and an amazon whose entry into the party has signified the death of APC in the state.” The chairman, who was represented by the PDP National Secretary, Senator Sam Anyawu said the defection marked a new beginning for the PDP in rekindling its winning streak in the state. Akpoti, who was also a senatorial candidate of the SDP in the 2019 elections had been a thorn in the flesh of the APC. Ayu, who commended the people of the state for their resilience in standing against the misfortune of the ruling APC, said with the calibre of the defectors, the people have resolved to reclaim the state. He noted with disgust the misery that the people had been subjected to in the last six years of the APC administration and called for collective determination to use the ballot to restore their dignity. He disclosed that, although Natasha had defected three months ago, the ceremony was a formal declaration to join the party to contribute her quota to the development and growth of the PDP and the state. He called on the electorate, especially those from the Kogi central to team up with her to rescue the state from the jaws of maladministration and assured of the PDP’s readiness to win all segments of the forthcoming general election. Akpoti explained that her move to the PDP was to seek a more formidable platform to wrestle power from the APC.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com