The Federal Government has approved the allocation of houses to 22 members of the 1994 Super Eagles in their various states, thereby fulfilling a pledge made to them 28 years ago by the then administration. A statement in Abuja on Monday by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing stated that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) announced the approval in Lafia, Nasarawa, during the inauguration of the completed homes under the government’s National Housing Programme. The FMWH said the inauguration was the first in the series of the formal inaugurations lined up to take place in 34 states of the federation where Phase One of the houses had been completed. It said the President, who was represented by the Minister of State for Science, Technology and Innovation, Muhammed Abdullahi, described the completion of the housing projects as a fulfillment of the promise of government. The President also praised the Nasarawa State Government for providing land for the project, describing it as one of the developmental possibilities that intergovernmental collaboration could produce. He said that the provision of the housing estates across the country was informed by the government’s desire to achieve one of its primary objectives, which was to improve the human living condition. In his address, the Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, who was represented by his Commissioner of Works, Idris Muhammed, described the construction of the housing estate as a landmark achievement of the Federal Government in its effort to provide affordable accommodation for Nigerians. The governor expressed gratitude to the Federal Government for the projects undertaken through the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing. The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, represented by the Director of Public Building and Housing, Solomon Labafilo, said 76 housing units under Phase One had been completed in Nasarawa State comprising one, two and three bedroom units. Fashola was quoted as saying, “In terms of design, this project is the outcome of a national survey conducted by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to find out the type of houses Nigerians desire.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com