Men of Ogun State Police Command have arrested a suspected armed robber, Sodiq Yahaya, while carrying out a robbery operation at the students’ hostel at Ipara Remo in the Remo-North Local Government Area of the state. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this on Saturday in a statement. Oyeyemi said the suspect was arrested on Thursday following a distress call received by the Divisional Police Officer, Isara Divisional Headquarters. He explained that the suspected armed robber was arrested after the gang numbering about six invaded the school hostel to carry out the robbery operation. The police spokesperson noted that five other members of the robbery gang escaped through the bush after attacking the police in a gun battle. Oyeyemi added that the fleeing armed robbers escaped with varying degrees of injury. “Upon the distress call, the DPO Isara division, CSP Shobiyi Oluwatoshin, quickly mobilised his men in conjunction with local vigilante men and moved to the scene. On sighting the policemen, the hoodlums opened fire on them and the policemen retaliated. “At the end of the encounter, the robbers who had sustained varying degrees of gunshot injuries took to their heels and escaped to the bush. “While the policemen were tracing them in the bush, Sodiq Yahaya was seen lying down with gunshot injury and he was promptly arrested. “He has given useful information to the police concerning their past robbery operations in and around Sagamu area. He confessed that his gang always target students’ hostel for their operation because students especially females were easy to rob. “Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, CP Lanre Bankole, has directed that the suspect be transferred to state criminal investigation and intelligence department for discreet investigation. He also ordered a massive manhunt for the remaining members of the gang. “The CP, therefore, appealed to members of the public, especially hospitals and traditional healers to notify the police if anyone with gunshot injury is seen in their area.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com