Following the completion of a mandatory three-week orientation course of National Youth Service Corps at Amada temporary camp, Akko Local Government Area of Gombe State, the Director-General, Shuaibu Ibrahim, has warned against fraudulent activities during the service year. Ibrahim urged the 1,037 Batch A stream I corps members, including 346 females and 691 males, to be good ambassadors of their families, the corps and the nation. Represented by Gombe State Coordinator, Ada Imoni, the NYSC boss reminded them that anyone caught would be made to face the wrath of the law, stressing that the bye-law had been made to address such issues. Ibrahim said, “Let me also warn that social vices such as drug abuse and trafficking, cybercrime and advanced-fee-fraud will not be condoned. Anyone caught will be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the NYSC Bye-Laws. I enjoin you to be law-abiding at all times and be good ambassadors of the NYSC and your families. You are also strongly advised to use social media for positive purposes instead of promoting rumours, fake news, hatred as well as ethnic jingoism.” Commenting further on the essence of the rest of the months, the NYSC boss noted that the members should show commitment in their places of primary assignment while urging them to learn about their immediate communities. According to him, “As you get set to report to your Places of Primary Assignment, I wish to stress the need for you to be diligent in the performance of your duties. I also urge you to integrate into your host communities by learning their languages and cultures. “Furthermore, you should devote time to identify the felt needs of the communities, and initiate personal and group Community Development Service projects that will uplift their living standards.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com