THE Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said the LagosRide will contribute to job creation and youth employment in the state. The governor said this on Wednesday during the inauguration of 1,000 cars for the LagosRide taxi scheme at the State House in Alausa, Ikeja. Sanwo-Olu added that LagosRide has dash cams, panic buttons and can be operated by the mobile app of the driver to guarantee the safety of users. He said, “The objective of the taxi scheme has been a non-negotiable design of our multimodal transportation system and we are here to handover to those that will be operating the taxi scheme. “Under this arrangement, all beneficiaries will be provided with a brand new car which over time will become the driver’s property after the completion of the vehicles that have been highly subsidised. “What we see here is that Lagos is moving away from the era of rickety kabu kabu, that you are not sure will take you to your destination, to brand new, comfortable, well thought-out, safe and secure transportation vehicles to cater for the entire spectrum of our transportation agenda. “The multiplier effect of this singular initiative on job creation, youth employment and economic growth and development in the state cannot be overstated.” The Commissioner for Transportation, Mr Frederic Oladeinde, said the taxi scheme would complement the transportation network developed in the state. “This official launching of the LagosRide taxi scheme is in fulfilment of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s announcement in March 2021 to complement the multimodal transport network being developed in Lagos in accordance with the strategic transport master plan of the state. “As a governor who gets things done, he is improving and creating mobility options for the multimodal transport system which is the top pillar of this administration,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com