The Federated Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists in Bayelsa State, on Tuesday, called for renewed collaboration between the security agencies in Bayelsa and Delta states to ensure the release of a journalist, Julius Osahon, and all others abducted by suspected Fulani herdsmen from a bus en route Delta State. A statement signed by the Union’s Chairman, Christian Eze, and the Secretary, Bassey Willie, also urged the federal and state governments to ensure that there is adequate security on the highways especially, the Bayelsa and Delta axis of the East-West road. The demands by the NUJ followed the abduction on Monday evening of Julius Osahon and some co-travellers along East-West road, en route to Ewreni community, in Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State, by gun-wielding kidnappers suspected to be Fulani herdsmen. PUNCH Metro gathered that the armed abductors also shot dead the driver of the bus marked Sunny Eru Motors as they abducted his 18 passengers. The NUJ, in its statement, lamented that the “security situation in our nation is becoming worrisome on daily basis, as innocent citizens are being killed, kidnapped and their valuables carted away by criminals”. “That is why we call on the government to discharge its responsibility of protecting citizens’ lives and property optimally. “Journalists are not wealthy men in the society but just doing their duties to contribute to the growth and development of the nation, that is why we wonder where Mr Osahon will get N5 million demanded by the kidnappers to regain his freedom. “We pray the Almighty God to protect his young family and give them the courage to manage the trauma and free him unhurt to reunite with his family,” the statement read in part. Our correspondent gathered as of the time of filing this report that the abductors had called the wife of Mr Osahon, demanding N5 million naira ransom. A Warri-based lawyer, Lucky Egboyi, who narrowly escaped from the scene of the incident, told newsmen in Warri on Tuesday morning that he was returning from Bayelsa State where he went for a matter, when they suddenly ran into the Fulani herdsmen operating on the road. According to him, the suspected Fulani herdsmen shot the Sunny Eru driver in the head and kidnapped several passengers. “It was a narrow escape for me and a few others because we had to run into the bush. The policemen who came ran away with their van,” the lawyer stated. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer for Delta State Command, DSP Bright Edafe told newsmen that the Command was yet to be briefed on the incident. “I’m not aware. You’re the one telling me now”, he said. In a swift reaction, the Chairman of the Warri Correspondents’ Chapel of the NUJ, Comrade Okies Veeky, described the incident as saddening. He said, “This news is saddening and appalling. That shows that there is no good security network in that area, nay the whole of Delta State. The DSS, the Army and the police should all live up to expectations. They should try and help us. “We are living in an unsecured society. The journalist is a former Chairman of the NUJ, Bayelsa State. His abduction is a condemnable act. This is very bad and the security agencies should wake up and do something”. Comrade Veeky appealed to the kidnappers to release the journalist unhurt. “I am using this opportunity to appeal to the kidnappers that he is a poor journalist. He has no money to pay. That man cannot afford N5million. We are mere servants of the people. So, they should temper justice with mercy and live him unhurt,” he pleaded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com