The Urhobo Community in Bayelsa State has commenced mobilisation of its members to their various communities in Delta State to participate actively in the electoral processes for the 2023 governorship election in the state. To this end, it has constituted the Urhobo Joint Force Socio-Political Forum to drive the mobilisation and encourage Delta indigenes residing in Bayelsa to go home and carry out their civic responsibilities. Officials of the forum include Gabriel Phrorhire (chairman), Peter Ikoko (spokesman), Aherhoke Okioma (head, media, and publicity), Gift Okrika (youth president), and Lady Ogedegbe (women leader). The chairman of Urhobo Community in Bayelsa, Joshua Aweyu, who disclosed this on Wednesday in Yenagoa, said they were poised to participate actively in the electoral processes that would usher in a new government in their home state of Delta. He said over 18 buses conveyed several Deltans from Yenagoa to Delta Central senatorial district on Tuesday to enable them to take an active part in the electioneering. Aweyu said, “During the 2019 Bayelsa governorship election, the efforts of the Urhobos were noticed in all the local government areas during the campaigns and the election. “We are poised to repeat the same feat at home since Delta state governorship election will hold in 2023.” He urged Delta politicians, particularly aspirants, to support the Urhobo Joint Force Socio-Political Forum, stressing that they have the numerical strength spread across the eight local government areas of Bayelsa. The Urhobo chief also rationalised that since the governorships of Delta and Bayelsa were not holding in the same period, the group has sufficient time to mobilise members for both elections. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com