ECONOMIC experts at the Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise, an economic think tank, have said the inflation data presented by the National Bureau of Statistics is not reflecting the level of poverty and the decline in purchasing power of Nigerians. The Chief Executive Officer of the CPPE, Dr Muda Yusuf, disclosed this in a statement. According to him, companies have been similarly impacted by the prevailing economic hardship in the country, with many businesses recording slumps in sales, turnover, and profits margins. He said, “The CPPE notes the marginal acceleration of headline inflation from 15.60 per cent in January to 15.70 per cent in February 2022, according to the inflation report released by the NBS. “This was a mere 0.1 per cent increase.  Food inflation, rather curiously, decelerated marginally from 17.13 per cent in January to 17.11 per cent in February 2022.  Core inflation sub-index accelerated from 13.87 per cent in January to 14.01 per cent in February 2022.” He added, “The technical computation of the inflation figures of the NBS is not in dispute. However, the reality and severity of the impact of the intense inflationary pressures over the past year are at variance with the official inflation data. “For the basket of goods consumed by most households, prices have jumped by between 30-100 per cent over the past one year. The same is true of businesses. The pressure of spiking inflation on household budgets has been excruciating and unbearable. Purchasing power has been massively eroded, real incomes have depressed, and the poverty situation has consequently worsened. “Businesses have been similarly impacted as they have been experiencing a slump in sales, turnover and profits margins. The impact on small businesses is even more severe because of their limited capacity to absorb economic shocks. “The spiralling inflation dynamics should be elevated to the level of an economic emergency, deserving an urgent policy response at the highest level of government.  The impact on citizens’ welfare is inestimable. The effect on SMEs is troubling.  There is elevated social discontent, driven by increasing joblessness and hunger.” The centre added that all forms of taxes and levies on the importation of petroleum products should be suspended to give a respite on the spiking energy cost. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com