Last week, we discussed the problems which drug abuse and drug dependence are causing our nation. In particular, we looked at the consequences of drug addiction, its effects and why people often go to the extreme lengths they go to in order to gain access to their habits. As a result, we have got to understand that people do get hurt sometimes while at yet other times, there may be tragedy and loss. In today’s essay, we examine what possible modes of help ordinary people can render to those who have become dependent on various substances as a result of different pressures to which they are exposed. An individual can find himself being able to help someone else who has got an addiction by getting such a person to recognise that he does have an addiction. Once that determination is made, it becomes possible to help the person to seek help through persuasion, suggestions, and bluntness or a combination of all these tactics in order to secure relevant treatment for the affected person. As a result of this, such exposure may be emotionally distressing for both the addict and the person trying to help and the pathway to success may not always be a smooth one. When the pathway is not smooth, there will be further distress and more tension in the friendship or association. Many of us already render such services within our small individual communities without realising that we are giving important service often unsolicited. It is necessary to stress that fact here today that addiction of any sort is like any other disease. It disrupts the typical, healthy functioning of the relevant organ in the body and can thus record severe harmful effects that can lead to death. The United States National Institute on Drug Abuse says that addiction is like a heart disease, for example, and that as with a heart disease, people can prevent or treat the condition. According to the American Psychiatric Association, people can develop addiction to several different substances some of which we shall try to name here. Some of these substances or drugs are among the ones we named in last week’s essay. And they start from the common, everyday objects around us that we often overlook. Articles such as alcohol and tobacco, the common substance found in cigarettes are items of addiction. Therefore, it is not until every person hooked on a particular substance becomes somewhat peculiar in their behaviour that we will know they are unwell and they can be helped. Common beverages like beer can cause this problem. When the affected person is a loved one, it will often be a painful experience for other family members to watch them go through their problems. On the other hand, there are family members who would shrug their shoulders at the development of problems like that in another family member. Some have been known to turn it into a matter for comedy. The fact, however, is that when people slip down the slopes to drug addiction, they often are not aware of where they are headed. These are the people who need help the most. Some loved ones who have an addiction problem lash out at other family members and may become abusive and violent, especially within the confines of marriage, and this can lead to tragedy. Others would refuse any medical help, of course, and go on to a life of crime. Others often refuse to have any kind of treatment under the guise that nothing is wrong with them. It is important for any person who is willing to help such people to be determined and persistent and also sensitive. The target of the intended help can only be saved if they cooperate. However, it is important to try to help them especially if you find yourself in a relationship with such persons. The problem of addiction is different for different persons. It is important to first acknowledge that addiction is a disease condition and it is not helpful to try to view it through a moral lens. So the very first step is to recognise the problem and then proceed to talk the addict through the problem as gently as possible with a view to helping the person realise that they do not have a normal behaviour towards a particular substance or do not behave well after taking the said drug. Such talking can be very effective. And as you do so in your own little way, you have to be prepared to shoulder a wide range of emotions, ranging from aggression to sadness to anger. It is your responsibility to determine how you will handle each scenario and a lot will depend on your relationship with that person. Consequently, it is important to not discuss with them about seeking to get them help when they are drunk or high. Rather, it pays a lot more to encourage them to seek help from suitably qualified hands. If funds will be a challenge, because that aspect of healthcare is not cheap anywhere, you can help further by arranging for the relevant resources. If you have been using some of these substances yourself and you saw the light first, you can lead them by your personal example of giving up the habit. Try to not cover up their shortcomings in this regard and encourage them to manage their condition in a positive and healthy way, that is focused on living a healthier, happier life. It is important to withdraw whatever substance is being consumed gradually than a sudden stoppage as the latter can lead to the development of withdrawal symptoms. Some of the self-damaging traits that addicts manifest range from gambling to compulsive buying. Some betray some level of addiction to surfing the internet almost to the exclusion of everything else. Some years ago, there was this viral story of a South Korean mother who was addicted to a online game in which women were challenged to feed an electronic baby. While playing this game with total attention, she forgot to feed her own biological child who subsequently died from starvation and hypothermia. In some cases, people may become addicted to food, especially when they are bereaved or depressed. Others retreat into a lifestyle of compulsive material acquisition. Very importantly, and not to be dismissed, is a deviant sexual behaviour found in some people whereby they are either nymphomaniacs if they are female or rapists if they are male. These sexual deviants are called behavioral addictions. In addition to cigarettes and alcohol, other substances that have an additive liability are things like hemp or cannabis, heroin, and anti-anxiety medications such as tranquilizers, sedatives, hypnotics, and anxiolytics. It would have been nice to be able to break all these down for everyone but there are space constraints. Tranquilizers, for example, have both minor and major types. Inhalational agents such as glue, petrol, and paint thinners belong to this category of addictive agents just like cocaine, codeine and oxycodone. The latest popular one especially methamphetamine, also called mpuru miri found to be widely in use in the South-Eeast of the country, has turned many young people into robots and gangsters who kill and maim and rape without fear. Drugs like tramadol originally formulated to control pain have found great value in their deployment as a sexual enhancement drug and a drug of addiction. Question 1: Dear Doctor, I am a 62-year-old man. Just two days ago, l started having a feeling as if I am about falling if I stand in one position for about five minutes. But if I am moving around it is a lot better. The condition is worse off in the morning but I feel better after my breakfast. I am writing to seek your advice on which specialist to visit for consultation. While I appreciate your kind assistance to the general public both home and abroad, l look forward to your response.                                         obesarebrandy@yahoo.com Answer: Good day, sir, and thank you very much for your kind words. It is likely to be the result of a malfunctioning apparatus for maintaining your balance located inside your ears. As a result of that, you should see a physician for examination after which they could refer you to a neurologist. The latter is an expert on the diseases of the nervous system of which the mechanism for maintaining the balance is a part. Question 2: I am a 62-year-old man suffering from erectile dysfunction which has been on and off since 2019. Now, it has become chronic since October 2021. I have curative supplements I bought online to no avail. Now I have dull pains in my waist and pelvic joints that seem to paralyse my nerves. Please advise me on what to do. I am in Lagos and would love to have a one-on-one talk with you if need be. Stay blessed forever. Thanks for your prompt response.                 070XXXXXX40 Answer: Thank you very much for your prayers. They are appreciated in full. The curative supplements you bought online do not cure anything at all. Many of them market misinformation and lies. And none of the supplements is cheap! The best thing for you to do is to visit a doctor for a proper examination to determine if you have some hidden problem that may have made erectile dysfunction a problem for you. Once there is nothing of such, they will give you a suitable prescription. If there is such a problem, that will be treated first and the problem you have can perhaps correct itself without the need for drugs. Finally, all of this may be down to your age. These facts of advancing age are more manifest in some people than in others but you will not know for sure until you have seen a doctor. As for your claim that the pains you feel in the pelvic region may have paralysed your nerves, it is more usual for nerve paralysis to cause pain which is the opposite of what you are thinking. Question 3:  Good morning, Doctor. My baby is four months old and I started him on cereal. But within days, I noticed that he was always struggling to pass stool as if it is too hard.  Two days ago, the stool was so hard that it bruised his anus and there was some blood around the stool which was like a stick. He has never had this kind of experience. I was scared and I stopped it and went back to breast milk and formula. The cereal contains oats and banana porridge. My worry is whether this is normal. Thank you.   080XXXXXX03 Answer:  You have identified a problem severe enough to cause your son to bleed from his anus so we cannot say it is normal. It clearly is not.  The mixture of the components in this feed is such that your baby is unable to handle it normally and ends up getting constipated. My advice would be that if you are strictly following the manufacturer’s instructions in making his meals with it and this is still happening, the chances are that he would continue to have difficulties with digesting this particular cereal at this age and you will either have to wait until he is six months of age or you change to some other cereal. Generally, starting off with a maize-based cereal at this age is probably more useful. Question 4: Dear doctor, good evening, sir. I have a sore in my mouth at the back of the throat that pains me down to my right ear. There is also a big swelling in the right side and there is a whitish cap on it. It is very painful and it started some days ago like a sore throat but now I cannot even swallow. I have been trying to send you a video of it but it is not clear so I got one of my classmates to take the picture with my mouth wide open. Even opening my mouth like that is painful. Sir, what is this problem and how can it be treated? Thank you sir.                       080XXXXXX33 Answer: Thank you very much for your question. The pictures you sent are very beautiful and they show that you have got tonsillitis. That is why it all began with a sore throat and the pain extends into the right ear. What is needed is a regimen of strong antibiotics which your doctor will determine plus analgesics like paracetamol. You can gargle also with warm water and salt (saline) which is soothing and this whole thing could resolve in a few days. Question 5: Hello, doctor. I want to clarify something: is it possible to start the periods right after a caesarian section?                                             080XXXXXX85 Answer: It is difficult to actually understand what you mean by right after caesarian section. I suppose you mean that you are menstruating normally a few weeks after such a delivery. Yes, it can happen. Some women are like that. The vast majority of women would resume sometime between three and six months; others even later than one year. People are different.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com