Musician, Habeeb Okikiola, aka Portable, has lost his chance to perform at a forthcoming show organized by a comedian, MC Morris, in Canada. The comedian made the statement on Instagram shortly after the news of Portable sacking his manager, deejay, and promoter became public knowledge. The post read in part, “For those that are asking why I removed idamu adugboyin from my May 22 show. Talent is not enough, a beautiful song without a beautiful attitude is a beautiful nonsense. “Two managers in less than a year, even sack innocent DJ that his job na to play song and scratch shaka shaka. I cannot koshi mero am sorry. All transactions canceled and ijoba danku am sorry.” Portable was heard in a live broadcast on Instagram claiming that his manager, deejay, and promoter were solely dependent on him for money. The fast-rising artiste, however, stated that they should leave him if they were not gaining from him. He said, “Am I your father or brother? Manager, DJ, promoter, I will feed una, buy cloth for una, put money into your accounts, I go con do like say I broke, ask the manager for money but he will tell me he has no money as if he is building a house. “Deejay will also say he has no money, promoter will also say he has no money. They think the grace will finish but it won’t. If you are not gaining from me, maybe you should clear from me.” Reacting, his erstwhile promoter, popularly known as Ijoba Danku, said he never collected a dime from Portable while acting as his promoter. He added, “Hello Mr Portable, I just dey wake up now and I just dey see your video. Thank God say I no be promoter wey dey rip. All the show wey I collect for you, you dey collect your money complete and no be say you dey give me percentage. “I am ok, I am comfortable, I am rich enough, I am fine and you know it. I am not signing anything with you, keep your work. Nah you dey owe me now, nah you dey rip me now, nah you borrow money from my hand, so please, I will send my account, drop my money. “And Eti DMW, Eti Davido, wey give you money yesterday, wey you say you no fit go him show say you no send anybody after them pay you N2m, you don spend the money now, abeg return the money, make I return Eti money for am.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com