A former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon (retd.), has said the late Premier of the defunct Western Region, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, was a strong believer in the unity of Nigeria to which he immensely contributed. Gowon stated this on Sunday during a virtual lecture themed, ‘Value for Africa’s Development,’ to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the Obafemi Awolowo Foundation. He said, “Awolowo’s unparalleled contribution to the building of a strong and united Nigeria remains by far his most outstanding legacy. He was a strong believer in the unity of Nigeria and he did the necessary to keep the country one. “As Commissioner or Minister of Finance, his economic wizardry contributed in no small measure to the Federal Government’s prosecution of the 30 months war of unity without borrowing a dime or a penny from any source. “History will always be kind to him in this regard just as I will personally continue to appreciate his decision to serve his nation under me at a most inauspicious time of our history. “In the 30 years that the OAF has been in existence, it has kept faith with the vision of his moving spirit. In word and in deed, it has continued to make impact as a think-tank in Nigeria’s search for transformational leadership. Not only has the foundation actively created room for quality engagement on good governance, but it has also established a well-regarded leadership ties to encourage excellence and distinction in service to society. These are some of the values that the late Obafemi Awolowo embodied in his lifetime of service to Nigeria.” A former President of Ghana, Mr John Mahama, explained that Awolowo’s role before and after independence made him an icon that he identified with. “The world has passed through the world wars, the cold war and we are now in an era of globalisation; we have had issues with climate change, epidemics and pandemics and currently, we are trying to understand what kind of new world we are going in with the ongoing turbulence in geopolitics with respect of re-drawing the boundaries of nations. We currently have the Russian-Ukraine war which is affecting all nations across the world, so we need to begin to analyse the way the world is going so that we as African countries can adjust to be able to make sure our people are not disappointed and I must stay that Awo stands tall in the fight for independence and shaping the state after independence. As a social democrat, I associate with him and we identify with him in our party,” he said. The Executive Secretary of OAF, Dr Tokunbo Awolowo-Dosunmu, said, “We envisioned an institution that would take up the responsibility to encourage contemporary leaders and citizens to make the considerable ideas that Chief Awolowo left to posterity a constant reference point. Such an institution would, as reflected in the preamble to the foundation’s constitution to ‘inaugurate a new chapter in the work that gave Chief Obafemi Awolowo his national and international stature.’ “It would, for example, constantly engage with the policy making process in a constructive manner just as Chief Awolowo did in his lifetime. In order to accomplish his mission effectively, the ideals of Chief Awolowo had to be the definitive guide of the proposed institution. It must avoid any hint of partisanship, rather inclusiveness had to be its watchword if it was to make its desired impact.” Other dignitaries present at the event were the Minister of State for Health, Olorunnimbe Mamora; the Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi; Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tamwbuwal; the former Vice Chancellor of Ajayi Crowther University, Bishop Adedapo Adaju; the Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’adu Abubakar; the Obi of Onitsha, Nnaemeka Achebe and a former South African President, Thabo Mbeki, among others.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com