The driver of a Lagos Bus Rapid Transit vehicle who drove murdered 22-year-old Oluwabamise Ayanwole has revealed why he ran away after the incident. The driver who was identified by the police as Andrew Nice explained that he ran away as he was overwhelmed by the circumstances that led to Bamise’s death. Nice revealed this in a video clip shared on Monday night by the Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, on his Twitter handle. The suspect, who exonerated himself in the video, noted that he had no connection with the fashion designer’s death but was only following instructions of her abductors who held him and Bamise hostage on the bus. Explaining what transpired in the bus, he said, “When those guys showed me their weapons, I couldn’t be myself anymore. Fears took over me and Ï only followed orders from the man with the gun who sat close to me. “I followed the Carter Bridge, and around the overhead bridge, they ordered me to stop there. And when they ordered me to stop, I was asked to open the door, her assailants came down and started dragging her down from the bus. “When I saw that she was crying for help, actually I was helpless and I had thought she was still in the bus holding on to one of the irons that could help keep her in the bus. In that process and with that thought, I moved on. And that is just the truth.” The PUNCH  earlier reported that the dead body of the 22-year-old lady who got missing after boarding a Lagos Bus Rapid Transit vehicle was reportedly found with some body parts missing on Monday. Ayanwole got missing while returning to Ota from Ajah on February 26 when she boarded a BRT bus with number 240257 going to Oshodi about 7 pm at Chevron Bus-Stop. The victim, who worked as a fashion designer in Ajah spent her weekends in Ota, Ogun State, with her sister, had sent some voice notes to a friend when she sensed danger on the bus. However, after her body was found on Monday, operatives of the Lagos State Police Command arrested Nice in connection with her death. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Adekunle Ajisebutu, in a statement, announced Nice arrest. According to the PPRO, suspected ritualists dumped the dismembered and uncompleted remains of the lady on the Carter Bridge by Ogogoro Community. The police in its statement titled, ‘Death Of Oluwabamise Ayanwole: BRT Driver Arrested,’ further said the driver was arrested by operatives of the Department of State Services. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com