THE incoming governor of Anambra State, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, has appealed to the All Progressives Grand Alliance to give him the latitude to do his job. Soludo added that the only way for Anambra to continue to remain an APGA party is through good governance. He said this in a statement by his media aide, Joe Anatune, in Awka on Wednesday. This is coming barely a week to his inauguration as the governor of the state. He assured members of APGA and Anambra people that he was not going to disappoint, adding that through his performance, the party will consolidate its stronghold and also make appreciable incursion in the South-East. The former Central Bank of Nigeria boss said he felt the pains of an average family in the state, as they daily struggle to feed, cloth themselves, pay rent and meet other responsibilities in the face of the harsh economy. The statement said, “C.C. Soludo’s commitment to improving the quality of life and lifting many from the vicious grip of poverty is the elixir that  APGA needs to continually win the battle for the minds and hearts of voters in Nigeria and to emerge as a major challenger in the power dynamics. In other words, astute management of the political economy is the key. “The incoming government is poised to deliver on its promises. The new administration understands that the only way to get repeat or merit votes is to keep delighting the electorate. “The message Soludo is sending across to his fellow APGA members is that meeting the needs of the people is central to future electoral victories and growth of the party.” Soludo pointed out that he was worried that Anambra people were facing existential challenges ranging from insecurity, limited landmass occasioned by erosions and flooding, and massive youth unemployment.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com