A former captain of the Super Eagles, Joseph Yobo and some youth leaders have unveiled a Grassroots Mobilisation Initiative on Monday in Abuja. According to them, GMI has been designed to provide a platform for galvanising the support of Nigerian youths into mass action that will ensure only credible candidates assume power in 2023, especially at the Presidency. Yobo, in his keynote address delivered at the event, expressed sadness over the inability of leaders to tackle the challenges of insecurity, poor economy, corruption, and “unprecedented” level of poverty. He said, “We admit Nigeria is a work in progress. As a nation, we have made some progress, but we want more, in fact, a lot more. If you look at the country currently, we are not where we should be. “It is against the background that I and some others of like minds have taken it upon ourselves to come together and speak out for the benefit of our country. We want a new leader that will consolidate the current good gains and move Nigeria forward. “The 2023 elections are very crucial for the future of our country. From the North to the south, from East to the West, all Nigerians must be involved. “It is with this at the back of our mind that we have delved into the current situation to speak to all Nigerians and say that it is time we learnt to do things a new way. We must move away from the politics of the past and do away with all the unconscious social and religious bias that tends to divide us all as a nation.” The national coordinator of the GMI, Samaila Musa, said, “The GMI represents a movement by younger Nigerians committed to the task of rescuing Nigeria from the margins of inconsequence and collapse. “This, without doubt, is a necessary step, because if Nigerians today need to hear the truth, they should be told that its past and present leaders have lost the energy and some of the courage to take up serious national issues and confront challenges around security, corruption and economy, and to manage limitations imposed by our diversity, interestingly this has nothing to do with political parties but individuals.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com