Former President Goodluck Jonathan has said that politics should be a vehicle for development, not a platform for politicians to unleash violence. He stated this while inaugurating the Nembe Unity Bridge linking Ogbolomabiri and Bassambiri communities in the Nembe Local Government Area of Bayelsa State on Monday. Jonathan also inaugurated the Elebele Bridge, which serves as a gateway to the Nembe and Brass Local Government Areas in Bayelsa East senatorial district. He commended Governor Douye Diri for completing the Nembe Unity Bridge and also constructing the Elebele Bridge, stressing that the unity bridge would help cement the peace and unity between Ogbolomabiri and Bassambiri. The former president urged the people of Nembe to learn to resolve their differences amicably, especially during elections rather than play politics of brigandage and violence. He gave Diri a passmark, saying he had performed exceptionally well in infrastructure development within two years in office. Jonathan while speaking at Nembe said, “Politics should be a platform to bring development to our people and not to kill and chase them away from their communities. With the commissioning of this bridge, we pray that that brand of politics would also come to an end. “The importance of this bridge cannot be overemphasised. From what I have seen, this bridge is expensive, well-built and solid. And I hope it will solidify the unity between the people of the two communities.” He emphasised that with the construction of the Elebele Bridge, the governor had demonstrated to the multinational oil companies that Niger Delta states were capable of helping themselves. He said Elebele had been host to Shell for decades but the oil company failed to build a solid bridge for the community. According to him, the successful construction was proof that it was possible to build a strong bridge instead of the temporary ones that the multinational previously constructed. He applauded Diri for embarking on the project, which he said is of economic importance not only to the Ogbia people but also the people of Nembe. In his remarks, the governor said the Nembe bridge had been on the drawing board since the days of Eastern Nigeria but that a former governor, who is now the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, started some construction work but the project was left till his administration took it over and completed it. Diri described the bridge as historic, adding that the project was one that would heal wounds and engender peace and unity among the people of Nembe. The Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Moses Teibowei, explained that the Nembe Unity bridge was started by Sylva in 2009 but was abandoned until Diri awarded it in 2021 and completed it within one year. He also said that the Elebele Bridge, which collapsed in 2019, was also built within 12 months. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com