The First Technical University, Ibadan, has given automatic employment to all its 12 first class graduates. Speaking at the first convocation which produced 63 graduands, the Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Professor Ayobami Salami, said the university had confidence in the graduates it had produced. He said, “I hereby announce that all the First Class graduands who are interested in academic pursuits are hereby offered automatic employment immediately after their National Youths Service. In addition, I am happy to announce that we have secured the support of our local and international partners to award scholarship to all of those that accept the offer, to enable them have international exposure through Master degree training in the United States of America, and split-site PhD degree programmes.” The VC noted that the last five years of the citadel had witnessed progress in all areas. While giving the convocation lecture, a former Executive Secretary of the National University Commission, Emeritus Prof. Julius Okojie, called for revolutionary changes in Nigeria’s education system. He said, “Universities must provide the leadership required for relevant research, motivation and entrepreneurship. We must involve our experts and academics in the diaspora and seek sub-regional cooperation.” The Chancellor of the university, Mr Tunde Afolabi, also advised the graduands to develop themselves educationally and morally. Afolabi, said, “Graduating today is a good step towards achieving your aspirations but this is just the beginning. Going forward, you have to be equipped with the spirit of appreciation.” Meanwhile, the Governing Council of the university has appointed Prof. Adesola Ajayi as successor to the pioneer VC,  Salami. The appointment is for a single term of five years and will take effect from 9th May, 2022.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com