Despite playing a goalless draw at the dreaded Baba Yara Stadium in Kumasi on Friday, Black Stars head coach, Otto Addo, says he does not see Nigeria as the favourites to qualify for the World Cup in Qatar when both sides meet in the reverse fixture. Following several talks surrounding one of the biggest football rivalries in Africa, Ghana and Nigeria played an entertaining 0-0 draw in front of a full capacity stadium in Kumasi and are set for another fierce battle in the second leg at the Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abuja on Tuesday. Both countries had a disappointing campaign at the 33rd edition of the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon in January and a World Cup ticket would more than compensate for their poor outing. The draw in Ghana means a win for either side will be enough to see them book a ticket for the biggest football showpiece in the world. Speaking ahead of Tuesday’s clash, Addo said he doesn’t see Nigeria as the favourites when both sides clash in Abuja as the Eagles will be under immense pressure to deliver at home. “The result doesn’t change anything. When we go there we want to win.” “Even though our Africa Cup of Nations was not good this year, you saw we matched Nigeria in the first leg,” said the former Black Star. “So, I don’t see them as favourites, the pressure will be on them at home and away goals can hurt a lot. “They have high quality players but they’ve got respect for us and I thought the match in Kumasi was equal in terms of performance.” Addo also praised Ghana’s young Ajax star Mohammed Kudus for his performance in the first leg but has called on him to be more positive going forward in the return fixture. “He did well, and he’s obviously a player Ghana missed during the Nations Cup (when he was injured),” said Addo “I know the fans in Kumasi loved it when Kudus was doing his thing but sometimes he could be more precise and determined to go forward. “He has the speed and if he is in front of an opponent I think he can create more, but he’s an exceptional player, no doubt.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com