A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Ogun State, Adekunle Ayoola, has urged women to change the status quo in the 2023 general elections by supporting one another to achieve their political aspirations. Ayoola disclosed this in a statement on Sunday, adding that Nigerian women should take a cue from their Rwandan counterparts who actively participate in politics to enact changes in policies for women. He said, “Nigerian women can take a cue from their Rwandan counterparts who, after the genocide war of the early 90s, launched themselves into active participation in politics and today, about 40 per cent of the members of the country’s parliament are women and they also make up 50 per cent of its judiciary while holding key political offices across the country. “This later translated into Rwandan women having better educational and economic opportunities. When the new constitution of the country was being drafted, the women who were members of the committee were able to make some outstanding contributions that have put the women in good stead. Now, women can own land and inherit property from their families, among others. “It is regrettable, however, that 23 years after returning to democracy, Nigeria women still suffer great imbalance and inequality in the political space, having only 29 seats out of 469 members in the National Assembly. I want to charge the women to brace up and change the status quo as 2023 general elections approach.” The APC chieftain faulted the recently shot down gender bills which he said should have been part of the constitution amendment to boost women’s political participation. “It was even painful that the national assembly had to recently shoot down the gender bills that were supposed to be part of the amendment to the constitution since the provisions of these bills touched on affirmative action for the women – to give them 35 per cent of political offices, among others – which would have really assisted Nigerian women to move up higher in political participation. “There is need for frequent training and sensitisation to arouse interest of women in politics, strong legislation that touches on affirmative action for the women, networking, women supporting one another as well as provision of financial support for Nigerian women, who are no doubt, very intelligent with passion for outstanding leadership,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com