World basketball body FIBA has thrown its weight behind the Musa Ahmadu-Kida-led board of the Nigeria Basketball Federation, after parallel polls in Abuja and Benin City ushered in two NBBF presidents January 31. Ahmadu-Kida was re-elected as NBBF president at the Benin election, while Mark Igoche emerged as president from the Abuja poll. However, according to a letter dated March 7, 2022 from FIBA and signed by Secretary General Andreas Zagklis, the body congratulated Ahmadu-Kida and members of his board, stating that it looked forward to working with them for the next four years. The letter read in part, “FIBA acknowledges receipt of the results of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) Elective Congress held in Benin City on 31 January 2022. Accordingly, FIBA takes note of the election of the following persons to the NBBF Board for the following four (4) years. “FIBA takes the opportunity to request your confirmation as to the remaining members of the NBBF Board as per article 21.2 (d) to (I) of the NBBF Constitution. “FIBA congratulates all the elected members and looks forward to close collaboration in furtherance of the development of basketball in Nigeria.” Meanwhile, a former board member of the NBBF, Mustapha Liman, has called on the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development to broker peace between the warring parties. He added that the ministry should organise “a fresh and inclusive election” using its guidelines. “What is happening in Nigeria basketball is so sad, but I am happy that the ministry is taking the right decision; from all indications, the ministry has shown they are neutral,” Liman told journalists in Abuja on Tuesday. “The best thing to do now is for the ministry to organise a fresh election by using their guideline as applicable to other federations and not the satanic document they (NBBF) call a constitution,” Liman added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com