A 16-year-old student of Lagos State Civil Service Senior Model College, Igbogbo, Ikorodu, Jane-Frances Okorie,  has won the maiden edition of the 9mobileFutureCEO speech competition. Okorie defeated nine other finalists in a keenly contested speech presentation competition held at the Immaculate Heart Comprehensive Senior High School, Maryland, Lagos. Over 50 students from secondary schools within the Lagos State Education District 2, comprising Ikorodu, Kosofe, and Shomolu Local Government Area, participated in the competition. Executive Director, Regulatory and Corporate Affairs, 9mobile, Abdulrahman Ado, represented by the PR Lead, 9mobile, Chineze Amanfo, stated that the 9mobile Future CEO initiative would help build students’ leadership capacity for the future. Ado “To be a good business leader requires much hard work, dedication, and sacrifice. I, therefore, urge you to be focused and determined in whatever you do in life,” she added. Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Education, Mr Abayomi Abolaji, lauded 9mobile for the initiative, stating that it was germane and in line with the sustainable growth plan of the Lagos state government. He said, “I would like to congratulate 9mobile for putting this competition together. I believe strongly that the competition will help the students improve on their public speaking abilities, build confidence and ultimately spur them on to aim higher in life.” Expressing delight at her win, Okorie said, “Thank you to 9mobile for providing us this wonderful opportunity and platform to express ourselves and inspire us to dream big. To my school management and teachers, thank you for reposting this level of confidence in me to do the school proud.” The panel of judges for the competition comprised of a lawyer and an educational administrator, currently the principal of Greensprings Schools, Lekki, Hussaina Audu; Chief Executive, LightField House International, a talent profiling organisation Johnson Abbaly and Teachability Expert and Training Re-engineering and Acceleration Advocate, Temitope Adeyemi. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com