The Edo State chapters of the All Progressives Congress and the state government have again clashed over the projects executed by Governor Godwin Obaseki as well as his leadership style. In a statement by the state APC chairman, Col David Imuse (retd.), titled, ‘Things have fallen apart in Edo State,’ the APC condemned Obaseki for bringing the PDP National chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, to commission what he described as phantom projects in the state. The statement read in part: “Obaseki belittled the office of the National Chairman of the PDP by bringing him to commission some of his phantom projects like a mini-jetty for canoes and an uncompleted motor park, whereas his mates across the country are busy commissioning better development projects like flyovers. “This type of commissioning, which ought to be for local government ward councillors, portrays Mr Obaseki as a political jester, who has completely run out of ideas. “It is now clear to Edo people that, despite our great human and material resources, Mr Obaseki’s administration has not been able to meet the legitimate expectations of our people. This is because he has neglected governance as a result of his inordinate and unattainable ambition to control the Edo PDP structure and become a new godfather. “On the alarming insecurity situation in our state, the APC as a party again calls on Governor Obaseki to be more proactive and make judicious use of the N800million he collects monthly as security vote.” In his response, the state Commissioner for Communication and Orientation, Andrew Emwanta, described Imuse’s statement as a baggage of lies, noting that the governor was committed to fulfilling the MEGA manifesto. He said: “The Government of Edo State, under the leadership of Godwin Obaseki, remains committed to fulfilling the MEGA Manifesto. The Making Edo Great Again manifesto was fully endorsed by the good people of Edo State on September 19 2020, when they voted overwhelmingly for the Governor and his Deputy, who flew the flag of the Peoples Democratic Party. “So, it is rather unfortunate to hear Imuse, a retired soldier, who became the APC Chairman in Edo State by default, spew all manners of falsehoods in the name of a press conference. “The baggage of lies of the lmuse-led Edo APC is never empty of mischief. The lie lmuse concocted that the Edo State government is about to source for a N7 billion facility from the capital market to fund an already completed street light project can only come from an idle mind that is remotely controlled by the devil.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com