A detailed scrutiny of the constitution amendment exercise under consideration at the National Assembly exposes it as a charade, a familiar time-wasting undertaking. The NASS recently commenced voting on the recommendations of its Joint Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution (Fifth Alteration) Bills, 2022. It is chasing after the wind: the constitution is fundamentally flawed and cannot be redeemed. Besides, the NASS, a creation of the fraudulent document, cannot retool or author a people’s constitution that can steer Nigeria to the path of progress. Nigeria desperately needs a truly federal people’s constitution, not the piecemeal ineffectual tweaking of the military-imposed one. The 1999 Constitution is a military imposition. Its very first sentence beginning with, “We the People…,” is a monumental fraud. Unlike the pre-independence and immediate post-independence constitutions, the country’s diverse people and representatives were not involved in its drafting. Instead, a military junta crafted and imposed it on Nigerians as it departed power after 15 years of military misrule. Among other federal constitutions, it is a deformity: a centralising diktat; it absurdly has 68 items on the Exclusive Legislative List, conferring imperial power on the centre and reducing the components to beggarly appendages. This is a dangerous prescription for a diverse multi-ethnic, multi-religious polity. Effectively, it entrenches unitary governance in a natural federation comprising over 250 ethnic nationalities, with diverse cultures, worldviews and faiths. Blatantly, it violates the principle of power devolution that underpins federalism. Therefore, instead of progress, the 1999 Constitution has only delivered misery, ethnic tensions and mutual suspicion, underdevelopment, violence, a weak, failing state, and sectarian strife. All major attempts to review it since 1999 have fallen flat on the altar of politics and sabotaged by its inherent contradictions. Even the composition of NASS is flawed, disadvantaging sections of the country and guaranteeing that the needed radical reforms cannot come from there. Conversely, the Australian Constitution has 39 items on the Exclusive List. The primary tenets of federalism like devolved policing, fiscal federalism and resource control, are jointly shared by the central and the federating units. This is also the practice in the United States, Canada, India, Germany and other federal states. But the current effort by the Ninth NASS reeks of superficiality. With no sincerity of purpose and lack of the political will to promote radical change through a national conference, and a popular referendum, it will not unshackle the productive powers of the units as typically, the key anchors of federalism have been excluded. Just like previous assemblies, the Ninth NASS has taken three out of its four-year tenure to attempt its promised review. Recollect the filibustering over the amended Electoral Act, which was just signed into law by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in February. Although the process entailed just the parliament and the President, it took almost three years for it to pass. A constitution amendment process is far more cumbersome. After the stop in the federal parliament, it then begins its journey of approval to all the 36 states houses of assembly. With the 2023 election season imminent, this seems an uphill task. The amendments in the previous parliament collapsed at the state level. The joint committee proposed 68 bills for amendment. The most advertised centre on moving prisons, railways, power to the Concurrent Legislative List (from the Exclusive List), independent candidacy, financial autonomy for state legislature and judiciary, and the local government as the third tier of government, all of which passed. During consideration, 49 items were passed. The rejected bills included the retention of value added tax on the concurrent, Diaspora voting, special seats for women in the parliament, and life pensions for NASS presiding officers. Overall, it is an exercise in futility. As usual, self-aggrandisement took centre stage. The parliament wanted life pensions for the presiding officers. This is preposterous. Nigerian lawmakers currently have more than a fair share of the country’s resources for doing nothing. Most critically, the lawmakers excluded the most important bills. These are resource control or fiscal federalism, and state police. Without these two, Nigeria is racing to ruin. In the First Republic, the regions controlled their resources and revenue accruing therefrom. This enervated positive competition and growth until the military aborted the arrangement in January 1966. All the attempts to revert to that model have faltered on the altar of selfish politicking. In truly federal countries, the states (regions, cantons, or provinces) control their resources and/or enjoy the benefits. From Australia to Canada, the United States to Switzerland and Sweden to Germany, this underpins their constitutions. The states do not run to the centre to collect allowances as Nigeria’s beggarly states do. With the states unproductive and consumptive, Nigeria, since 2018, has become the world’s poverty capital. Currently, a majority of the 36 states are financially threatened by the contorted federal arrangement. Most of them can hardly pay workers’ salaries. Only two – Lagos and Rivers – can survive without federal allocations. According to the National Bureau of Statistics, Lagos raked in N418.99 billion (or 32.08 per cent) of the total sub-national internally generated revenue of N1.31 trillion in 2020. Rivers, in distant second, made N117.19 billion (8.97 percent). Even these two states are not totally immune because their income profiles depend mostly on multiple levies, not tax from productive activities. In the First Republic, when the regions were viable federating units, the Western Region made giant strides in cocoa and education; the Eastern Region was a leader in palm produce; the North’s groundnut pyramids equally stood among other items. Canada’s 1867 Constitution, while recognising the principle of federal paramountcy, provides that each province has “legislative jurisdiction over the exploration for non-renewable natural resources in the province, development, conservation and management of its non-renewable natural resources and forestry resources.” To compound the mess, the NASS ignorantly approved LGs as the third tier of government. This is unrealistic and unjust. It is not a feature of federalism at all, which is identified by a two-tiered central government and the federating units. Control over LGs is a state responsibility. Nigeria cannot be different. The only significant amendment in the Fourth Republic occurred in 2010 during the vacuum in government when Umaru Yar’Adua fell gravely ill, leaving Nigeria rudderless. To save the system, the NASS invoked the ‘doctrine of necessity’ to get Goodluck Jonathan, who was the deputy to Yar’Adua, sworn in as the acting President. That says something significant: disjointed constitution amendment is an empty enterprise. Two political conferences by the governments of Olusegun Obasanjo in 2005/06 and Goodluck Jonathan in 2014 gulped nearly N20 billion with no quantifiable result to show. Obasanjo’s conference suffered a terminal collapse due to the third term agenda; Jonathan was too distracted to implement the key recommendations of his conference. What is the way forward? The sensible route is to discard these futile amendments. In its place, the political class should agree to a sovereign national conference to write the people’s constitution. This cannot be undertaken by the federal and state parliaments. Apart from the ethnic nationalities, all groups should be represented. All options should be on the table; there can be no “no-go areas,” including a secession clause. The final document should then be subjected to a referendum. Only this can save Nigeria; current gyrations of constitution amendment only postpone the inevitable implosion. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com