The leader of Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, has expressed optimism that despite his ordeals before Justice Binta Nyako of a Federal High Court in Abuja where he is facing trial over alleged terrorism, victory is certain. Kanu, currently being detained in the custody of the Department of State Services has therefore requested his legal team to always make out time to hang out and enjoy some bottles of drinks. Leader of his legal team, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, said these in a statement on Friday issued after a routine visit to Kanu in the Headquarters of DSS in Abuja. He said, “The court-ordered routine visit to our indefatigable client – Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu was observed on (Thursday) March 3, 2022. After days, which turned into weeks of grandstanding, we were able to meet with our client- Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “In his unshaken/undeterred resolve, Onyendu was in high spirits as he took time to explain why he protested against the denial of access to his lawyers during the last three successive visits. “He was deeply troubled with those incidents, particularly when it was done in flagrant disregard and violation of extant orders of the court. We understood Onyendu’s grouse and seized the opportunity to intimate him of the measures we have taken so far to ensure that such ugly incident does not reoccur. “Onyendu used the opportunity to offer advice and words of encouragement, particularly to myself. He took his time to urge me to remain resolute and focused, and never to be distracted by the deliberate evil ploys of the enemies to break me. “Indeed, Onyendu saw tomorrow! Unknown to him that at the time he was handing down these words of encouragement and encomium, the slander mongers were hurriedly putting together another stunt which, was, however, dead on arrival. “Onyendu particularly encouraged me to be strong and even stronger in the coming days. He said that I should expect more and more slander, but I should be assured that he and Umuchineke will always be there for me. “We all agreed that this is a very critical period as victory is staring on our faces and, any opportunity offered to be distracted will take us back because the enemies are united in their resolve but their evil plots are all surmountable. “As for me, I am firm and solid any day any time. I remain firm like the rock of Gibraltar! Forward ever and backward never. On a lighter note, Onyendu requested his visiting team to make out time to hang out and enjoy some bottles of drinks. “In summary, Onyendu is in a very strong and firm spirit now than before. He implores all his followers and Umuchineke to remain undivided, resolute, and unshaken in their resolve for victory. “Onyendu assures everyone that he will come out victorious and stronger. He commended his supporters and Umuchineke, and urged you to remain prayerful and continue to be peaceful in your conduct as you have always demonstrated over time. Onyendu is profoundly proud of you all. “We appreciate you all, Umuchineke, for your support and perseverance. Be assured that it will surely end in praises.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com