Janet Ogundepo and Emmanuel Ojo examine the options open to Nigerian students who recently returned from Ukraine after surviving the ongoing war in the European country It’s been two weeks since she returned to Nigeria, having luckily escaped Russia’s onslaught against Ukraine, but Olamide Adeleye has yet to come to terms with her new reality. A final year medical student who had begun countdown to June, 2022 when she would have completed her programme in a Ukarainian university, the sudden interruption that has now put her education on an indefinite hold and truncated her plans, is one shock she has yet to recover from. She has since isolated herself and declined to speak with anyone. Her father, Pastor Matthew Adeleye, told Saturday PUNCH, “She said she needed adequate rest and she declined any engagement to discuss her experiences; she wasn’t in the mood. But now, she has shown signs of improvement.” Olamide’s resentment is understandable. Instead of rounding off her programme and getting prepared to practice her beloved profession, the raging war, within the twinkle of an eye, has kept her out of school with no hope of resuming anytime soon. The travails of these students have even been worsened by the fact that signals from Russia indicated that the end was not in sight, despite the ongoing peace talks. Russian President, Vladimir Putin, said repeatedly that the “advance is going according to plans.” An aide of French President, Emmanuel Macron, was also reported as saying that the phone call between Putin and Macron showed that the worst had yet to come. Already, there are about three million refugees as a result of the crisis. “The expectation of the president (Macron) is that the worst has yet to come, given what President Putin told him,” the senior aide told reporters on condition of anonymity. With these, coupled with continued bombardments by the Russian military forces and the damage done to some critical infrastructure in the country, resumption may not yet be on the table for many schools in Ukraine. Adeleye said they had been constrained to hope the war would soon end so her daughter could complete her education so that her seven years of learning will not be a waste. Speaking to his plans for Victoria’s education, Adeleye said, “We are optimistic it won’t take long for the war to end. A programme of seven years cannot just end like that; uncompleted. I take solace in the Biblical verse that says ‘He who has started a good work will never abandon it without perfecting it.’ “My daughter is to round off her programme this June, which is just four months away before the war started. But I believe Ukraine and Russia will not engage themselves in a war continuously for a year without the world power getting involved. “From the news, I know that the Nigerian government is contemplating exploiting diplomatic relations with neighbouring countries bordering Ukraine to ensure that students, especially those in their fourth and fifth year, have the option of completing their programmes in countries like Hungary, Romania, Poland and Slovakia. “That is still being discussed. It is someone like me who can tell, in terms of the monetary value of what we have spent in Ukraine. The government of Ukraine owes us a duty to award a certificate. Legally, they cannot afford not to do that because we have spent so much money there. But we want to be patient for a reasonable amount of time because discussions are ongoing between the two countries.” On whether he would allow his daughter to return to complete her studies in Ukraine once the war is over, Adeleye responded in the affirmative. He said her return would be to sit her final examinations which were disrupted by the war. Meanwhile, until there is a clear path for students to continue their studies in neighbouring countries, Olamide and thousands of other students may have to wait and hope for an end to the raging war, save for those who decide to start afresh elsewhere. For years, Ukraine has been a preferred destination for medical students from several developing countries including Nigeria. This is mainly because it has a reputation for high quality medical training, complementary infrastructure and it is relatively cheaper than what obtains in developed countries like the United States, United Kingdom, etc. This explains why a significant percentage of returnee Nigerians from the troubled country are medical students. Similarly, the incessant strikes by university unions, especially the Academic Staff Union of Universities, have made Nigerian universities to be less attractive to those who have the option of schooling abroad. Currently, the union is on a two-month strike which started just five days ago. This is a sequel to the one-month strike that terminated the day the new one began. Between 1999 and December 2020, ASUU has spent about 1,500 days on strike, which is equivalent to about four years. This has not only truncated the academic aspirations of students in public universities, it has also eroded the confidence of many in the institutions. These have made foreign institutions more attractive to both parents and students, and it explains why many students are reluctant to come back to Nigeria to continue their studies. The reign of uncertainties While Olamide is constrained to weigh her options cautiously, having almost graduated before the war started, Chinaza Ukachukwu, a first-year medical student in a university in Kharkiv, Ukraine, might eventually embrace the option of starting all over again in Hungary where she fled to when the crisis escalated. Her father, Mr Christian Ukachukwu, told Saturday Punch that Chinaza might not be able to call for her transcript from the school and might have to start over afresh in another institution in Europe or return to Ukraine when the war is over. He said, “We got information from the school that they were officially on break due to the curfew in the country and that from March 13, students would be given more information on the way forward.” As of now, the school has yet to notify the students of the next step. Findings however reveal that the battle for survival has overtaken any other productive venture and activity in the war-torn country. In Kharkiv where Chinaza’s school is located, BBC reported that in the early days of the invasion, the city, which is the second largest in Ukraine, was able to fight back the rampaging Russians. However, due to the nightly Russian airstrikes and shelling, dozens of civilians have been killed while hundreds were left injured. It is perhaps understandable why the school has yet to decide on how to proceed. Our correspondents gathered that some of the schools in Hungary are ready to absorb final year students from Ukraine if they present a copy of their transcripts, but it is not yet certain if the students would be able to provide this essential document, given the sustained offensive by the Russian military forces. Though most of the schools had a very strong online presence. Ukachukwu added, “We are hoping that by next week, we can get a clear detail of what will happen. If they are asked to continue schooling online, students can connect from where they are. When the war is over and they are asked to resume physical classes, they will still go back to the school to continue their studies.” Ukachukwu added that Chinaza was currently applying to schools in Hungary and had been told she would have to start from the first year if given admission in September. Until then, he said they were weighing their options so as to ultimately do what is best for her. Interestingly, however, Ukachukwu said he would not want Chinaza to come back to Nigeria to continue her studies, despite the uncertainties surrounding her studies in Europe. “With what is happening in Nigeria, the constant disruption to the education calendar through strike actions is hampering the smooth running of our educational institutions. Also, there is the problem of inadequate facilities to practice what is being taught. Practice makes perfection; if you don’t practice, how can you become perfect? The people in power are not helping matters.” Similarly, a medical student who preferred to be identified with her first name, Josephine, said she was still trying to overcome the trauma she went through before her eventual escape from Ukraine. Thus, for now, the expectant mother said she had yet to consider how to proceed with her education. Warmly received by family members and loved ones when she arrived in the country on March 4, Josephine is taking one step at a time, saying she wouldn’t rush into any decision. When asked if she had received any update from her school and if she would be able to resume schooling when the war is over, she said, “I’m still not mentally stable enough to be thinking about all that. The whole experience just keeps coming back to my mind and it makes me cry. I feel so sad. I struggle to eat and to sleep. I’ve got a nagging headache. If I’m not crying, I’m snapping at everybody. I feel so messed up.” Precious Timothy, a fifth-year medical student, has also yet to put the events of the past weeks behind. Currently in Germany, she said she would consider her options on what next at a later time because she had lost all she had while trying to escape. Thus, she left Ukraine with nothing. Asked how she escaped having been trapped in a bunker for five days when her city was being bombed by the Russian military forces, she said the bombs shattered the bridge connecting the closest city in Ukraine to the border of Poland. After being able to wriggle her way through the shredded iron rods and rubbles of the bridge they gingerly crossed, she said they bade the city goodbye but not without losing their luggage to the river. Timothy said she detoured from Poland to Hungary on Wednesday, March 2, at which time she was able to eat and change her clothes through the donations they received. Timothy said, “Leaving Ukraine was tough because I was trapped. We couldn’t go out because they bombed the bridge that connects the city to Kyiv. We were there for four to five days. We tried getting out, we called taxis and people with personal vehicles to come and pick us but nobody could find their way to where we were. “During the weekends, we could not go out because bombs were going off in quick succession. It was very stressful, frustrating and scary because we didn’t know the destruction going on. We had no food; our food supplies finished and the gas was switched off in case the gas pipe was blown. We had no light and it was cold. “When the curfew was lifted on Monday, we tried calling taxis but we got no response, so we decided to walk out of the place to Kyiv. When we got to Kyiv, the bridge had been blown off; it was very difficult to cross because there was nothing to connect us to the other side, only pieces and shards of the rails on the bridge. “We stood on the bridge for an hour or so, trying to figure out how to cross to the other side. We did eventually but in the process, we lost our luggage in the river –it was a high current – because there was no way we could hold on to it. So right now, we came to Romania with nothing. We were on a train for 15 hours and we managed to get another train that took us to the border of Hungary and that was how we were able to enter. It was very hectic; so many things happened.” Timothy added that thoughts of how to continue her education in another school without access to her transcript began to dominate her mind as soon as they got to a safe destination. She stated, “I’m in Germany right now. I prefer to stay here and look for whatever opportunities I may get in terms of school. Right now, we do not have access to our transcripts and they are not releasing them because of the situation. We were told to wait till March 13 when we would get new information on whether we would continue online.” As of Thursday, March 17, Timothy said they had yet to hear from the school, ostensibly due to the relentless offensive. Timothy, who is still waiting to get registered in Germany, added that she was unsure she would be able to continue her course in the Ukrainian institution. The fifth-year medical student said, “It is going to take a while for Ukraine to go back to the way it was. If there is a way they would release the transcript, I would be willing to do a transfer. But I don’t know; let’s just see how things go. Right now, things are still unclear and I can’t make decisions based on the unknown. With time, I would know what would be the best option for me.” Asked if she would consider returning to Nigeria to continue her education, she said she would prefer to stay in Europe. “We want the Federal Government to intervene so we can continue here. We want the government to fight for us so that we would not be told to leave. We didn’t choose this and we went through the same challenge with the Ukrainians. If schooling is to continue online, it would be tougher to continue in Nigeria due to the electricity problem and data connection problems.” In the same vein, Somtochukwu Alexander had just completed the mandatory eight-month language course for first-year students when the invasion started. Reluctant to return to Nigeria, Alexander relocated to Germany where he is currently seeking admission into different universities. Sadly, he said he would have to start afresh because many institutions didn’t upload their students’ transcripts online and so he couldn’t access his. “Most of us would have to start again from the first year because we just finished the first semester,” he added in a dejected tone. These are also not the best of times for Victoria Adebayo, a medical student in her fifth year. With an abrupt halt to academic activities and not being able to access her transcript, which makes it difficult to continue in another school, she said she might have to wait till the war ends. According to her, the much she had heard from her school was to “wait to hear from the Ministry of Education and that is what they will follow through with. They are basically saying we shouldn’t think of going to other schools.” She added, “They said our documents are stored safely in an archive but they didn’t say anything about releasing them.” She added that not releasing the students’ transcripts could be a ploy by the school to ensure students return once calm was restored, however she doubted the possibility of that happening. Not everyone will come back,” she opined. She however expressed hope that the universities would release the transcripts of students who would not be returning to the universities. For a 500-level student of Medicine and Surgery, Lilian Otuokwu, applying to Poland was the option she currently got through the intervention of Nigerians in Diaspora, Poland. Otuokwu said she was hopeful her registration in another institution she was referred to would be successful. “It is a European Union initiative to help students coming from Ukraine, and NIDOP has helped in getting lawyers to file (for us),” she added. Having to start all over again in Poland was the dilemma of a postgraduate student, Moses Anthony, when he spoke with Saturday PUNCH. He said, “It’s been frustrating, but I can’t just leave everything I have worked for here and return to Nigeria, although I would have to start all over in Poland.” The needless disruption On the orders of President Vladimir Putin, Russia began its invasion of Ukraine on February 24 against most world leaders’ expectations and failed diplomatic talks. Since the invasion, there have been over 500 deaths, including children and women, while many more persons have suffered varying degrees of injuries. These are independent of the destruction of buildings, bridges and public infrastructure. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, said there were about 8,000 Nigerians in Ukraine, out of which about 5,600 were registered. From findings, most Nigerians in Ukraine were students, most of whom have now escaped to other countries. Following the invasion, the Federal Government through its embassies in Poland, Romania and Hungary received the fleeing Nigerians, preparatory to their return home. At the moment, hundreds of them have been flown back to Nigeria. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), approved $8.5m to evacuate the Nigerians in the troubled country. Saturday PUNCH gathered that some Nigerian students declined coming back to Nigeria. Some of the students were even said to have fled the hostel provided by the Nigerian embassy to avoid being evacuated to Nigeria, even though Onyeama had said only those interested would be brought back home. From findings, some of them are still in Hungary, registered as refugees and seeking employment and admission in universities while some have moved to Germany. Students should embrace support, online study – Experts A Professor of Psychology, Toba Elegbeleye, who empathised with the students, expressed optimism that the students would be able to cope when classes resume. He said support from the family and friends of those who had suffered setbacks as a result of the situation would help to speed up their recovery time. Elegbeleye said, “It’s unfortunate. It was unexpected and they clearly didn’t prepare for it. That it happened suddenly caused them huge dislodgement and recovering from the war might take some time. It’s a state of war and many didn’t plan for it, yet nobody knows exactly what dimension it would take. “Whether we like it or not, it’s going to disrupt the smooth running of their academics and that is the most painful part because we don’t know the extent of damage that has been done. We don’t know how fast the country (Ukraine) will be able to return to normalcy after the war.” He added that the disruption of the academic calendar presented a bleak future for the students. “For other non-students who are investors, it’s a very big problem for them too. Nowhere in the world is totally safe,” he added. A Professor of Curriculum and Instruction at the National Open University of Nigeria, Mercy Bandele, said if available, the students could maximise the opportunity of online study. She added that such platforms would provide them with the opportunity of studying with the aid of gadgets, regardless of where they are. “The world is going virtual; they don’t have to remain with the conventional system,” she stated. Also, an Emeritus Professor of Science Education and Open and Distance Learning at the National Open University of Nigeria, Olugbemiro Jegede, commended the government for its prompt response in evacuating Nigerians fleeing war-torn Ukraine. He, however, condemned the racist actions of Poland in preventing Nigerians from taking refuge in their country. He said, “We are saddened by the report in the media that Poland, whose citizens flooded and remained in Nigeria between the late 60s and early 80s working in our universities and hospitals closed their borders to Nigerians on the ground of racist excuses. On what the students could do as regards their education, Jegede advised them to temporarily register in Nigerian and other African universities to continue their programmes, earn credits and transfer them once it’s safe enough for them to go back to their institutions. Jegede added, “For a number of our returnees who may not be in a position to register or be admitted in private institutions in Nigeria and for those who did not have the requisite qualifications to be admitted into Nigerian universities and instead had to take the easier option of going to Ukraine, the Federal Government should take up the responsibility of meeting the educational needs of these students. “This must be a temporary, emergency and ad hoc measure. I am sure the Federal Government through the National Universities Commission, the Committee of Vice-Chancellors with support from the Association of African Universities, in partnership with the Ukrainian embassy in Nigeria and philanthropic individuals can make this happen. “Nothing good comes easy and cheap but with dedicated resolve and financial commitment from the government and others, it is not impossible.” The emeritus professor further called on the Federal Government to explore the possibility of absorbing the students into universities in Nigeria “especially the nine new universities just established.” “If resources permit, Nigeria can grant refugee status to many Ukrainian university academics to teach in the new universities.” Also, a professor of Educational Technology and Curriculum Studies, Ignatius Ajuru University of Education, Port Harcourt, Keziah Achuonye, commiserated with the students and hoped the war would end soonest so they could return to Ukraine to continue their education. She, however, stated that in the event the war continued, the students, especially those in their second to final year, should write to Nigerian universities with their transcripts or previous results. “That way, the university senate can look at the transcripts, the number of years spent, the number of courses done and put them in the appropriate classes,” she said. She added, “For those in their first year, there is no need to waste time, the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination is still on, they can pick a form and sit the exam. Those with any result should write an application to the university senate through the vice-chancellor and the registrar and the senate would sit and consider them and they can continue with their education.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com