Rasheed Adegoke (SAN) in this interview with SOLOMON ODENIYI argues that Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act is unconstitutional and an additional requirement to the qualification for an election It is some months to the 2023 elections and yet we are still battling with a provision of the electoral act. Are you not worried this may affect the preparations for the election? Well, I’m not worried.  We are in the process of perfecting the electoral process and I believe there will be a lot of agitations. We must expect politicians to play a lot of games and so there will be a lot of agitation. For instance with respect to, maybe a provision should be included or not, the Presidency is saying that Section 84 (12) should be deleted,  some other interests are saying no, it should be retained. So I think it is natural to a large extent. It will not be too healthy for the developmental process of democracy but at the end of the day, I  believe they will get over it. I believe none of the agitators will want to lose elections on the basis of maybe imperfection of the statute. Is there any inherent danger in appointees taking part in the All Progressives Congress convention? No. The provision of Section 84 (12), from a proper interpretation of that statute and the constitution, the provision is ultimately unconstitutional. There is no way it can be sustained. And those who are saying it should be removed are on firmer ground. You just need to understand one thing, membership of a political party now aside, if you look at Section 84(12,  it is not an inconsistency with the issue of being a person employed in the public service of the federation. Where the provision of Section 84(12) conflicts with the constitution is to the effect that, if you look at qualification for contesting an election, it requires that you must be a member of a political party and must be sponsored by that political party. Now, that is the requirements of Section 66 with respect to the National Assembly. The same thing applies to the presidential, governorship and the house of assembly elections. Those provisions related to qualifications are already consecrated; they cannot be added to nor removed from. Once we appreciate that and that has been the consistent decisions of the Supreme Court, you cannot add to or remove from the qualification provision. Now, let’s look at Section 84(12) that says that a political appointee who in any case will naturally be a member of a political party cannot while occupying that office participate in the primaries of a political party either to vote or be voted for. The implication is that these are now additional requirements, and additional qualifications being added to the constitution. The constitution has stipulated the provision for qualifications. It is the same constitution that says that if you are in public service of the federation, you must resign 30 days to the election. The constitution doesn’t say anything about any other category of persons. The constitution only emphasises that if you’re a person employed in the public service of the federation, resign 30 days to the election. With respect to all other persons, it does not make any such provision. Talking about all other Nigerians, not in the public service of the federation, they are on the same level. If anybody is going to disqualify any other person in another position, there will be a need to amend the constitution to include that anyone who is a political appointee cannot be nominated by a political party except if the person has resigned. The issue of having to resign 180 days before the election has been smashed. Now they are retaining Section 84 (12) to disqualify anybody who is a political appointee. So it is an addition to the requirements for nomination. So if I cannot be nominated by a political party and it is a must to be nominated by a political party before you can contest in an election. The implication is that they have added requirements for qualification. That is why we say that it is going to be discriminatory statutorily now against that class of persons who are political appointees compared to other Nigerians. If there is going to be such a disqualification it will have to be provided by the constitution itself. A constitution cannot be declared invalid as against itself. If there is a conflict between one provision of the constitution and another, it has to be interpreted by the court in order to give effect to the constitution. The provision cannot be interpreted or validated by another and others, it is a statute. Like section 84:12, it is inconsistent with the constitution that says that what is required to contest for an election is to be a member of a party and be nominated by that political party. If a legislature is now saying that no political party can nominate me if I am a political appointee, it is a disqualification requirement they are adding to the constitution, by way of statute which is unconstitutional. But governors have been advising appointees to resign? If a governor advises his appointees, those governors have no access to lawyers or their lawyers have not sat to analyse this act properly. Or their attorneys general have not advised them appropriately or no proper interpretation of that act. A governor may feel that rather than for my political party to feature somebody that I am not sure whether the court will nullify the election or otherwise, let me just tell these people to go and resign. They may have personal motives or for the interest of the party. I believe that if proper interpretations are sought and If this appeal runs fast, it will be decided within time and the position of the law will become clear. One of the reasons this Section 84 was introduced is to checkmate the actions of these appointees who abandon their offices to pursue their ambitions. Morally, don’t you think it is right to resign before contesting? The implication is that they have added to the requirements of qualification. It is going to be discriminatory statutorily. It’s not morally right. It’s even against the interest of the public for a political appointee who was charged with an assignment to serve the public to abandon it for his own personal ambitions. However, that cannot be cured by statutory intervention it would have to be done by a constitutional intervention. Let the National Assembly just get its acts together, go back to the constitution, amend it to reflect, put a clause in the constitution that will say that where you’re a political appointee, you cannot contest an election while in that office you must resign within a period. If it is stated and entrenched that you must resign within a year in the constitution, it is final! But for them to do it by way of statutory manipulation, it shows a lack of knowledge or being mischievous. If they want to cure that mischief that public officers that are political appointees exhibit when elections are coming the best thing to do is to amend the constitution. The constitution cannot invalidate that the person in the public service of the federation should resign 30 days ahead of the election. That one is already established. But political appointees by law are not persons employed in public service of the federation. There are so many authorities of the Supreme Court that have upheld that position. So they are not affected by the 30 days requirements to resign, that’s why political appointees have always been contesting while still holding office. For example, Governor Kayode Fayemi was a  Minister of Mines before contesting as Governor in Ekiti State because the constitution does not require him to resign ahead of that time. Now, if the legislature has now detected that people have been using unduly, their political position as political appointees to defeat the public moral of not utilising public office for personal interest, then they should go back and utilise the first ground norm of the land (constitution) amend it and slot the section 84 (12) into the constitution and put an end to it. Looking at it, is the National Assembly empowered to make laws for political parties since this particular law is for those who will be participating in party congresses. Are they empowered to do so? Yes they have. If you look at Section 222 of the constitution, political parties are equally regulated by the act of the National Assembly.  That is why the National Assembly is in a position to make the electoral act. The electoral act will not only regulate the electoral process alone but the political parties too. You’d see that because of the regulations of political institutions. They have the power under the Constitution to make laws to regulate political parties. Because of the provision of the constitution to enable the National Assembly to make laws to regulate political parties, the National Assembly was able to make  Section 87:9 of the constitution of the electoral act which now regulates who can challenge the result of regular elections of a political party in court. Before this provision, primaries of political parties were internal affairs. No one can challenge it in court. But by the time that provision of 87:9 was enacted into the electoral act in 2010, an aspirant who participated in the primaries of the party could challenge the result in a Federal or state high court. Since then, a floodgate was already opened, we were able to challenge the results of primaries in court. Now the same constitution empowers the National Assembly to make laws to regulate political parties but it must not be inconsistent with the constitution because of any contradictions, that law is a nullity. A court recently ruled that the section be deleted. What do you make of the judgment? I believe the National Assembly should have been joined in the case. The court interpreting section 84 (12) in that regard, I think ought to have limited it to the issue of whether the section adds to the constitutional requirements of contesting an election, so if it does, it is a nullity.  Now for the court to say that the AGF (Attorney-General of the Federation) should delete that provision is beyond the court to say that. The court can declare that provision a “nullity” and that’s all. It is wrong for the court to tell the attorney general to go and delete the provision that is already gazetted. The court may say that provision is a nullity and once the court has pronounced it, once it is upheld by the appellate court, if there is an appeal and if there is no appeal that is the law.  It will be a nullity.  It is a nullity and nobody can rely on it. What steps can be taken to avoid this judgment is not gazetted? I think the National Assembly can do is to amend the constitution to override that decision. If they go on appeal, the National Assembly will much likely lose this case. From my analysis, section 84 (12) is an additional requirement to electoral qualification. The constitution is already crystalised in respect to what the qualifications are. Once you’re a member of a party and you’re qualified, no law can disqualify you. No law can say, however, if you’re holding a political office no political party can nominate you. The National Assembly should not waste time appealing to the Supreme Court. They could get a proper interpretation from lawyers who really know or get the constitution amended to meet this requirement.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com