THE Lagos State Traffic Management Authority has confirmed the dismissal of two officers and the reduction in the rank of four officers, who were found guilty of misconducts while performing their duties in the state. The agency’s Assistant Director, Public Affairs, Filade Olumide, confirmed the development in a statement on Monday. He added that the management of LASTMA had affirmed that some officers of the agency who were found culpable of gross misconduct while performing their official duties had faced disciplinary action in line with the extant rules as guided by the Lagos State Civil Service rules and regulations. The statement read in part, “LASTMA management added that the Personnel Management Board (Disciplinary) which was held to look into all the reported misconduct of the officers, considered the allegation of bribery, corruption and serious act unbecoming of a public officer levelled against them and found some officers culpable of serious misconduct as stated in the public service rule. “The agency further averred that LASTMA can only get better, if and when members of the public share their experiences which also include positive ones and provide evidence where applicable of perceived misdemeanours.” It added, “Six officers have faced disciplinary action from September to December 2021, two of the officers had their appointments terminated, while four suffered a reduction in rank along with a reprimand for their various misdemeanours.” Also, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, has ordered the immediate identification and arrest of a police informant linked to an armed robbery gang terrorising residents and business owners in the FESTAC and Satellite town areas of the state. The PUNCH gathered that a report in a national daily revealed that the police informant was attached to the FESTAC police station. Reacting, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundenyin, in a statement on Monday, said Alabi had ordered the immediate identification and arrest of the suspected informant for appropriate sanctioning. The statement read, “The attention of the Lagos State Police Command has been drawn to a publication in a national daily of March 19, 2022. “The command wishes to inform the general public that upon receipt of the information, the Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, ordered the immediate identification and arrest of the rogue police officer. “The CP has vowed that any police officer found undermining the tireless efforts of the command to rid Lagos State of crime and criminality would be appropriately sanctioned.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com