Former President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria and ex-chairman of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group, Sam Ohuabunwa, has affirmed that Nigerians will give the Peoples Democratic Party another chance in 2023. The Presidential hopeful spoke on Tuesday in Abuja when he met with the party’s National Assembly Minority Caucus where he sought their support as he declared his intention to emerge as PDP flagbearer in the 2023 presidential election. Ohuabunwa, however, noted that the PDP must put its best feet forward. According to him, “We have done some research that shows that Nigerians don’t like PDP but they hate APC. And they are willing to give PDP another chance. Whatever has made them not like PDP, whether it is the demarketing by the APC, this is what the market says. “But Nigerians having tested APC and PDP leadership at the national level, they are willing to bet with PDP. It doesn’t matter whether I am the one that ends up becoming the party’s nominee or the candidate, but Nigerians are looking up to the PDP to do the right thing. “They are looking at PDP to present their best feet out. They are looking for PDP to present a new paradigm. They want the PDP to reinvent itself to show something new and something different from what they have seen in the past.” The pharmaceutical magnate said he had the vision and foresight to bear the party’s flag come 2023 and to lead the country as president afterward. In his address, the Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, lauded Ohuabunwa’s passion for a better Nigeria. “We can see in your discussion how you want Nigeria to be better than it is today. That is what each of us wants for Nigeria. We want to wish you well and tell you to March on. As you go, remember that the National Assembly is part of those that will make your journey easier,” he said. Meanwhile, the minority leader of the House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu, charged all PDP Presidential aspirants to compete peacefully. Elumelu said the party needs to be united to oust the governing All Progressives Congress in 2023. He said, “let us unite ourselves. It is only when we are united that we can have a course to take over from the APC. So let us advise our supporters not to abuse anybody but to preach peace and bring everybody together.” Ohuabunwa is the third presidential aspirant openly meeting with the NASS caucus to discuss their presidential ambitions. Earlier, former Senate President, Anyim Anyim, and former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, had expressed their interest to run for the office of President on the platform of the PDP. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com