The President of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria, Adesina Adedayo, has encouraged students in tertiary institutions to embrace the tax profession. He spoke during the inauguration of the Association of Nigerian Taxation Students in Lagos. He said, “It is a well-known fact that the youth of any country is a great asset and they are the future. It is imperative to acknowledge the role of youths in nation-building and support them to drive positive change in the world. “Therefore, there is no better time to form this association bearing in mind that taxation is a distinct course and we must develop the tax profession.” He said the initiative was part of the institute’s catch-them-young agenda geared towards creating a community of taxation students who would be nurtured to become qualified tax practitioners and build leadership skills over time. While congratulating the newly inaugurated executives, he urged them to promote awareness of the taxation discipline and operate within the constitution as provided and be a worthy ambassadors of the institute. While speaking, the Chairman, Students Affairs & Tertiary Education Relations Committee at, Dr. Titilayo Fowokan, said the mission of the initiative powered by the CITN is to build an association that would nurture prospective members of CITN in tax administration, academia, and practice. Fowokan said, “The aims and objectives of putting this national body together include but not limited to stimulating the interest of students in taxation as a field of study; providing a platform for intellectual interaction among taxation students; promoting greater awareness of the relevance and importance of taxation in meeting societal needs and redressing social inequalities;     creating a platform for an increase in the students’ membership base of the Institute.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com