Oluwafunso Asiwaju, the first wife of film marketer, Kazim Adeoti, has said that his new wife and actress, Mercy Aigbe, was a problem in her marriage to Adeoti. According to her, Mercy had been sleeping with her husband for over 10 years. The mother-of-four wrote on social media, “Let’s get the record straight here. This post is regarding an interview recently going around by Media Room Hub with my soon-to-be ex-husband in one of his numerous lies. “I want you all to know that in contrast to what Mr Adeoti said, I did not and will never settle to have a second wife in my marriage to him (sic). Kazim, you should stop painting a perfect picture of a marriage you clearly do not have with me, Oluwafunso Asiwaju Couture. “You and your side chick can continue with whatever it is you are doing, but never come out to social media degrading me or my children with your demeaning and childish attitude. I will not stoop to your level of rubbish and stupidity.” Responding to Aigbe’s claims that they were never friends, Funso said, “As for you Mercy, let’s cut the crap. We were friends, but the shame and your glam lifestyle will not let you admit it. “You have been sleeping with Kazim since your son was only five months old. I introduced you to Kazim as my friend. I called and personally invited you and your ex-husband (Lanre Gentry) to the 40th surprise birthday party (sic)I did for my soon-to-be ex-husband. “You were a constant friend of mine back then. I brought you close as a friend because I liked you, but you repaid me by sleeping with my husband, Kazim. “You were a problem in my marriage for years. Now, I’m happy to let you know this is only the beginning of the end for you. I’m done. He is all yours; enjoy. I am really past this. Like I said in my first post, ‘Losing someone who does not respect or appreciate you is actually a gain, not a loss.’” Though Aigbe claimed to have married Adeoti because of her love for him and not money, an old video has surfaced in which the actress advised women dating married men to get as much money from them as possible. She had said, “You had better be cashing out. Secure the bag. Get that money because that man is not yours. He belongs to another woman. It is bad enough that you are dating a married woman, but if you are it, you had better be worth it (sic). Do not collect chocolates or flowers as gift from a married man. If you are dating a married man, ‘chop’ his money. “Some stupid women will be dating married men and be doing love (sic). If you are dating a married man, make sure you are in it for the material things you are going to get from him. Make sure the gifts you are getting from that married man or boyfriend is either a car, which has to be a (Mercedes) Benz, or a house.” Mercy had her son, Juwon, with Gentry in June 2010. Going by Oluwafunso’s claims, the actress allegedly started having sexual relations with Adeoti since November 2010. The actress separated from Gentry in 2017, following allegations of domestic violence.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com