THE Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps said its operatives arrested five suspects allegedly linked with a fire that razed its exhibit yard in Iriebe Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State. The fire destroyed trucks laden with illegally refined petroleum products seized by the corps. It was leant that it took the combined efforts of the Federal Fire Service and fire fighters from the Shell Petroleum Development Company to contain the fire. Spokesman of the NSCDC in the state, Olufemi Ayodele, in a statement on Tuesday, confirmed the incident, saying parts of the exhibits were already forfeited. Ayodele explained that the yard was allocated to the command about 10 years ago following increasing number of impounded trucks linked to pipeline vandalism and illegal refining of petroleum products. He added that the government at the time ordered the relocation of such exhibits from the command’s headquarters to the exhibit yard in Iriebe to prevent disruption of vehicular movements. He said following the nature of the fire, the NSCDC Assistant Commandant-General in charge of Zone L comprising Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Cross River States, James Bassey, had visited the yard. The statement said Bassey linked the inferno to intensified efforts of the command to fight vandalism and oil theft, which he said had led to the arrests and prosecution of many suspects. He noted that the yard was jointly owned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, saying efforts were made to stop the fire from spreading to private properties in the area. He confirmed that as part of the ongoing investigation to unravel the cause of the fire, the command’s Intelligence and Anti-vandal team arrested five suspects. Meanwhile, the NSCDC Commandant, Rivers State Commandant, Abu Tambuwal, has said those arrested in connection with the fire would be made to face the law. “Obviously, this occurrence is an act of sabotage by evil-minded persons who want to get back to the NSCDC at all cost. We will not be deterred in our dogged and resolute fight against vandalism of oil pipelines and illegal dealings in petroleum products,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com