Dancer, singer and social media content creator, Korra Obidi, is not having the best of times. She gave birth to her second child some weeks ago and shortly after that, her American husband, Dr Justin Dean, announced that they would be getting a divorce. But, Obidi initially seemed to be unbothered as she continued posting videos of her dancing on social media. However, she has now said making those videos was her way of coping with her marital crisis. During a Facebook Live session, she said, “I decided to address some of the things that have been going on. I really don’t want to wash my linen in public because I know the Internet never forgets. “First, I want to apologise to everyone who saw the perfect depiction of a family and the inter-racial love I projected online and bought into it. And now, they are disappointed with what is going on. I am sorry you had to see that and now, you have to see everything crashing. I want to apologise to you, my beloved fans. “You might see me looking strong and dancing, trying to keep things together. When you see me doing that, just know I am trying to hold things together and be strong for my girls.” Obidi also stated that despite the recent development, she would not speak ill of her estranged husband. She said, “Trying to keep things together is how I cope. I cope with dance. I can read the comments of people, but I am not going to say anything bad about my husband because I know it would be damaging to my family. “It takes two in every marriage. I am the only one in the United States of America. I have a two-year-old daughter and a newborn baby. My (extended) family members are not based here. I just want you all to know what I am going through right now. I am not a robot. I am just trying to make ends meet. I am trying to be the strong figure my girls can look up to and emulate.” She also stated that she would tell her side of the story when she is strong enough to do so. She added, “When I am strong, I will tell my own side of the story. Till then, please be empathetic and kind with your words. If I don’t take care of my girls, no one will. I am just trying to keep my sanity. I don’t want to say anything I would regret. Please keep me in your prayers and remember that I am only human.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com