A member of the House of Representatives, Dennis Idahosa (APC/Edo), has said that insecurity poses a threat to development and would discourage investors from Edo State if not urgently checked. The lawmaker, who represents the Ovia Federal Constituency, expressed this worry when he spoke to newsmen in Benin on Wednesday through his media aide, Friday Aghedo. He said the security challenges that had prevented farmers from their farms, had assumed a worrisome dimension recently. Idahosa noted that not only are the people being abducted on a daily basis, there is also the issue of banditry, murder, rape, torture and abuse of residents of various communities in the state. He cited the Uromi bank robbery of February 24, which led to the death of five persons, including two police officers and the gruesome murder of Dr Otote Osaikhuomwan of the University of Benin Teaching Hospital. “The issue of kidnapping has spread across the state; along Owan-Ihievbe Warrake Road, Benin-Auchi highway, just to mention but a few areas in the State. “Also in January, herdsmen invaded farmlands in Igolo and Abumwentre I communities in Ovia Federal Constituency, leaving one person dead and at least two wounded with gunshot injuries and forcing the residents to flee into the neighbouring community of Okokhuo for refuge. “There is also incessant invasion and attacks by armed herdsmen on farmlands in Ologbo-Nugu, Umoghun-Nokhua, Orogho, Urhehue, Evboesi and Evbonogbon communities at the border of Edo and Delta State. “These attacks have led to the loss of lives and properties as well as the destruction of agricultural produce of the residents who are mostly farmers. “A man was murdered along with his three children in Egbonovon community in January, the abduction, torture and rape of seven women on February 3, 2022, and so many others just this year alone. “If the insecurity in Edo State is not urgently addressed, it will pose a serious threat to the socio-economic development of the State,” he stated. He noted that it was in a bid to forestall the danger posed by this threat, that his principal raised a motion on the floor of the Green Chamber urging the concerned authority to act fast. “I am happy to report that the house in its magnanimity, has mandated the security agencies to move into action and arrest the security challenges in the state and also bring culprits to book. Aside from this, the speaker also urged the National Emergency Management Agency to provide relief materials to the victims in order to ameliorate their sufferings. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com