The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria has expelled two officers of the Nigerian Immigration Service from working in any airport in Nigeria due to their involvement in the extortion of N8,000 from a passenger. FAAN said on Friday that the On Duty Cards of the officers were permanently withdrawn after it was confirmed that they extorted from a 14-year old female passenger of Lufthansa Airlines. The authority’s acting General Manager, Corporate Affairs, Faithful Hope-Ivbaze, said in a statement that the decision was taken after investigations proved that the officers extorted money from the passenger. She said, “Following a tweeted allegation on February 19, 2022 by the mother of a 14-year old girl travelling on Lufthansa Airlines that two officials of the Nigerian Immigration Service extorted the sum of N8,000 from her daughter, a team of FAAN Aviation Security officers were commissioned to investigate the allegation. “Upon investigation, they found the allegation to be true, as the officers involved were identified with the help of footages on our CCTV facility, and the cooperation from the Nigerian Immigration Service. “Consequently, the officers were made to refund the exact amount collected from the passenger.” Hope-Ivbaze added, “Their On Duty Cards were also withdrawn permanently, and they have been banned from working in any Nigerian airport, to serve as a deterrent to others.” The authority commended the mother of the child, who had confirmed receipt of the money, for deeming it fit to escalate the case. It said the mother of the girl assisted FAAN tremendously in the course of the investigation. “Also, we would like to express our appreciation to the Comptroller of Immigration, MMA (Murtala Muhammed Airport) and her team for her cooperation and support in addressing this issue,” FAAN stated. The authority said it would continue to identify and sanction any airport official (including FAAN officials) found to be extorting passengers or perpetuating any act of illegality at airports.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com