UPDC Plc has said it plans to deliver 1,500 housing units in the country in the next five years. The Chief Executive Officer, UPDC Plc, Odunayo Ojo said this during a press briefing on recent developments in the company. He said, “UPDC boasts of over 24 years of experience developing first-class real estate properties in Nigeria. UPDC plans to deliver over 1,500 housing units to the real estate market over the next five years.” The company, he added, signed development management mandates in the first quarter of 2022 with various companies to expand its business and serve its clients better He said, “UPDC has signed development management mandates in Q1, 2022 with various companies. UPDC will work hand in hand with the clients throughout the entire development process, from design approvals to the appointment of consultants and contractors. “We will be responsible for pro-actively managing the entire development process, providing comprehensive planning from the pre-development stage to project management to post-development advice, while anticipating and analysing potential risks. “We will also be in charge of the evaluation to negotiation on terms and contracts, and from an accurate analysis of clients’ demand to strata management and advisory services in regards to investment activities, a development consultancy firm offers a wide range of services.” He noted that the UPDC brand is well-recognised for providing distinctive lifestyle properties across Nigeria and offering exceptional quality property development and facilities management services. From understanding the clients’ requirements to delivering what they look for which is its core mission, he said, it customised its strategies to get optimal results and maximum value of the development. The managing director said it offers world-class facility management services to ensure the estate remains well maintained, safe and functional throughout its life cycle. He also said the company offers janitorial, security, energy management services, and support to residential and commercial properties across Lagos, Abuja, Ibadan, and Port Harcourt.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com