THE Lagos State Cooperative College has expressed its readiness to graduate 104 students under its professional diploma programme as part of efforts to address sector-specific skill gaps. The Provost of LASCOCO, Mr Akorede Ojomu, disclosed this on Wednesday during a press briefing to announce the maiden convocation of professional diploma students in Lagos. He said, “Within the comity of tertiary educational institutions in the state and the country as a whole, the LASCOCO falls into a specialised category in consideration of the fact that it was established to address sector-specific skill gap through the provision of specialised training for a cooperative sub-sector that is oftentimes not on the radar of the financial or conventional media. “As part of a week-long activities to mark the maiden edition of the convocation in which 104 students will graduate, cooperative members in the state would also have the opportunity to network and celebrate the movement in Lagos with a lecture titled ‘The roles and responsibilities of cooperative stakeholders in Lagos State’ while an interdenominational mosque and church services would also be held as part of the ceremony.” Ojomu added that the lecture to be held would focus on the roles of cooperatives in a sustainable economy. “The maiden convocation lecture would be titled, ‘Concern for the 21st-century economy: What roles do cooperatives have to play in the transition to a sustainable economy?’ would be delivered by the Principal of the United Kingdom Cooperative College, Mr Neil Calvert, and a honorary award of fellowship would be bestowed on five persons who had been instrumental to the development of the college during the event which will come up on April 7,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com