Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State has described the informal sector as a key driver of economic growth, job creation, and cultural preservation of every nation. Oyetola said this during a meeting with members of the state’s artisan Workers Union, on Tuesday, in Osogbo. Oyetola, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, said the sector is one the largest employers of labour in the developing world, generating income, providing important and unique skills development. The governor said, owing to its importance and positive contributions to the economy of the state, his administration had made it its priority to see to the survival and sustainability of the sector. Oyetola, who commended members of the informal sector for their support for his administration, said the government would continue to provide a business-friendly environment for the survival of their businesses. The governor also said that its value in the repositioning of Osun economy has made his administration to put necessary focus on the continued survival of the sector. He said his administration would continue to patronise them for economic development and viability. On the forthcoming governorship election in the state, Oyetola urged members of the association to vote for him for continuity. The governor, who assured them of his support at all times, said their votes for him would be for economic stability, progress and development. He said if re-elected, his administration would not withhold its support to the association but it would rather put more efforts in ensuring its survival. Oyetola urged them to get their Permanent Voter Cards and use the same to vote for him, urging them not to allow any inexperienced politicians to deceive them. The governor said the economic prosperity of members of the association was his priority and that the state’s Civic Engagement Centre would continue to engage them for their businesses to thrive. In his remarks, the chairman of the union, Kareem Owolabi, commended the governor for his various programmes for the masses in the state. Owolabi noted that members of the association were beneficiaries of the government’s monthly food support scheme, which he said had greatly increased their output. He also said that members of the association were the first to benefit from the Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) empowerment programme of the state government. “The recently introduced Gbowoga initiative to empower artisans as well as SMEs had immensely benefited us. “We were given about 1,000 forms to be distributed to our members in all the local government areas in the state. “We also benefited from the N30,000 empowerment programme by the state government. “We are indeed grateful to the governor and we promise our continued support for his administration,” he said Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com