Some scholars at a symposium held at the Lagos State University, Ojo, have advised world leaders to embrace dialogue to enhance international peace and security as well as bring an end to the ongoing Russian-Ukrainian war. A lecturer, Dr Jamiu Oluwatoki, who was one of the speakers at the symposium themed, ‘Unpacking the Ukraine conundrum: Analysis of the Russian-Ukrainian war,’ and organised by the Faculty of Arts, Department of History and International Studies, LASU, said due to the veto power which Russia had, the United Nations was unable to take some actions against Russia and forestall the war. He said, “The UN system must be revived because, among the five permanent members of the UN Security Council, Russia has a veto power, perhaps China is having its position vis-a-vis Russia. “It means international peace and security is not guaranteed in this present dispensation. This problem can escalate to another level for the whole world.” On his part, Prof. Abolade Adeniji of the Department of History and International Studies, LASU, condemned the Russian President, Vladimr Putin, for threatening to use nuclear weapons, saying there was the need to restructure the UN Security Council to enhance international peace and security. He said, “There is a world order that has helped the world to minimise conflicts since 1945, major powers of the world have not clashed. This is the first time that one of the leaders of a country with nuclear capability is alluding to the use of nuclear weapon. It is not something you joke with. “Leaders have to be guided in their utterances, they need to engage in dialogue; we cannot be tired of it. Also, western powers should be less arrogant. How can you restructure the Security Council when you have a leader of the body making such a reckless statement?” Similarly, the Head of Security and Strategic Studies Division, Nigerian Institute of International Affairs, Dr Segun Bolarin, said that “The war is unfortunate, it is important to have a truce or ceasefire or consider peace. Ukraine should shelve its membership with the EU not to talk of NATO. Ukraine is culpable because since 2014, it has ample opportunity to join the EU but was dilly dallying. “Russia should sheathe her sword. She has achieved her aim. It wanted to use threat of war but Ukraine didn’t believe it could declare a war.” However, Dr Abdul-Wasi Moshood of the Department of Political Science, LASU, argued that the UN and EU which would have prevailed on Russia to stop the invasion of Ukraine did not have supranational powers to do so. “The UN and EU, as underscored in the presentations, do not have a supranational status; they will not be able to prevent the outbreak of a war. “The UN has spoken and called for a ceasefire between the two countries, the only way they can enforce that is through the Security Council. But there is no way they can enforce it because we have Russia and China in the Security Council,” Moshood said. The symposium’s moderator and Head of Department, History and International Studies, LASU, Dr Adewunmi Falode, said it was organised to discuss and analyse the war and suggest the way forward for international peace and security. “We do this yearly in our department. Once we have something happening internationally, we call experts, not just from our department or LASU, but from other schools and think-tanks, which we feel can contribute meaningfully. We invite them to talk about the issue and look for ways to resolve it,” he said. He added that “If you feel that peace is a threat to your existence as an individual, of course, you opt for war; if you feel peace will not make you survive as an individual, you revolt or react. “People wanted Putin to sue for peace, but he feels that that peace will have to cost them their sovereignty, or their integrity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com