The Joint Senate and House Special Ad Hoc Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution will be including three gender bills in the second batch of amendment bills scheduled for consideration and passage in April, Saturday PUNCH has learnt. The bills are part of the five that the lawmakers voted against in the first batch of amendment proposals. Our correspondent gathered on Friday that the constitution amendment bills were now with the House Special Ad Hoc Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution chaired by the Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Wase, who doubles as co-chairman of the joint committee. Chairman of the House Committee on Women Affairs and Social Development, Adewunmi Onanuga, had told our correspondent that female lawmakers would amend and re-introduced the gender related bills which failed to pass. However, the House on Tuesday reversed itself on three of the five gender related bills that failed to pass in the ongoing amendments to the 1999 Constitution. The Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, had noted that the three bills would be included in the second batch of amendment bills to be considered, saying the House would “relist them on the next set of amendments, I believe, within the next four weeks. They will come again to vote.” Those revisited are Bills 36, 37 and 38 Bill 36 seeks to “expand the scope of citizenship by registration” by allowing a foreigner – male or female – who marries a Nigerian to become a Nigerian citizen. Bill 37 seeks to “provide for affirmative action (35 per cent of leadership slots) for women in political party administration.” Bill 38 is to “provide criteria for qualification to become an indigene of a state in Nigeria,” such that a woman from a state who is married to a man from another state and lives with her husband for five years, becomes an indigene of the man’s state and is eligible to occupy public offices in her husband’s state. Those dropped are Bill 35 to “provide for special seats for women in the National and State Houses of Assembly;” and Bill 68 which gives women a quota in the federal and state executive councils or ministerial and commissionership seats. The committee is billed to lay its report on the next set of bills in April, while the lawmakers would vote on them the same month. Speaking to our correspondent on Friday, a source close to the committee disclosed that constitution amendment bills are now being received and collated by the panel. “The three gender bills revisited by the House have been sent back to the committee. They were not amended. More bills will be coming,” the official said. Chairman of the House Committee on Defence, Babajimi Benson, disclosed that “we appealed to ourselves, we appealed to our emotions and we appealed our conscience” during the executive session.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com