Women group under the aegis of the Federation of Muslim Women Association of Nigeria in Bauchi State has protested over the rejection of bills on gender equality by the National Assembly. The Executive Director, Attah Sisters Helping Hand Foundation, Mrs Comfort Attah, while addressing newsmen on behalf of the group on Thursday in Bauchi, complained that the Senate, during the plenary session on March 1, voted against the Gender-Responsive Bills submitted for consideration. She, therefore, urged lawmakers to revisit the gender bills. She lamented that lawmakers chose to deny women the opportunity of inclusion and representation in governance by voting against the bills. Attah explained that out of the 68 bills being considered by the National Assembly, five bills sought to promote women participation in politics, governance and society. She added that “one of the bills sought to grant citizenship to foreign-born husbands of a Nigerian woman. Already, a Nigerian man’s foreign-born wife is automatically a Nigerian citizen.” “Another bill sought to allocate 35 per cent of political positions based on appointment to women. “Another legislation sought to create special seats for women in National and State Assemblies.” Attah, therefore, urged like-minded civil society organisations, women-led organisations and women’s rights organisations to sustain advocacy and intensify the demand for gender equality by occupying the National Assembly until the rejected bills are considered.” On her part, the Amirah (Leader) of FOMWAN  in Bauchi, Hajiya Aisha Kilishi, also lamented that lawmakers were not taking women’s issues seriously. She said that the lawmakers didn’t consider women to be relevant in this country. Kilishi said the men of the ninth assembly reinforced the discrimination and political bias against women. She, however, demanded that the gender bills be reconsidered as they would benefit not just women but Nigeria as a whole. Representative of the CBOs, Hajiya Binta Adamu, said the advocacy measures taken would enable the National Assembly and the Senate, in particular, to retract from the patriarchal dispositions toward giving women equal opportunities. (NAN) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com