A frontline 2023 Peoples Democratic Party presidential hopeful, Pharmacist Sam Ohuabunwa, has commiserated with the families and friends of those, who died in the Monday Abuja-Kaduna train attack. Describing the incident as barbaric, the presidential aspirant, said, “The train running between Abuja and Kaduna had become the only expectedly safe way to travel between these two cities. And now, this.” He stated this in a condolence letter he signed on Tuesday night. While condemning the dastardly act, he called on the Federal Government to, as a matter of urgency, come up with measures to address terrorism and other forms of insecurity in the land. According to him, ugly occurrences of this nature, do not portray Nigeria well among the comity of nations. The letter read in part, “My heart failed when I heard that story because I was wondering what would be the status-both emotional and physical, of the people inside that train. “The train running between Abuja and Kaduna had become the only expectedly safe way to travel between these two cities. And now, this. “Of course, there have been attempts at some point previously; but this is a major one and it’s very disrupting. It’s very painful. “First, my sympathy and my condolences go to the families of those who have lost their loved ones in such a painful and wicked act. I mourn these great Nigerians, who just lost their precious lives to terrorism. These are people, who traveled and were almost home. “It could have been anybody-anybody’s brother, sister, son, or daughter. So, I’m very pained and wish such dastardly act won’t repeat in our dear country. “I also pray for the quick recovery of those who were injured and are currently lying critically ill in the hospital, including the security personnel. “I don’t want to call this a wake-up call, because we have heard too many wake-up calls in this country. This is not a good story to be told about our country, Nigeria. Too many bad stories have been told about this country and they are unending, and this calls for urgent attention. “This sort of ugly incident keeps happening in our Nigeria day in, day out; and week in, week out. Just few days ago, there was an attempt to burn down an airport in this country. This doesn’t project us well before the comity of nations. “This is condemnable. This is barbaric. I, therefore, call on the current Government in power to rise up to the occasion to defend and protect hapless Nigerian citizenry.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com