The Chairman of the Ogun State Traditional Council and Akarigbo of Remoland, Oba Babatunde Ajayi, on Monday reacted to the calls by some groups and individuals on Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to contest the 2023 presidential election, saying Osinbajo knows what is good for himself. Oba Ajayi spoke on Monday in his palace in Sagamu while receiving a group of youths under the aegis of “Act Now” who are asking Osinbajo to contest. The monarch said the Vice President “knows the right thing to do” on his ambition. The Akarigbo described Osinbajo as a competent leader who would deliver if he emerges as President. He said “There are a lot of works involved. l can assure you that the Professor knows what is right for this country, he knows what is right for himself and what is right for the family. “Just like you said, it is a request that you have asked me to put across, I will put it across. It does not cost me anything to put it across to him. “There are a lot of issues in the interplay of Nigerian politics. Take it from me that that man is a very knowledgeable person. He knows what is right. He knows what he should do. What we need to do is to continue to pray for him that God will grant him wisdom to continue to do what’s right. “I’m sure he would consider it and he is considering it. Fingers crossed.” There monarch added, “A friend of mine was here recently and he was telling me that, ‘well, if God wants this country to continue suffering, that man (referring to Osinbajo) should say he is not interested in the presidential seat.’ That’s a loaded statement. “We should just continue to wish the country the best. We have not been able to get it right in Nigeria and we must hope that in the coming election we must be able to get it right. “I take it as a personal mandate. I wish I will probably get the opportunity to sit with him and ask him ‘what are you doing? What are you going to do? People are asking me. Are you going to run or you are not going to run?’ “I’m sure he is going to give me a forthright and candid answer.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com