The thing that Eavesdropper and his compatriots will not see in this country is probably the one that does not exist. It is one day one drama and Eavesdropper is not very happy about it. Since the governor in charge of the ‘Salt of the Nation’, Mr Dave, heaped all the insults left at his disposal on the judge that sacked him and his co-defectors, my neighbour has been pleading with me to calm down but I cannot o. It’s difficult not to be angry with him nau. Honestly, I’m very disappointed. To even think that this same man wants to be our presido makes it worse. With the oversized power and influence of that exalted office, is this how he would trample on all of us and abuse all institutions of state if we dare take him to the Rock? There is a silver lining in this anyway, if you choose to see things my way. God seems to have a special love for Nigerians and I think He has a way of showing us the true character of those who aspire to lead us, even if we disregard those warnings. For example, many people wouldn’t have known Oga Dave had such a tendency until he descended heavily on a sitting judge, when he could have been a gentleman and appeal the ruling. But now we know and I’m happy he unveiled himself. Na judgement the man give e no kill person o. Eavesdropper believes we must pay attention to every event this season, because our refusal to be analytical landed where we are today. It was the same way Oga Bubu told us he took a loan to obtain his nomination forms to contest the presidency in 2015 whereas the retired General himself had his children schooling in the United Kingdom. Ironical, you would say. If you know the rate of Pounds to Naira, you will understand what I mean. Before him, Dr Ebele told us he had no shoes as a child, only for him to use his shoes of incompetence to march our heads, in which case some of his appointees drained our purse. That’s not all o. We are told not to speak ill of the dead, but truth must be told. It was obvious to everyone that the late Yar‘Adua was not in good health but they chose him and before he eventually gave up the ghost, some unknown cabal took us hostage, doing us as they liked. Chai! We don suffer o. Now, Naija people, open your eyes o. We cannot afford to get it wrong in 2023. I’m now of age; if you add another eight years to my age, old age don reach already. We must be careful not to vote for any person that has any or all of these traits in their CV; abusive, a medical tourist, corrupt, incompetent, deceitful, insensitive and dictatorial. Before I leave Mr Dave alone, he should not insult us further by trying to redirect his ‘missiles’ to the lawyers having exhaustively abused a sitting judge. Saying he was referring to lawyers is a lie that can never stand. His new attempts to push that lie that he didn’t abuse the judge is just an afterthought and we won’t buy it. We know him already. Haba! Mr Dave must be made to substantiate his claim that the judgement was bought. His Commissioner for Information that also abused the judge should face the similar music. The NJC should not let these allegations slide, and if the judge is found to be corrupt, he should face the music, or is this not how serious-minded countries operate? Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com