An associate of former Senate President Bukola Saraki, Engineer Musa Yeketi, on Sunday officially dumped the opposition Peoples Democratic Party for the ruling All Progressives Congress in Kwara state in less than 24 hours after being suspended by the party. Yeketi, ex-commissioner for education in the state, defected alongside his 14 political groups to APC which he handed over to the state’s Deputy Governor, Mr Kayode Alabi. The PDP leadership in the state in a statement on Saturday suspended Yeketi, a political mentee of the late Dr Olusola Saraki, For allegedly working against the party interest. According to a statement jointly signed by Alhaji Saludeen Babatunde and Alhaji Salman Abdulquadir, Chairman and Secretary of PDP in Alapa/Onire/Ode Ward of Kwara state respectively, Yeketi was suspended from the party with effect from Thursday, March 17, 2022 at the meeting of the party over alleged anti-party activities The statement said that the suspension was in accordance with section 57(3) of the 2017 constitution (as amended) of the Peoples Democratic Party. Yeketi while announcing his decamping at a ceremony attended by the deputy governor of the state cited the leadership style of Senator Bukola Saraki as one of the reasons for his defection. “Dr Olusola Saraki did not only mentor us into political maturity, he led and related with many of us who were either his lieutenants or foot soldiers like his children. This explains why I shall continue to respect him, even in death. He was a leader per excellence.” Said he: “However, the approach of the scion of this dynasty is greatly different from baba’s, and this has great effect on the structure late Olusola Saraki left behind. It was this approach that eventually punched the dynasty in the face; bringing it to total collapse in 2019. “Nonetheless, a wise visitor must take his leave when his host presents him shabby yams as supper. “I am old and politically experienced enough to know when to quit a relationship or association, especially when the relationship turns one-sided. “Governor AbdulRaman Abdulrazaq appreciates us, and that is why me and my teeming supporters are moving in to support him in moving the state forward. “After all, we have got no other state to call ours. It’s imperative on us to support anyone willing to move the state forward in the interest of our children yet unborn, for posterity shall judge us if we do otherwise.” He counseled other aggrieved members of PDP in the state “who are silently and grudgingly tolerating the “unprogressive” manner of managing their affairs, I urge you all to do the needful by joining the humbly performing governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, who has shown determination to take Kwara to the next level.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com