Olasubomi Aina, the Executive Director for Lightup Foundation, Diaspora Ambassador to Nigeria and Director of the Global NGO Executive Committee in New York, in this interview with VICTOR AYENI speaks on the problems encountered by black refugees fleeing the war Ukraine Please tell us about yourself and your work? I am Ambassador Olasubomi Iginla Aina, the Executive Director for Lightup Foundation, a Diaspora Ambassador to Nigeria and a Director of the Global NGO Executive Committee in New York. I liaise for non-governmental organisations to the United Nations Department for Global Communications. I also monitor and aid refugees of colour as they exit the war zone and offer on-the-ground insights after the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. Which area is your work specifically centered on? In view of the recent Ukraine crisis, I commenced an independent tour to European nations that share border with Ukraine. The reason for this is to ensure that refugees of colour receive the necessary support they require, to help identify their needs and see how these needs can be met as a matter of urgency. My work is majorly centered on youths and the disadvantaged. Majority of the refugees of colour from Ukraine happen to be young people who relocated to Ukraine to study. What was the situation like for black refugees in countries which border with Ukraine, like Poland, Hungary and the rest? I witnessed the evacuation of Nigerian students from Poland to Nigeria while also becoming involved with food distribution services alongside Nigerians In Diaspora Organisations Poland. I was at Slovakia where I identified the need to raise funds to support the work, so I immediately cancelled my travel ticket and got in touch with the media and as a result of this singular action, the Redeemed Christian Church of God assisting the refugees got a lot of visibility for their work and by the time I was leaving Slovakia, people and organisations started to donate funds and various items. On arrival at Hungary, I was informed that evacuations had taken place; the Nigerian government had already evacuated some citizens while many still awaited evacuation and support. Again, there was a need to raise funds for the church assist some of the youths, so we commenced fund raising and I also invited the press to beam their spotlight on this, and soon, they started to receive funds gradually from people. I visited another unit in Hungary where refugees were been supported. This again, was a church and I understand that they are now receiving funding support already. The church was majorly managed by Ghanaians who were all volunteers. In your experience working to rescue refugees of colour from war-torn Ukraine, which particular encounter seemed to pose the greatest challenge to you so far? Now, when the need to rescue some students from Sumy in Ukraine arose, I could not sleep well any more. I was very restless and terribly burdened. I just did not understand why we should all pause and watch things go from bad to worse and I felt that some people ought to be ready to stick their heads out for the deliverance of others. The next day, I made my way to the Nigerian Embassy in Hungary and I met the Immigration Attache. I told him I was ready to go and rescue the students. First, he told me that the Sumy students have been a major source of their worry for the whole week and they have been getting calls from the Federal Government on this same matter. Again he was astonished at my proposal and he  asked me some questions, to know my strategies and I informed him that we have contacts in Sumy who have been providing information for us to work and how we can reach them. Looking straight into his eyes and thinking what could be going on in his mind, reminded me of the story of David in the Bible – how he had to convince King Saul that he could fight Goliath. David had mentioned how he killed the bear and lion with his hands etc, and within a split of seconds, I looked at him again and told him I was once a president of the Students Union of Obafemi Awolowo University; I had defended the students many times facing vicious gun men and I made him understand that tears and pity would not work, recalling how on an occasion, a newspaper declared that I was dead. All these made me more confident at that point and I said to myself, “If I perish, I perish.” I went on to tell him the story of the three lepers in the Bible. By the time I finished speaking, the Immigration Attache was convinced that it was the right decision to take and he told me that he would give me a feedback at the end of their meeting.  My assistant and I left the embassy that day and I went straight to my hotel to commence a plan ‘B.’ This plan meant that we had to leave for Sumy the next morning. Fortunately, in the early hours of the morning, we received the news that a humanitarian corridor was opened and the school had provided buses to evacuate some students to the train station while others had to pay so much to get out of Sumy. It was indeed good news. We had to prepare to pick them up at Budapest Hungary. The government of Hungary and Nigeria provided buses that were used to move refugees from the train station to various destinations.  There were several reports of racism displayed towards African and Asian refugees by officials. What was your observation in this regard? Actually, it appeared more to me as survival instinct rather than racism, though I stand to be corrected. Here is my reason: Ukrainian men stayed at home to fight a war while many of their wives and children exited the country. Most foreigners, male and female were on the run, then, at the train station –which was fully loaded with anxious people and families – everyone on the platform were making desperate efforts to get on the train at the same time. The Ukrainian soldiers at first allowed the Ukrainian women and their children into the train and some of their men, pushed foreigners out of the train. Now the foreigners vehemently protested this, however, if we were in their shoes, what might we do? Bearing in mind that most of their own men had to stay behind to defend their nation, while most of the foreigners were on the run. The only thing I frowned upon was the use of violence. This again is not straightforward because no one would want to leave the train in such a situation under such circumstances. In a video made available recently, you were in touch with a Nigerian refugee who was lamenting the unpalatable treatment meted to them by the authorities in Germany. What really happened to black refugees who made their way there? My experience in Germany is one that I need to clarify. Here, most of our black refugees were asked to sign that they are seeking asylum; some said they were bullied and manipulated into signing a document written in German language. A lot of them didn’t know what they were signing. Some got home to discover that they had just signed to seek asylum which is not in their best interest because their home country is not at war. Such an application is highly unlikely to be approved because they had an option to return to their home country. I was quite disappointed to hear this because the young people were not duly informed on the various options they had and so, they were all agitated. I immediately requested that they set up a WhatsApp group where we can all be communicating important information. I also got the contact of Prince Adeleke Adewuyi, a very knowledgeable resident of Germany, he had worked with the German Foreign Office before and invited him to provide necessary details to the youth and guide them on the best option. Another set of refugees complained bitterly on how their international passport and Ukraine resident permit were taken from them by the German Police. These set of youths were restricted by this singular action, and consequently, they could not seek school admission because they had nothing to show the school they are applying to. For refugees who had their Ukraine papers, transportation is free within Europe on train and buses, all you need do is show them your Ukraine documents. Unfortunately, these stranded youths had to pay for their transportation because they had no document to show at the train/bus stations; it was indeed a pathetic situation. So I had to go with them to the various authorities in charge of their care to advocate their documents to be returned to them. It was a very challenging situation, but I appreciate the effort of Prince Adewuyi who was always there to translate for us. After a number of meetings were held, the German officials acknowledged that it was wrong for the Police to have collected the refugees’ papers and they promised that all these documents would be sent to them. The young Africans also complained that they have been in the camp for two weeks without been registered. They told me that Ukrainians were always taken away from the camp to the registration unit to register and then offered a better accommodation. I actually didn’t understand this but I wanted to know how true it was. The black refugees said they had six seats left in the bus one morning and a few black refugees worked their way through to go with the bus and they reported to others how they got registered and were offered accommodation in a hotel. While I understand that Ukrainians needed to be a priority with respect to their immigration rules as their country is currently at war, I also believe that the immediate welfare of every refugee should not be compromised for any group of persons. Again, we have a bigger problem here which is the war. I was really worried when I heard all these. Fortunately for the black refugees, just few hours after I and the representatives of the black refugees commenced our advocacy, most of the blacks were relocated from the camp that same day and given hotel accommodation. While we appreciate the German government for their kind gesture, it is important to note that everyone’s initial basic welfare should be fairly distributed.    ,, What do you think refugees need the most at this present moment and how can the government or private organisations help? To quote a refugee, “When a door closes, and we hear that sound, we run. When an object drops, and we hear its sound, we are looking for the next available exit. We are afraid of the slightest sound.” Many refugees are confused and unsure of their next step. Most of them whom I personally met were young people; they suddenly found themselves in this and are unable to identify what their next move should be. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com