THE Special Adviser on Civic Engagement to the Osun State Governor, Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, has assured workers and retirees in the state that regular payment of salaries and pension will continue if his principal, Adegboyega Oyetola, is re-elected for a second term. Oyintiloye said those behind insinuations that payment of salaries and pension would cease if the governor was re-elected for another term were enemies of progress and political jobbers. Speaking during a meeting organised by the Civic Engagement Office with members of The Triangular Group of Pensioners in Osogbo on Sunday, Oyintiloye said the welfare of workers remained top on the governor’s priority list. He also assured the pensioners of regular payment of their entitlements, adding that the positive contributions of retirees to the development of the state would not be forgotten. Oyintiloye stated, “Payment of workers’ salaries, pensions and other emoluments remain one of the topmost priorities of this administration. And with God’s help, that will continue for as long as Oyetola is the governor of Osun. “We want to allay your fears over insinuations that Governor Oyetola will not continue with the regular payment of salaries and pensions if re-elected. “Payment of workers has been a covenant he made with God and nothing will stop him from fulfilling that promise.” Oyintiloye urged the workers and pensioners to support Oyetola during the July 16 governorship election, saying their votes for him would ensure continuity and delivery of good governance. In his remarks, the Chairman of the group, Rotimi Adelugba, said since the inception of the Oyetola administration, pensioners had been enjoying regular payment of their monthly stipends.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com