SCORES of people were reportedly injured on Monday evening when Yoruba traders and Hausa settlers engaged in a bloody clash at the popular Lafenwa Market in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. Our correspondent gathered that the clash started on Monday evening and snowballed into a full blown crisis by Tuesday morning, leading to the burning down of several shops while many people were reportedly injured. A source said the clash was ignited by a fight between a Yoruba man and an Hausa man. According to the source who is a trader in the market, the Hausa man was seriously injured and presumed dead, a situation that provoked the Hausa settlers who allegedly went on the rampage, destroying properties worth millions of naira. The trader, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the crisis took a turn for the worse when the Seriki Hausa (head of Hausa settlers) who was called to intervene in the crisis was injured. She said, “The Seriki Hausa who was called upon to settle the issue was injured and this further worsened the crisis. “The man is currently receiving treatment at the Federal Medical Centre, Idi-Aba.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident. He however said the situation had been brought under control. Oyeyemi said no life was lost contrary to the report that an Hausa man was killed, adding that, the police had arrested some persons in connection to the crisis. He said, “I am aware of the clash, but the situation has been brought under control and we have made some arrests. I don’t want to disclose the number of persons we have arrested, but we have made some arrests. “But, contrary to what people are insinuating, no life was lost, but people were injured while shops were also burnt and property destroyed. “We are still investigating the clash. The crisis is as a result of a rumour because there was a clash between a Hausa man and a Yoruba man. I think the Hausa man was injured and some people went to town with the rumour that the injured man died and that was what led to the whole thing and the issue was escalated.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com