The Managing Director, Von Food and Farms Limited, Kingsley Orji, had stated that the soaring cost of Automotive Gas Oil, popularly called diesel, is now making manufacturers to shift to the use of gas to stay competitive. He said the Osisioma Aba-based firm, located in Abia State, was currently running its operations with gas, stressing that the rising cost of diesel would run companies aground if not managed properly. Orji, whose company processes cassava tubers into cassava starch flour for both industrial and food grades, said in a statement that most companies in Aba had relied on diesel until prices rose dramatically and power supply from the grid became worse. He said, “We were running on diesel but that became very expensive as diesel prices rose and power supply became more unstable. “Amidst the challenges of sourcing raw materials and undeveloped state of the road network, we decided to generate our own power.” He stated that when his firm learned of the possibility of utilising gas as alternative fuel to cut down the cost of operations, it was cheering news. According to the statement, the company was supplied a 1.7 megawatts gas plant by Clarke Energy, in an arrangement that includes end-to-end power plant solution. This, he said, include its designs, technical drawings, engines, inauguration and was currently providing maintenance for the equipment. It stated that the company received natural gas supply from the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited pipelines that passed through the area of operations of the firm. “More than half of what we spend on diesel have been saved and best of all is that it is cleaner and has even cut our maintenance cost,” Orji said. The Managing Director, Clarke Energy in Nigeria, Yiannis Tsantilas, said the 1.7MW power plant solution would help develop the cassava value chain, including processing into semi-finished and finished products that were affordable and export-ready.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com