Nigeria and other African nations are set to demand that Africa should be allowed to continue to exploit its hydrocarbon deposits for the development of the continent amidst calls by advanced countries for a halt in the use of fossils. African petroleum and energy ministers are to make the demand at the 2022 United Nations Climate Change Conference, commonly referred to as COP27, scheduled to hold in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, in November. This came as Nigeria’s Minister of State Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, stated that Nigeria would continue to push for a multifaceted energy transition timetable that would attract more investments for Africa. He disclosed this in a statement issued in Abuja by his Senior Adviser, Media and Communications, Horatius Egua, adding that the government would take cognisance of the current global energy transition in the direction of renewable energy. “This declaration (by Sylva) is coming on the heels of a collective decision by African petroleum and energy ministers to present a common voice at COP27 in Egypt in November, for Africa to be allowed to continue to exploit its hydrocarbon deposits for the development of the continent,” the statement read in part. Sylva stated that Nigeria would continue to drive the direction of the narrative for the African energy transition programme. “We have stood out to say no to a single track energy transition programme and had and will continue to support a transition agenda that will promote gas and renewed investments in the hydrocarbon sector for Africa,” the minister stated on Sunday. The statement stated that Sylva, and Egyptian Energy Minister, Terek el Molla, had been the main voices in articulating a multi-track approach to the energy transition programme for Africa. It stated that both leaders were of the view that for the energy transition programme to be meaningful, Africa must be factored into the global energy transition programme in such a way that it would take care of Africa’s peculiar situation. Sylva said, “Nigeria will continue to advocate for gas as a transition fuel for Africa. We have said that we cannot move at the same pace as the rest of the world because we contribute less than two per cent of the global greenhouse gas emission. “We are not the problem and we cannot be made to pay for the sins we did not commit.” The minister added that for anyone to say “we (Africans) should abandon our abundant hydrocarbon deposits for the uncertainties of renewable energy is most unfair. “As we speak today, we still have people without clean cooking fuels. In Africa we have over 600 million people without basic energy, so how do we meet their energy baseload? “We can only achieve this through gas. It’s only through a multi-pronged approach that we can achieve this. It is obvious that we cannot move at the same pace with the rest of the world as far as the energy transition programme is concerned.” At the just-concluded CERAWeek, in Houston, the United States, a fortnight ago, Sylva and El Molla led other African ministers to a meeting where they resolved to project a common front in the energy transition timetable for Africa. The African ministers resolved to speak and present a common front for Africa in the global energy transition agenda. Sylva said, “We have huge hydrocarbon deposits in the continent and must we abandon it because some people have said we should? Some African countries like Ghana, Angola and others are just coming to the table and should they just abandon what they have because some countries are saying we should develop renewable energy? That will be an unfair decision. “We are not saying we won’t be part of the transition train for renewable energy but what we are saying as Africans is that we should be allowed to develop our natural resources and enjoy the God-given resources. Am happy that the world is beginning to listen to Africa and we are happy about that and we intend to build on that momentum at COP27 in Egypt by coming out with a common position.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com