The President of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers, Mr Rotimi Edu, has said professionalism should be ensured to mitigate the incessant cases of building collapse in Nigeria. In a statement by the council, he said this while delivering a lecture titled, “Insurance for architect and professionals”, during the February business meeting of the Nigerian Institute of Architects held in Lagos. Edu, who was the guest speaker at the event, urged professionals in the built industry to pay more attention to all specifications of building construction to avoid incessant cases of building collapse which have claimed several lives. As a way out, Edu said authorities must push for the enforcement of relevant laws that would ensure contractors are not negligent in the discharge of their responsibilities, including provision of insurance covers. The NCRIB boss appealed to all relevant federal and state agencies to act in accordance with the law and clamp down on substandard buildings across the country. Edu urged members of the Nigerian Institute of Architects to embrace insurance policies that are relevant to their profession. He noted that members of the institute were mandated by law to have professional indemnity among many other types of policies that are available. The Chairman, Nigerian Institute of Architects, David Majekodunmi, blamed the incessant building collapses on relevant government agencies that had allegedly failed in the discharge of their duties. According to Majekodunmi, the government has not been implementing the several recommendations of panel of enquiries raised to address the menace of building collapse. He also noted that most of the building collapses were basically due to negligence by professionals, clients and workers, who could have been brought to book and served as deterrent to others if government implanted the recommendation submitted by the panel.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com