A mobile policeman, Mr Aminu Ibrahim, has been apprehended for allegedly helping the General Overseer of God’s Delight Gospel Assembly, Warri, Pastor Johnmark Ighosoto, escape arrest. The General Overseer of Christ Mercyland Deliverance Ministry, Effurun, Delta State, Prophet Jeremiah Fufeyin, had petitioned the state Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Ali, accusing Ighosoto of conspiracy and defamation of character. The petition said a viral video recorded by the cleric and others was aimed at damaging his reputation. However, Inspector Ibrahim, who was said to be Ighosotu’s orderly, allegedly stopped the police team assigned to effect his arrest. A source said Ibrahim was attached to the Mobile Police Force, Mopol 50, Kubua, Abuja. He said, “He was detained in Owian Police Station for masterminding the escape of the general overseer. “The team arrived at the general overseer’s home, but the inspector immediately alerted the man of God, who obviously sensing danger, sneaked out of the house through the back entrance. “The Force headquarters ordered the arrest of the inspector following his role in the escape of the general overseer.” The Delta State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bright Edafe, on Wednesday, said he had not been briefed on the development. However, the Divisional Police Officer, Owian, SP Samuel Yohana, confirmed the inspector’s arrest. He said, “The matter was from Abuja, though I was away from the station. When I came back to the station, they briefed me about the case. “Abuja came on investigations when they said the mobile police officer, Aminu Ibrahim, was trying to hide the pastor. He was detained and released afterwards, but I don’t know the whereabouts of the pastor now.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com