#1 music streaming service in Africa, Boomplay has partnered with innovative telco, 9Mobile, to unveil the Boomplay data plans, which offers 9mobile subscribers world-class unlimited music streaming and download, bundled with mega value data bundles, which can be used for all online activities. Through this partnership, music lovers in Nigeria can now gain access to over 70 million high-quality songs from both African and international artistes such as Davido, Wizkid, Sarkodie, Burna Boy, Otile Brown, Tiwa Savage, Simi, Teni, Justin Bieber, Drake, Diamond Platnumz, Roddy Rich, Cardi B, Beyonce, Celine Dion and many more, on the 9Mobile network for as low as 150 Naira. They can stream their favourite songs without the interruption of advertisements, or they can download all the music they like to play offline, later. While unveiling the new partnership, Dele Kadiri, General Manager at Boomplay Nigeria, said, “We are very optimistic about cementing a business relationship with 9Mobile, which will grant many more Nigerians access to the music they love through affordable data packages.” In his remarks, Kenechukwu Okonkwo, 9Mobile’s Director of Product Innovation and Business Development, said, “Nigerians love great music and 9mobile is passionate about what excites Nigerians, which is why we are excited about working with Boomplay to deliver quality and affordable premium music streaming to Nigerians. The highspeed connectivity that comes with our data packages will ensure a seamless experience for users.” The music streaming packages come in daily, weekly and monthly subscription variants and all three variants come bunded with generous complimentary data, which customers can use for all internet/online activities. 9Mobile customers can subscribe to these packages through a USSD code, charged from their airtime balance. For instance, customers can dial *229*3*10# for Boomplay daily subscription plus 300MB all internet data at N150. Boomplay weekly subscription plus 1GB all internet Data is available for N500 only by dialing *229*4*16#; while customers who prefer the Boomplay monthly plan plus a massive 3.49GB all internet data can subscribe for N1,500, by dialing *229*2*38#. Boomplay continues to drive the growth and advancement of music streaming across Africa and this partnership further propels Boomplay’s vision and commitment. About Boomplay Boomplay is a music streaming service provided by Transsnet Music Limited. The service is available globally on mobile through the Google Play Store for Android, App Store for iOS and on the web via www.boomplay.com Boomplay has over 65 million Monthly Active Users (MAUs), with a catalogue of over 70 million songs. The company has regional offices in Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, Tanzania, Cote d’Ivoire and Cameroon. About 9Mobile 9mobile is a proudly Nigerian company empowered by a Unified Access Service License from the Federal Government of Nigeria to provide a broad range of telecommunication services nationwide across the voice, data and enterprise services spectrum. 9mobile is poised to drive the future of technology in Nigeria through the delivery of high-speed data and quality voice services that will enable subscribers on its network to do more. For more information, contact: For Boomplay: Media Relations comms.boomplay@transsnet.com For 9Mobile: Chineze Amanfo PR Lead, 9mobile chineze.amanfo@9mobile.com.ng