The Gombe State Deputy Governor, Manassah Jatau, has expressed worry over what he termed excessive depiction of black magic in Nigerian movies. Jatau said movies portray the Igbo as entirely dependent on magic, stressing that there were important aspects of the culture that could be showcased other than what he described as juju. The deputy governor said this on Tuesday while receiving the newly inaugurated Executive Council of the Igbo Community, Gombe State chapter, who came to seek collaboration with the state government. According to him, the value in the dignity of labour and strong belief in culture have made the Igbo to adapt easily and positively, and contributing meaningfully in all areas of human endeavours, including dealing in building materials and automobile parts, among others, in the state and wherever they are. Jatau stated, “There is a need to save the dwindling cultural values among the youth, who have recently started deviating from the cherished cultural heritage by attacking and killing even strangers in their land against the valued norms and traditions. “We’re concerned with the way the filmmakers portray the Igbo culture as purely dependent on juju activities; elders of the land should help to change the narrative towards further changing the mindset of the youth to embrace good ideas about their traditions.” The deputy governor, however, expressed delight that the Igbo in the state had shown commitment to peaceful coexistence and development, and assured them of a continued partnership for a vibrant state devoid of ethnic and religious affiliations. He explained that the Igbo were also very industrious and had developed models of mentoring others. Jatau added, “Igbo are well known as models of unity as seen in their peaceful coexistence and the unions they have with everyone wherever they are domiciled. “A typical Igbo man detests laziness and believes in hard work before eating. Teach these good virtues to other ethnic groups to avoid laziness for the overall development of the society.” He appealed for support, advice and constructive criticisms towards ensuring that the state was developed for the benefit of all residents. The President-General, Igbo Community in Gombe State, Dr Egwu Wabs, informed the deputy governor that the members were in his office to introduce the newly inaugurated executive council members who would lead the body. Wabs stated, “Out of honour to the state government, they have also come to seek partnership with the government knowing full well that the Igbo, as entrepreneurs and wealth creators, stand to contribute immensely to the growth of the state. “The Igbo are willing to continue to partner with the government and people of Gombe State so as to take it to greater heights.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com