As part of strategies to curb the menace of building collapse, the Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority has asked residents and real estate developers in the state to embrace voluntary compliance with physical planning permit laws. A statement signed by the Director, Public Affairs, LASPPPA, Emdin-Umeh Abimbola, stated that the General Manager of the authority, Kehinde Osinaike, disclosed this during a motorised sensitization campaign aimed at encouraging voluntary compliance to physical planning permit laws. It said the campaign was to also educate Lagosians on the seamless process of obtaining a planning permit. Osinaike said voluntary compliance to laws guiding physical planning in the state would relieve the government as well as the residents of significant financial burden. He explained that the concept of taking sensitisation exercise to the residents had been a constant practice by the authority. He noted that the idea was premised on the need to bring residents of Lagos closer to the authority by enlightening everyone about the roles of all relevant stakeholders in physical development matters. He urged Lagosians to carry out physical planning activities according to the law, adding that appropriate sanctions would be meted out on erring organisations or individuals. The sanctions, Osinaike said, could include sealing or demolition of non-compliant structures, depending on the provisions of the law. He advised residents of the state to get acquainted with the relevant provisions of the physical planning laws that guide their construction works in order not to run foul of the expected guidelines. He said, “What we are saying, for instance, is that there are certain places in Lagos State where only three-storey floors are allowed, in some other places only residential buildings are allowed, while some areas are specifically designated for a certain number of family units.” Speaking on the various compliance exercises by LASPPPA, the general manager explained that the efforts of the agency were being misconstrued by some persons who describe the state government as not being sensitive to the plights of the residents. He said, “It is not our delight to seal up properties especially when such property is being occupied either as a residence or for commercial purpose. But in every of our actions, the interest of the public is usually prioritised and that is why we are always advocating for due process. “This motorised campaign that we are embarking on today is an indication that the state government is keen about giving the right information to the residents as against sealing off the properties of Lagosians.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com