THE Director-General/Chief Executive Officer, Lagos State Safety Commission, Lanre Mojola, has said it will work together with the Nigerian Insurers Association to ensure protection of lives and properties in the state through the compulsory insurance policies. He spoke during a stakeholders’ meeting on the digital implementation and the enforcement of the compulsory insurance Act on public buildings in Lagos. The event was organised by the safety commission in partnership with the NIA, and it was aimed at changing the architecture of risk management and safety regulation concerning public buildings in the state. He said, “To protect Nigerians and their businesses from vagaries in the event of unfortunate events and incidents leading to injury, property damage or death, the Federal Government through various Acts of Parliament have over the years promulgated laws making some insurance policies compulsory across the federation. “However, due to several factors, some of these compulsory insurance laws have not been fully implemented. As such, when dangerous occurrences and disasters happen, the citizenry look up to the government for compensation. “It is the determination of the present administration led by the governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to curb this trend, the reason for this very important relevant stakeholders engagement session. In focus here, today is the compulsory insurance Act in respect of existing public buildings.” Over the years, he said, numerous accidents and incidents such as natural disasters, building collapses, fires, explosions had resulted in injuries, permanent disability, loss of lives and property without any compensation paid to those affected and or their loved ones. The Director-General, NIA, Mrs Yetunde Ilori, said Section 65 of the Insurance Act 2003 stipulates that public buildings must be adequately insured, ostensibly to cushion the impact and reduce the burden and liability on property owners/government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com