Nigerian comedian, Nosa Afolabi, popularly known as Lasisi Elenu, has described the death of his mother, Grace, as the saddest day of his life. Describing Grace as his biggest fan, Lasisi Elenu revealed that she battled an undisclosed illness that deprived her of enjoying life, adding that she was sick for many years. The distraught son announced Grace’s death in a post on Instagram. The post read, “So this is truly how it feels to lose someone so precious to you. This is the saddest moment of my life. With so much pain and a heavy heart I say Rest in Peace Mummy. “Madam Grace Osaivbie Afolabi” is gone!! “You were my biggest fan. You laughed to the littlest things I did or said, even after you couldn’t control your laughs, there were still so many things I knew “Yeah this would naturally make Mummy laugh” “Damn you were strong, too strong, you fought sickness for so long. You fought and gave all you could. The world was so unfair to you for so long, you battled illness for too long. “Times you ought to have spent in joy and celebration with your family, you spent fighting for your life. No one ever truly knows the pain we all go through individually even while fronting a smile to the public. Mama Itohan was a strong woman, she was sick for so many years and I lost her to death.” While in so much pain on a sick bed in the hospital, Lasisi Elenu said his mother kept saying she wanted to go home. He added that despite putting up a courageous fight, the illness, however, claimed his mother’s life. He said, “Damn you death.” I wished she enjoyed life more, not in sickness and pain but in sound health. The last 1 month was too tough on YOU. You went through so much pain in the hospital and the last words YOU kept saying each time you managed to talk was “I want to go home.” “I will miss YOU. You gave me so much memories. Growing up with you was like a movie. One that I have in time shared with the world and putting smiles on their faces. Mummy, even on your sick bed the world knew you, I made sure of that. “I made sure to tell the world about you through my jokes and they LOVE YOU. Even before you left us, all the years you have been sick in and out of the hospital, the world knew you as Mama Lasisi, Mama Itohan, the strong and funny woman with the white towel that’s always about to fall loose. “I will continue to make you proud Mama. Damn I’m in pain, but if Mama Lasisi was here YOU would have said Osalobua Lahor “Rest In Peace “ Madam Grace OsaivbieAfolabi” #weloveyou #RIP #mamalasisi#number1fn.” As of the time this report was filed, the post had garnered over 4,448 responses from Nigerians including celebrities. Notably among the reactions was that of an actor, Kunle Idowu, aka Frank Donga, who said, “Our thoughts and prayers are with you, brother.” Also, skit maker, Maryam Apaokagi, aka Taaooma, while reacting to the sad development, said, “Stay strong Lasisi, she’s in a better place. May God comfort you.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com