TWO fresh incidents highlight the misuse and degradation of Nigeria’s police officers by their own bosses and the political leadership. In Ogun State, Adeleke Ogunsola, a police sergeant, reportedly died while allegedly performing the role of a “gateman” at the house of a former governor, Gbenga Daniel. In Kwara State, a police officer was photographed abjectly carrying a plate of food like a houseboy behind a gorgeously dressed lady! Though the police and the VIP in Kwara are offering different narratives, both reports compel a review of the deployment of officers to individuals. The Nigeria Police is in a mess. Politicised, poorly led, underfunded and undermanned, it has been further degraded by pervasive corruption. Most of its operational personnel have been ‘outsourced’ to political figures, officials, individuals and private organisations. The rot must stop and the Force reformed in the interest of national security. Ogunsola was reportedly posted to Daniel’s residence for his personal security. But on February 19, shortly after he resumed duties, he went to open the gate for Daniel’s driver. The gate was reported to have ‘bounced back’ and he was hit by the driver. He later died at the hospital. The viral photograph of a police officer carrying food behind Nimota Akanbi, chair of the National Senior Secondary School Education Commission, at a social function dismayed Nigerians. Her claim that the food belonged to the officer did not ameliorate the demeaning spectacle. Citizens see police officers of various ranks engaged in similar degrading tasks daily. Some carry bags, open vehicle doors for civilians, for children and even ferry grocery bags for the ‘madams’ of individuals they are assigned to guard. The police demonstrated sheer hypocrisy by announcing that they had identified and summoned the ‘servant-policeman’ from Kwara to Abuja. Nigerians should not buy it. The police chiefs, from the Inspector-General of Police, down to zonal commanders, police commissioners, area commanders, unit heads and divisional police officers should not pretend that they do not know that many police officers are officially engaged in private guard duties. Many others ‘moonlight.’ Indeed, the Nigeria police system has been partly, though unofficially, “privatised.” A police officer, trained and equipped by the Nigerian state, should no longer be reduced to a domestic servant or enforcer for individuals. Morale is low and self-esteem has taken flight. Attached to former and serving public officials, who sometimes redistribute them to their wives and children, police officers have been sighted carrying bags for celebrities, opening car doors for businessmen, picking children from school, and other degrading domestic chores. The IG should explain whether adjusting chairs for civilian public and private persons, or blaring sirens and chasing other motorists off the roads for private individuals are allowed by police regulations. In Lagos, some notorious violent transport union barons go about with police escorts. A former Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Zone 5, Benin, Rasheed Akintunde, disclosed in 2018 that only 20 per cent of police officers are engaged in the core police duties; 80 percent provide security for individuals, businesses and government officials. Also, a former IG and ex-Chairman of the Police Service Commission, Mike Okiro, confirmed that more than half of police officers are concentrated in private guard duties. He particularly deplored the practice of some former ministers retaining police escorts many years after leaving public service. Orders by every succeeding IG to reverse the trend have never been implemented. Under the current IG, Usman Baba, and the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), the travesty has continued unabated. Yet, the country is in the grip of its worst security crisis. The single police force is overstretched. Criminality ravages every part of the country. A tally by the Cable Index showed 5,067 persons murdered in 1,024 violent attacks in 2021; the Council on Foreign Relations estimates an average of 14 persons killed each day! Most of the hinterland is un-policed. The Katsina State Governor, Aminu Masari, lamented in 2020 that only 30 police officers were guarding 100 villages in the state. The Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello, also lamented that only 4,000 officers were policing the country’s largest state by size (76,363 square kilometres) with a population of 4.0 million. Nigeria has only 371,000 police officers to protect over 210 million people. A few have cornered most of them. Meanwhile, kidnappers and cultists ravage the South-West; Boko Haram, ISWAP, “bandits” and other terrorists have turned the North-East, North-West, and North Central to killing fields. ‘Unknown’ gunmen wreak havoc in the South-East. Killer herdsmen wipe out villages and families in the North-Central. Human Rights Watch said over 1,000 children were kidnapped between January and August 2021. These staggering figures have failed to move the unfeeling political and police leadership to properly deploy the police or encourage state policing. The people should push back. Help has not been forthcoming from federal lawmakers because they also benefit from the privatisation of the police. Sustained by public funds, the police should be deployed to protect all Nigerians, not just a few. Only a few incumbent public office holders are entitled to personal protection; the President, Vice-President, governors, their deputies, principal officers of the federal and state legislatures, judges, ministers, and a few other public officials. Others should seek private security services. Unless under very special circumstances, such as witness protection, while engaged in state assignments or during public demonstrations, it is wrong to deploy police to private persons. Instead, the government should create an enabling environment to stimulate a thriving private security business sector. It should liberalise the private security industry under a robust regulatory framework. Potentially, this is a major job and tax multiplier. It will also stop the hiring of violent thugs by politicians in favour of responsible, trained security professionals. It is big business in the West and the newly emergent democracies of Eastern Europe and Asia. Opened to investors and properly regulated, people who need personal protection beyond what the state is providing can hire private guards and leave the police to their mandate of protecting the lives and property of all. In 2020, the private security industry in the United States (despite having 17,985 separate police forces), generated $46.2 billion and employed 810,000 security guards. Though it has 45 autonomous police forces, United Kingdom’s private security industry was worth over $8 billion in 2021 and is projected by Statista to hit $9.89 billion by 2025. South Africa has 9,000 registered private security firms, 450,000 active security guards, and another 1.5 million registered but inactive guards. The potential is immense, Nigeria should grab it. Going forward, the PSC should develop strict guidelines spelling out those entitled to, and rules for police officers on personal security duties. Police officers are a creation of the Nigerian constitution; they must never again be cheapened! Policemen are entitled to dignity. The PSC and police bosses should stop collaborating with politicians, organisations, and individuals to debase the institution and their own personnel.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com