The Nigeria Football Federation and sports stakeholders in Nigeria have mourned a veteran sports broadcaster, Adesola ‘Fabio’ Lanipekun, who died four days after his 80th birthday. Lanipekun’s death came just a week after another iconic sports journalist, Sunny Emmanuel Ojagbaese, died in the United States at 71 after a brief illness. On its part, NFF described as “most sorrowful” the death of sports broadcasting pathfinder, Lanipekun which occurred on Sunday, March 6, 2022. Also, the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria, Lagos Chapter, urged the Federal Government to immortalise the Lanipekun. NFF General Secretary, Dr Mohammed Sanusi, said, “To read about the death of Mr Fabio Lanipekun, only days after we celebrated him for reaching the landmark 80 years, was a painful thing. It was hard to believe. We all read the history of how he blazed the trail in sports broadcasting starting from his time at the WNTV in Ibadan, and his distinguished and stellar career at the Nigeria Television Authority. “He was an oracle of the industry. We are consoled by the fact that he lived an exemplary, fruitful and fun-filled life. He was a professional to the core and loved his job deeply. We pray that God will grant him eternal rest and grant the family he has left behind the fortitude to bear the big loss.” Chairman of the Lagos ISWAN chapter, Mr Debo Oshundun, made the appeal in a statement after the demise of the highly revered journalist on Sunday, March 6. According to Oshundun, late Fabio Lanipekun’s feat in sports writing and development in Nigeria deserves commendations and needed to be accorded every respect. “He was a hero who should be honoured even in death. “We appeal to both the Federal Government and the Lagos State Government to immortalise the late Fabio Lanipekun, just as they did with ace commentators, late Ishola Folorunsho, and late Ernest Okonkwo. “Some sections of the Teslim Balogun Stadium in Lagos were named after them. “Despite dropping his pen at the ripe age of 80, the late veteran sport journalist’s contributions and advice will be missed in the pen-pushing profession. “Pa Fabio Lanipekun was one of those we used to run to for advice and now that he’s gone, we are going to miss him deeply. “He left a big shoe that will be very difficult for anybody to step into. “However, we pray for the repose of his soul and also pray for the family at this difficult time,” Oshundun said. Fabio Lanipekun died on Sunday four days after he celebrated his 80th birthday. He Lanipekun joined the octogenarian club only four days before his demise on the afternoon of Sunday, 6th March. He headed the sports desk of Western Nigeria Television after studying sports journalism at the Regent Street Polytechnic in London, United Kingdom and later moved to the Nigeria Television Authority, where he attended dozens of major international championships and games before retiring as Manager, Sports of Nigeria’s leading broadcasting house. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com