The Edo State Government, as part of the process for the implementation and onboarding of Junior Secondary Schools into the Edo Basic Education Sector Transformation programme, has completed the training of more than 2,000 junior school teachers on digital pedagogy. The Executive Chairman of Edo Universal Basic Education Board, Ozavize Salami, disclosed this while addressing the teachers after the 10-day Information Communication Technology training in Benin City, the Edo State capital. She charged the teachers to be dedicated and committed to their duties, ensuring the implementation of all they have learned during the training programme. Salami said, “This is the beginning of the implementation and onboarding of junior secondary schools into the EdoBEST programme. So, I urge you to go back to your schools and implement all the things that you learnt here. “Governor Godwin Obaseki is committed to making you all the best among your peers. What is important for us is that as you go back, you are leaving here as an ambassador of SUBEB.” Salami further noted, “We would be communicating to you through your principals and education managers; they will always monitor and support you in your schools. “We are not sending you back alone to implement all that you have learnt here by yourself. People will come to your schools, stay with you in your classrooms and give the necessary support you need to deliver on the mandate that you have been given.” Earlier, Special Adviser to the Governor on Strategy, Policy, Projects and Performance Management, Sarah Esangbedo Ajose-Adeogun, said the training programme for the teachers will help engender the desired change in the state’s education sector. Ajose-Adeogun noted, “You are the ones moulding the future of our great state and we do not take what you are doing for granted. The Edo of our dream will not become a reality without every one of you here.” “As you go back to your classroom, put the new methods of teaching that you have learnt here into practice to impact on the children. Don’t go back to continue in the old ways; go back and make a difference,” she charged. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com