The Director General of Michael Imoudu National Institute for Labour Studies, Ilorin, Issa Aremu, has appealed to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to break the barrier of women discrimination by supporting their bills in the National Assembly. Aremu made the appeal on Tuesday while speaking at the 2022 International Women’s Day held at the institute. Speaking on the theme, ‘Breaking the barrier of Women discrimination’, Aremu who said that women issues are Human issues noted that failure of women to have good representation in government was a failure of the nation. “If we leave women behind in the scheme of things, the country can never progress because women are part of the major components of the country. “I’m appealing to President Buhari and the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, to support women in their quest for more representation in government because if the President and his Vice followed the bills to the National Assembly like their wives did, the bills would not have suffered a setback”, Aremu said. He equally called on the governors and the legislators at all levels to support the cause of women in their bid to have more representation in government at all levels. Aremu also told women to enlist the support of men in achieving their aims advising that “Women should know that they require solidarity and cooperation and not competition from men to have their way because when women fail, all of us have failed. Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, in his message congratulated women worldwide on the occasion of the International Women’s Day, commending their grit, resilience, and commitment to a world that works for all. “Whether as a girl child, wife or mother, a woman is acknowledged for being hard working, kind, resilient, supportive, and generally committed to efforts to build a society that is conducive for all,” the Governor said in a statement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com