The Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Lekan Balogun, has expressed his preparedness to strengthen the existing ties between Oyo State and the North to ensure that the country is safe for all, irrespective of ethnicity, language or religious affiliation. The Olubadan made the pledge while playing host to Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, and the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, during their visit to the newly installed monarch in Ibadan on Saturday. Oba Balogun traced his age-long relationship with Kano State, to his friendship with the late Abubakar Rimi and Balarabe Musa, both former governors of Kano and Kaduna states, respectively. The monarch recalled that as a former lecturer at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, and a director in the Kano State-owned Triumph Newspapers, Ganduje’s visit rekindled memories of the good old days in the northern part of the country. Ganduje reminded the Olubadan that Ibadan was home to every Kano indigene, adding that following his daughter’s marriage to Idris Ajimobi, the son of the late former governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, he had through marital connections become part and parcel of the city, stressing, “Whatever affects Ibadan affects me.” The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Abba Anwar, recalled that his awareness of the relationship between the new Olubadan and the late Rimi strengthened his love for the monarch, whom he enjoined to continue to work towards the development and unity of the country. Emir Bayero told the Olubadan that both the government and traditional institutions in Kano State were rejoicing with him as one of them, urging him to sustain the age-long cordial relationship existing between the two kingdoms. Prominent among the dignitaries that accompanied the Kano entourage to the Olubadan’s palace were a former Secretary to the Oyo State Government, Olalekan Alli; former Special Adviser to Ajimobi, Bolaji Tunji; and Idris Ajimobi, who is Ganduje’s son-in-law. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com