Justice Muhammed Sani of the Federal High Court, Ilorin, Kwara State, on Wednesday, convicted and sentenced a dog breeder, Tomiwa Omoteji, to two-year imprisonment for Internet fraud. The Ilorin Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission slammed two counts on Omoteji. Omoteji, 23, from Egbe, in the Yaba West Local Government Area of Kogi State, posed as an American, Michael Gregory, through his Gmail linked to his Hangout account, with the intent to obtain the sum of $2,000 from one Sierra B. Price. The offence, according to the prosecution, is contrary to Section 22(2) (b) (11) of the Cybercrime (Prohibition, Prevention, etc.) Act 2015 and punishable under Section 22 (2) (iv) of the same Act. Count one of the charges read, “That you, Omoteji Tomiwa Stephen, alias Micheal Gregory, sometime in September 2021, in Kwara State, within the judicial division of the Federal High Court, did fraudulently impersonate one Michael Gregory vide your chats, using Gmail fsgfdrtr.56r5tgf@gmail.com linked to your Hangout’s number 765-396-8539 with the intent to obtain and did obtain the sum of $2,000 from one Sierra B. Price, thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 22(2) (b) (11) of the Cybercrime (Prohibition, Prevention Etc.) Act 2015, and punishable under Section 22 (2) (iv) of the same Act.” The defendant pleaded guilty to the charges. Upon his plea, counsel for the EFCC, Andrew Akoja, reviewed the facts of the case and tendered the fraudulent messages printed from the defendant’s device, including one iPhone 12 Pro Max, a laptop and a Toyota Corolla 2008, which were admitted in evidence. In his judgment, Justice Sani sentenced Omoteji to one-year imprisonment on each of the two counts, which would run concurrently. He was also given an option of N200,000 fine on each count. The judge ordered the forfeiture of the items seized from him to the Federal Government of Nigeria. Justice Sani also ordered the convict to restitute the sum of $100, which he benefited from the crime.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com