Gunmen have attacked the P & F Filling Station, Nnokwa, in the Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra State, killing two persons on the spot. The incident happened on Saturday at the filling station close to the St Mary’s Catholic Church, Nnokwa. It was gathered that the gunmen shot dead the manager of the station, identified simply as Marvellous, and his friend, identified simply as Richard. The reason for the attack was still unknown as of the time of filing this report, but an eyewitness said both men went to buy food before they met their death. “Tears flowed freely at Nnokwa this morning (Saturday) as both men were gunned down by gunmen. The manager of the filling station always sold diesel during the sit-at-home every Monday,” the eyewitness stated. A video currently circulating on social media showed a man was lying in a pool of his own blood with his head having bullet wounds. When contacted, the state police spokesman, Ikenga Tochukwu, said he had no information about the incident and promised to make enquiries and get back to our correspondent. The police in the state have arrested three suspected cultists said to have been unleashing terror in some communities. Items recovered from them included an English Beretta pistol, one locally-fabricated gun, one motorcycle and live ammunition, among others. Tochukwu assured residents of the police’s commitment to achieving a crime-free society. He stated, “The police are committed to checking cultism and other violent crimes and bringing the perpetrators to justice. Police personnel have arrested three suspects and recovered one English Beretta pistol, one locally-fabricated gun, one live ammunition, one motorcycle, three phones, N22,400 and some substances suspected to be hard drugs. “The police personnel working on credible information, on Friday around 11pm, stormed a criminal hideout in Awada, Idemili North LGA, and arrested one Onyedika Okwuibe, aged 25. “An immediate search was conducted on his house and it led to the recovery of one English pistol and live ammunition.” “Further interrogation of Onyedika led to the arrest of one Chimaobi Ezeoke, whom he alleged gave him the gun. They both confessed to being members of the Vikings group. “Similarly, on March 3, 2022, around 9.46am, police operatives working with the vigilante group in Ufuma, Orumba North LGA, arrested a man, Samuel Nwankwo, 31, and recovered one locally-fabricated gun, a motorcycle, substances suspected to be hard drugs and the sum of N22,400. “The suspect and one other gang member still at large operating an unregistered motorcycle had attacked the Heca filling station along the Umunze/Ekwulobia Road and dispossessed the salesgirl of her sales proceeds. However, the criminals were intercepted by the vigilante men working with the police. The suspects have been interrogated and operations are ongoing to nab other members of the syndicate. “The Commissioner of Police, Echeng Echeng, while reiterating the unwavering commitment of the command to weeding out all criminal elements, enjoins law-abiding citizens of the state to remain vigilant and continue to support the command in the fight against crime and all shades of criminality. The suspects shall be charged once investigations are concluded.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com