The Ogun State Police Command has arrested a housewife and mother of five, Aisha Tijani, for pouring petrol on her 10-year-old daughter and setting her ablaze. The incident occurred in the Mowe area of the state, according to a statement on Tuesday by the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi. The statement said the suspect, having confessed to the crime, said she did not know what came upon her when she committed the wicked act. The statement was titled, ‘Mother of five arrested for setting her 10 years old daughter ablaze’. It read, “Men of the Ogun State Police Command on the 20th of March 2022 arrested a housewife and mother of five for pouring petrol on her 10 years old daughter and set her ablaze. “The suspect, Aisha Tijani, was arrested following a report lodged at Mowe divisional headquarters by one Moroof Ayinde, who reported that the suspect who lives in the same house with him poured petrol on her little daughter and set her ablaze. “He (Ayinde) stated further to that, the woman got annoyed because the little girl took a phone she seized from one of her children from where she kept it and gave it back to the child whose hand the phone was seized. “Upon the report, the DPO Mowe division, CSP Folashade Tanaruno, quickly moved to the scene with the detectives and got the suspect arrested. “The victim, who had been badly burnt was rushed to the nearest hospital from where she was referred to Olabisi Onabanjo teaching hospital for proper medical attention. “On interrogation, the suspect, who claimed to have been separated from the father of the children, explained to the police that she didn’t know what came over her when she was carrying out the wicked act.” The statement added that the Commissioner of Police, CP Lanre Bankole, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to State Criminal Investigation And Intelligence Department for further investigation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com