A popular artiste, Timaya Odon, has been interrogated by the police in Lagos State over his role in an accident in which a woman sustained injuries. The Ogologonma crooner was alleged to have hit the woman with his car on Wednesday. Instead of taking her to a hospital, he was alleged to have fled the scene. In a video that has since gone viral, our correspondent saw policemen leading Timaya away for questioning over the matter. An Instagram user, Osinubi Omowunmi, using her handle @whyte_26, claimed that the victim was her relative, adding that the incident happened in the Ikate area of Lagos State. She wrote, “These celebrities and how they behave. Timaya nearly killed my sister this morning. He hit her with his car and run at Ikate a few hours ago. “He hit my sister’s car and she came down to ask him to look at what he did. This heartless human was asking for number and she told him he would block her. Instead of @timayatimaya to do the needful, he hit my sister with his car and ran away. “She is at the hospital right now in serious pain and the funniest part is that I messaged him on Instagram to do the needful, but this wicked fellow blocked me after reading my message.” A video posted by Omowunmi showed the victim in pain as medical personnel attended to her on the hospital bed. Blood was also gushing out from the left side of her eyes; her left leg was bandaged. In an interview with PUNCH Metro, Timaya denied being arrested. He said, “I was invited to the station when I went to the lady’s house to commiserate with her over the incident. I was there as early as 7am. “It was when we stepped outside the house that we saw police officers. The reason I went to her house was to show my profound remorse. “I would have been there yesterday (Wednesday), but I could not make it because I had to attend to something urgently at Ogun State. However, throughout the day, members of my team were with her at the hospital and home till midnight. “I was never arrested by the police. I was only invited for questioning at the Maroko Police Station. From there, I went to the hospital to see the lady.” The spokesperson for the Lagos State Police Command, Adekunle Ajisebutu, who confirmed the incident, said the musician was being interrogated over the incident. He said, “He (Timaya) is being interrogated for a case of a serious motor accident.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com