A governorship aspirant seeking Peoples Democratic Party ticket for Osun 2022 election, Fatai Akinbade, has formally withdrawn from the race. Akinbade in a statement obtained in Osogbo on Monday said he was pulling out of the race in respect of the decision of the party elders who have named Prince Dotun Babayemi as the preferred aspirant of the party. The statement further read, “To this effect, the former SSG has declared his support for Prince Dotun Babayemi who has been chosen by the party elders.88 “Accordingly, he appealed to party members across the state, especially his supporters, to rally round Prince Babayemi so that the party could triumph at the coming polls.” Similarly, another aspirant, Dele Adeleke has withdrawn from the race. A statement he signed and released to journalists in Osogbo said his decision to quit the race was in line with the decision of PDP leaders who have decided to harmonize forces, “within the school of thought that I subscribed to so that we can jointly prosecute the primary election and win. I respect this decision and believe in their capacity to lead us to victory. “In the light of this, I have, having adequately briefed my coordinators and supporters, taken the very difficult decision to withdraw from the PDP Governorship race. This is in total submission to the will of respected leaders of our party.” Meanwhile, a statement issued on behalf of the PDP elders’ caucus, said the elders endorsed Prince Dotun Babayemi should be supported by all other aspirants in the race. The statement signed by the factional chairman of the party, Mr. Wale Ojo, further read, “on behalf of osun state party executives, BOT members, apex party leaders and the entire members of our party in the state, after a painstaking deliberation of the elders of the party and in preparation for the state congress to elect the gubernatorial candidate of our party slated to hold on 8th march 2022, it was unanimously agreed that Prince Dotun Babayemi should fly the flag of the party in the impending state congress. “This decision is with the full backing and concurrence of other aspirants in attendance, who are also eminently qualified to occupy the exalted position.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com