Politics is meant to be a science of life’s reality. A binding chord between the elites and the masses. One of its many systems is called democracy. The meal pot from which society should feed the rich and the poor and of course the social garden of our gathering, where all should be nothing but equals. Recently, the women’s struggle for social acceptance from men and women alike, through a post that went viral. The post, Women, where are your wrappers?was said to have originated from the First Lady of Ekiti State; it was an emotional yet motivational read; laden with energy, strong enough to make a woman president in 2023. But Nigerian women and first ladies are far from being ready to unwrap themselves to cover the shame of womanhood to which their counterparts are daily subjected to. Across the verandah of the Villa at the Federal Capital Territory, under the nose of First Lady Aisha Buhari, a 2014 Miss United Nations is hounded by her husband, a man of the elite political class, and the women have no wrapper to lend. Little wonder for the third time, since 2016, our chauvinistic political system refused to entertain the gender equality bill. It suffered another setback in the Senate, just days after the First Lady, Aisha Buhari, sat in the red chamber. Still trying to understand why this bill was thrown out; we are supposedly blessed with the “good news” that the National Assembly has decided to increase the representation of women in its chambers. This is a big win for women, some might say. Let’s celebrate our baby steps others would agree. But the real question here is why exactly was this step taken? Does it make any sense to reject a bill that offers women equal rights as men but agree to increase the representation of the same gender, who shouldn’t be equal with men in the NASS and the nation? Of course, it makes no sense, except if these women in the NASS are wives and children they can “control” because an increase in the number of women at the NASS grants control, privileged some women but never enough to upturn men’s dominance. Democracy is a game of numbers, but then, our highest gender of voters are still lost to the reality of their strength because the other will not stop bullying them. To vote doesn’t make them a part of the decision-making system. Their job description might be to sit in NASS chambers and look pretty. Now, here comes the real issue. The First Lady of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, was present at the sitting that approved to increase the representation of women in the NASS but was absent for the one, which would not only give women a voice but would also make the voice of great women amongst us matter. Back to the rhetoric of the First Lady of Ekiti State—where is your wrapper—which painted a picture of some women in South-East Nigeria, who brought their wrappers together to help a fellow woman in labour right at the middle of a market. Giving her cover and support to bring her baby to birth. If only our first lady and women folks were united for at least, maybe the men in the NASS would have seen a gender that is ready for its revolutionary mandate for leadership and the bill be treated differently. Our first ladies would rather be at their best, tying quality wrappers, armed with cakes and tickets, to board a flight to Dubai to celebrate the birthday of Aisha Buhari. That birthday in some other clime would have been an opportunity to make the needed statement about the plight of women in Nigeria. What hope is there for the girl child if she gets all the education money can buy only to remain a lesser being to the opposite gender in the Nigerian political and social space? Where exactly is the joy of womanhood? Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com