A non-governmental organisation, Suicide Research Prevention Initiative, has kicked against the recommendation of six-month community service as punishment for persons who attempted suicide. In a statement, the National Coordinator, SURPIN, Dr Raphael Ogbolu, described the stipulation as “going from frying pan to fire.” He stated that there was a link between suicide and mental disorders, especially clinical depression, adding that suicide prevention was seen as being caused by depression. The Consultant Psychiatrist also faulted the compulsory component of the amendment, stating that people should be allowed to voluntarily engage and be shown genuine care and support, adding that such actions would make them hopeful and encouraged to make an informed decision. Ogbolu said, “While we commend the honourable members of the House of Representatives for seeking to amend the Criminal Code Act CAPC38,2004, which is long overdue, we are concerned that this amendment might be counterproductive. “Recommending ‘compulsory counselling and community service for not less than six months as punishment for a suicide attempt is like going from ‘from fire to frying pan,’ a reverse of the common local parlance from frying pan to fire.” He further urged the lawmakers to “adjust the intended amendment by expunging any connotation of punishment completely and replacing compulsory counselling and community service for a period of not less than six months with medical and social rehabilitation and treatments funded by the state for up to an initial period of six months, either voluntarily or involuntarily, and renewable, in consonance with the applicable mental health law.” “We believe that this is more empathetic and more in keeping with international best practice, that will go a long way in providing succour to many people who suffer from depression and other mental disorders that drive suicide,” he reasoned.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com