The Ukrainian Government has expressed appreciation to Nigeria and other nations that have stood by her in the ongoing war against Russia. The PUNCH had reported that Nigeria and 140 out of 193 United Nations member states voted for the non-binding resolution during the UN General Assembly earlier in March that “demands” Russia “immediately” withdraw from Ukraine. Speaking to journalists in Abuja, on Wednesday, the Defence Attache, Embassy of Ukraine in Nigeria, Col Andrii Vasyliev, asked for more sanctions against Russia, insisting that it was planning chemical attack on Ukraine and has perpetrated war crimes. He also said the Eastern Europe nation targeted children while women were raped by Russian soldiers. Vasyliev said: “By killing civilians, Russia continues to commit crimes against humanity as defined by the Statute of the International Military Tribunal and the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, cynically disregarding all requirements of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War. “According to these norms, intentional attacks on civilians who are not directly involved in hostilities are equated to war crimes. “As a result of Russia’s armed aggression in Ukraine, 115 children were killed and more than 140 were injured.
Since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights has been receiving complaints from Ukrainians about sexual crimes committed by the Russian military.” He added, “Another confirmation of Russia’s preparations for a chemical attack against Ukraine has been found. “The presence of chemists was detected in the occupation contingent of the Russian Federation. “Thus, four days ago, as a result of a battle with Russian troops near Staromlynivka (south of Velyka Novosilka, Donetsk region), a large number of occupiers were killed. “Among a large number of received documents of the Russian militaries the certificate of the officer of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation of narrow profile specialization named Aftayev Alexander Viktorovich was found.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com