Actor, John Okafor, aka Mr Ibu, has said he is currently in the hospital after being poisoned for the third time in about three years. Speaking with Saturday Beats from his hospital bed, Ibu said, “I just got poisoned again. It seems my enemies are using me to rehearse (their powers). This time, I wasn’t poisoned in the village. I was poisoned in Abuja last week at an entertainment event. I really cannot explain how I was poisoned because it was a gathering of people, though it was not a big event.” Though he sounded weak, the actor maintained that he was getting better. He said, “I am recuperating, although I have neither worked out nor driven since I got ill. However, I intend to take a walk this (Friday) evening, because I am hopeful that I would get better. I am eating well now, and I’m prepared to go back on set any moment from now.” Mr Ibu also bashed those soliciting for funds on his behalf without his consent. He said, “Some people have sold me. They have not heard from me and all they want to do is ‘sell me’. But, their plans won’t work because God has raised me up. I am not begging anybody for money. My condition is not as critical as some people are making it seem. Anybody who has made it a point of duty to talk about my sickness and take advantage of it should stop. I am here (hospital) with my wife. I am not saying all my friends that are supposed to visit me and bring me money cannot do that. But, I have never asked anyone to beg people for money on my behalf. They should stop. If I want to die, I would let them know, since they seem to be so interested.” Back in 2019, the actor had alleged that some members of his staff were paid by his kinsmen to kill him because of his successful career. Meanwhile, leaders of the Actors Guild of Nigeria paid a visit to Ibu at the Zenith Medical Centre, Abuja, on Friday.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com