No fewer than 50,801 Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists and their families have so far surrendered to the troops of the Operation Hadin Kai in the North-East from September 2021 to date. Theatre Commander, Operation Hadin Kai Maj. Gen. Christopher Musa, said this at a news conference, on Friday in Maiduguri. Musa said the surrendered terrorists comprised 11,349 fighters, 15,289 women and 24,163 children. He attributed the successes to the military’s intensified offensive and onslaught against the insurgents in the region. He listed other factors to include the infighting between the two factions of the insurgents which resulted in high casualties on both sides. The commander said the terrorists surrendered to troops in the axis of Bama, Gwoza, Banki and other parts of the Lake Chad. Musa said the surrendered terrorists and their families would be carefully profiled by the Nigerian Army and other stakeholders before undergoing rehabilitation processes. In a related development, troops of Operation Hadin Kai have overrun a stronghold of the Islamic State of West Africa Province in Sambisa forest. The terrorists were said to have fled their camp following the operation codenamed Desert Sanity carried out by the troops. In a statement on Friday by the Director, Defence Media Operations, Major General Benard Onyeuko, said the troops recovered various equipment during the operation. The statement was titled, ‘Troops of Operation Hadin Kai overrun terrorists’ stronghold in Sambisa forest’. It partly read, “On  March 24, 2022, the  troops of Operation Hadin Kai in a special operation codenamed OP Desert Sanity captured terrorists’ stronghold of Ukuba/Camp Zairo in Sambisa forest. In what could be described as a blitzkrieg, the troops routed the terrorists and captured their enclave. The terrorists fled the camp leaving behind their heavy weapon arsenal. “After a thorough cordon and search of the captured camp, the gallant troops recovered various equipment, including 1x Main Battle Tank, 1x 155mm Bofors Gun, 1xTrailer,1x122mm Gun, 2x105mm Gun, 1x Mines Resistance Ambush Protected fighting vehicle, 1x MOWAG Armoured Personnel Carrier, 1x Mack Trailer as well as large cache of arms and ammunition left behind by the terrorists.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com