WORLD Meteorological Day is celebrated every year to commemorate the coming into force of the convention establishing the World Meteorological Organisation on March 23, 1950. The WMO is the United Nations system’s authoritative voice on the state and behaviour of the earth’s atmosphere, its interaction with the land and oceans, the weather and climate it produces and the resulting distribution of water resources. Weather, climate and water extremes are becoming more frequent and intense in many parts of the world as a result of climate change. More of us are exposed than ever before to multiple related hazards, which are themselves evolving as a result of population growth, urbanisation and environmental degradation. These risks make us realise that forecasts of what the weather will be are no longer enough. Impact-based forecasts that inform the public of what the weather will do are what will save lives and livelihoods. The theme for this year, which was observed last week, is “Early Warning and Early Action: Hydrometeorological and Climate Information for Disaster Risk Reduction,” which was designed to emphasise the critical role of issuing warnings/forecasts early enough for prompt and early action by various stakeholders. This, in clear and unambiguous terms, spotlights the vital importance of hydrometeorological and climate information as a fulcrum for driving disaster risk reduction. As an intergovernmental organisation, WMO originated from the International Meteorological Organisation, conceived at the 1873 Vienna International Meteorological Congress. However, on March 23, 1950, it became the World Meteorological Organisation after ratification at its convention. As WMO, the organisation became the specialised agency of the UN for meteorology (Weather and Climate), operational Hydrology and related Geophysical Sciences a year later. As a specialised agency of the UN system, WMO is responsible for monitoring and forecasting the state of the world’s atmosphere, climate and water. The Nigerian Meteorological Agency is the organisation saddled with the responsibility of advising the government and people of Nigeria on every aspect of meteorology including the socio-economic impacts of climate and weather. Nigeria has been a member of the WMO since November 30, 1960, and has hosted the WMO sub-regional office for West Africa since 1996. In September 2018, the country signed a new agreement to host the WMO regional office for North, Central and West Africa during a ceremony that included an official visit to Nigeria by the Secretary-General of WMO, Professor Petteri Taalas. This office is hosted at the United Nations House, Abuja. There are a couple of vital points to consider if we want to survive in today’s climate-impacted society. The first is global coordination, while the second is local. Greater coordination between national meteorological and hydrological services, disaster management authorities and development agencies is fundamental to better prevention, preparedness and response. COVID-19 has complicated the challenges facing society and weakened coping mechanisms. The pandemic has also highlighted that, in our interconnected world, we need to embrace a truly multi-hazard, cross-border approach to make progress towards global goals on climate action, disaster risk reduction and sustainable developments. Secondly, to reduce risks associated with weather-related disasters, both national meteorological (NiMet) and hydrological (NIHSA) services and disaster managers (e.g. NEMA, FEMA and SEMA, etc) must work in synergy. This will assist in better national prevention, preparedness, and response strategies. An example of best practice is the adoption of co-production techniques in the seasonal climate prediction of NiMet, which has over the years served as a multi-stakeholder early warning tool. Aside from the SCP, NiMet has a number of other products and services which are part of its catalogue of early warning tools. However, because these products are perishable, stakeholders and citizens must rise up and take up the NiMet forecast and respond with appropriate actions for resilience, adaptation and mitigation against climate change. It is, therefore, instructive to note that this is the spirit of this year’s celebration. Being prepared and able to act at the right time, in the right place, can save many lives and protect the livelihoods of communities everywhere, both now and in the future. Just as was expressly elucidated by Dr Bernard Gomez, the WMO Representative for North, Central and West Africa; we as a global community are now efficient at saving lives better than ever before. Supercomputers and satellite technology have facilitated huge leaps in our forecasting ability and the emergence of user-tailored services, underpinned by decades of research. Artificial intelligence is now complementing human ingenuity. There is stronger international, regional and national coordination, matched by active community mobilisation. Mobile phone alerts and weather apps reach even remote areas, as has been demonstrated by NiMet in its downscaling of its products and services. Consequently, worldwide, death tolls have fallen decade by decade—from over 50,000 deaths on average per year in the 1970s to less than 20,000 in the 2010s. The 1970s and 1980s reported an average of 170 related deaths per day. In the 1990s, that average fell by one third to 90 related deaths per day, then continued to fall in the 2010s to 40 related deaths per day. Yet the WMO boss lamented that more related deaths would have been avoided if all regions and nations had Multi-Hazard Early Warning Systems. Only about 40% of WMO members have these MHEWS. There are also larger gaps in weather observations, especially in Africa and Small Island Developing States. For instance, in Africa, in 2019, just 26% of reporting stations met WMO standards. Therefore, given that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link, these gaps pose a risk to the accuracy of early warnings locally and globally. According to global met statistics, one in three people are still not adequately covered by early warning systems. This is why it always gladdens one’s heart that our own meteorological agency is not only upwardly mobile but it’s undisputedly one of the best in the region. Ostensibly, there are salient factors that have contributed to this, ranging from the Federal Government’s unrelenting support to the professional helmsmen, who have manned the agency. For instance, in the last one year, NiMet seems to have decided to not only wait for the buy-in of stakeholders but also to improve on its institutional infrastructure and so disseminate to as many Nigerians as possible. Invariably, this is how NiMet’s products—high impact weather, heavy rainfall forecast, etc—have found their way to the Federal Executive Council, which is the country’s highest decision-making body. In the same spirit, during the public presentation of the 2022 Seasonal Climate Prediction, the agency did not just present the forecast, as was the usual practice, but it presented the translated versions (in local languages). It also presented other sector-specific products: SCP summary for policymakers, agrometeorological bulletin, climate and health bulletin, marine bulletin and the SCP mobile app. According to the Director-General and Chief Executive Officer of NiMet, Professor Mansur Bako Matazu, investments in national meteorological services have brought palpable gains. Although the economic value of the 2012 losses due to flood had proved difficult to forget, losses attributed to weather and climate-related events have been on the decline. In 2021, a lot of ‘first’ recorded events took place in terms of rainfall amount but losses have been minimal. He said this is a direct result of investment in meteorological services to be better positioned to issue timely, accurate and reliable weather predictions.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com