A former Minister of State for Defence, Colonel Austin Akobundu (retd.), has declared his interest to contest for the Abia Central Senatorial District seat in 2023. Akobundu, who is the South-East Zonal Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, officially declared his interest on Thursday in Umuahia. He made the declaration during a consultation with the PDP Zonal Officers of the party in Abia Central. He said that having served the party meritoriously in different capacities, he felt obliged to seek the ticket of the party to run for the Senate. He said, “Coming from a strong party background and as God may have it, the chieftains of the party think that I should present myself for election to the Senate. “I want to say that I have been humbled by the overwhelming goodwill that I have been receiving.” Akobundu further expressed optimism that the PDP had the structure to guarantee victory for him. He promised to leverage his experience and contacts to attract the dividend of democracy to the area when elected. The aspirant, therefore, urged the zonal officers to give him the necessary support and work with him to realise his aspiration. The Zonal Chairman of the party, Mr. Chukwudi Ezebuiro, expressed delight that Akobundu decided to join the race. Ezebuiro spoke glowingly about his consistent financial and moral support to the zone, describing him as “a symbol of PDP” in the area. He recalled how the aspirant had repeatedly and solely assisted the zone with the lifeline to continue to discharge its responsibilities. “Going by what he has done for the party and Abia in general, he deserves to represent us in the Senate and even higher position,” Ezebuiro said. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Akobundu, who hails from Ikwuano, was accompanied on the visit by the Chairman of Ikwuano Local Government Area, Mr. Steven Mpamaugo, amongst other chieftains of the party in the area. Abia Central Senatorial District, currently represented by former Governor Theodore Orji of the PDP, comprises the six local government areas of Ikwuano, Umuahia North and South, Isialangwa North and South, and Osisioma Ngwa. NAN