The son of Nigeria’s first Senate President, Prince Ifeamuma Nwafor-Orizu, has emerged as the chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Nnewi North Local Government Area of Anambra State. Nwafor-Orizu was elected at the last PDP Local Government Congress held on Saturday. After the congress, he thanked all the members of the party for finding him worthy of the responsibility of leading the party. He promised to carry all the PDP members along in the day-to-day administration of the party. Nwafor-Orizu, however, solicited the support and cooperation of all the party members to move the party to a greater height. He commended the former National Publicity Secretary of PDP, Mr Olisa Metuh, for creating an enabling environment for the congress. He said, “The leader of PDP in the state, Mr Olisa Metuh, has insisted on entrenching true democracy in the party, where every member will be part of decisions and no imposition would be allowed and that was exactly what happened during the Congress. “With my election as the new party chairman of our great party, PDP, the ‘Too Young To Run’ syndrome has been laid to rest. Now that the youths have been given the party responsibilities in Nnewi North, we will make the party vibrant and attractive for new and old members. “We thank Metuh for creating time to sort things out in the wards and local government area in spite of his busy national duties. He is indeed a father to the party.’’ A stakeholder, Tempest Udeze, said, “With the election of Prince Ifeamuma Nwafor-Orizu who is the last son of first senate president in Nigeria, the political limelight has returned to where the positive and historic change started in Igboland, which is a pointer to the new PDP in the area.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com