A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Danjuma Goje, has expressed his misgivings regarding the state of the Gombe State chapter of the party. Goje, in a statement on Sunday from his media office signed by Ahmed Isa, said the agreement made by the APC National Reconciliation Committee to foster peace has been jettisoned. The chieftain explained that the Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Buni, among others, were present at the meeting aimed at tackling the lopsidedness in the congresses conducted at wards, local government and state levels. The statement, “The Chairman of the NRC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, had on the order of the chairman of the party’s caretaker committee, Mai Buni, hosted Governor Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State and the leader of the party in the state, Senator Danjuma Goje to a meeting on January 5, 2022. “At the meeting held at the residence of Senator Adamu in Abuja, it was unanimously agreed that the warring camps should bury their differences and the congresses conducted at wards, local government and state levels be looked into with a view of addressing the lop-sidedness in the exercise.” “We express shock that over three months after the meeting, there have been no further moves to advance the peace efforts contrary to the resolutions reached during the peace parley. As loyal and peace-loving party stalwarts of the party that contributed immensely to laying the foundation, building it, and leading it to victory in 2019, we want to state that jettisoning of the idea initiated to cement the cracks in the party will lead APC to nowhere but defeat come 2023. “If this happens, no one should blame our leader and father, Senator Goje, who despite the ill-treatment meted out on him by those he brought to power, embraced the peace moves in line with Islamic injunctions. Let no one be deceived, as it is, our beloved party is in disarray in Gombe State and this must be addressed for us to be able to maintain our leading role in the state. The party is grumbling and this explains the gale of defection and resignation being witnessed daily.” The PUNCH had reported that the Senator Adamu-led committee visited Gombe State where Governor Inuwa Abdullahi and Senator Danjuma Goje agreed to sheathe their swords, although there has been no indication so far that Adamu’s interventions yielded any fruit.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com