Clearing agents have alleged that some shipping companies are insisting on collecting demurrage on imported cars trapped at port terminals as a result of the recent industrial action in the maritime industry. In February, clearing agents withdrew their services from ports over the introduction of the Vehicle Identification Number policy for the valuation of imported vehicles, alleging a hike in duties paid on imported cars. As a result of the development, the Nigeria Customs Service last week suspended the VIN/e-valuation policy for 31 days to attend to the complaints of the agents. However, clearing agents disclosed to our correspondent that some shipping companies were insisting on collecting demurrage before freight forwarders could gain access to their vehicles. According to the agents, Five Star Logistics and Ports and Terminal Multipurpose Limited have waived demurrage on their goods, but others are insisting on collecting the fee. The agents alleged that TinCan Island Container Terminal and Ports and Cargo Terminal Limited were part of the firms insisting on demurrage. In an interview with our correspondent, the National Secretary, Western Zone of the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders, Stanley Ezenga, said had yet to see any of its members who benefitted from the waiver. He said, “Well, it is part of the negotiations that we had but unfortunately, I have not seen anyone who benefited from the waiver and I have not personally benefitted too. “I know that when the strike was ongoing, Five Star Logistics at Tin-Can and PTML said they were going to give waiver and for your information, they are the only two terminals that deal mainly in cars, they are the people that have the Roll-on Roll-Off terminals, other don’t have except for containerised vehicles. You can see those ones at Ports and Cargo, Tin-Can Island Container Terminals, amongst others.” The Vice-President of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents, Kayode Farinto, added, “Up until now, there is no waiver yet except for Ports and Terminal Multipurpose Limited and we appreciate that. “I think they waived 70 per cent of the storage, others we are still negotiating with them. This is not the issue of picketing any shipping company because that is not their problem we only have to negotiate. “If their terminals were not working, that is where you can picket them, we said we are not working. So, we will only make them see reasons with us, what happened and why they should be on our side.” Another clearing agent, Akintoye Ojo, disclosed to our correspondent that about 75 per cent of shipping companies had yet to waive demurrage on the vehicles. He said, “75 per cent of the shipping companies refused to waive.” Meanwhile, the Group Head, Corporate Communication, SIFAX group, owners of Ports and Cargo Nigeria Limited, Muyiwa Akande, told our correspondent that the firm was not going to give a blanket waiver to the agents. He said, “The position on the issue is that what the agents are pushing for is a blanket waiver, that we should just make it across the board. “But what the terminal has done is this: it says it will appreciate if any of them have an issue approach the terminal management on a face-to-face basis, they are going to treat their matter but they are not going to do anything like blanket waiver that covers everybody. “This is because our relationship with them is different and the volume that they do is different as well. If they have an issue, let them approach the management and let them make their case on a face-to-face basis, their issues will be addressed. They are our clients and customers so there should be no problems with treating their cases. The doors are open, let them come and we will handle their cases.” Efforts to get TinCan Island Container Terminal for a reaction did not yield a result as of press time. Meanwhile, a member of NAGAFF, Ugochukwu Nnadi, said port activities were yet to gain momentum over one week after the suspension of VIN by the Customs.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com