Super Eagles coach, Augustine Eguavoen, made five changes in Nigeria’s second-leg World Cup qualifier encounter against Ghana on Tuesday. In today’s match line-up, Leicester’s attacker Ademola Lookman; Frank Onyeka (Brentford FC, England); Calvin Bassey (Glasgow Rangers, Scotland); Oghenekaro Etebo (Watford FC, England); and Emmanuel Dennis (Watford FC, England) started. They replaced Zaidu Sanusi, Innocent Bonke, Samuel Chukwueze, Kelechi Iheanacho, and Moses Simon, who started in the first-leg in Kumasi, Ghana. Nigeria host arch-rivals Ghana in the second-leg of the 2022 World Cup playoff on Tuesday with the result deciding which side qualifies for the competition to be played in Qatar later this year. The West African rivals face off at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja in what is the decider between the two sides after the first-leg failed to produce a result. The Black Stars were held to a goalless draw in Friday’s match at the Ohene Djan Sports Stadium in Kumasi which left the return encounter delicately poised. Both sides had good chances of winning the game but the two goalkeepers Joojo Wallocot and Francis Uzoho of Ghana and Nigeria respectively, were on top form to prevent the opponent from breaking the deadlock. Ghanaian youngsters Felix Afena-Gyan, Abdul Fatahu Issahaku and Mohammed Kudus were all denied by Uzoho’s heroics, while Wallocot pulled off an astonishing save to deny Leicester City striker Kelechi Iheanacho. Nigeria must win their match against Ghana in Abuja on Tuesday to be able to qualify for the World Cup which would be their fourth successive appearance at the global tournament. Line-up Francis Uzoho Frank Onyeka Calvin Bassey Leon Balogun William Troost-Ekong Ola Aina Oghenekaro Etebo Joe Aribo Ademola Lookman Emmanuel Dennis Victor Osimhen Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com