Stakeholders of Ogbia Federal Constituency in Bayelsa State have presented a former Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, to the Peoples Democratic Party as their best choice for the House of Representatives in the 2023 National Assembly election. They also drummed support for the re-election of the state Governor, Douye Diri, citing the governor’s giant strides in the state. A former Commissioner for Chieftaincy Affairs, Saviour Ibegi, led hundreds of the stakeholders, who are the kinsmen of former President, Goodluck Jonathan, to present Iworiso-Markson to the State Working Committee of the PDP at the party’s secretariat in Yenagoa on Thursday. They described the zoning arrangement in Ogbia as sacrosanct, noting that since it was the turn of Constituency 1 to produce the next federal legislator, Iworiso-Markson remained the most capable person and most popular to win election for the party. Ibegi said though he nursed an ambition for the position, he decided to concede to Iworiso-Markson because of his connections and capacity to offer a better representation. He recalled that as a Commissioner for Information, Iworiso-Markson performed excellently and impacted positively on many people especially those from Ogbia. Ibegi insisted that Iworiso-Markson possessed the stable character required to form a formidable team for the reelection of Governor Diri. He said, “Over 90 per cent of Ogbia people have benefitted from his goodwill. Iworiso-Markson is the kind of person that will save Ogbia people from shame. We are presenting him to the party. He sees Bayelsa as his Constituency. We don’t have another candidate. Even Fred Obua, the incumbent lawmaker is ready to join us”. On the reelection of Diri, he said, “We have never failed and we must contribute to the return of our governor for a second term. The preparation for our governor’s second term election starts today and Ogbia is trying to package a team that will make our victory easier.” Receiving the delegation, the State Chairman of PDP, Solomon Agwana who was represented by his deputy, Nengi Tubonah, commended the Ogbia people for their decision to present Iworiso-Markson for the position. He asked the stakeholders to continue their consultations and emphasised that Iworiso-Markson remained the best choice for Ogbia to fly the flag of the party for the forthcoming National Assembly election. Agwanana said the party would not send people without the capacity to defend the interest of Bayelsa to the National Assembly. In his remarks, the Secretary of the party, George Isowo, urged the delegation to expand their consultations and avoid a campaign of calumny against other aspirants. Explaining his ambition, Iworiso-Markson, declared total support for Governor Diri and said he joined the race to serve his people and make a difference. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com