THE Managing Director of the National Inland Waterways Authority, Dr George Muoghalu, has called for improved security in the nation’s maritime environment in order to enhance safe operations. The NIWA boss specifically said adequate security was needed for the safe passage of cargo between Lagos and Onitsha. Speaking with journalists after a meeting with the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal  Gambo, at the Naval Headquarters on Friday,  he described insecurity as one of the major concerns of stakeholders in the industry. He said, “We also use this opportunity to request support and encouragement from the Navy with regards to the issue of providing us with adequate security for safe passage in the Nigerian territory, especially with the movement of cargos between Lagos and Onitsha. “We require the support of the Navy to provide the needed Security for us to be able to move cargo from point A to point B and that has been the major concern of most of the importers who are aligning with us. “The issue of insecurity is not a personal business, it’s all our business, every agency must be committed to it. The Nigerian Navy has been quite supportive, the army, everybody has been quite supportive to make sure we have a safe operative environment. “ He, however, said the water transportation system remains the best bet in the country despite the challenges. Muoghalu said, “I will stand bold enough to tell you that waterway transportation is the way to go. The potentials are enormous despite the challenges. So, what we need to do, and that’s what we’re trying to do, to get people to key into this narrative. “We just need to put the infrastructure in place, making sure that we have safe passage, making sure that the baggies are available, making sure that the goods and the baggies are all insured so that nobody will have anyone to blame at the end. So, these are the basic thing we are trying to put in order. I am very confident that that is the way to go and once we’re able to achieve that we would begin to tap into these opportunities.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com