The Nigerian Navy has granted presidential concession promotion for no fewer than 12 senior rates.The senior rates were promoted from warrant officers to the rank of Lieutenant in the Nigerian Navy. Speaking during the commissioning of the senior rates on Friday, the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo explained that the presidential concessional promotion which was the first of its kind allows deserving non-commissioned officers to be commissioned as officers in the Armed Forces of Nigeria. According to him, this was part of the measures put in place for those at the ratings cadre to give their best to the Navy. He said, “ As part of the efforts to reinvigorate a sense of aspiration, leadership and strive for excellence in the ratings cadre, the Nigerian Navy activated the concessional commission provision in the HTACOS Officers 2017 (Revised). “The provisions of the Concessional Commission allow for outstanding personnel of the rank of Master Warrant Officers and above or equivalent who possess exemplary leadership qualities, and have distinguished themselves through hard work, dedication and meritorious service to be commissioned as officers in the Armed Forces of Nigeria. “The Concessional Commission also serves as a motivational measure for the non-commissioned officers to aspire to be elevated to the officer cadre.” He, however, urged them to steer clear activities that could smear the image of the service and the country. Gambo said, “I charge you to remain steadfast and loyal to constituted authority and be focused on your assigned duties. You are to also avoid any act that could bring disrepute to the Nigerian Navy and by extension the nation in general. “May I also add that a lot will be expected of you as newly commissioned officers given your experience and pedigree in the Service, especially in the light of the contemporary security challenges our nation faces. These challenges call for dedication, selflessness, professionalism, chivalry, and teamwork.’’  Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com