VICE-PRESIDENT Yemi Osinbajo has inaugurated a Toyota-certified service centre located at the Oshodi end of the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway Lagos. He described the state-of-the-art facility built by Toyota Nigeria Limited as a legacy project comprising a standard showroom, a collision repair centre, a general repair workshop with sophisticated equipment and a spare parts warehouse. Osinbajo said with the level of sophistication and deployment of modern technology at the facility, the centre stood out as a milestone achievement that would contribute immensely to the development of the auto industry and the nation’s economy. He said, “I must confess to being quite fascinated by the multiple resources and outcomes that this facility possesses and is designed to achieve. “It is not merely a service centre for providing quality after-sale service (although we are told that is one of the objectives for establishing it), it is actually developed as a teaching, research and resource centre, to provide dealers with world-class, practical hands-on training.” The VP said the capacity building aspect of the facility tallied with a number of skill acquisition and empowerment schemes of the Federal Government for young Nigerians. He commended the TNL team led by its Chairman, Chief Michael Ade.Ojo for the visionary project. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, said the establishment of the centre showed the commitment of Toyota Nigeria towards addressing the concerns of its consumers. “Today’s event is a brilliant manifestation of the enabling business environment created by this administration and their unparalleled leadership,” he said. Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Folasade Jaji, said the establishment of the centre was a clear statement of the Toyota Nigeria’s commitment to the continuous growth of the company. The Chairman, TNL, Chief Michael Ade.Ojo, described the event as a memorable one that gave him fulfilment. The Managing Director, TNL, Mr Kunle Ade-Ojo, said following the movement of the corporate headquarters of the TNL to Lekki, Lagos, in 2009, the company decided to convert the old office to a standard after-sale centre. He said apart from providing quality maintenance service, genuine spare parts and standard showroom for Toyota vehicles, the facility would serve as a resource place “for market study to gather data on market dynamics and obtain feedback on customers experiences and expectations.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com