The National Population Commission has assured Nigerians that the proposed 2022 general census will be conducted. It however said it could not give a particular date yet as plans were still ongoing and that the President, Maj-Gen Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) will determine the date. The commission also restated its commitment to positively re-write the history of census through the conduct of accurate, reliable and credible exercise. The chairman of NPC, Nasir Kwarra, stated this on Monday at the opening of a workshop on Census Management Training for Chairman and Federal Commissioners organised by the commission in Karu, Nasarawa State. “I can assure you that a census will be conducted. For me to give any particular date, I cannot do that because the national leadership is still discussing the matter and they will let the nation know at the end of their deliberations,” he said. Kwara explained that the commission is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that the results of the census are acceptable to Nigerians and the quality of the data to be generated meets international best standards for planning purposes. He said, “Let me use this opportunity to assure my fellow countrymen and women that the National Population Commission is irrevocably committed to positively rewriting the history of census in Nigeria and delivering to this great nation an accurate and reliable census that will be purposefully relevant in the drive towards sustainable development. “Preparations for the 2022 population and housing census are on course and the commission is confident that the prospect for an accurate and reliable census appears brighter than ever. “This optimism is rooted in the fact that the present commission has taken time to identify and deliberate on issues that stalled past censuses and have resolved to avoid those pitfalls through the adoption of scientific planning and modern digital technology.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com