AS Russia’s invasion of Ukraine enters its third week, a wide degree of devastation has blighted the country, leaving in its wake hundreds of deaths, injuries and an unfolding humanitarian disaster. As of March 14, the aggressors had bombed Dnipro, Kherson, Lutsk, Donetsk and Luhansk, among other cities. They are on the outskirts of Kyiv, the capital. In response, the West has hit Russia with sweeping sanctions. Diplomats should not give up but continue to explore a cessation of the carnage despite the maniacal obduracy of Russia’s President Vladimir Putin. Like in every war, both sides are suffering a heavy toll. Russia’s Defence Ministry says its troops have destroyed 3,687 Ukrainian military infrastructure facilities. Russian forces invaded Ukraine from the North, West and North-East. Kyiv is under siege as the Ukrainian army and volunteers battle to defend the city. With this turbulence spiralling out of control, 1,300 Ukrainian soldiers had died by Sunday, according to Volodymyr Zelenskyy, the president. The United Nations estimated that at least 579 Ukrainian civilians had been killed and 957 injured, noting that its figures were probably understated. Russia said it had lost 498 soldiers. The UN however puts the figure at between 5,000 and 6,000, Zelenskyy at close to 12,000. Already, 2.5 million people have fled Ukraine, mostly to Poland, and Romania, the UNCHR says. That Russia is targeting unarmed civilians through airstrikes and artillery fire is not in doubt, even more odious is that its forces are shelling Ukrainian cities and thwarting the efforts of people trying to flee the violence. In Mariupol, which has been worst hit, efforts to bring food, water and medicine into the city of 430,000 inhabitants and evacuate civilians were prevented by unceasing Russian attacks. More than 1,500 people have been killed there, including a pregnant mother and her baby, whose story has gone viral. The shelling has interrupted efforts to bury the dead in mass graves. These attacks violate an agreed ceasefire between Russia and Ukraine to allow civilians evacuate along the supposed ‘safe corridors’. The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Secretary-General, Jens Stoltenberg, paints a grim picture. He expects the fighting and the humanitarian emergency to intensify, saying, “the coming days are likely to bring even greater distress.” Within Europe, the Russo-Ukraine war has caused a major refugee and humanitarian crisis not seen since the Yugoslav Wars of the 1990s. It has been cited as the fastest growing of such crisis since World War II.” Ironically, the humanitarian crisis spotlighted the ingrained racism in Eastern Europe. As millions fled the war-torn country, accusations emerged of discrimination, racial abuse, and violence towards African, Middle Eastern and Asian refugees, including from Ukrainian security forces. These reportedly allowed only white refugees in, while barring non-whites – including students – from boarding buses, trains and crossing the borders. In Poland, non-white groups were singled out for attacks and denied shelter by Polish nationalists. While Putin stubbornly displays his ferocity with his false narrative of “demilitarisation and de-Nazification” of the Ukrainian government, Zelenskyy has demonstrated exemplary courage. Often donning casual green military T-shirt, the 44-year-old has addressed the nation in videos recorded on his phone and posted on social media. His personable speeches urging Ukrainians to stand their ground, and his condemnation of possible collaborators with Russia offer much hope and unifying strength for a country whose sovereignty is under dire threat. Western nations are standing with Ukraine and have sought to isolate Putin. The United States, the European Union, and their Asian allies have imposed sanctions on Russia’s oil and gas sector. The US Congress is working on a $10 billion package of military and humanitarian aid for Ukraine. The US ban on all imports of Russian energy targets “the main artery” of the country’s economy. The European Commission has said it would reduce its dependence on Russian gas by two-thirds by the end of this year. Several top US brands, including PepsiCo, and Coca-Cola, say they will stop operating in Russia. McDonald’s is closing 850 stores in Russia; Starbucks will close 100. Due to the sanctions, Russia’s stocks have crashed by 39 percent. The United Kingdom has sanctioned seven Russian billionaires, including Chelsea FC owner, Roman Abramovich. Their assets have been frozen and their ability to travel restricted. Western countries also froze the assets of Russia’s central bank to prevent it from accessing its $630 billion dollar reserves. The allies similarly banned people and businesses from dealing with it, with some Russian banks abruptly removed from the international financial messaging system, Swift, used for money transfers. The EU has donated €500 million in arms, the UK £100 million to Ukraine. The effect of the sanctions is not limited to Russia, but has been felt worldwide. Oil price has spiked to $140 per barrel, the highest since 2008. This has raised the prospects of another global meltdown just as the world is recovering from the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown. Ukraine is the world’s largest producer of wheat. At 24 percent, the UN says the World Food Price Index has been the highest since the February invasion, affecting corn, sunflower oil, and other items. Putin has described these Western sanctions against Moscow as “akin to declaring war.” Yet, he refuses to back down on the unwarranted war. The world should mete out justice on Putin for his flagrant lawlessness. He should not be allowed to appropriate Ukraine. The world should not waver in supporting Ukraine. As millions of women and children flee Ukraine, humanitarian agencies around the world should be prepared to intervene in assisting them to combat forced labour, human and sex trafficking rings which often target refugees and exploit their vulnerability. No matter how long it takes, Putin and others perpetrating war crimes and crimes against humanity should be brought to justice. Nigeria’s interests are paramount; the Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) regime should ensure that the remaining Nigerians locked down in the conflict are rescued. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com