The Senior Special Assistant to President Buhari on Sustainable Development Goals, Mrs Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, has urged youths to take advantage of the newly commissioned innovation lab in Ikorodu, Lagos, to join the world of tech. Citing what the COVID-19 pandemic did to the world, she noted that the only investment for youths should be in knowledge as it was the currency of the ‘new world’. She made this remark when she visited the Senator Tokunbo Abiru Innovation Lab in Ikorodu to assess the facility, curriculum and faculties for possible talents hunting. Orelope-Adefulire, who was a former Lagos State Deputy Governor, was quoted in a statement signed by her Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Enitan Olukotun, to have said, “I am sure in a few years from now the impact of the investments will start to manifest. The empowerment you are being given is to allow you to explore and rule your world. I believe every one of you will rule your world in a positive way that will guarantee a bright future for you. “You need to apply your mind to what you are being taught. There are no limits to what you can benefit from this training. “COVID-19 pandemic that hit the world proved to us that there is virtually nothing we cannot do with the smartphone and allied technologies. All over the world, corporations have downsized and many are working from homes because of the enablement of technology. ‘’Senator Abiru has done his own by providing a platform. Don’t take it for granted. It is a lifetime opportunity. With this knowledge, there is nowhere in the world you can’t be hired because the skillsets you are getting here have global relevance”. In his response, the Senator representing the Lagos East Senatorial District, Mukhail Abiru, said, “The expected outcome is that as they are graduating from here they will most likely get job placement which we believe is the best way empowerment ought to be done. So, your meeting with them formally will also be an inspiration for them.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com