The Osun State Government on Monday asked the security agencies to deal decisively with real and potential troublemakers before, during, and after the Peoples Democratic Party governorship primary in the state. The government explained that the directive become imperative after an intelligence report revealed that some persons have stockpiled materials bearing insignia of the state government, All Progressives Congress, and those of its governorship candidate, Adegboyega Oyetola, with the aim to adorn them and cause mayhem during PDP event holding on Tuesday in Osogbo The Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Ismail Omipidan, in a statement in Osogbo, on Monday, noted that the government was in possession of an intelligence report indicating the motive of those behind the purported plans. He added that the plot was not only to create the impression of Osun being a volatile state but also put the blame on the doorstep of the Oyetola-led administration. “We are compelled to raise this alarm as an early warning sign of the clandestine schemes being put together by some unscrupulous elements to tarnish the image and reputation of the APC, the Governor and its candidate, Government of Osun, and to cause trouble and paint the picture of a volatile State, and with a view to putting the blame on its doorstep. “But the fire and brimstone coming from the warring parties within the opposition PDP is scary. The intelligence at our disposal confirms the plot to cause violence is indeed real. However, as a responsive and responsible government, we are already taking steps to deal with it. “We, therefore, want to warn those behind this nefarious plot to jettison the idea as security operatives have been put on the alert and mandated to deal decisively with anyone bent on causing violence and destruction in Osun,” the statement read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com