Ikechukwu Iloputa of the University of Port Harcourt has emerged the Most Valuable Player in the Men Tennis event at the ongoing Nigerian University Games Association event at the University of Lagos. Similarly, Omolayo Bamidele of Nile University, Abuja, emerged Most Valuable Player in the female category of the event. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that both players were outstanding in their respective events. Iloputa won two gold medals in the Men’s mixed doubles and Men’s singles, as well as silver in Men doubles event, while Bamidele also won a gold medal in Women single and a silver medal in the Mixed doubles. Iloputa told NAN that his victory at the NUGA event was as a result of dedication and constant training for four months. “I am delighted to get the gold medals and emerge the MVP at the tennis event. This is not a day’s journey for me, but it took me four months of hard training. “I have practised well enough and also determined to give my 100 per cent commitment. This is just a starting point of my career because I want to play at the highest level of tennis,” he said. For Bamidele, her wish was to step in the shoes of the tennis legend, Serena Williams. “I am happy to have won the MVP, I have been fighting this from the preliminaries of the tournament till the final match. “Although I did not have much time to practise, I believed in my mental strength to carry me through after playing for seven years. “Now that this is done and dusted, I want to focus on the future. I also want to play at the highest level of tennis at the ATP and Master. “I am looking forward to being the next Serena Williams,” she said. NAN reports that Team UNIPORT led the medals table in the sport with two gold, two silver and two bronze medals, while NUA is in second place with two gold, one silver and one bronze medals. Rivers State University, Port Harcourt, is in joint third place with Benson Idahosa University, Benin, with one silver apiece in the sport. The Final Results: Mixed doubles, Rebecca Ekpenyong and Iloputa won gold, Sylvanus Ajang and Bamidele from NUA won silver, while Tochukwu Eze and Amiefiri Jim Jaja from UNIPORT and the duo Isaac Kwange and Blessing Danjuma from Ibrahim Babangida University, Lapai, shared the bronze medal. Rebecca Ekpenyong and Amiefiri Jim Jaja won gold in the women doubles, while Ngowari Jim Jaja and Heritage Imo won silver. Afusat Mustapha and Glory Adeboye from Unilorin with Odunola Oladunmoye and Mercy Oladipo from Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta shared the bronze medal. Sylvanus Ajang and John Dickson from NUA combined to win gold medal in the Men doubles, while the duo of Ikechukwu Iloputa and Maxwell Kesiye won silver. Israel Josiah and Joel Noel from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria and Anthony Obekpa and Solomon Idoko won the bronze medal of the Men doubles. Omolayo Bamidele from NUA emerged gold medalist in the women singles, while Mary Godwin from Benson Idahosa University, Benin, won silver and Rebecca Ekpenyong from UNIPORT and Peace Udoh from UNILAG won the bronze medal. Ikechukwu Iloputa from UNIPORT, however, dominated the court to win the Men single’s gold by defeating compatriot Tochukwu Eze who won silver. The duo of Sylvester Ajang and John Dickson from NUA settled for the bronze medal in the Men singles event. NAN