Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said the Federal Government will continue to deepen business reforms and partner with the private sector to ensure wholesome national development. He said deepening business reforms and partnering the private sector was in line with the government’s objective of creating a more conducive business environment in Nigeria, Osinbajo stated this today at the commissioning of the state-of-the-art Toyota Service and Research Facility in Lagos State, according to a statement by his spokesman, Laolu Akande. “It is important to restate that the Federal Government has committed itself to partner with the private sector, recognizing that the private sector is better equipped and resourced to lead the development of the economy,” the statement quoted Osinbajo as saying. Restating that the public-private synergy was the crux of the National Development Plan 2021-2025, the Vice President also noted that Buhari’s administration remains committed to the reforms being driven by the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council. “The President has by several directives, approvals and executive orders set in motion and in many cases with the private sector, the most aggressive drive yet for appropriate infrastructure, power, roads, rail, and broadband connectivity. This includes ensuring that our ports work smoothly for trade purposes, building new port complexes and dredging of existing but disused ports, ensuring that government regulators facilitate rather than hinder business operations. “It is this imperative of aggressively supporting private sector stakeholders that resulted in the 7th iteration of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council’s (PEBEC) 60-day National Action Plan (NAP 7.0), which commenced on the 7th of February and will go on till the 7th of April, 2022. NAP 7.0 aims to deepen the reforms delivered over the past 5 years with a focus on exports, process automation, improvement in regulatory practices, judicial reforms and Executive Order 01/ReportGov.NG compliance.” Speaking about the Toyota Certified Service Centre, the Vice President added that the Centre is more than just about providing quality after-sales service, to being “developed as a teaching, research and resource centre, to provide dealers with world-class, practical hands-on training.” He added that the facility “has been built to standards comparable to the most sophisticated around the world, with the latest best-in-class equipment and modern technology designed to deliver superior, world-class services to vehicle owners in Nigeria. I think Toyota Nigeria deserves commendation for its focus on capacity development in the automotive industry.” Highlighting the significance of the Toyota Service in harnessing technical and engineering skills, Prof. Osinbajo was of the view that reducing the skill gap in the populace will further boost the nation’s industrialization efforts. “One of the chief problems in our industrialization effort is the skills gap, especially middle cadre technical and engineering skills. So, an intentional and aggressive public and private sector synergy in developing this type of capacity is crucial. Our work with the private sector at the Nigerian Industrial Policy and Competitiveness Advisory Council underscored and honed this approach,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com