The Cape Coast Stadium, venue of Ghana’s Qatar 2022 World Cup first leg playoff against Nigeria on March 25 is wearing a new look six days after rehabilitation work began but fans have disagreed saying it is a photoshop. The stadium which has been home to the Black Stars in recent years had continued to deteriorate due to lack of maintenance and got worse after the pitch was used for the country’s 65th independence day march past ceremony. The condition of the pitch has been a concern for both Nigerian and Ghanaian fans who had believed that it would disrupt the flow of the game for both teams whose players are predominantly based abroad. Meanwhile, the National Sports Authority, Ghana swung into action as they hoped to return the pitch back to a playable condition for the players. Six days after work began; the NSA shared a picture on social media showing the lush green surface of the pitch with the caption, “Just five days into work on the Cape Coast Stadium after the March 6 celebration and we’re getting tremendous restoration. So far, so good,” The NSA tweeted. However, Ghana fans have questioned the picture posted online stating that it had been doctored to look like the pitch was in a close to perfect condition. Reacting to the picture, some fans have called the picture photoshoped and disrespectful to claim that the condition could automatically become better after just five days. Bra Niako tweeted, “Five days and the grass has supernaturally become green… Don’t we respect the people of Ghana?” @DJGunshot1 wrote, “Stop posting edited and filtered pictures. Just work on the pitch that is destroyed. The wisest thing to do was to cover the pitch. How difficult is that? But people don’t think in this country after damaging the playing surface in Accra, look at Cape Coast pitch.” @eii_braakofi, tweeted, “I don’t know how you see us Ghanaians honestly. If you had any iota of respect, like you’d know there are professional photographers on social media to differentiate between a normal picture and a heavily filtered one.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com