Four of the top female filmmakers in the country — Tope Oshin, Biodun Stephen, Mildred Okwo and Patience Oghre — talk to BLESSING ENENAITE about their careers and other issues Tell us about your background. I am from Nsukka in Enugu State. I had my elementary and secondary education there. I went on to study Theatre Arts at the University of Benin. Afterwards, I left for the United States of America. I had my law degree while I was living in Los Angeles, California. I practised law for a while before moving back to Nigeria after about 21 years of living in the US. What inspired you to go into filmmaking? I have been art inclined for a very long time. I did not think that it (art) would be something I would pursue as a career though. But, when someone loves certain things, it will always be in one’s subconscious until one takes a step towards what one’s heart really wants to do. While I was in the US studying to become a lawyer, I came across the film, Living in Bondage, which somebody brought back from Nigeria. I then had the thought that one day, I could make a film. However, I continued to practice law for many years. At some point, I guess the hunger (for art) became too unbearable and I started to find my way back to Nigeria to make films. It never occurred to me that I could stay back in the United States and be making films. I always just wanted to tell African stories. I felt I needed to be in Africa to tell those stories. When one is a real story teller, there are certain vibes one cannot make up. One has to be in the place to tell the story by oneself. Which of your movies would you describe as your best work yet? It is like telling somebody to choose among their children, whom they love best. But that said, I consider filmmaking to be a constant learning experience. I am constantly learning to bring out what is in my head and put it on the screen. Every filmmaker goes through that. There are things going on in one’s head and one has to find the best possible ways to put it on screen. If one is learning as one goes, one’s films are supposed to be getting better, especially one’s storytelling skills. I keep learning and I use what I have learnt to add to the new films I am making. I hope I get better as I make more films. What are the factors that determine a good movie? This question can be subjective because people will often answer differently. However, for me, you first need a great screenplay with an engaging story line before you can then proceed to use good direction to present it visually in the form of film to the public. Good direction means a director using the proper or appropriate cinematography, production design, cast, costume, sound, make-up and maybe special effects to tell the story. You must be able to create a world your audience wants to enter. You once said that funding is a major challenge for you when producing a film. What are the best ways to solve that challenge? Funding will not be solved until we can solve problems of distribution. People who invest money in films want to know how to get that money back. For now, cinema distribution in Nigeria is at a primitive stage, in my humble opinion. Not only do we not have enough cinemas, the ones we even have, our film distributors are unable to aggressively market to them or even monitor sales and promotions. That means if figures come in from Jos, Onitsha, Port Harcourt, Benin or Enugu, there is no one working for your film distributor to authenticate these figures. They are relying solely on what the cinema owners say and that doesn’t sit well with any sane producer. Secondly, our DVD distribution is practically non-existent, leaving us with one option, which is streaming platforms. Several international platforms are coming in now to increase competition and I am hopeful that things will begin to get better, especially for those who make films of a certain quality to attract audiences at home and abroad. Transparency is key for any film industry. Without it, one will not attract big money. Have you ever felt like giving up? Of course. One feels frustrated because one sees Nigerian filmmakers and distributors constantly bungling good opportunities simply because we choose not to do things properly to maximize growth for the industry as whole. However, this thing (filmmaking) is in my blood and I intend to make films forever. I may take breaks here and there but there is no giving up. Having spent almost two decades in the industry, what changes would you like to see? I want the level of professionalism among practitioners to increase a hundred fold. We are now dealing with global companies such as Netflix and Amazon. Those companies will need to work with people who understand the art and science of filmmaking. Mediocrity won’t get us to the top of the film-making food chain, and it will take everyone working to increase their knowledge to reach this goal. What influences the kind of movies you make? The script influences the kind of movies I make. If it moves me, I will jump over hoops to make it. Which actor do you desire to feature in your movie that you haven’t yet? There are a few but I would rather not mention their names. Have you ever experienced any form of discrimination in the industry because of your gender? Men usually like working with men, regardless of competence. But, I don’t pay attention to that. I stay in my own lane and try to create opportunities for myself and work with companies that want to work with competent people. What would you describe as the high point of your career? Every new thing I achieve becomes a high point, no matter how small or big it may be. I am appreciative of the fact that I can make a living doing what I love the most.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com