THE Ikeoha Campaign Organisation has reacted to what it described as sponsored lies, forgeries, intimidation, and press statements against the governorship ambition of Senator Ike Ekweremadu, stressing that such would neither distract nor stop the Senator from vying for the governorship of Enugu State in the 2023 general elections. The campaign organisation made this known in a statement issued by its Director-General, Ogbonna Asogwo, in Enugu on Wednesday. The statement read, “The Ikeoha Campaign Organisation has noted with dismay, but with utmost trust in God, the desperation of some elements to stop Senator Ike Ekweremadu, from contesting the 2023 Enugu State governorship election. “The communiqué-for-money bribery scandal rocking the state on a non-existent zoning, all in an effort to stop Senator Ike Ekweremadu; the forgery and manipulation of minutes of Peoples Democratic Party, State Caucus meeting, which took the makers over two years to produce since they boasted about. “We unequivocally state, for avoidance of doubt, that it is not the business of the caucus under the PDP Constitution to zone elective offices. “The intimidation of Ekweremadu’s supporters by agents of state, including the present detention in prison of the Paulinus Ugwu, the PDP Ward Chairman for Okpatu; the detention and subsequent charge to court for baseless offences of Joshua Ogbonna, Francis Akpa, and Obi Mamah, using late the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Joseph Egbunike (may his soul rest in peace) as well as the ostracisation of Barrister Emeka Asogwa, Engr. Armstrong Agbo, and Chief Charles Mbah for the simple reasons of their association with and commitment to Senator Ike Ekweremadu. “The over N300 million squandered on series of rallies to drum up support for zoning, all in an attempt to stop Senator Ike Ekweremadu; the press statements, press conferences, and publications sponsored by agents of state against the Distinguished Senator; all the nocturnal meetings and fetish practices being organised against Ike Ekweremadu.” ; all the huge state and local government funds being wasted on stopping Ekweremadu, while basic utilities and services suffer utter neglect; and the appointment of known deadly thugs and cultists into state and local government offices all aimed at intimidating and stopping Ekweremadu”.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com