Former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, has been said to be out to bring back the leadership attributes of late President Umaru Yar’Adua and undo the bad governance of the present President, Maj. Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Speaking in Maiduguri, Borno State on Wednesday, the Leader and Chairman of the Saraki Contact and Advocacy Council Committee, Prof. Iyorwuese Hagher, during consultative visit to the Peoples Democratic Party’s stakeholders, delegates and supporters from Borno and Yobe States, said Saraki, one of the presidential aspirants on the platform of the party, is the only trusted and capable hand in the race. He said that, “He (Saraki) is a true democrat with courage, and not a civilian dictator. He has ears to listen like the late President Umaru Yar’Adua. He is an extension to late Yar’Adua.” The presidential campaign team of the former President of the Senate, while soliciting support of stakeholders and delegates, said, they were in Borno for advocacy visit to garner support for Saraki to pick the PDP’s presidential ticket. Hagher said Saraki wants to be the next President in order to rescue the country from the shackles of insecurity, inflation and other related bad governance that the nation has had in the last seven years of Buhari’s All Progressives Congress administration. He said the campaign team had paid similar visits to Gombe, Katsina and other states of the federation as part of its sensitisation tour across the country for Saraki by presenting his vision to Nigerians before his official declaration. Hagher said apart from the agony and poverty imposed on Nigerians, especially on the people in the North East, the APC had succeeded in dividing Nigeria, describing Saraki as a candidate that goes beyond zoning and the one the country needs to address the challenges headlong.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com