The vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party at the 2019 general election, Mr. Peter Obi, has declared his interest to contest the presidency in 2023 during a meeting with Anambra State monarchs on Thursday, vowing to move Nigeria forward if he is given the opportunity to lead the country. Obi’s declaration came just after the presidential standard-bearer of the PDP at the 2019 elections, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, had also declared his interest. Atiku, who contested alongside Obi, as his vice-presidential candidate, declared his interest on Wednesday. Obi, who made his declaration known before the traditional rulers in Awka, on Thursday, said he decided to tell the monarchs first in order to seek their blessings and prayers. “I am talking to the traditional rulers because if somebody begins any journey, he must first tell his fathers. I am telling you as my fathers that I am coming out to contest the position of the president of Nigeria. “You know me and you know how Nigeria is today. In 2019, I went with Atiku as the vice presidential candidate, but today, I want to come out on my own. “I just came to seek your blessings as the traditional rulers of the state. I am here to tell you as my own fathers, that I am aspiring for the president of Nigeria,” he said. The former Anambra State governor said that after carefully evaluating and analysing Nigeria’s current challenges, he discovered that the country was at the lowest ebb and needed somebody like him to move it forward. He said that he strongly believed in a united Nigeria and came into the race to move the country forward and secure her. “If I am voted as the President, I will secure Nigerians, create jobs for the teeming youths of the country and pull Nigeria out of poverty. “Everything I have done regarding  resources, I have managed them  proudly. I want to move this country forward. I am a Nigerian, I believe in one united Nigeria, I want it secured. “I am not just aspiring for political position but to serve and move the country forward. I have all it takes to be president and move the country forward,” he added. Speaking at the session, the senator representing Anambra Central Senatorial District, Uche Ekwunife, called on the royal fathers to endorse Obi with their royal blessings. “This is to inform the traditional rulers in the state to pray for the Peter Obi presidential ambition,” she added. She urged the traditional rulers as the custodians of the tradition of communities to tell their people that Anambra was in the presidential contest, adding that it was not only Peter who’s in the race, but the entire state and country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com