The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation, Mrs Ronke Sokefun, has called for more women in leadership positions. She also asked that the National Assembly revisit the gender bills for women’s inclusiveness. A copy of her statement was issued late on Thursday by the NDIC. She said, “Let me add my voice to the growing number of women who have chosen to stand by our first lady, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, and our Vice President’s wife, Mrs. Dolapo Osinbajo, in their challenge to the National Assembly to revisit the proposed motions promoting women inclusiveness which motions were declined a few weeks ago. “I believe being conscientious humans, our dear lawmakers some of whom are personally known to me, will revisit these issues and treat them fairly. I also encourage my sister lawmakers to actively engage their male colleagues and seek their buy-in. We did not expect it to be a walk in the park and we must be committed to working for the success of these proposals. “The climate is indeed changing! To sustain the tempo, we need more women in leadership positions especially in our nations so we can speak the universal language of peace and avoid more Ukraine-Russia type imbroglios.” She further encouraged women networking, which would help more women rise to occupy leadership positions. “That takeaway is that women do not engage in enough networking when we occupy these positions. It is for this reason that when women in these top executive positions encounter work-related difficulties, the results are oftentimes not in their favour because such periods are when they see the need to network! We forget too often that for every executive role we occupy, there are at least 5-10 men waiting in the wings! “The question of sustainability is, however, one to dwell on. How do we sustain this development? Are women in leadership positions doing enough to encourage more women to join the table to ensure the number keeps growing and therefore ensure sustainability?”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com