The Premier Poverty Alleviation Initiative says it is targeting one million members for its nationwide poverty alleviation scheme. The Founder of the initiative, Toyin  Adeyinka, said this during the re-launch of the programme in Imasayi, in the Yewa-North Local Government Area of Ogun State. The event had in attendance the state governor, Dapo Abiodun, who was represented by the Commissioner for Housing, Jamiu Omoniyi; Commissioner for Trade and Investment, Mrs Kikelomo Longe; and the Olu of Imasayi, Oba Lukman Kuoye. In his remarks, Adeyinka said the project was designed to create job opportunities for the people at the grassroots. He said the organisation was established to empower its members across the country. He said, “This launching is a very unique occasion as we formally commence the activities of the rebranded version of PPAI. “This activity did not only afford us the opportunity to achieve our vision of attaining one million membership strength, but also set us on the path of building the first private housing cooperative in Africa. “These activities include: expansion of the activities of PPAI to West Africa sub- region and to Nigeria in Diaspora; the formal adoption of the housing cooperative scheme; deployment of our newly acquired software to serve members of the area and worldwide; partnership with Global Tone International to introduce a financial literacy training programme in Imasayi.” He added that arrangement had been concluded for the foundation-laying of a micro housing estate to be partially supported by PPAI. He further stated that the decision to build Imasayi town led to the re-launching of the programme and the need to meet the need of the people in the rural area. The Commissioner for Trade and Investment, Longe, in her remarks, lauded the project, saying the government had resolved to associate with Adeyinka due to his capacity to alleviate poverty, provide shelter and create a source of income for the people. The governor, in his remarks, said the project would add value to the state programmes. The governor’s representative said both high and low-income earners were being considered in the government housing scheme. He said, “Our housing estate is targeted mostly to the low-income caders and that is why we employed the best means of developing these houses.” “Our target housing units are 2,500. As of today, we were able to cover 2,000 units presently in Ogun State because of his keen interest. “Before the end of this administration, we should be able to surpass the targeted mark.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com