Ahead of the crucial World Cup play-offs between Nigeria and Ghana, former Super Eagles striker, Daniel Amokachi, has taken a swipe at archrivals Ghana over the uncertainty of the match venue for the qualifiers, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. The Black Stars host the Eagles at the Cape Coast Stadium on March 25 before the reverse fixture slated for the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja on March 29. While the Abuja stadium is ready to host Ghana for the second leg, there’s been doubt over the Cape Coast stadium hosting the first fixture. Following the bad state of the stadium pitch after it was used for the country’s 65th independence celebration earlier this month, reports say the Ghana Football Association has informed CAF to consider switching the venue to the Baba Yara Stadium in Kumasi. According to a Ghanaian publication, ghanaweb.com, the Director-General of the National Sports Authority, Professor Peter Twumasi, stated that the Ghana Football Association did not consult his outfit before choosing the Cape Coast Stadium for the play-off match. According to him, the NSA would have advised the GFA to add either the Accra Sports Stadium or Baba Yara Stadium for the Black Stars home matches. “We wanted the GFA to consider the Accra Sports Stadium or the Baba Yara Sports Stadium. Later we were told that the GFA had already sent the Cape Coast Sports Stadium to CAF. At least they should have informed us. The Accra Sports Stadium has been certified by CAF, Professor Twumasi said on Happy 98.9 FM.” Meanwhile, in a video that has gone viral, Amokachi, who was at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja stated that Nigeria was ready to face the Black Stars at the said venue, while throwing a jibe at their arch-rivals, who have been left in confusion over their choice of venue. “We are at the Moshood Abiola stadium and we are ready. Look at how beautiful the pitch is; look at how beautiful the stadium is. We are ready,” Amokachi said in the video. He added, “And some people are still looking for a venue, some people are under confusion. You know who I’m talking about.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com