A former deputy governor of Akwa Ibom State, Christopher Ekpenyong, has thrown his weight behind the 2023 governorship aspiration of Senator Bassey Akpan. He disclosed that God revealed to him that Akpan would be the best governorship aspirant in the state. Ekpenyong, who said this while receiving the aspirant in his country home in Obot Akara LGA on Saturday, extolled Akpan’s sterling qualities and laudable achievements both as a former commissioner of finance and a senator. “I don’t know what others are saying and what they heard. All I know is that God has told me that Senator Akpan is the best governorship aspirant for Akwa Ibom at this time. Akpan has the experience and the connection. With him, we can go to bed and sleep,” Ekpenyong said. He said within the period he has worked with senator Akpan in the red chambers, he (Akpan) has “been a pride to Akwa Ibom and Nigeria. According to him, Akpan has always been a peaceful and humble person, who accords him (Ekpenyong) due respect even in the senate, not minding that he was a ranking Senator. Ekpenyong, who said nobody can intimidate him to accept what is not good for his people, added that they wanted a governor who knew their peculiar problems and has the wide contacts to deploy for their solutions. In his remarks, Akpan had earlier informed Senator Ekpenyong that his aspiration will leverage on God, his experience, connection with the people and knowledge of their particular challenges to serve Akwa Ibom better when elected. “The welfare of Youths is very paramount towards sustaining the peace for the development of the state. Leveraging the gains of the past administrations will provide a veritable ground for us to address youth unemployment by generating a resourceful data bank to identify the gaps and core issues limiting the development of our youths to enable them to become self-reliant, Akpan noted. He assured that he had tailored a development roadmap that will enable his administration, when elected, to solve local problems using local solutions. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com