Following his suspension by the National Union of Road Transport Workers as the Chairman of Lagos State chapter of the union, Musiliu Akinsanya, aka MC Oluomo, has asked Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to take over the running of all parks and garages in the state. Akinsanya stated this during a press conference at the NURTW Secretariat in the Agege area of the state on Thursday. He also announced the withdrawal of himself and his lieutenants from NURTW as a union. The PUNCH had reported that the national headquarters of the union queried Akinsanya for refusing to carry out instructions given to him in recent times by the national leadership. Among other allegations in the query dated February 14, 2022, Akinsanya was also accused of resorting to intimidation, harassment, and assault on the newly-appointed Chairman, Tricycle Owners and Operators Association of Nigeria, Azeez Abiola, aka Istijabah. In his response, Akinsanya, who said he had successfully complied with his oath of office, refuted the claim that he instigated members of the union to assault Abiola. He, however, noted that the legality of the TOOAN operations in the state is a subject of a suit pending before the National Industrial Court. Akinsanya also refuted claims of engaging in acts of insubordination and anti-union activities in the state. Subsequently, in a letter dated March 9, 2022 and signed by NURTW General Secretary, Kabiru Yau, the national body of the union said Akinsanya has been suspended indefinitely for gross misconduct amongst other offences and directed Akinsanya to hand over to his deputy. Addressing pressmen at the conference on Thursday, Akinsanya said, “I, Comrade Musiliu Ayinde Akinsanya, on behalf of the State Administrative Council, State Executive Council members and the entire union rank and file members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, Lagos State Council with over 200 branches and zones hereby resolve to immediately withdraw our membership and operation from the National body of NURTW for peace to reign in Lagos State; write to Lagos State Governor, Lagos State Ministry of Transportation and other relevant agencies about our decision. “It is important to state that our action is in line with section 40 of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended, which provides as follows – Every person shall be entitled to assembly freely and associate with other persons, and in particular, he may form or belong to any political party, trade union or any association for the protection of his or her interests. This means that every person shall be entitled to join an association and exit freely without molestation. “In view of this and the crisis at hand, Lagos State Government is hereby invited to consider its white paper on Transport Union activities, 2004 section 5C, which states that the Government should take over the management of any garage or motor park where there is a crisis until such is resolved by the consultative committee. “We hereby call on Lagos State Government to take over the running of the affairs of the Union with the Constitution of a Park Management Committee for Motor Garages and parks in the state, thereby ensuring peace and tranquility, pending the determination of the matter in the interest of the good people of Lagos State.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com