Efe Ugwuonah is the Business Development Manager of Panshi Group in China. He tells TOFARATI IGE about the highlights of his career As the Business Development Manager of Panshi Group, China, what are your duties? Basically, I develop marketing strategies to capture market channels with new clients. My duties include helping my company obtain better brand recognition, as well as consulting Nigerian sales and marketing professionals to review current market trends in order to create business ideas that can improve revenue margins. What are the challenges you face in the course of doing your job? I would say the unavailability of statistics and raw data as a guide to plan and analyse market trends. What do you consider to be the highlights of your job? Building a professional and intimate bond with my marketing team to ensure the goals of the company are met, as well as the individual needs of my team members. Before moving to China, had you worked in Nigeria? If yes, how would you compare the working environment in Nigeria and China? I did not work in Nigeria or in a very structured organisation because I left Nigeria two years after graduating from secondary school. However, while studying for my Master’s degree, there was a period of internship. I travelled down to Nigeria, and worked in Lagos; though in a Chinese-Nigerian company, as an assistant to the Business Development Manager. In the working environment in China, a lot of attention is paid to details and serenity. The Chinese believe in working in a quiet environment, with phones switched off and no external distraction. The idea is that, calmness and clarity breed innovative thinking. Contrary to popular opinion, one can find these values in Nigeria too, though only in a few companies. What are the challenges that come with working in China? They include one’s inability to communicate in Chinese language (Mandarin), one’s inability to understand Chinese culture and ideologies, inability to adapt to the working pattern due to overtime work, inability to adapt to the weather, and inability to adapt to the food. You once worked at Kanglv Group as a Tourism Researcher and Chief Translator. What were the major achievements you recorded in that position? As a tourism researcher and chief translator for two years, I was able to study and handle researches on Europe-Africa tourism projects. I was able to carry out a lot of research projects related to ‘green tourism’, ‘red-culture tourism’, Yin Town Yuanwei project, and the Baili Water Town International Tourist Centre. I also took part in the planning of Shijiazhuang Tourism Conference 2020. Most importantly, as a cultural ambassador, I occasionally gave lectures on African people and their cultures. What were the highlights of your time as the President of the International Students Association in Hebei Normal University? I was the first President of International Students Association in the university. It was an association with over 400 foreign students from 56 countries. I was able to carry out some cultural reforms. I was also able to build relationships between foreign students and their Chinese counterparts on campuses. That was in addition to hosting the ‘International Cultural Festival’ in 2017 and 2018, where foreigners from different universities across Hebei Province converged on my university. Working alongside with the university, we were able to help foreign students solve challenges they faced with their academics and social lives. I also brought international students closer to the university authorities. What motivated you to study Chinese Language in the first place? The motivation to study Chinese came when Dr Walter Ezeanata (a retired Chief Lecturer in Banking and Finance, and first Director of Chinese programmes at the Federal Polytechnic Oko, Anambra State) and Chijioke Aniagor  advised me to study Chinese language. Ezeanata took time to educate me on the vast opportunities one would be exposed to speaking the language, as well as the potentials of the Chinese global market. I was made to believe that speaking the language would offer me a great future. I became so motivated and plunged into the study. It took me less than eight months to speak the language fluently. What are the personal qualities that have helped you get to this stage of your career? Patience, persistence, hard work, prayers and my lifestyle helped me in getting to this stage of my career. I am a very friendly person and I respect the views of others. I like to show strong commitment to anything good l am learning or doing. What qualities do you think every leader must have? Every good leader must be able to listen, seek counsel and weigh opinions before taking decisions. A good leader should be able to listen to different opinions, be tolerant, have self-control and should be able to care for their subordinates. Every good leader must be hard-working. They must also be objective, transparent and courageous. Which schools did you attend? I attended Denmark Nursery School, Ivrogbo-Irri Community, Delta State, Nigeria. From there, I went to Ewoma Primary School, also in the same area. For my secondary education, I attended Ibrahim Sakaba Government Day Secondary School, Kebbi State, Nigeria. I also attended the Federal Polytechnic Oko, Anambra State; before going on to Hebei Normal University, Hebei Province, China, for my Bachelor and Master’s degree. Do you have plans to relocate to Nigeria anytime soon? Yes I do. There is no place like home. In what ways do you think the government can stem the tide of brain drain with some of the brightest Nigerian minds relocating to other countries in search of greener pastures? The government needs to seat up and take responsibility for her citizens. They need to value our talents and brightest minds. If not, more people will relocate abroad. The country’s minimum wage must be looked into and increased from the current N30,000 to about N150,000. We can learn from how China overcame its unemployment problem. Nigerians are highly skilled and talented wherever they are in the world. We need quite a good percentage of such Nigerians overseas for our foreign revenue drive. The government, however, needs to brace-up to the challenges of harnessing and usefully engaging the services of Nigerian professionals. Who are your mentors/role models? My mentors and role models include my parents, my grandmother (Mrs Magdalene Opeh), Mrs Rose Amaechi, Late Dr Yahaya Shuaibu, Pastor Bimbo Johnson, Dr Walter Ezeanata, Chijioke Aniagor, Prof Zhang Huizhen, Prof Zhang Wenzhen, Mr and Mrs Wu Qunbin, Prof Stephen Akpavie, Ifeanyi Aniagoh, Mr Abdullahi Sahabi, former President Goodluck Jonathan, and Tony Elumelu. What advice do you have for youths as regards career advancement? My advice to them is to be patient, remain focused, be more hardworking, and always remember to invest back home. Though the challenges facing our nation seem irresolvable, I believe it won’t last forever. Aside from work, what are your other interests? My other interests include Chinese lecturing, Chinese comedy, African cultural entertainment, cultural tourism, swimming and other sports. Does your job affect your social life? Not at all. I never allow my work and social life to clash. They are both very important to me. How do you unwind? By spending quality time with family and friends, especially the elderly ones. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com