No fewer than four medical doctors have been killed and 38 health workers infected during the recent outbreak of Lassa fever in Nigeria in 2022, a tally by Sunday PUNCH has revealed. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control has also revealed that 98 deaths have been reported between January 1, and February 27, 2022, across 21 states of the Federation. Lassa fever is an acute viral hemorrhagic illness caused by Lassa virus, a member of the arena virus family of viruses. Humans usually become infected with the Lassa virus through exposure to food or household items contaminated with urine or faeces of infected Mastomys rats. According to the NCDC, the disease which is endemic in Nigeria, occurs throughout the year but more cases are recorded during the dry season. In its latest Lassa fever report, the centre noted an increase in the number of deaths and infections of health workers. The centre appealed to health workers to “maintain a high index of suspicion for Lassa fever, be vigilant, and look out for symptoms of Lassa fever. Not all fevers are malaria.” On January 10, 2022, a doctor with the World Health Organization named Samuel Nyityo lost his life in Benue to Lassa fever. Media reports on February 28, 2022 also cited the death of a certain Dr, Abel Obetta. The Nigerian Medical Association, Oyo state last Thursday also announced the death of two doctors who died of Lassa fever within 72 hours. In the latest Lassa fever report, it was noted that, “Cumulatively from Week 1 to Week 8, 2022, 98 deaths have been reported with a case fatality rate of 18.1 percent. “In total for 2022, 21 states have recorded at least one confirmed case across 79 Local Government areas. Of all confirmed cases, 73 percent are from Ondo, Edo and Bauchi. The predominant age group affected is 21-30 years. “The number of suspected cases has increased compared to that reported for the same period in 2021. A total of 38 health workers have been infected with 559 persons undergoing treatment in treatment centres”. “The Federal Ministry of Environment is also implementing a Lassa fever environmental response campaign in high burden states.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com