The All Progressives Congress, Ebonyi State Chapter, has warned the Peoples Democratic Party’s nominee to take over the Office of Governor of the state, Iduma Igariwey, to stop arrogating ‘His Excellency’ title to his name. AOC told Igariwey, who is also a member representing Afikpo North/South Federal Constituency, that it was wrong for him to parade himself as governor. The APC argued that the lawmaker could only become governor after Umahi had completed his tenure in 2023, and not through a disputable court ruling. The APC stated this in a statement signed by its Publicity Secretary, Ogbuatu Chidi Simba, a copy of which was made available to The PUNCH, on Saturday. The statement read, “The attention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Ebonyi State has been drawn to a broad daylight insanity and arrogation of the title “His Excellency” by Idu Igariwey to his name who claims to be Governor. “Ordinarily, we would have elected to remain calm but we see the need to make some clarifications as thus: “That Idu Igariwey is not the governor of Ebonyi State and can never be as no one has ever become Governor of a State through appointment since the return of democracy in Nigeria and as such should desist forthwith arrogating himself as the governor of Ebonyi State. “That if Idu Igariwe has the interest to contest which is not possible hence it is not the turn of Ebonyi South to produce the next governor of Ebonyi State, he should, first of all, resign his elective position as Member representing Afikpo North/Afikpo South Federal Constituency at the green chamber. “That he (Idu) should know that the office of the Governor is not for loafers and dementias but for men of great character, honor and willpower to take their immediate society to the next level. “That we are very much aware of the frustration that he (Idu) lost the grip of his constituents as a result of his brutish lifestyle and as such his desire to remain in power after 2023 election became truncated. “We are using this opportunity to remind Mr Idu Idariwe and those misleading him that Ebonyi State still has an active Governor, His Excellency, Engr Chief David Nweze Umahi whose tenure will end come 2023.
Henceforth, he should desist from arrogating himself with the name His Excellency and granting of a press release as the governor of Ebonyi State “That the good people of Ebonyi State are fully determined to defend the mandate which they gave to His Excellency, Engr Chief David Nweze Umahi within the breadth and length of the law if he continues to parade himself in this unlawful manner.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com