The Federal Government on Monday inaugurated the NEXIT/CBN agri-business small and medium enterprises investment scheme for exited N-Power beneficiaries in batches A and B. Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Sadiya Farouq, who inaugurated the scheme in Abuja, stated that out of the 467,183 trainees who indicated interest, 75,600 would participate in the first phase of the orientation programme. This, she said, was expected to lead up to the collection of loans of up to N3m from the Central Bank of Nigeria if they qualify. The minister, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary of her ministry, Bashir Alkali, said the move was part of the Federal Government’s efforts to eradicate poverty and sustain the National Social Investment Programmes. She congratulated the 467,183 trainees who indicated an interest in the NEXIT/CBN AGSMEIS programme from the 500,000 batches A and B exited beneficiaries. Farouq noted that this was the first of several other phases that would take place in all the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. She was quoted in a statement issued in Abuja as saying, “It has been my desire that the exited batches A and B N-Power graduate beneficiaries will not be left unattended to. “In different channels, I kept on assuring these teaming youths that the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development has worked very closely with the Central Bank of Nigeria to realise this dream. “Today marks the beginning of the fulfilment of this awaited training that will enable those beneficiaries that indicated interest to participate in the CBN empowerment programme.” The minister added, “For ease of coordination, this training programme will be conducted in phases. Let me also inform you that all 36 states and FCT are participating in this long-awaited NEXIT training programme. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com