The Nigerian Communication Commission says at least 195.4 million phone subscribers are in the country as of December 2021. NCC’s Executive Vice-Chairman, Prof. Umar Danbatta, disclosed this at the ongoing 43rd Kaduna International Trade Fair in Kaduna. He also noted that subscribers to Internet stood at 141 million, adding that with a broadband connection of 40.88 per cent, the nation’s social media space has continued to thrive. Saying that the telecommunication sector remains a strategic driver of the digital economy of the federal government, Danbatta also disclosed that the commission was set for the deployment of the fifth-generation network in Nigeria. According to him, unlike 1G, 2G, 3G and 4G, the 5G network will bring substantial network improvements, including higher connection speed, mobility and capacity, as well as low-latency capabilities to communications services in Nigeria. He said, “Telecommunications sector has been a strategic driver of the digital economy agenda of the Federal Government, as it continues to provide the needed digital sinews that support the economy, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic and its attendant restriction period. “In Nigeria, the number of active mobile subscriptions reached 195.4 million in December 2021 with Internet subscribers exceeding 141 million and a broadband penetration 40.88 per cent. “In this new environment, the competitiveness of Nigeria, for instance, depends on the ability to leverage new technologies. Hence, areas, where NCC’s regulatory efforts in deepening access to digital services will benefit Nigeria and make it competitively comparable to other economy, include direct job creation; contribution to Gross Domestic Product growth; the emergence of new services and industries; workforce transformation; and business innovation. “It is in our response to ensuring that Nigeria is competitive in all these areas that Commission continuously puts a number of regulatory measures in place to ensure seamless access by Nigerians to telecommunications services in order to deepen competitiveness of the Nigerian economy.” The NCC’s boss added, “As you may be aware, the NCC is on the verge of deployment of Fifth Generation (5G) network in Nigeria. Already, spectrum licenses for the companies that will rollout service shave been issued. “Though the deployment will start from the state capital sand gradually extends to other areas across the state, it is important to state that, unlike 1G, 2G, 3G and 4G, the 5G network will bring substantial network improvements, including higher connection speed, mobility and capacity, as well as low-latency capabilities to communications services in Nigeria. “More importantly, it is also our commitment at NCC to continue to provide a level-playing ground for operators to thrive, promote investment and delivery of innovative services to individual consumers, SMEs and big business owners by ensuring enhanced consumer quality of experience.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com