A member of the Imo state House of Assembly, Obinna Okwara, has defected to the Peoples Democratic Party from the All Progressives Congress. Okwara, who represents Nkwerre state Constituency, was among the six lawmakers whom the speaker, Kennedy Ibe, suspended in December for what he termed unparliamentary conduct. Okwara who spoke to newsmen on Thursday as his defection pictures and video were trending on social media platforms, said that what he did was a pre-notice to the APC of his intention to rejoin PDP at the expiration of his current tenure at the parliament. Okwara was seen in the trending videos picking his PDP membership card at the cheering of the party faithful. He told journalists that he had not made any official statement about the development nor communicated on the floor of the House. Okwara said, “people are free to say and believe anything from the video. “I have been sympathetic to the APC because of my love for Governor Hope Uzodinma but such should not be at the detriment of my political ambition. “I did everything within my power without fear or favor to support Uzodinma to succeed. Hence I supported all his policies and programmes. “I have intention to recontest for the state of Assembly in 2023 but I am not seeing any future in the APC on that so I am being left to take my faith by my hand. “So if I should rejoin the PDP, it is to enhance my 2023 political ambition. Remember I am a Democrat and founding member of PDP. “But about the rumor of my defection to PDP, yes I visited my friends in PDP and had some discussions with them. Details of what transpired may be made known later.” He accused the speaker of running a draconian type of leadership in the parliament. “Kennedy Ibe says one thing and does another. He has no regard for the legislative arm of the state and he is doing more harm than good to the Governor. Honestly, I am surprised by his attitude and everything about him now is shocking,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com