A group, Concerned Southern Kaduna All Progressives Congress Stakeholders, has called on the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir el-Rufai to support a power shift to the area in 2023. According to the group, in the spirit of equity and fair play, el-Rufai should support the call for APC to zone its governorship candidate to Southern Kaduna since the northern part would have held power for eight years of two terms by 2023. It would be recalled that the State Governor has been advocating for the Presidency to be zone to the South. It is in the same vein the Southern Kaduna APC stakeholders are appealing to el-Rufai to support a power shift to their region. A statement issued by the leader of the group, Joseph Bege Gaiya, said their commitment and support to mobilise the Kaduna electorate for the APC to win and sustain itself in power in the 2023 general election is active. He added that they will consolidate on the laudable legacy projects and strategic reforms el-Rufai brought. “We also want to associate ourselves with His Excellency, Governor el-Rufai’s call for equity and fairness for our great party to zone the Presidency to the Southern part of Nigeria in 2023, with the North having held power for eight years by 2023. “And our great party seems to have tinkered with this spirit of fairness, having zoned the National party Chairman position to the North, while the South is to produce the President. “Just like Nigeria which has six geo-political zones is politically carved into North and South based on the country’s power equation and treated as such, Kaduna State too, though made up of three Senatorial Zones is politically seen as Northern and Southern Kaduna. “It is in like manner that we hereby call on His Excellency, Governor Nasir el-Rufai to in the spirit of equity and fair play, support the call for our great party – the APC – for power to shift to Southern Kaduna for the office of the Governor in 2023, by then the Northern Kaduna would have held power for eight solid years of two terms. “By taking this uncommon step, it will go a long way in giving a sense of inclusiveness towards addressing the power equation in the state; and also help in bringing the whole of the Southern Kaduna fold into the APC fold, with the APC being the only opposition party that has made an unprecedented entry in the region from the 2015 governorship election, since the return of democracy in 1999. “It worthy of note that the Southern Kaduna region parade an array of credible candidates with sound academic records, experience, proven integrity and capacity to deliver beyond expectations in any office of governance, if given the chance. “The recent local government election has proven to be a litmus test that, APC has gained so much grounds that yielded votes and won, in some strongholds of the PDP, where APC has never won an election, since 1999. This is a statement of fact and bears no contestation that if power shifts to Southern Kaduna, APC will take over Kaduna in totality,” the group added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com