The year 2021 was climactic for cryptocurrency. But what will happen in 2022? The Covid pandemic was a big hit on lots of industries and businesses, but every cloud has a silver lining. People who were stuck at home for months on end, either working from home or on furlough, had time to study the ever-growing industry that is cryptocurrency. According to Crypto.com, 106 million people invested in cryptocurrencies in 2021 and there are many predictions that the industry will more than triple in the next eight years. Today appears to be the greatest time to invest. You might have already heard of some cryptocurrencies such as Fantom (FTM) and Polygon (MATIC). These are two quite reputable cryptos in the industry and Seesaw Protocol (SSW) aspires to reach this point of establishment on the market. The SSW cryptocurrency lets customers deploy their Seesaw Token between Binance (BNB), Polygon (MATIC) and Ethereum (ETH). This is highly beneficial to its users because it is not one, but three different platforms whereas some other cryptos only allow you to transfer via one platform. This allows customers to choose the platform with the lowest gas fee at the time. These transaction fees can be a significant amount sometimes, but Seesaw Protocol (SSW) will allow you to see what the smallest transaction fee is at that time by being connected to three different platforms. With Seesaw Protocol (SSW) the trading fees are small enough that a customer wouldn’t need to worry and for every transaction in the Seesaw network, a three per cent fee is distributed to existing holders of tokens. That means that customers can earn more Seesaw Token just by holding it in their wallets. A big difference between some current cryptocurrencies already on the market. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) is currently in presale with phase one of the presale just ending and phase two beginning now. What does this mean for you? By purchasing Seesaw Tokens (SSW) in presale, you are investing in Seesaw Token (SSW) at a lower price and helped secure a stake in its total supply. This means that when the demand increases and more people become aware of this crypto after launch in April, your holdings will be worth more. SSW has gained by 2160 per cent from its initial price of $0.005 to its current price of $0.113 and in a presale, this number can only go up. As stated at the beginning of this article, cryptocurrencies are becoming more and more popular. New generations are continually being informed about the benefits and profits of investing in the market. With all this in mind, it is crucial you check out Seesaw Protocol (SSW) and take advantage of what could be monumental crypto. SeeSaw Protocol (SSW) Enter Presale: https://presale.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol