A CNN award-winning journalist and Queen of Apomu Kingdom in Osun State, Janet Afolabi, has unveiled a book titled, ‘The masters who trained me’ in honour of her mentors. According to a statement by the author on Thursday, the book was unveiled at the Alapomu Palace Hall in Apomu, headquarters of Isokan Local Government Area of Osun State, as part of activities to mark the second coronation anniversary of Alapomu of Apomu, Oba Kayode Afolabi. Afolabi said the book was an acknowledgement of the excellent works of her mentors including Ray Ekpu, Dan Agbese, Yakubu Mohammed, Soji Akinrinade, Nosa Igiebor, and Dare Babarinsa. She added, “I wrote the book to honour these renowned journalists who trained, drilled and moulded me into someone with valuables skills. “They gave me a media platform to operate, explore and express myself. They gave me wings to fly in the winds of journalism travails and triumphs. I want to appreciate them while they are alive. I am expressing my gratitude by giving them a gift that will live after them. “The gift is in this book. My experience with each of them and the techniques of news writing they taught me are chronicled in the six chapters of the book.” According to the statement, the book was presented by the General Manager /Editor In Chief of Vanguard Newspapers, Gbenga Adefaye, who described the book as a book of tributes to the mentors who took Afolabi on the journey of learning to become a successful journalist. He said, “Olori Janet Afolabi can be regarded as a famous journalist and not just a journalist but an award-winning journalist who has won local and international awards. “She has set out to remember those who took her on the journey of learning to become a master and successful journalist. The book is a book of tributes to the mentors of Olori Janet. They guided, trained, and tutored her till she decided that their efforts deserve to be documented for posterity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com