The Federal Government has indicated its willingness to partner the Nigeria Computer Society on Artificial Intelligence to boost the nation’s economy. The PUNCH reports that Artificial Intelligence is the use of computer systems to perform tasks that normally requires human intelligence. Speaking in Lafia on Thursday at the maiden edition of Artificial Intelligence Summit, the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, who was represented by the Director, National Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, Yau Garba, said research of AI and other emerging technologies was ongoing with researchers in various universities across the country. He said, “AI is ushering new ways of planning, travelling and working. Its innovative use has been changing lives for the better, creating new jobs and augmenting some existing ones while entirely replacing others. AI is creating opportunities in areas like agriculture, health, logistics and security to mention but a few. “This summit provides a platform to discuss, promote and adopt AI to ensure rapid national development on emerging technology for the benefit of the nation. The ministry applauds the initiative of the Nigeria Computer Society and we are happy to be part of this programme. President of the Nigeria Computer Society, Adesina Sodiya, said the focus of the summit tagged ‘Artificial Intelligence For National Development’, was to enable, develop and expand Nigeria’s capability in AI, as integrating it in governance would trigger numerous activities such as better policy formulation, efficient decision making, increased work output and enhanced quality of service. “Recently, the NCS created many initiatives and programmes geared towards national development. Today we are witnessing another innovative programme aimed at impacting all areas of our economy. “AI is being implemented across the world to enhance the processes and activities of both the public and private sectors. Countries and businesses are now leveraging on the emerging technologies for better performance,” Sodiya said. Earlier, Governor of Nasarawa state, Abdullahi Sule, who was represented by his Deputy, Emmanuel Akabe, lauded the initiative of the NCS and appealed to them to assist the government in training residents of the state in a bid to increase their knowledge in the technological innovation. He said, “Recent research has estimated that Artificial Intelligence is an accelerator for innovation and economic growth. The world today is a global village and it depends largely on Information and Communication Technology. “We in Nasarawa state want to key in with the dynamics of the changing world so I am appealing that you extend your training to us, particularly on Artificial Intelligence.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com