The Commissioner, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Displaced Persons, Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim’s advocacy against Internally Displaced Persons  perpetual stay in camps across the country is indeed an innovative thinking that should be applauded and supported by government at all levels and development partners. Displacement is a life-changing event. While the often traumatic experience of displacement cannot be undone, internally displaced persons need to be able to resume a normal life by achieving a durable solution. According to the Commissioner, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Displaced Persons, a durable solution is achieved when the IDPs no longer have specific assistance and protection needs that are linked to their displacement and such persons can enjoy their human rights without discrimination resulting from their displacement. As articulated in Principle 28 of the Guiding Principles on Internal Displacement of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refuge, the IDPs have a right to a durable solution and often need assistance in their efforts. The Guiding Principles 28-30 set out the rights of the IDPs to durable solutions, the responsibilities of national authorities, and the role of humanitarian and development actors to assist durable solutions. However, a durable solution also does not imply that the IDPs no longer require any kind of assistance or support. “Instead, a durable solution indicates that the IDPs’ needs are no different from those of the non-displaced population, which may still very well require interventions by development and human rights actors. “Durable solutions should therefore not be confused with decision-making on when actors providing specific assistance and protection to IDPs operationally disengage from a context, although analysis using the indicator library can also help inform this decision in a responsible manner, she disclosed in a media interview,.” Competent authorities have the primary duty and responsibility to establish conditions, as well as provide the means, which allow the IDPs to return voluntarily, in safety and with dignity, to their homes or places of habitual residence, or to resettle voluntarily in another part of the country. Securing durable solutions for the internally displaced is also in the State’s best interests. As pointed out, “Leaving the IDPs in continued marginalisation without the prospect of a durable solution may become an obstacle to long-term peace stability, recovery and reconstruction in post-crisis countries. “Facilitating durable solutions requires that all stakeholders, including national and local authorities as well as humanitarian and development actors, work together, identify the right strategies and activities to assist IDPs in this process, and set criteria that will help to determine to what extent a durable solution has been achieved.” Towards accomplishing this exit strategy, the NCFRMI has begun training and empowerments for these persons of concern aimed at making them useful to themselves and society and in turn, add to the economic development of the country. Some of these hands-on strategies are: Project Skill Up: Project Skill up is an initiative designed to give Persons of Concern requisite skills in ICT, creative arts, handworks such as carpentry, masonry etc. The Commission has partnered iCreate Revolution Africa Limited and others in the implementation of the training programmes. After receiving the necessary skills, participants have also been given starter packs to launch their businesses. Other participants have been profiled and training will commence soon. Project NCFRMI GoDigital: The Commission has also partnered NITDA for the training of 10,000 IDPs in ICT appreciation skills. 200 participants have completed the training and were handed devices in the form of electronic tabs to start operating as digital entrepreneurs. In the same vein, the NITDA DG, Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi, added that  government wanted to begin talent hunt and innovation challenge in the IDP camps to enable the IDPs generate ideas that would help them to solve problems in their environments. He noted that the country had a target of achieving paperless government by 2030 and would not want any citizen to be left behind. “That is why we are training different categories of people. We have trained people living with disabilities, because the future is digital and to excel in life, people have to use digital technology.” It is commendable that the NCFRMI has placed high priority on the IDPs and that is why the commission wants an inclusive digital entrepreneurship that will equip them with skills and come up with their own startups. Aside from that, the commission has consolidated a partnership with Innoson Group to train selected Persons of Concern in various aspects of automobile engineering/repairs and manufacturing such as auto mechanic, auto electrical electronics, auto spray painting, auto fabrication and welding, and a general introduction to Information Communication Technology and auto diagnostics. All persons of concern deserve equal opportunities along with every Nigerian and should be given the chance to rise above their circumstances. The Commission is partnering relevant partners to ensure that they rise to greater heights with self-confidence among their peers through the provision of scholarship opportunities to qualified PoCs to further their education. The NCFRMI has committed to the rehabilitation, reintegration and resettlement of all Persons of Concern. It has also commenced the pilot phase of the Resettlement City Project which entails building resettlement cities that targeted an initial four states of Borno, Katsina, Edo and Zamfara states, each city with 400 houses, a primary healthcare centre, educational learning centre, skills acquisition centre, recreational area and a solar powered borehole. These efforts are pragmatic ways of ensuring that the persons of concerns are sustainably independent to cater to themselves and their families. However, as a sociologist, Dr James Onah, observed, human and financial resources are required for the exit strategy. According to him, strategies and action plans should consider that camp closure requires significant human and financial resources. Some processes may require long term resource mobilisation, such as those related to rehabilitation and access to basic services at the community level. The drive to transit IDPs from state of dependency to independency has begun and the large chunk of these persons of concerns have embraced it. Eze, a public affairs analyst, wrote in from Abuja via ezejustice88@yahoo.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com