Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar Tuesday in Abuja declared that he has the mental and physical energy to serve the party and Nigerians as President. He also said his passion for the country is the driving force for seeking the Peoples Democratic Party’s ticket for office of the president. Atiku stated this during a meeting with the party’s House of Representatives Minority Caucus in Abuja where he sought their support. Describing the legislature as the most sensitive organ of Nigeria’s democracy, he said although the PDP is in the minority in the 9th National Assembly, this won’t be the case in the next assembly. According to him, “When we get to power I want to work in harmony with the National Assembly and protect constitutional independence and freedom. Most of the changes we want to bring require constitutional adjustment and that can not happen without cooperation with the national assembly. “I want to ensure a smooth and careful legislative process. I will give my best and work with politicians and great resource people in our party, I have the mental and physical energy to serve our party to the fullest. “Above all, it is my passion for the progress of this country that drives my quest for the Presidency of this country.” Reeling out his resume, the 2019 presidential candidate said he has experience at the highest and lowest levels. He argued that as vice president, he ensured many progressive and national transformations and constitutional law. As a businessman, he said he has solved grassroots problems and provided jobs for thousands of people. He explained, “I am designing a policy document that will guide effectively in the implementation of our solution. The policy document is now undergoing review. I want to work with you, to collect your feedback and input. “You will be the one that will transition our party from being the minority party to the majority party. PDP will be the majority party in the next national assembly and we will deliver progress and development for the people. “I recognise your immense influence on our great party and my respect for you is beyond measure. That is why I chose you to be among the first set of people that I will be meeting to personally declare my intention to contest for the President of Nigeria in 2023. “Therefore I humbly present myself to you and seek your support to win our party’s Presidential ticket. PDP is in a better position to offer Nigerians that desirable and competent leadership. That is what I want to offer, I want to offer solutions to our problems, but we have to do it together.” He said PDP’s victory depends on the candidate it produces at the primary elections at all levels. “That Is why we must choose those that can easily win at the secondary election,” he urged. In his remarks, the House of Representatives Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu, said the PDP needs unity to oust the governing All Progressives Congress in 2023. According to him, “we do not doubt that you have the mental and physical capacity needed to drive the PDP to win the election. “But what we have always said is that we are not happy with the way we are not trying to unite ourselves. What is important is that we must unite ourselves to take over from the APC-led government.” As he said in February when approached by the former Senate President, Anyim Anyim, Elumelu stressed the need for all Presidential aspirants to eschew assaults or attack on each other because “it will not help us”. He loathed the APC that, he said, “came with all manners of lies, they came that they will turn one naira to one dollar, they came that they will give us quality education, they came that they will guarantee the security of lives and property, they came that they will write off all our debts. But today, they are trying to mortgage our country with so many loans. “The hope for Nigeria in 2023 and beyond is in the PDP, and I believe we can make it happen”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com