Veteran Nollywood actor and filmmaker, Emmanuel Anyalogu, speaks with GODFREY GEORGE about his experience raising his children In your experience, what does it mean to be a father? Fatherhood, for me, is as spiritual as it is physical. It is also psychological and social. It is a total embodiment of the transfer of values from father to son and from one generation to another. In the ancient Igbo, according to the late Chinua Achebe, in his book, Arrow of God, he wrote, “The thing my father told me is akin to swearing an oath!” When your father says a thing to you, it is an oath that you have sworn. Transferring values acquired from one generation to another is fatherhood. It also involves caretaking, teaching the children the proper way of life. Do not forget that in Igbo land, there is also this proverb that states, “He that hears the cry of a child should not cover his ears because the child does not belong to one person.” I remember when we were growing up in the 70s, there were things you did and a neighbour would flog you very well. My father, who was a medical practitioner, and my mother, who was a headmistress, would thank the person very well. I don’t know if it was because my mother was a teacher, but my mother would continue the discipline in the house. She’d say I went out to disgrace her in public. My point is that there was a burden of responsibility on everyone to discipline you if you committed a wrong even before your parents would discipline you. Now, you would see people watch a child misbehaving and do nothing about it because they don’t want the problem of the child’s parents. That is why we have thieves and bandits. Children taking hard drugs and nobody is doing anything. The Bible, in Proverbs 23, said to use the rod and beat out foolishness out of the child; the child will not die crying. Now, we see parents go to school to beat teachers when they flog their children. Fatherhood has been disrupted. An ideal father should be able to transfer proper values to his children. What do you think is responsible for the societal transition from the time when raising a child was the responsibility of the entire community and now when people feel what other people’s children do doesn’t concern them? There is a bigger picture and a smaller one. The world has been decaying from the so-called leaders of the world. There was a country that said they didn’t want prayers on the assembly grounds anymore. I can still remember the prayers we used to have when we were in secondary school in Onitsha, “Oh God, our father, thou searcher of our hearts, help us to draw nigh to thee in sincerity and in truth. “May our religion be filled with gladness in our worship of thee, the natural! Strengthen and increase our admiration for an honest living and clean thinking, and suffer not our hatred of hypocrisy and pretentious living. Help us in our endeavours to choose the harder right instead of the easier wrong, and never be content with half-truth, when the whole can be enough!” This was a prayer I prayed as a child from 1977 to 1982 in Onitsha, and it has shaped my life as an adult. Then, imagine when a country says they don’t want prayers again on their assembly grounds. When you tell God to get out, He does. That is why we are hearing a lot of queer things. You’ll hear that a son rapes his sister; a father rapes his daughter; an uncle has sex with his brother’s daughter and it goes on. That is what you get. What stops Nigeria from saying: “We would not be influenced by this way of life.” People keep saying ‘Ubuntu’; what is the meaning of Ubuntu if it does not reflect on our culture and our originality as decent people? If the world is rotting towards its own destruction, must we follow it to rot away? I know that even in the present day, in spite of the things we are seeing, there are some girls who are getting married at the age of 28 as virgins. I connected one to one of my friends in Togo the other day. How come she was able to keep herself even in this present day? Didn’t she have uncles who wanted to defile her? Was it her or was it society? There are a plethora of activities. The truth is that society is becoming very decadent. At the same time, good can come out of that decadence. He that is good will be good and he that has decided to roll down the slope of destruction would do so. Looking at the world which is mixed with both the good and the bad, how do you think a father can properly transfer good values to his kids? We agree that there is a lot of decadence but there are pockets of family values that a father must not fail to give his children. This is where you would begin to properly appreciate the family system or where you begin to appreciate the individual since the family is made up of the individual. If it is right in the soul, there would be beauty in the person; if there is beauty in the person, there would be harmony in the home; if there is harmony in the home, there would be order in the nation; if there is order in the nation, there would be peace in the world. So, it starts from the soul, the individual. As I am, I am able to instil into my children values I got from my own parents that helped me. These are the same values they (my parents) got from their own parents, which also came from their own parents and it goes on. The Bible says we should train up a child in the way that he would go, and when (s)he is old, he would not depart from it. If I am able to imbibe strongly these values in them, they would be able to withstand the negative influence of society. It is very unfortunate that most adults who grew up under very strict parents choose to become depraved at the age of 40 or 45. It is that depravity that they would transfer to their children. I smoked cigarettes for 24 years. I stopped smoking in 2007 when it was beginning to affect my health. So, when I hear a lot of people say they are addicted to these hard drugs and cannot stop, it shows they are enjoying it. You can control everything in your body! So, what are these values that you have inculcated in your children that you’d like to share with other fathers or would-be fathers? There is the value of putting God first. Secondly, one must have love for oneself. I am not talking about narcissism, no. I am talking about love for yourself. Third would be love for your neighbour, altruism and selflessness. At all times, consider your peace of mind supreme. For you to do so, you would do the things that would not have your conscience prick you. Nobody has a dead conscience. Why do you think people take marijuana? It is to deaden the conscience. But you can train your child in such a way that he would listen to the conscience. Even the pastor that is flying the aeroplane up and down, his conscience is telling him that he is scamming people. Do you think he does not know? I’d like to add that children don’t do what they are told; they do what they see their parents do. I always tell my children to remember the father they have. My father worked with Mary Slessor, but his own father was a terrible Ohafia warrior, who was famous in his days for decapitating people for sacrifices. So, imagine that one of his children will break away from that background to go work with Mary Slessor. I tell them this story and tell them to choose the better option. There is an Igbo proverb that says “As it is in the house of the rat, so it is in the house of the squirrel.” It is an all-around thing. How do you handle difficult children? Parents need to study their children. I have a wife who does not believe that you should cane children, and I grew up with a cane. As I am talking to you, I have this cane which teachers use. I have them in bunches in my house tied with a rubber band. But my wife doesn’t like this. She believes that you should talk to a child. When my children were growing up, I used to cane them a few strokes. One day, my wife withstood me and said a particular one did not need flogging. There are some of your children whom you flog and you hate yourself for flogging them. When they are crying or lamenting, your heart would crash to pieces and you’d begin to argue with yourself. My wife told me that he was the type that listens and should not be caned. But there are some that only the fear of the cane makes them not to behave naughtily. I had to listen to my wife. The canes are still there for a reminder, but somewhere along the line, I started talking to the one that needed to be talked to. The ones that still get stubborn, I would bang my hand on the table and ask for a cane, and he or she would simply come to order. I had to learn it because of the wife I married in this modern time. Most parents tend to expect too much from their kids and this makes them start to compare their kids with other kids out there, and as these kids grow older, it affects the esteem of the child. How best would you address this issue? First, parents must understand that they are the spiritual heads of their children. Every word they utter on the child must come to pass. If your child offends you and you call him stupid, what the devil does is to meet God and says, “Holy one, his mother said he is stupid. Please, permit me to fulfil his mother’s wish.” God is a just God, remember? Some parents would curse their children and you’d begin to wonder if they were the ones who gave birth to them. That is why pastors are having a swell day with money because some parents made stupid utterances on their children when they were growing up. Secondly, comparing children with others is wrong. There is a lacuna somewhere. My last son in the house has some asthmatic complications. You cannot fry onions near him or sweep dust near him, but he cooks well. By the time he gets married, no woman can mess with him because of food. My wife made sure that every one of them learnt how to cook well. I am always on my laptop working because I am a scriptwriter and a researcher. They grew up always seeing my writing, then they cannot be outside whiling away their time. They do what they see you doing, not what they say. All my scripts I have ever written or acted in Nollywood, my children have all read them. Sometimes, they join me to do the brainstorming for a script together and all I have to do is dialoguing. As a parent, you are the one to prepare the child for life. How do you handle disagreement in the family? A lot of damaged boys that we have did not just only see their father beating up their mother; they also saw their father challenging their mother so much that they hated it and decided subconsciously that no girl would ever do that to them. The best way is to conquer her with love. Love her into weakness. Love her and make her knees turn jelly unless she is a witch, who, no matter what you do, would remain who they are. For those ones, you need to go for deliverance (laughs). How do you handle sibling rivalry in the family so it doesn’t begin to seem like you have favourites? Is it right for parents to have favourite children? It is not proper to have a favourite child. Secondly, the issue of sibling rivalry is caused by laxity on the path of the parents. Parenting, fatherhood is not easy. It is not just about making children. When you want to get married, properly prepare for fatherhood. Don’t get into marriage and start having children before making the preparations. Each child must have equal love. Be conscious of the way you share things when you buy gifts. Don’t ever make the mistake of making it seem like one is more loved or more important than the other. It would create a problem that may get out of control in the long run. You need the wisdom to handle your children. Some of them want to show that they are daddy’s favourite, don’t let it. If any of them does something wrong, don’t vilify him in front of the other siblings.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com