Actress, Oby Kechere, who is most popularly known for her role as ‘Ms Koi Koi’ in the comedy movie, Aki Na Ukwa, has said that only mediocre actors feel threatened by cabals in the movie industry. She told  , “One can only be successful in Nollywood if one knows one’s onions. It is not about belonging to any cabal. No marketer or producer is ready to run at a loss by engaging actors that cannot deliver on their roles just because they belong to the same cabal. Only mediocre actors use that phrase to cover up their inefficiency.” On some of the challenges she faces in her career, Kechere, who also works with the National Orientation Agency, said, “The major challenge I face is that of people not differentiating between my careers as an actress and a civil servant. People think as an actor, one’s job ends in Nollywood. “I currently work with the National Primary Health Care Development Agency on the importance and benefits of vaccination. It is a collaboration with the National Orientation Agency, where I head the drama unit known as Theatre For Development .” On how she has been able to effectively combine both careers, she said, “My work with NOA and my acting career go hand-in-hand. It has been such that one cannot do without the other. I was employed (at NOA) because of my acting talent. I was brought in to head the drama unit.” Asked what changes she would like to see in the movie industry, she said, “I would like to see more involvement on the part of the government by way of investments. The movie industry is actually very critical in the area of addressing national issues. “In addition, I would like to applaud actors in Nollywood for a job well done. Many Nigerian movies are now being featured on Netflix and other international video streaming platforms. I encourage everyone in Nollywood to continue working hard for us to make an indelible mark in the international scene like the music industry.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com