Stallion NMN Limited, the exclusive representative of the Nissan brand in Nigeria, has officially unveiled the Nissan Navara pickup truck to its Nigerian customers. At an event held in Lagos attracted individuals from the private sector and government circles, the company highlighted the special features that have made the latest Navara pickup truck customers’ delight. The General Manager, Stallion NMN Limited, Mr. Amit Sharma, described the launch of the new Navara as a continuation of his company’s journey towards transforming Nigeria into a notable hub for manufacturing and distribution of Nissan vehicles. According to him, Stallion-Nissan is ever conscious of what he described as Nigeria’s incredibly huge potential, hence its resolve to keep investing in the nation’s automobile industry. He stated that in 2013, Stallion NMN Limited, a subsidiary of Stallion Group, partnered with Nissan Motor Corporation with the aim of transforming Nigeria into a notable hub for manufacturing and distribution of Nissan vehicles. Notwithstanding the prevailing global economic challenges occasioned by the pandemic, Amit assured Nigerians that Nissan would not relent in its efforts to bring the best of auto innovation, affordable and tropically-modified vehicles to Nigerians. “With our esteemed customers, we are ready to take the brand to the next level,’’ he assured. Stallion-Nissan, according to Sharma, has embarked on new model introductions, covering a range of passenger, commercial and other specialised vehicles for the benefit of individuals, government departments and businesses in Nigeria. One of them, he stated further, is the all-new Nissan Navara, which was being launched. ‘Interestingly, the new Navara, which is now available for sale in the country, comes with capability to withstand even the toughest tropical terrains of Nigeria. Do you know why? It is made in Africa for Africa. It is tough and smart. In fact, it is the toughest Navara Nissan has ever built,’’ he added Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com