A consultant pathologist at the Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, Dr. Waheed Oluogun, on Wednesday said death of the late Master’s student of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ile, Timothy Adegoke was caused by severe haemorrhage secondary to severe traumatic injury. Oluogun, the fifth prosecution witness, being led in evidence by the prosecution counsel, M. Omosun, told the court that he undertook post-mortem on the deceased on November 22, 2021 alongside six other experts. He said he was present at the scene where the corpse of the deceased was exhumed on November 15, 2021, at a place located along Ile-Ife/Ede Road. He said, “While exhuming the body, it was found to be completely wrapped in a blood stained duvet without exposing any part of the body. It was found in a supine position with two different ropes, one around the neck, the other around the ankles. “There were maggots found around the left side of the head up to the entire left upper limb. The body was taken to mortuary section of UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital, Osogbo. The body was identified by his brother, Adegoke Olugbade. At our teaching hospital, we planned for post mortem examination to know the cause of death. On the November 22, 2021, seven pathologists came for the examination. “A pre-autopsy meeting was held. The autopsy started around 2.25pm. X-tray was done in UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital, which revealed fracture of right thigh bone. On external examination, we received an adult black man. There was a circum clean cut wound on the left side of left chest wall measuring 6 by 4 cm close to the left armpit. “The soft tissue around that area showed marked tissue reaction measuring 32 by 13cm. On internal examination, there was generalised autolysis of internal organs with striking generalised organ pallor. There was blood clot in the right chest cavity. There was fracture of left hyoid bone of the neck with the fracture of the right cricoids cartilage.” Oluogun concluded, “I certify the cause of death to be severe haemorrhage secondary to severe traumatic injury.” Justice Adepele Ojo adjourned the matter till Thursday for continuation of hearing.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com