The All Progressives Congress’ Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee, chaired by Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, will on Thursday (today) meet with the APC Caucus in the Senate. President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, issued a notice of meeting, signed by the Majority Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi, at the close of plenary on Wednesday. The meeting, which was supposed to be held Tuesday at the National Assembly, is now slated to be held Thursday (today) at the National Secretariat of the APC. Lawan said, “There will be an APC Senate Caucus meeting with the CECPC at the National Headquarters on Thursday, March 24, 2022. “Buses conveying distinguished Senators will leave by 3:30 pm at the Senate entrance. Venue is Blantyre Street, Wuse 2, Abuja. Time: 4 pm.” Meanwhile, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, on Wednesday, said a meeting between the House APC Caucus and a former Governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha, had been postponed indefinitely. Okorocha, a member of the Senate, is contesting for presidency in the 2023 general elections. Though Gbajabiamila did not disclose the purpose of the meeting, he said it might be suspended till after the national convention of the APC scheduled for Saturday or after the Ramadan fasting period. Meanwhile, an aspirant for National Chairman of the APC, Saliu Mustapha, has stated that the ruling party is in dire need of a chairman who can galvanise all party members across the country to victory in the forthcoming elections. Mustapha, who met with the House APC Caucus in Abuja on Wednesday, said without such a chairman, the party might be unable to win the elections. The aspirant said as National Chairman of the APC, he would introduce a policy that would ensure that women and youths occupy the position of deputies irrespective of whoever is contesting the main seats. According to Mustapha, this will give women and youths a pride of place and will build them for leadership positions, both in the party and in the government. The aspirant said his leadership would enthrone a periodic consultation with members of the National Assembly, as part of efforts to strengthen the party at all levels. Mustapha also disclosed his plan to establish a Progressives Institute for the APC under his leadership of the party. The Turakin of Ilorin added that he would introduce a peer review mechanism and a process of ensuring that the achievement of all APC lawmakers were documented at the Progressives Institute for others to learn from. Mustapha pointed out that the APC was at a crucial stage of transition and needed someone with a lot of experience to put the party on a winning path once again. The Majority Leader of the House, Alhassan Ado-Doguwa, said Mustapha had made a lot of sacrifices for the emergence of the APC, especially during the merger process. Ado-Doguwa noted that the aspirant was part of the team of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change, one of the legacy parties that merged to form the APC. The majority leader assured the candidate that the APC in the House was not only united, but will be united behind a single candidate during the convention, saying, “If we give you our support here, just go home and sleep, but don’t close your eyes.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com