No fewer than 300 women from Dukku and Nafada Local Government Areas on Sunday benefitted from N10,000 presented by the member of the House of Representatives Aishatu Dukku as empowerment. Dukku said the empowerment programme was intended to enhance the domestic businesses of women in the area, adding that there it would be continuous as the second phase is underway. According to her, the economic hardship that has bedevilled the globe has pushed a lot of families into poverty, stressing that as a reason for the distribution. The lawmaker lauded the state Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, and his wife, Hajiya Asma’u, who were present at the occasion for creating an enabling environment for women in the state to make meaningful contributions to the governance of the State. Dukku said, “Governor Inuwa’s administration has been executing many projects in the constituency especially, those that were aimed at uplifting the educational standard of girls.” On his part, Governor Yahaya, assured of his administration’s efforts in prioritising girls’ education in Dukku and Nafada LGAs, especially in the execution of some projects with the provision of water. Yahaya who promised to dredge all the water dams in Dukku LGA because of their age-long challenges of potable water also commissioned an ongoing rehabilitation of all boreholes from Gombe Abba river into Dukku town. While lauding the lawmaker for the empowerment programme, Governor Yahaya promised to continuously work together with her towards improving the lives of the constituents. Also speaking, wife of the Governor, Asma’u Yahaya, said the empowerment would go a long way in alleviating the problems faced by women in the home front considering their position as homemakers and nation builders. She also warned the women against the misuse of the funds given to them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com