Gombe State Government has approved N253 million for automation of accounting system across the 11 LGAs of the state. The State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Jalo Waziri, made this disclosure on Thursday during a press briefing on the take-off of the automation system. In line with global practice of ensuring accountability and transparency in fiscal operations, Waziri  said, “We are in a technology age virtually, so the need to ensure that activities are automated. It will give us efficiency, accountability”. Also Speaking, the Commissioner for Finance, Muhammad Magaji, explained that the reforms would help accounting procedures at the local government level, in the prudent management of scarce resources. According to him, with this, the International Public Sector Accounting Standard would be operational in the state. Magaji said, “For us in Gombe, we are not waiting because we want to see ourselves as pioneers. His Excellency has approved that we engage a consultant; he is adding to it to see that we have a software to ensure that all our accounting books are brought together”. He added that the consultant should be given the required support towards delivering in record time, adding that the state government would reward local governments especially those with performing drive in the local government physical transparency accountability programme. “Staff will be trained to be able to use this software and to be able to migrate from cash basis to accrual basis. “There will be seamless migration, I want us all to support them and to continue to support the government because the governor has emphasised the need to dovetail State Transparency Accountability and Sustainability Programme to the local government. “It will be a competition between local government to see which local government is able to apply with this new system better among themselves; it will be on a reward basis,” Magaji remarked. On his part, consultant Prof. Ahmed Bello, while stressing the cost implication on the government, said the N253m would be considerable, going by the size of the LGs. He revealed that he would provide a minimum of eight desktop computers, with internet, solar facilities and the installation of software. Bello said, “We are being economical because the state has only 11 local governments. Why I am saying this is, so that someone doesn’t call to say he wants for his state at N253m that can’t be possible for a state with more LGA’s. “This involves supplying a minimum of eight computers that will do the work for each of the local government areas; each with its UPS and other accessories – besides that, we will provide solar, inverter in order to ensure there is light.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com