A non-governmental organisation, Newbreath Gracegivers Foundation, has said it would promote family health through the provision of periodic health awareness and medical services to less privileged and indigent citizens in the state. The founder of NGF, Mr Moradeyo Olugbenro, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday, decrying the deficient healthcare available to rural residents. He said, “Today, health care services amongst others are highly deficient despite government’s intervention and efforts. Many people, especially in the rural and remote places where there is little or no access to health care facilities, have needlessly lost their loved ones because of inadequacy in medicare. “Our foundation was established to provide medical services and health care support for the less privileged in the society and enrich life through highly subsidised or almost free cost. “We will promote family health through periodic health awareness and medical services and committed to general awareness of health challenges which claim many lives and how to prevent them.” The co-founder of the group, Mrs Omolara Moradeyo, said the NGF will also provide scholarships for intelligent but indigent students. “Another vital area where the poor are disadvantaged is access to quality education; many children are seen hawking or playing around when their mates are in the school. These are great threats to the society and the future of our beloved nation. The government schools available are few compared to the number of indigent students attending.” “To this end, the foundation will also care for indigent students who are brilliant but cannot afford their school fees by providing full scholarship to them after successful application process and we seek the support of individuals and groups,” she said. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com