…as Eguavoen releases Eagles list next week Super Eagles players’ squad list for this month’s Qatar 2022 World Cup qualifying playoff clash against Ghana will be out next week, a team official in the Nigeria Football Federation has said. The Eagles will travel to face the Black Stars on March 25 in Cape Coast, before hosting the second leg four days later at the Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abuja. The official revealed the list will be released two weeks before the first leg in Ghana. “The coaches are finalising their list and must agree on some players to prosecute the games but I think the list should be out next week, FIFA stipulates two weeks before the game clubs should be notified but we just have to wait for the NFF to make it official. “We know those that will be coming for the games and the players also know themselves.” Our correspondent gathered that the game may be too soon for Watford midfielder Oghenekaro Etebo, who recently returned to action with the Hornets U-23 team after a five months injury layoff. Trio Peter Olayinka, Henry Onyekuru and Olisa Ndah, who were late inclusions to the Eagles squad to the recent Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon, may be dropped from the squad for the crucial World Cup qualifier, while quartet Victor Osimhen, Paul Onuachu, Emmanuel Dennis and Odion Ighalo are set to return to the squad for the game. All four strikers have been in impressive form for their respective clubs. Eguavoen is expected to include Moses Simon, Ahmed Musa, Leicester City trio Wilfred Ndidi, Kelechi Iheanacho and Ademola Lookman, Watford defender William Troost-Ekong, Glasgow Rangers midfielder Joe Aribo, Frank Onyeka and Ola Aina in his squad for the tie. Meanwhile, the Eagles are expected to resume camp in Abuja on March 21, ahead of the play-off tie. Nantes forward Simon should be one of the earliest in camp on March 21, three days after Nantes play Lille. Al Hilal striker Ighalo is expected to arrive same day, after featuring for his side against Al-Ahli Saudi on March 18. England-based players Onyeka, Ndidi, Iheanacho and Lookman, who recently switched allegiance to Nigeria, will also arrive early as Leicester City play Brentford on March 19, while the Watford’s Troost-Ekong and Dennis, as well as Everton’s Iwobi, are expected in on March 22, as the Hornets and Toffees clash March 20. Italy-based Osimhen and Ola Aina will be expected from March 22 as Napoli clash with Udinese March 20, while Torino are away to Genoa. Speaking ahead of the game Eguavoen said, “We will try to bring what we know best how to do and discuss together, and then come up with a strategy and go and play. “They (Nigerians) don’t expect anything less, because it’s like a final game at the tournament. With the expertise of Emmanuel Amuneke, Joseph Yobo and the other guys and of course myself, it’s a very good combination.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com