Russia’s apprehension about the West’s presence at its border sparks mistrust, leading to the attack on Ukraine, which has attracted condemnation across the globe ADELANI ADEPEGBA writes The Russian economy has begun to feel the blowback of President Vladmir Putin’s attack  on Ukraine with its currency, the ruble, losing about 25 per cent of its value barely a week after the Russian military bombarded the major cities of its neighbour by air, land and sea. As the various economic sanctions slammed against Moscow took their toll, reports said Russians were rushing to withdraw their deposits from banks. Analysts submit that the economy could shrink by five per cent. Russia is a leading exporter of oil and gas, but many other sectors of its economy rely on imports. As the value of the ruble falls, these commodities will become much more expensive to buy, pushing up inflation. So far, restrictions have been placed on 13 major Russian enterprises and companies. Some of them include RusHydro and Russian Railway. Sanctions have also been placed on Russian oligarchs and their families, including those who have close ties to the Russian president. Major Russian companies have been barred from raising finances in the United Kingdom. Aeroflot, a Russian airline, has been banned from British airspace just as Russia responded by banning British Airlines from flying into Russian airspace. Last Sunday, BP, the British energy company, announced that it would divest its 20 per cent stake in Rosneft, the state-owned Russian energy giant, even though it will entail a big financial loss. Then, on Monday,  another energy company, Shell, announced that it, too, was cutting ties with Russia. The London-based firm said it would exit the oil and gas joint ventures with Gazprom, the Russian energy conglomerate, and also end its involvement with the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia to Germany. When Europe’s oil barons abandon Russia and its vast energy reserves, the geo-political and geo-economic map would be redrawn. More than 60 Russian individuals and entities that have links to the Kremlin have been banned while export permits to Russia have been canceled. Sanctions announced by the Canadian Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau also target the entire Russian Security Council. The Czech Republic announced the speeding up of the process of the country’s exit from two international banks set up in the Soviet Era. The European Union plans on freezing all of President Putin’s European assets and also, Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. The UEFA Champions League finals have been moved from St. Petersburg to Paris. The multi-billion dollar Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project has also been suspended. Washington, meanwhile, intensified its economic offensive by imposing a freeze on the Central Bank of Russia’s assets held in US financial institutions. The Treasury Department also prohibited any American citizen, including American banks and businesses, from engaging in transactions with Russia’s Central Bank, finance ministry, or sovereign wealth fund. “This action effectively immobilises any assets of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation held in the United States or by US persons, wherever located,” the Treasury said in a statement announcing the new policy. In London, the UK government has introduced a policy along the same lines. The barrage of sanctions climaxed when the US, the European Union, the UK and Canada said they would expel some Russian banks from SWIFT, a global financial messaging service, and paralyze the assets of Russia’s central bank. The much touted $630bn  reserve Putin was banking on to withstand the shocks to the economy and finance his war in Ukraine may also be in jeopardy following the slew of financial restrictions. Many have wondered why Putin, who has been in power since May, 2000 when he took over from Boris Yeltsin, invaded Ukraine.  It is believed that the former intelligence officer harbours an expansionist ambition as he craves to recreate the Soviet-era influence his predecessors enjoyed before the collapse of the United Socialist Soviet Republic, which was made up of 15 republics: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan. Belarus, along with several other former Soviet republics, has had Kremlin-friendly leaders. But Ukraine broke from the pattern in 2014 when its democratically elected officials moved the country toward the West. The then-pro-Russia president, Viktor Yanukovych, fled to Moscow in what became known as the Maidan revolution. But as Ukraine sought to step out of Russia’s sphere of influence, Putin increasingly sought to draw it back. Following the revolution, he started carving up Ukraine, declaring areas like the Donbas to be Russian because many people there speak Russian and have Russian passports. Abetting rebels in Crimea, the Russian army invaded and annexed the peninsula from Ukraine. Putin formally incorporated Crimea as two Russian federal subjects-the Republic of Crimea and the federal city of Sevastopol on March 18, 2014. The annexation prompted international outrage and was condemned by the United Nations and the EU. Putin in April 2008 opposed moves by Ukraine to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, a military alliance between 28 European countries and two North American countries dedicated to preserving peace and security in the North Atlantic area. The group had during its summit debated about extending a Membership Action Plan to Ukraine to pave way for its membership of NATO but Putin, while opposing the offer, allegedly told President George Bush that Ukraine is “not even a real nation-state.” The conflict between the two countries was reported to have claimed over 14,000 lives. Russia’s strained relations with Ukraine suffered a big blow in April 2019, when Volodymyr Zelenskyy, a former comedian, overwhelmingly defeated the pro-Russia incumbent, Petro Poroshenko in a presidential election. Zelenskyy’s party also won a majority of seats in the parliament, the first in Ukrainian history. Early in 2021, Zelenskyy cracked down on pro-Russian Ukrainian oligarchs, including Viktor Medvedchuk, a close friend of Putin. Subsequently, Putin deployed increasing numbers of troops near the Ukrainian border and published an article claiming that Russians and Ukrainians are “one people.’’ The Russian leader demanded guarantees from NATO and the US that Ukraine must never be admitted to NATO – a request rejected by the Joe Biden administration. Russia fears NATO’s expansion to Eastern Europe threatens its national security. On February 22, 2022, Putin recognised two separatist territories located in the Donbas region-Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics. Seeing that his scorched earth policy against Ukraine was not achieving the expected outcomes, Putin ordered a full military assault against Ukraine on February 24 claiming it was meant to ‘’demilitarise and denazify’’ the Eastern Europe nation. The invasion which began in the eastern Ukrainian territory of Donbas came days after Russia recognized the breakaway territories. In reaction to the avalanche of sanctions which is already having a telling effect on his country, Putin in the coming days may cut off oil and gas exports to Western Europe. Even though the loss of revenues would exert further pressure on the Russian economy, such a move could cause greater pain in European countries in the form of energy shortages and sharply higher prices. However, there are fears that the conflict could quickly escalate and involve other countries, particularly, nations that were offering material and financial support to Ukraine. Against the backdrop of Putin’s threat to deal decisively with any country that interferes in his war on Ukraine, and his veiled threat to unleash his nuclear arsenal on such meddlesome interlopers, it is safe to assume that the ongoing firefight might spread like bushfire, if not quickly contained. Not surprisingly, Russia has the support of its allies. As expected, the violence has turned the once peaceful Ukraine upside down. Hundreds have died while thousands have been forced to flee their homes and homeland. Nigerians, like other foreigners working or studying in the beleaguered country have become victims of Putin’s political ambitions as they fled to Poland, Romania, and other close countries for safety as cluster bombs rain deaths and destruction on Kyiv, Ukhariv, and Kherson, a city on the Black Sea in southern Ukraine, where the mayor said Russian forces had taken control of the railway station and the port by the early hours of Wednesday. There were also reports of Russian paratroopers butchering people in Bucha and the strategically important Sea of Azov port city, Mariupol.  The situation has also brought out the worst in people. Reports of racism against Africans is rife as blacks were discriminated against at train stations and border posts. Condemning the Russian action in Ukraine, US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken in a statement on Wednesday, stated, ‘’If President Putin succeeds in his stated goal of toppling Ukraine’s democratically elected government, the human rights and humanitarian crises will only get worse.’’ But while the global community looks on helplessly and the UN debates resolutions ceaselessly, the human cost of the Ukranian tragedy continues to mount by the day and remains a blot on the world conscience.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com