The General Manager of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, Bolaji Oreagba, has debunked the fake news that the state Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has banned officials of the agency from arresting motorists who violate the traffic laws in the state. The agency’s spokesperson, Olumide Filade, in a statement on Sunday, said Oreagba noted that the primary duties of the agency were traffic control and management which included the arrest of traffic law violators in the state. Oreagba explained further that the fake news was being circulated for the fourth time, adding that the company that generated the first fake news had apologized and pulled down the news from the company’s site. The statement read, “The General Manager of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, Bolaji Oreagba, has said that the attention of LASTMA management has been drawn to fake news, posted yearly purported to have been pronounced by the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. “That Henceforth, no LASTMA Officials (sic) should arrest (sic) any motorist, either commercial or private. The duty of LASTMA is to manage traffic and not to arrest anyone. I have heard a lot of complaints (sic), any officials (sic) that violate the rule of his work, will be severely dealt with. “If at any time LASTMA officials makes attempt to arrest you or forcefully enter your car, don’t (sic) argue with them just allow the LASTMA to enter your car and call these numbers…”. 08129928600. 08129928550. PLEASE KINDLY SHARE. “Oreagba stated that this is about the fourth time in the year that this story is making the rounds on social media by transmuting from the first and second one, created as a flyer, to this fourth one written like the pronouncement of the Governor. “He recollected that the company that generated the first fake news have since apologized, retracted, and pulled down the news from the company’s site earlier this year.“ Oreagba noted that the same law was reviewed by the Lagos State House of Assembly in the Year 2018, principally with that of the Lagos State Vehicle Inspection Service known as the Lagos State Transport Sector Reform Law of 2018. He added that the governor, who is our number one law-abiding citizen and law enforcement officer in the state, would not flout the law let alone provide the opportunity for others to do so. “He (Oreagba) therefore enjoined the law-abiding citizens of Lagos State and drivers that come into the state, to at all times adhere strictly to the traffic laws of the state in order to avoid facing the consequences of flouting it. “He also further advised that we must all have a change towards positive attitude of obeying the laws of the state which were made for the benefit of all, for orderliness and for fast-paced socio-economic improvement of individuals, corporate entities and generality of the people”. The general manager assured members of the public who may have been going through harrowing traffic experiences in the hands of lawless motorists on Lagos roads to take succor in the fact that LASTMA has fully returned to manage the road traffic. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com