The dead body of the 22-year-old lady, Miss Oluwabamise Ayanwole, who got missing after boarding a Lagos Bus Rapid Transit vehicle, was reportedly found with some body parts missing. One of Ayanwole’s relatives made the claim on Monday, saying that they are awaiting the outcome of an autopsy to confirm their observation. The relative lamented that efforts to rescue Oluwabamise Ayanwole by passers-by failed, insisting that justice must be done. According to him, Bamise’s body was first sighted in public late on Saturday when a BRT and jeep dumped her body and zoomed off. He told The PUNCH, “The picture of her corpse was first sent to us. We went to confirm and she was the one. The picture of her corpse is gory, it shouldn’t be shared. She was taken to Morgue on Sunday. Police found out about her death Saturday night. “A passer-by alerted the police at Ebute Ero. On getting there, people trying to see if she could survive fled on sighting police officers. She didn’t die immediately she was dumped. “When the police got there, she was not on panties. She was naked. They didn’t take off only her top. Some of her body parts were tampered with and missing. Investigation into the cause of her death continues. “We expect an an autopsy will be carried out to confirm our observations.” The PUNCH reports that Ayanwole got missing while returning to Ota from Ajah on Saturday, February 26 when she boarded a BRT bus with number 240257 going to Oshodi at about 7 p.m. at Chevron Bus-Stop. It was gathered that the victim worked as a Fashion Designer at Chevron Estate, Ajah and spent weekends at Ota, Ogun State, with her sister. Sensing danger as the bus did not pick any other passenger at subsequent bus stops, Oluwabamise had engaged a friend using voice notes on her phone. The voice notes showed that the bus driver said he liked Oluwabamise and asked for her name and other details. She told her friend to pray for her as she became suspicious of the bus driver and in response, the friend told her to alight at Oworonsoki bus stop — before Oshodi bus stop. Oluwabamise had also sent a video to her friend showing how dark it was in the bus and said, “There are three men and one woman in the bus. The woman is sitting at the back. That’s the number of the bus in case. Please pray for me.’’ That was the last that was heard from Oluwabamise, according to her mother. Police in Lagos have arrested the BRT driver in whose bus a 22-year-old lady was missing. The PUNCH earlier reported that the police spokesperson, Adekunle Ajisebutu, confirmed the death of the 22-year-old in a statement. He said, “The Lagos State Police Command regrets to inform the public that Oluwabamise Ayanwole, the 22-year-old lady who got missing in transit while onboard a BRT bus on February 26, 2022, has been found dead. “The corpse was found lying on the Carter Bridge by Ogogoro Community, Lagos Lagos Island. The corpse has been deposited at the morgue of the Mainland Hospital, Yaba, for autopsy. “The bereaved family has been contacted and family members have identified the corpse as that of Oluwabamise Ayanwole, the lady earlier declared missing.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com