Medical experts have said that men who battle premature ejaculation can overcome the condition by engaging in foreplay and learning some sex techniques. They said though the cause of premature ejaculation remained unknown, it had been associated with behavioural activities, while some predisposing factors like obesity, smoking, diabetes and hypersensitive glans penis have been identified. According to them, the condition is common but it is rarely discussed until it becomes a matter of concern. Urology Care Foundation, an official foundation of the American Urology Association described the condition as the expulsion of semen from the body. “Premature ejaculation is when ejaculation happens sooner than a man or his partner would like during sex. PE is also known as rapid ejaculation, premature climax or early ejaculation. PE might not be a cause for worry. “It can be frustrating if it makes sex less enjoyable and impacts relationships. If it happens often and causes problems, your health care provider can help. In the U.S., about one in three men between 18 to 59 years old, have problems with PE. The problem is often thought to be psychological, but biology may also play a role,” the foundation stated. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise, a Consultant Urologist, Dr. Taiwo Alabi, said healthy living and not smoking can help to improve a man’s sexual performance or libido. He noted that the stop-start technique, which requires a man to stop sexual stimulation and return to it again after the sensation has passed, can likewise help to delay ejaculation. Dr. Alabi said premature ejaculation happens when a man has an orgasm and releases semen within one minute of penetration, and is unable to control ejaculation during sexual intercourse. He said, “Premature ejaculation is hinged on three components. First, the time that is considered as a cut-off is one minute. Anybody who ejaculates less than a minute from the time of ‘Intravaginal Ejaculation Latency Time’ has premature ejaculation. “IELT means the time a man has an erection and penetrates the vagina of the woman to the time he releases. What is generally considered as acceptable IELT ranges from about three to seven minutes and what is considered as a cut-off is one minute.” Continuing, the urologist added, “The second component is the psychological impact of it. Premature ejaculation has a negative psychological effect on either the man, the partner or both of them, and the kind of effect it has on them might range from depression to withdrawal from sex and to loss of self-confidence. For some people, it can be that they are anxious each time they want to have intercourse. “The third component is loss of control. Normal ejaculation is described in terms of control. When a man is having intercourse and is thrusting back and forth, there’s a time he will have intense pleasure, and he should be able to control his ejaculation. So, those three things are the components of premature ejaculation.” Dr. Alabi said hypersensitive glans penis can get some men excited and make them discharge prematurely. “With pornography, some people have a wrong impression of them having premature ejaculation. Some women put unnecessary expectations on men. They may say they enjoy it when a man lasts for 45 minutes but there’s nothing like that. “Scientifically, most men last for three to seven minutes. You can rarely see a man who lasts for 30 to 45 minutes. Some women are on drugs, so they prefer a man to stay longer than necessary to satisfy them. “However, to improve your sexual performance, the first thing is to live healthily. If you live healthily, eat fruits, vegetables and reduce your weight, you will be able to avert the risk factors,” Alabi advised. Consultant Clinical Psychologist, Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, Dr. Charles Umeh said a man who battles premature ejaculation can overcome it with the right counselling, appropriate sexual behaviour, and skills. According to him, “One way they can handle the condition is by the tip of the penis technique. What we usually do is to teach them to hold the tip of the penis firmly when they want to ejaculate and then take a deep breath for it to go back and then to continue with sexual activities. “But the point is that it is not every man that can do that, which is why we take some time to desensitise them so that they can have a grip on it because for some people, when they start climaxing, nothing can stop them.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com