The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Sunday, urged delegates to the 70th council meeting of the West African Examination Council to remember the core values of excellence, integrity, professionalism, accountability and transparency that the body stood for. Buhari rejoiced with the examinations body on the occasion of its 70th anniversary, which also coincided with the council meeting being hosted in Abuja from today (Monday) till Friday. Buhari’s congratulatory message was contained in a statement on Sunday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, titled, ‘President Buhari celebrates WAEC at 70’. The statement read in part, “As a proud founding member of the foremost examination board for the people of West Africa, President Buhari affirms that Nigeria values the shared commitment with other members of the council and will continue to engage with other partners to achieve the council’s mandate of maintaining quality educational standards that prepare the next generation to meet the challenges of the 21st century. “The President notes with delight that for the last 70 years, the West African examination body has brought the English-speaking West Africans together to encourage academic and moral excellence through a qualitative and reliable educational assessment.” As delegates to the 70th council meeting deliberate, reflect and celebrate the gains of the decades, Buhari urged them to remember the core values of excellence, integrity, professionalism, accountability and transparency at the heart of WAEC, and stand firmly by them. He expressed confidence that just as member nations had survived a difficult year marked by the COVID-19 pandemic and in some countries, previous years of internal conflict, the cherished education institution would continue to thrive as a world-class examination body. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com