Unity Bank Plc says it has partnered with the National Association of Small and Medium Enterprises Partner to empower women-owned MSMEs. A statement said it received commendations for its commitment to women empowerment at the NASME’s International Women’s Day celebrations Lagos, which was part of its efforts to foster sustainable and inclusive development in Nigeria. The National Deputy President, NASME, Otunba Gbemisola Oduntan, gave the commendation while addressing the women at the event. She said the partnership with Unity Bank enabled NASME to roll out an engagement programme for women entrepreneurs in commemoration of the IWD. The programme, she added, specifically targeted those in MSME sectors and provided a platform for corporate partners to join collaborative initiatives that would impact positively the businesses of individual members of NASME in Lagos. Delivering a keynote, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Unity Bank, Mrs Oluwatomi Somefun, who was the chairman of the occasion, said Unity Bank would continue to support pioneering efforts with genuine intent on inclusivity. She added that it would be removing biases and unlearning stereotypes as the bank continued to introduce innovative banking solutions that support and empower MSMEs operated by women in Nigeria. Somefun said Nigerian women continue to play a pivotal role in driving the growth of the Nigerian economy through their overwhelming involvement in economic activities as major operators of MSMEs in Nigeria as they account for 41 per cent of MSMEs in the country. Referencing the bank’s latest retail solution, Yanga Account, which is targeted at women-owned MSMEs, Somefun reiterated the bank’s commitment to introducing innovative products and services that support and unlock the true potentials of Nigerian women entrepreneurs. Somefun who was represented by the Head, Personal and SME Banking, Dr. Opeyemi Ojesina, said the bank’s quest to grow the retail segment “has enabled us to pay extra attention to women-led businesses more than any other financial services provider in Nigeria”. She added, “Just recently, we launched the Yanga account, which is a new retail product designed to deepen beneficial impact on MSMEs operated by women in the mass market retail space. “The Yanga account targets businesses of women mainly in farmers’ cooperatives, fashion design, tailoring, frozen food, pastry and baking, cosmetics, jewellery designs and making, skincare, eateries and restaurants, etc. living in the communities or cities.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com