The Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, has advanced reasons why he is seeking to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), at the expiration of his tenure in 2023. He clarified that his ambition to become Nigeria’s president and also run the office is not predicated upon the zoning of the quest and other isolated indices. Tambuwal noted that his aspiration was based on the collective interest of all Nigerians whose existence and subsistence is at stake now According to him, Nigeria is on the brink of collapse, thus require the communal resolve of all to save it from sinking completely. The governor stated this on Sunday when the Concerned Citizens of Nigeria presented the N40 million forms purchased for him to indicate his interest in running for the number one job in the country next year under the auspices of the Peoples Democratic Party. “As our situation is in Nigeria today and in times like this, when the situation is so dire and the country is in distress, members of that community or country must come together and put whatever differences they have aside to save the country. “It calls for every concerted effort from every and all concerned citizen to put their hands together to rescue it from an imminent collapse,” he said. Lamenting the devaluation of the naira, insecurity, corruption economic downturns, unemployment; inflation, and every aspect of life that is failing, Tambuwal said his seeking the position of President is not an overbearing ambition, but a quest informed by the need to rescue the country from its quagmire. He explained that having foreseen what later became the abysmal failure of the All Progressives Congress’ misrule about two years after it came to power, he and his allies left the party for the PDP. “It behooves on us, as leaders, as responsible leaders of this country, to once again, come together to rescue Nigeria. It would be too bad for Nigeria if APC remains in charge of affairs after 2023. “Things are rather getting worse. That situation that demanded us to rise to that challenge of working towards changing the defective APC government at the center has not changed. Things are rather getting worse and bad,” he said. Noting that seeking the presidency is a “collective thing”, he said “no single individual can do it alone. No zone can do it alone. No state can do it alone. No tribe can do it alone. No members of a particular faith can do it alone. “Nigeria is our common heritage. It is our country. All of us must be hands-on in saving our country,” he submitted. He expressed gratitude to the group who presented him with the forms they brought and assured them that he will make his stand known after he concludes his ongoing consultation on the matter. “You are right. I have friends from across the length and breadth of this country. You are right. I understand the federal structure of this country. I quite appreciate the complexity of the Nigerian state. I have the requisite experience, by the grace of God, to seek the office of the President. “As I said, I am still consulting. I will come back to you after my consultation very soon,” he said. In his remarks, Akinboro said they purchased the form for the governor in recognition of his sterling and the need to rescue the country from its current bad situation. Describing Tambuwal as a detribalized Nigerian with no zealous attachment to his faith, Akinboro added that he is a person with integrity who can be trusted to lead the country forward. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com