The Kaduna State Police Command says no fewer than 200 terrorists and 20 armed robbers have been arrested by its operatives in the state. The suspects paraded before journalists on Wednesday at the command’s headquarters included the prime suspect in the murder of Air Vice Marshal Maisaka (retd.), Muhammed Giwa, and a suspected bandit who was alleged to have killed over 15 persons during different operations. The state Commissioner of Police, Mudasiru Abdullahi, also said several weapons such 18 AK-47 rifles, 2,000 live ammunition, 11 pump action guns, 10 locally-fabricated pistols, 140 shotguns, 12-guage cartridges, seven vehicles of different brands and nine motorcycles were recovered from the suspects between January and March 2022. Represented by the state Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammad Jalige, the police boss attributed the peaceful atmosphere currently being enjoyed by residents to the tactical deployment of the force’s special units in the state. He said, “The Kaduna Command, during the period under review, is not unmindful of the security challenges bedevilling the state amongst which are banditry, kidnappings, armed robbery and farmers/herders clashes just to mention but a few. “However, efforts were not spared in addressing the situation which culminates into the relative peace currently being enjoyed by law-abiding citizens in the state. “The relative serene security atmosphere in the state is as a result of the strategic and tactical deployment of the special units of the force, undercover operatives, conventional police personnel as well as the purposeful synergy within the security architecture in the state. “The sum of these approaches resulted in the successes we are showcasing today with the arrest of over 200 bandits, 20 armed robbery suspects and the recovery of 18 AK-47 rifles, 2,000 live ammunition of different calibre, 11 pump action guns, 10 locally-fabricated pistols, 140 shotguns, 12-guage cartridges, seven vehicles of different brands and nine motorcycles.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com