Mufuliat Fijabi is the Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Women Trust Fund and also one of the leaders of the Nigerian Women Group, a coalition of Civil Society protesting the rejection of women-related bills by the National Assembly. In this interview with SOLOMON ODENIYI,  she speaks on efforts so far made by the group on the bill  We have had a total of 16 gender bills rejected by the National Assembly in ten years. Why do you think these bills failed and is the problem with the make-up of the National Assembly? The members of the National Assembly cannot be absolved from this. It is even an indictment on them to have had this number of rejected gender bills, although it is has become a national issue. The National Assembly forms part of the constituent, that is, they are a fraction of the society.   They make the laws in the country and these bills have been stifled by them. The National Assembly  is populated by men with various cultures which have relegated the rights of women to the background. Apart from this, we have a patriarchy system which has eaten very deep into our society.  These no doubt have affected the consideration they have been giving to these bills. They need to be purged of their beliefs on what the women represent and their understanding of the capabilities and abilities of women .Unless they have a new mindset and probably get re-orientated, the problem would continue to persist. Within the same period we have had a few number of women at the National Assembly, based on this , would you say they have done well to advance the course of their gender ? Of course they have been playing their roles and they will always continue to do so. They have been involved in the initiations of some of these bills and as well lobbied to ensure they are passed but it is a male-dominated National Assembly and the patriarchy system we have in place in the country have been frustrating their efforts. Our male lawmakers should understand that a society that seeks balance development and national growth needs to give women equal opportunities. We would not allow them be until what is due to the women is given to us. At the protest ground, many of you have accused the lawmakers of not being true to their words on the rejected bills. What actually transpired? We got assurance from the leadership of the chambers on those bills. Even some of the lawmakers gave their nods for these bills but on the day they were meant to vote ,it shocked many of us . I think it is a matter of deceit. When you say you believe in this cause, why would you suddenly renege? We see this as a deceit from the members of the National Assembly despite the level of lobbying, engagement and other efforts of the Civil Society Organisations, the First lady and the women in parliament to make sure they are convinced and understand the importance of these bills. They were made to understand that these bills would not only affect the women of today but also the women of the next generation. It is as if the National Assembly has not deemed it fit to understand the importance of these bills. It is even more disheartening that Nigeria being the giant of Africa is lagging behind in the promotion of gender rights. We did all we could to ensure these bills were passed but they didn’t see the need for it because of their beliefs which are retrogressive. There are arguments that if some women have struggled to win elections which made them to better appreciate what the male folks go through, the demand for level playing ground should be ruled out. What do you make of this ? We are not saying everything should be on a silver platter. Nigerian women have the capabilities to work from step A to Z to achieve whatever they want, the same with elective positions. We have a lot of factors limiting the participations of women in governance in the country .Some of them are based on religious and cultural beliefs and majorly the money politics and violence during elections. It is not that the women are afraid to take up challenges, but what we are saying is that all these factors should be eliminated to allow the women come to the fore and show themselves. When there are laws guiding the inclusion of women in elective and appointive positions. you would see more development. You would see that women are capable of turning around the wealth of the nation if given the opportunity. Do these demands not make you secondary to the male folks? We are not secondary to the male gender. We are all equal before the law and God. So why should you not give equal opportunities to the two genders ? When you make laws available,  they make room for people to explore. When we asked for special seats for women, it is not that these women would be hand picked.  They would contest  these positions. For appointive positions, it is going to be on merit. You would see that women would be more challenged , more would come out in spite of the identified challenges in our polity to participate. If we have been unable to get over this in ten years, Do you think women would ever get the inclusivity they have been yearning for? The inclusivity is not just a demand by Nigerian women, it is a global demand. We pride ourselves as the giant of Africa. We must be seen as leaders in whatever we do. We must give women inclusivity in all spheres of life. I believe it is achievable but we are aware it won’t come easy but the Nigerian women are ready this time around. Also, we have seen the make-up of this Nation Assembly and their disposition towards women. Nigerian women would make amends in the tenth Assembly but before then, we have a battle that we must finish. On the cultural and religious beliefs serving as clog on our rights because we believe that is the foundation of some of these problems, some of the CSOs have commenced work to ensure we do away with them. You said women would make amends in the tenth Assembly. What does this connote? We have electoral power and we are going make use of this in the next National Assembly elections. It is not a joke. They would know we mean business in 2023. We would vote out all those who voted against our bills and the process as started. When you go out on election day, you would see the percentage of women who come out to vote. They troop out whether in the rain or scorching sun voting men into elective positions and these are the set of people you treat with disdain ? We would turn our back on those who have turned their backs against us. Nigeria is a signatory to many conventions and pacts on gender inclusion. We also get assistance from international organisations. Do you think we would be sanctioned if the bias against women continue? If we continue like this, there’s no way we can escape being sanctioned but,  if sanction would ensure the rights of women are guaranteed in the country then that would be handy. But before we get to the point of sanction or other forms of punishment, I think it would be best we both understand the reason these bills are important. For crying out loud this is injustice. Look at one of the bills they rejected which on citizenship whereas a man can. This is inconsiderate. You’re part of those leading a protest for the National Assembly to reverse the decisions on the gender bills.  Are you satisfied with the response from them so far ? And would the protests be ending soon? We are not satisfied. All these bills are important to us and none would be allowed to perish. I don’t think five bills are too many to ask for among the myriad of problems facing Nigerian women. From special seat in state and the National Assembly, expanding the scope of citizenship, affirmative action on political party administration and 35 per cent slots for the ministerial and commissioner appointment must be passed . We would continue to protest at the National Assembly until all these bills are reconsidered and passed. They have frustrated us enough and we would ensure they are made to feel the heat until they succumb to our demands, till then protests continue. One of the rejected bills seeks to create special seats for women. This is coming at a time when many are calling for reduction in cost of governance, won’t this further strain our scares resources? This is a tangible investment and for every developmental concept,  it comes at a cost.  It is wise and profitable. Overtime, when women come to leadership and management position, we have seen how meticulous , prudent and resourceful they are. If you can get a substantial growth compared with the cost, would you say that is an unwise decision? No. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com