The leadership of the Nigerian Bar Association, Lagos Chapter, has said it would give back to society as lawyers mark the 2022 Law Week. The event, which would hold on March 18, 2022, at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, with the theme, ‘Democracy and Legal Order: Shaping the Future,’ would have cash and kind donations at the Ikoyi Correctional Centre and the Marcy Children Centre, Lagos. According to the Chairman of the Law Week Committee, Mr Wale Adesokan (SAN), the annual law week would explore the need for deliberate action in utilising Nigeria’s democracy and the law in shaping the future that Nigerians desire. Adesokan also said the event would serve as a warning against the consequences of inaction in the face of ills plaguing Nigeria and society. He said, “This year’s Lagos Law Week comes against the backdrop of Nigeria’s multifaceted crisis and the resulting mounting pressure that threatens the future of the country. By leading this discourse, the NBA, Lagos Chapter, seeks to chart a new course for the redemption of the nation’s legal system and the freedom that citizens should enjoy in a democratic nation. “It is a chance to listen, contribute, learn, unlearn and relearn, as we all work towards building a working system and a free world, in the most relaxing and comfortable environments.” Revealing the eight plenary sessions for this year, the Lagos Branch Chairman, Mr. Ikechukwu Uwanna, said, “To set the tone for the most important event of our legal year is the unveiling of our plenary sessions. Spread out over a period of two days, March 21 and 22, our plenary sessions will explore the role of good governance and legal order in curbing societal ills that threaten to define and shape the future of our country, explore the role of the private sector in ensuring accountability in governance and contributing to good governance, touch on the adequacy of the current fiscal arrangement within Nigeria and examine impediments to the actualisation of Nigeria’s full potential as an investment destination. “It would also examine the introduction of more practical aspects to the study of Law in tertiary institutions, discuss the alternative business rescue options introduced by the 2020 CAMA and the challenges being faced in implementing them; explore the leveraging of technology to increase efficiency in case scheduling and management; and most importantly, the role of the judiciary, legislature, and the executive in the forthcoming 2023 elections.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com