In celebration of the 50th anniversary of former captain and coach of the men’s national team, Teslim ‘Thunder’ Balogun, General Secretary of the Nigeria Football Federation, Dr Mohammed Sanusi, has assured that the federation will contribute to the efforts to help celebrate and immortalise the legend. Sanusi made the statements on Tuesday while receiving the organising committee in his office at the NFF Secretariat, Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja. Nicknamed after his fierce shot, Balogun died in his sleep on July 30, 1972, at the age of 45. The former striker featured for the national team for 12 years, between 1948 and 1960 before his retirement in 1961. During his time in Nigeria, Balogun won the Challenge Cup five times in seven finals and was the first player to score a hat-trick in the competition, in Pan Bank’s 6-1 rout of Warri in 1953. After retiring as a player, he became the first African to qualify as a professional coach and coached Nigeria at the 1968 Summer Olympics. While eulogising the legend on Tuesday, Sanusi said the NFF was ready to work with the committee to ensure Balogun’s name will forever live long. “Teslim Balogun played profound and remarkable roles in Nigerian football, both as a player and as a coach,” Sanusi said. “His giant footprints are there for all to see. It’s important that we play a key role in the ongoing efforts to celebrate and immortalise him because that will send the right signals to both present and upcoming players that Nigeria does care. “When we received the letter from your committee, the NFF president said he was interested in NFF being part of the programme and he insisted that we nominate someone to represent the federation and give us feedback on all that was being done to celebrate ‘Thunder’ Balogun. “He was an achiever and a role model, and the NFF will work with the committee to celebrate a legend of the Nigerian game.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com