Wilfred Ndidi’s absence from next Friday’s Qatar 2022 World Cup play-off between Nigeria and Ghana has left Super Eagles coach Austin Eguavoen in a dilemma: who will offer his defence line a shield in the crucial encounter against Ghana? Leicester City midfielder Ndidi was in line to make his 44th appearance for the Eagles against Black Stars and was seen as a key figure for the clash, but he suffered a medial knee ligament injury in the Foxes UEFA Europa Conference League match against Rennes in France last Thursday. Leicester manager Brendan Rodgers revealed over the weekend that the 25-year-old would likely “be out for weeks”, thus ruling the midfield enforcer out the game against the Black Stars. Ndidi’s vast experience, ability to break play and shore up the midfield will be sorely missed in the encounter, no doubt. PUNCH Sports Extra’s JOHNNY EDWARD assesses the players who could replace him in the defensive midfield position against Ghana over the two-legs.  Frank Onyeka (Brendford, 24 games no assist) Playing the first season of his Brentford career as a No.8, Onyeka has rarely featured in his preferred defensive midfield role in the middle for the Bees since his £10m switch from Midtjylland last summer. Onyeka is versatile, adaptable, quick and dependable on his day, but he’s had an indifferent season, having made more sub appearances this season. Since his return from the African Cup of Nations, where he made only two substitute appearances, the 23-year-old has played only 14 minutes of Premier League football in 2022 and has struggled to get back to the level he was. Onyeka played in three of Nigeria’s World Cup qualifying games, racking 192 minutes and impressed when called upon. Without Ndidi, he looks like the next best option in terms of availability, fitness and consistency. He has played 20 times for Brentford this season in the Premier League and has had 1,049 minutes under his belt. Oghenekaro Etebo (Watford, eight games no assist) He comes with huge experience at international level, on his return, but has failed to nail down a regular place at Watford following a five-month absence with a knee injury. Like Onyeka, Etebo has the ability to screen the defence line well and deliver balls to the attack. However, he has been making steady progress since his return to action  last month and it remains to be seen if the 26-year-old will be physically fit and ready for the double-header challenge. He is yet to hit full fitness for Watford, but Eguavoen remains confident in his abilities for the clashes against Ghana. Semi Ajayi (West Brom, 28 games, three goals, one assist) The West Brom defender played in the defensive midfield role in the past under former coach Gernot Rohr. He has been consistent for the Baggies this season, playing in a back three under Steve Bruce in the English Championship. Should the coaching crew refuse to draft in a player from the standby list, the 28-year-old is a good option, and hopefully, if given a chance, he could ensure Ndidi’s absence is not felt. Abdullahi Shehu (Omonia Nicosia, 25 games, one assist) Shehu missed out on the AFCON due to injury but has been named in a 25-man squad for the game. He is one of the versatile and hardworking players in the Eagles that can play in more than two positions – as a right-back, left-back and as a defensive midfielder. Although not highly technical, Shehu has shown he can get the job done when trusted. Ogenyi Onazi (Al-Adalah, 19 games, one goal) Although Eguavoen was reportedly quoted as saying he invited Onazi “to pacify everybody”, which angered the country’s football-loving population, the experience of the 2013 AFCON winner could come in handy in crucial games like these. But when last did he play football at this level? His recall to the team ahead of the likes of Innocent Bonke sparked up criticisms, having been out of the team for four years and hardly tasting topflight action. Onazi now finds himself in Saudi Arabia’s second division after strings of outings in Denmark, Turkey and Lithuania in the last 18-months. Will Eguavoen also “pacify everybody” by bringing him in for Ndidi?  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com