Former Governor of Lagos State and presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Thursday said Nigeria needed a competent leader who could unite the people, tackle insecurity and rejig the debilitating economy. Tinubu, who was in Ekiti State as part of the ongoing consultation for the 2023 presidential election, said he decided to consult the traditional rulers before declaring because of the enormous respect he placed on culture and tradition. He said, “I’m contesting this race to renew the hope and make the future great for our children. “For Nigeria to stand united and develop, we require patience and wisdom. We have to be united, that is the only way we can be great.” It was carnival-like at the palace of the Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Adeyemo Adejugbe, as people gathered for hours singing, dancing and praising the All Progressives Congress National Leader as they awaited his arrival to meet with the monarch. Tinubu, accompanied by Ekiti State Deputy Governor, Bisi Egbeyemi, who said he represented Governor Kayode Fayemi, and chieftains of the South West Agenda for Tinubu 2023, led by Senator Dayo Adeyeye, earlier met with the Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers at their chambers in the capital city. He said, “We have struggled for democracy and today, we have democracy, but we are not stable yet. There is insecurity, hopelessness, lack of education and suffering in the land. By now, we should have a good farming system and opportunities to produce for other nations to buy. “We are here to answer the call of our children by educating them the right way so that we can leave a Nigeria that is united, prosperous and abundant for them. We chose democracy and we must not fail in this task. “That was why we formed APC based on principles. I want to tell you that Nigeria needs serious change. I knew how Lagos was when I took over and we had never failed any election. There must be continuity in governance for progress to be attained. “I was the first governor in Nigeria to start paying the WAEC fee of secondary school students. I shall do it again as a President”. The Traditional Council Chairman and the Onisan of Isan Ekiti, Oba Ayodele Adejuwon, who said there was nothing wrong with Tinubu’s aspiration said the constitution permitted every qualified Nigerian to aspire for any position, saying, “God will help you realise your ambition”. Speaking at his palace, the Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Adeyemo, who appreciated Tinubu for teaching people how to fish and for his exploits in Lagos State, said, “That is why I believe you (Tinubu) when you said you would turn the situation of Nigeria around for good”. Meanwhile, a group, Yoruba Ronu, has called on traditional rulers in the South-West to support Tinubu’s aspiration. The group said Tinubu deserved the support of the Yoruba people and urged the monarchs to give him their support. In a statement issued by the group’s Director of Communication, Mr Steve Bayode, and the chairman, Diran Iyantan, it said support for Tinubu would be paid back as he has helped the traditional institution to gain a place of pride in the scheme of things in the country. Iyantan said, “Asiwaju Tinubu has always been a part of the factors that entrenched this present democratic system. He has, continually, worked to sustain it and in the process elevates many Yoruba sons and daughters to high pedestals. “None of the supposed presidential aspirants in the South has made much sacrifice for the growth of the nation’s democracy than Tinubu. By simple assessment, none of them has a better chance of clinching the APC ticket in the primaries than Tinubu. “He has built a strong political coalition across the 36 states of the federation and Abuja. This is a hefty task difficult for other competitors to have attempted.” He noted that the ruling party had, by zoning the party chairmanship position to the north, invariably zoned its presidential ticket to the south, purposely to provide Asiwaju Tinubu with the appropriate platform to actualize his long-standing dream of becoming the President. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com