The Nigeria Police have upgraded their crime reporting mobile application known as ‘NPF Rescue Me’. The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, who confirmed the upgrade in a statement on Saturday said the app was valuable to effectively report emergencies and criminal activities. Baba, in the statement titled, ‘Technology-driven policing: NPF Rescue Me Application Upgraded, Says IGP. As IGP Encourages Nigerians to Take Advantage of Its Crime Reportage Feature,’ and signed by the acting Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, also said the app was effective in reporting the professional misconduct of police officers for rapid and immediate reaction by operatives of the Nigeria Police Force. “The IGP emphasises that the NPF Rescue Me App, which is a great improvement, redefines security and personalises policing, enabling android and iOS users to download the app from the various app stores, registering with their details and having access to a variety of features including emergency services, crime reporting, navigation, ambulances services, amongst others. “The application also has an emergency button which when depressed alerts operatives at the Nigeria Police National Command and Control Centre who would immediately send out the required assistance to victims, irrespective of their locations within the country. “The Inspector-General of Police while encouraging members of the public to download the application into their carry-along gadgets, and input some required information for improved services and their personal safety, reiterates that his administration is poised to exploring the use of cutting-edge technology to take combating crime and responding to emergency situations to an entirely new level,” the statement added. Meanwhile, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr Abiodun Alabi, has advised residents to report police officers carrying out their official duties while in mufti in the state. In a statement on Saturday by the spokesperson for the Command, SP Benjamin Hundeyin, the commissioner said the police would not hesitate to take appropriate disciplinary actions against erring personnel. It would be recalled that the Inspector-General of Police, Mr Usman Baba, had on March 12 warned police officers against the use of mufti and unauthorised outfits while on duty. However, Alabi warned all area commanders, tactical commanders and divisional police officers to ensure total compliance by the officers and men within the Command, the News Agency of Nigeria reported on Saturday.. He said personnel of the Command must be in approved uniforms while on patrol and stop-and-search duties, adding supervisors or heads of department would be held liable for any violation of the order. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com