The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has expressed its readiness to partner with the Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria in order to intensify the fight against corruption and financial crimes. According to a statement by the APBN, the Lagos Zonal Commander of the Commission, Ahmed Ghali, made this known when the executive council members of APBN, Lagos Chapter, paid him a courtesy visit recently. The zonal commander, who was represented by the Deputy Zonal Commander/Head, Procurement and Fraud Section of the commission, Emeka Okonjo, described the visit of the excos of the APBN as noble. A  statement made available on Friday by the Publicity Secretary,  APBN, Samuel O. Adeyemi, quoted the zonal commander of the EFCC as saying that one of the commission’s strategy in the fight against corruption is prevention and collaboration with all stakeholders. “The Lagos Zonal Command of EFCC is a strong believer in advocacy. We will find ways to collaborate and synergise with professionals in Lagos in order to fight the scourge of corruption,” he said. In his speech during the courtesy visit, the Chairman of the Lagos Chapter, APBN, Abayomi Ogunjimi, noted that professional bodies in Lagos were ready to collaborate with the commission in the fight against corruption. He said, “We in APBN Lagos chapter seek to collaborate with the commission in putting the spotlight on the dangers corruption and financial crimes are doing to the economy and image of our dear country and the roles of professionals to fight these cankerworms that have become a recurring decimal in the country.” “We are not unaware of the efforts of the commission in fighting corruption and financial crimes but we believe there is a need to give these efforts more publicity so that the public at large can appreciate what you are doing and it will be a deterrent to those who are still criminally minded to get involved in crimes.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com