A group, the Nigerian Thoracic Society, has said public awareness about the effects of Tuberculosis in the country will aid efforts towards tackling the epidemic. The Secretary General of NTS, Dr Abiona Odeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday, adding that Tuberculosis has been noted as the world’s deadliest infectious killer. He said, “Every year, the Nigerian Thoracic Society joins other local as well as international organisations to commemorate World Tuberculosis Day on March 24. This day is set aside to raise public awareness about the devastating health, social and economic consequences of Tuberculosis, and to step up efforts to end the global TB epidemic. “The theme of World TB Day 2022 , ‘Invest to end TB. Save lives,’ is a call on governments and stakeholders to invest finance, hard work, determination and energy in order to achieve the common goal which is to save lives. This theme is therefore, a message and a plea to the Nigerian government and world leaders to ramp up investment in TB control in order to save lives.” Odeyemi added that the increase in cases of TB should gear the government to give it the attention it deserves. “TB remains the world’s deadliest infectious killer. Each year, about 162,000 people lose their lives to TB in Nigeria and close to 430,000 people fall ill with this preventable and curable disease in the country. Global efforts to combat TB have saved millions of lives in Nigeria and globally since the year 2000. “While the Nigerian Thoracic Society appreciates the spirited efforts being made by government to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on Nigerians, we also would like to remind the authorities that TB is still the number one infectious killer disease made worse by the advent and rise in the incidence and prevalence of multidrug resistant TB across the world and as such it should continue to receive all the needed attention and the top priority it deserves,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com