The authorities of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile -Ife, have, on Tuesday, inaugurated the new students’ union executives for the 2021/2022 parliamentary session. The new union executives were sworn in by the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Eyitope Ogunbodede, at the Afrika Amphi Theatre of the university. The swearing-in also had in attendance the Public Relations Officer of the university, Mr Abiodun Olanrewaju; the Dean of Student Affairs, Professor Isiaka Aransi and other officials of the university. The Students’ Union had its elections in September 2021 after the lifting of a four-year ban placed on it since 2017 by the authorities of the university. The management has finally inaugurated members of the Central Executive Council, Students’ Representatives and Hall Executives six months after the union elections. The sworn-in members of the central executive council include the President of the union, Olayiwola Folahan Festus; Vice President, Aworanti Salvation Grace; Secretary-General, Odewale Samuel Damilare;  Assistant Secretary-General, Abdul Ganiyu Ismail Shina; Public Relations Officer, Ogunperi Taofeek Olalekan; Director of Socials, Adeboye Olamilekan Yakub; Director of Sports, Ogundana Ayotunde; Financial Secretary, Oluwasegun Abiola Joy; and the Welfare Officer, Dada Arafat Modupe. A union officer, Sumbade, who spoke with The Punch correspondent, said the inauguration had been long overdue and that the spirit of unionism had been weakened over time. “The union executives actually played into the vice chancellor’s hand and that is why he did not swear them in on time”, the parliamentarian said. The PRO of the students’ union, Ogunperi Taofeek, confirmed the inauguration to The PUNCH. He noted that they have been eventually inaugurated as students’ union officers for over six months. He linked the delay of the inauguration to the protest that was held in October after the union election. “It took us well over six months and this is unconnected from the protest that took place a month after our election. “As a PRO and as an officer of the union, I’m not so happy because we had planned what we wanted to execute,” Taofeek said to The PUNCH. On her part, the Vice President of the union, Aworanti Salvation, said the inauguration seems far but we are here and maybe stronger. “Well, the inauguration seems too far, but alas, we are here and maybe stronger. “Of course, long overdue, it’s over six months and then we had to put things to place considering the fact that the students gave us their legitimacy to be their leaders and help amplify their voices,” Salvation said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com