The Enugu State Command of Nigeria Police Force has ordered the arrest and thorough investigation of operatives involved in the physical assault on a masquerade and its followers at Agbani in Nkanu West local government area of the state. The State Police Commissioner, Abubakar Lawal, gave the order in statement through the Command spokesman, Daniel Ndukwe, on Saturday morning, titled, ‘Alleged viral video clips of police operatives physically assaulting citizens at Agbani area of Nkanu West LGA Enugu: CP condemns act, orders thorough investigation and sanction of erring operatives’. While condemning and describing as unprofessional the alleged assault by the operatives as displayed in the video clips, Lawal noted that such acts were against the operational codes of the Nigeria Police Force. He said, “Such acts are against professionalism, extant operational codes of the Nigeria Police Force and more importantly, the fundamental human rights of citizens by police officers under his watch, shall not be condoned.” The statement partly read, “the Commissioner of Police, Enugu State Command, Abubakar Lawal, has ordered the State Criminal Investigation Department to fish out, thoroughly investigate and ensure the disciplinary sanction of police operatives, alleged to have physically assaulted a young man and a masquerade at Agbani area of Nkanu West local government area, as shown in a viral video clips.” “The Commissioner has urged the said victims and eye witnesses to the incident, to report at the State CID in order to provide necessary information and evidence that will aid the investigation. “He also enjoins citizens of the State to remain law-abiding and assist the Command to further instill discipline on its personnel by promptly reporting their unprofessional conducts, especially in the areas of extortion and other corrupt practices as well as the abuse of their discretional powers and the violation of the fundamental human rights of citizens. “Such reports can be made by calling the Command’s Control Room numbers on: 08032003702, 08075390883 or 08086671202; or through the Command’s Police Public Relations Officer by calling 08099854883 or sending e-mails to: contact042ppro@gmail.com.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com