Super Falcons coach Randy Waldrum has signed a new two-year contract extension with the Nigeria Football Federation and is already looking ahead to a glorious outing at the 2022 Women’s African Cup of Nations with the team, The PUNCH reports. The contract will see him finish as the longest-serving coach in Super Falcons history by the end of his tenure in 2024, our correspondent learnt. Waldrum, 65, was appointed as coach by the NFF in May 2020 and has recorded seven wins, four defeats and one draw in 12 games in charge of the team. Speaking with The PUNCH from his US base, the ex-Houston Dash coach said, “I have signed a new contract with the NFF so that is not an issue going forward. “I will like to appreciate the support of the NFF and president of the NFF Amaju Pinnick for seeing the vision and having the confidence in me to continue with the team.” Waldrum, who earlier this month helped the Falcons qualify for the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations in Morocco later this year, defeating West African rivals Ghana and Ivory Coast in the qualifying series, hopes to lead the team to a 10th African title in Morocco. “I always felt the Falcons can win the AFCON and I still believe that,” he added. “Certainly, it’s been two great wins over Ghana and Ivory Coast in the qualifying series. I believe those two countries should be at the Women’s World Cup because they have the quality to play at that level. “I still don’t understand why CAF organised the qualifiers in that way. They are among the top five teams in Africa. “We have enough quality to win the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations in Morocco, although there are still some more quality teams left at the tournament. We know it won’t be easy, we understand that, and we respect the teams we will be up against but I believe in the quality we have to win it. “I’m feeling very comfortable and very excited. I’m always excited to leave the US to come back to work with the team. It’s a fantastic group of young women and excited about what the future holds for us and always looking forward to my return.” Hosts Morocco, Nigeria, South Africa, Cameroon, Zambia, Burundi, Burkina Faso, Tunisia, Togo, Senegal, Botswana and Uganda have all qualified for the tournament in Morocco, with the final draw to be held on a date to be announced by CAF. Nigeria have maintained an iron grip on the WAFCON, winning nine of the tournament’s 11 editions – including the last three. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com