TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN examines how some teachers subject toddlers to mindless corporal punishment The internet a few weeks back was awash with the news of  how 19-month-old Obinna Udeze was flogged to death in Delta State. Udeze’s 28-year-old single mother, Gift Ohanazoeze, has remained inconsolable since the incident. Ohanazoeze, who recently graduated, desired to make life better for her only son, thus she searched for a job to earn a meaningful income. Speaking with our correspondent, she stated, “I am a graduate but I do not have a job yet. That was why I registered my child who was a year and seven months old in school for me to earn a living and be able to fend for us.” Ohanazoeze said she never knew that a sad event would alter the plan. The bereaved mother said, “On February 10, I took my child to Arise and Shine Primary School in Asaba, Delta State. He looked healthy and strong as usual. But when I went to pick him up, he was seemingly unhealthy and he lacked strength. I kept wondering what the problem was. “I got the shock of my life when I got home and undressed him only to find out that he was full of bruises with marks of canes all over his body. He was in so much pain. “The following day, I went to the school with the child to find out what happened. On getting there, I met the proprietress who happened to live on the school premises.’’ She noted that rather than the school explaining what happened to her son, her brother who followed her to the school was assaulted. She added that she later took her son to a hospital where he was admitted, adding that the proprietress didn’t bother to visit the boy. She stated, “The proprietress told me at the school if I knew the gravity of my son’s offence; I asked her what could be the offence of a child of a year and seven months that would warrant such beating? I told her I would return the next day to know the person who beat my son. The proprietress told me to return the next day. We couldn’t sleep that night because the child went through so much pain. “The next day, I took my child to school. The bruises were uncountable. I could no longer bear it anymore, so I started to shout and created a scene. Some pupils from the classes came out and said ‘Mummy Obi, our big Mummy (The Proprietress), one uncle and one aunt tied Obinna’s hands and legs with a white handkerchief and were flogging him. “I asked them who the ‘big Mummy’ is; they pointed at the proprietress, which was the woman I met the previous evening. I said, ‘so madam you are the one that flogged my child.’ To my surprise, she responded that my son was stubborn, affirming that she was the one who flogged him.” Ohanazoeze said she was still asking why they would treat a toddler in such a manner when a male teacher who helped in tying her son’s hands and legs responded that he was the one who held the boy because of his stubbornness. She added, “My younger brother who accompanied me challenged them for committing such an atrocity against a child. Before my brother could complete his statement, the same male teacher slapped my brother. “ The late Obinna’s mum told Sunday PUNCH that at a point a crowd had gathered but they had to take the child to a hospital, leaving the community’s residents to condemn proprietress and her son for maltreating a kid. “We left for the Federal Medical Centre, Asaba. On getting there, he was already weak. They commenced treatment. He was in a coma until he died on Saturday,’’ the woman said. Ohanazoeze narrated further that when the proprietress heard that her child had died, she tried to run away but she was caught. She noted that two accomplices fled but the proprietress  was apprehended by the police. Eventually the school was shut down with the state’s  commissioner  for primary education, Mr Chika Ossai claiming ignorance of the existence of the school prior the incidence. A worrying trajectory Within two weeks, two such cases surfaced online. Though corporal punishment still thrives in Nigeria, many have condemned it because of its effects on children, especially the Child Rights Act. Like Ohanazoeze, Mrs Faustina Ohamadike, couldn’t keep quiet when she found bruises on her daughter’s body. She said her two-year-old daughter, Cherish Ohamadike, a pupil of a school at Maza-Maza area of Lagos State was brutalised by her teacher identified as Miss Joy, over the toddler’s inability to recite the English alphabets. Ohamadike said she went to the market that day and bought a gift for each of the kids which she handed over to them except her last child. She stated that she bought ice cream for her daughter and didn’t want it to melt, so when she was told that Cherish was sleeping, she requested that they wake her up. The upset mother said the moment she held her child, she groaned in pain and wondered what the problem was. While trying to examine her daughter’s body, she said she found bruises on her body to her surprise. While trying to understand how her daughter sustained the scars, she rushed to meet her younger sister living with them to enquire what happened. She explained, “My sister told me she saw the same bruises when she wanted to bathe the children after they returned from school. We don’t have a cane in the house, so it was not what could have happened in the house.” Ohamadike said she furiously headed to the house of the school owner located a few buildings from hers to enquire what happened to the toddler. She said, “When I got to the proprietress’ house, I demanded to know what happened to my daughter. I questioned mama (the proprietress) that I saw marks on my daughter’s body. My sister had been there to complain. She told me that the said teacher who lived with her was not around. I inquired why my daughter was flogged mercilessly; the proprietress told me that Joy (a teacher) flogged my two-year-old child because she couldn’t recite ABC. “My daughter was in the hospital throughout last week. She got her last injection on Saturday and was discharged. She was not in school throughout last week and the school management knew about her illness. I counted 18 bruises on her body. The teacher might have beaten her 24 times though I’m not sure.” Cherish’s mother said it had become a culture in the school to cause harm to children and that was why she had to cry out when it got to the turn of her helpless child. She stated that her first child was previously caned on the head to the extent that she bled from her nose. She added that her son was also dragged by the ear to the point that he complained of aches. Ohamadike added, “My husband didn’t want me to take up the issue but it was rather disgusting that neither the teacher nor the proprietress showed concern. It was based on this that the issue got to the internet. Joy told me that she was sorry.’’ She added that the Lagos State government took her child for proper medical check-ups, including an x-ray after which she was certified okay. Ohamadike said she was now aware of why the children were always scared to go to school even though the school was in the community. In a swift response, the police arrested Joy over the alleged abuse of the baby. The school in Delta where Obinna was caned before her death was also shut down. Another parent, Mrs Temi Shittu, told our correspondent how a teacher beat her daughter and left marks on the cheeks of the five-year-old child because she omitted some pages of her book. She said, “Our five-year-old daughter was flogged by her teacher because she left some spaces on the pages of her book. She slapped her and left marks on her cheeks.” Shittu said it wasn’t a case of substandard school because where the incident occurred was one of the big schools in Lagos. She added that she decided to let go of the issue because of sincere apologies and relentless pleas. She stated, “I raced to the school the following day but they kept begging me saying they were sorry. The teacher, in particular, pleaded with me and I could tell she was sober. She and the school owner came to our house to beg again. We eventually dropped the case and so far my child was no longer assaulted. Sometimes, these teachers could be frustrated and unfortunately carry out their frustration on the children.” Recently, a similar incident was recorded in the Iyana-Iyesi area of Sango-Ota, Ogun State. A mother, Elizabeth Ebere also narrated how a teacher at a school in the area flogged her daughter, Chizaram. According to her, efforts to get the attention of the school management to attend to the matter proved abortive until she made a post about the incident on Facebook. She said, “I was coming back from the hospital on October 28, 2021 when the teacher called me; but I did not pick up, so she sent a message to me on WhatsApp that my daughter didn’t want to write so she flogged her and I said okay, thinking she flogged her on the palm. “When my daughter returned from school, she said her teacher flogged her and she showed me her legs. I was shocked to see the marks on her legs. I wondered why she would flog a child that writes on a normal day but decided not to write that day.” The mother said when she called the school to report the case; the headmistress argued that teachers in the school would not beat pupils. She said her husband, who was livid at the sight of the bruises on the child, called the teacher and the headmistress, but they did not take their calls. Ebere said, “My daughter did not go to school the following day because she ran a temperature and we kept calling the school but they didn’t pick and the school did not bother to check up on her. “On Monday, my daughter went to school and a picture was sent to the PTA’s WhatsApp group showing how the children were jam-packed because they were doing Colour Day. My daughter, who was already sick from the beating she received from the teacher, was among them. I commented that they should try to obey COVID-19 rules, but nobody replied. “The doctor said she had a viral infection, so I went to the school’s WhatsApp platform and told them that my child was sick, but they practically ignored me and were attending to other matters in the group. When I saw that the school was not responding to any of my messages, on Sunday morning, I told them I was going to handle it my way and I left the WhatsApp platform and made a post about the incident on my Facebook page.” Ebere  noted that it was when she reported the school online that the school took steps to visit her and the proprietor. The school said not to be unregistered was also shut by the government afterwards. More troubling tales On January 17, 2022, an 11-year-old JSS 1 student of a school in Onitsha, Izuchukwu Onwualu, was also beaten to death by his teacher. The pupil died after being maltreated by a female Basic Science teacher in the school, who allegedly, beat him severely on his head for not doing his assignment. The father of the pupil said he took his son to school on the day of the incident not knowing that was his last day on earth. He said he was in the market to get beverages for dinner when his wife called that his son was not feeling fine, adding that on getting home he saw him writhing in pain. The father said, “My wife was pouring water on him and at the same time crying for help. His classmates were present and they revealed it was their Basic Science teacher who maltreated him. When she was flogging him, she did not know he would hit his head on the wall. She flogged him, but he was not crying, so she kept flogging him to make sure he cried. During the flogging, he broke free and hit his head on the wall.” Sometime ago, a 16-year-old was also tied to the cross and flogged by the teacher. Three people including the school principal were arrested in connection with making  makeshift crucifixes of two pupils and flogging them for coming late to school. The police said it was investigating the case, noting that the school principal, owner, and a teacher were charged with assault and intention to cause grievous bodily harm. Parents worry over development The recent incidents especially with toddlers had made many parents question the psychological and emotional state of some teachers, particularly those who perpetrate the acts. A working mum, Mrs Funmilayo Akande, said that sometimes, the issues with teachers who were brutalising their students were usually cases of frustration and transferred aggression. She said, “I was scared when I saw the video of the Delta girl, it was more of a scenario of transferred aggression. The teacher must have had a personal problem which she transferred to the pupils. It’s rather sad that we are seeing such cases now and this is what happens when an untrained, bitter soul enters the classroom to teach. May God help us.” Another parent, Mrs Flourish Light, expressed concerns that it was wrong for toddlers to be in school while they ought to be in a crèche. She said, “The teacher and school are as wrong as the parent of the child. What is a two-year-old child doing in a school, she has no business there. She should be in a crèche at that age. “This calls attention to the quality of schools where these things happen. But irrespective of the school, there should be a form of emotion from one human being to another. Just like you expect that a teacher would have a level of bond with her pupils. I am a lover of discipline, but there is no way I would support such a level of brutality on children.” A parent and teacher, Mrs Tope Oluwajoba, said some of the things seen were a result of a failed educational system where unpaid teachers and a lot of them couldn’t afford to lead a good life. Oluwajoba said she would never support corporal punishment, especially for underage children. She further advised that it was high time school began to pay attention to the health and psychological state of teachers before their employment. She said, “Even if a teacher was a quack, the empathy expected from a human will make you treat another human being better. I suggest that school owners should undertake a mental evaluation of teachers before employing them.” A parent, Mr Michael Brown, said that maltreating of pupils should be taken seriously as a  form of child abuse . He said, “Teachers maltreating/inflicting injuries on pupils should be seriously reprimanded and even arrested and prosecuted for child abuse. These are not cases of child discipline but outright child abuse. The teacher needs psychiatric examination and consequent legal action. The school head needs to answer some questions.” A parent based in Ilorin, Kwara State, Akeem Safiu, said that it only saddist teachers believe in corporal punishment. He said, “Those who engage in corporal punishments are lazy instructors who think flogging is a shortcut for pupils to learn. These types of teachers are also fond of showing off in public their rude methods of punishment to intimidate their colleagues and the pupils. This is not necessary in an academic environment. “They are supposed to impart knowledge in a friendly manner for easy assimilation and better outcome. They also do it to hype themselves that they are the most disciplined or the most hard-working among their colleagues. School owners and heads of schools should try to minimise the excesses of these types of teachers. Their activities are counterproductive.” Corporal punishment bad for children, say experts A counselling psychologist, Ahmed Mohammed, described corporal punishment as any reprimand that inflicts pain on the individual. He said, “Essentially, corporal punishment is to ensure that students comply immediately in certain situations. For example, if a child is making a noise and you use a cane on that child to make them keep quiet immediately, which is an immediate response that people often seek to achieve through corporal punishment.” He added, “However, in the long run, corporal punishments can also lead to a lot of negative outcomes on children including aggression and physical injury as we have seen in recent times. It could also lead to anti-social behaviours. Essentially, from research findings, there is no basis for corporal punishments, especially among minors. “The only place where corporal punishment is approved is in the prisons, so, we shouldn’t treat our children as prisoners. Prisoners are people who are already formed, who have consolidated negative behaviours. In such cases, they require some painful interventions to correct some of their behaviours. But inflicting pain on them might not help their mental health status.” Mohammed also stated that many people were not fit to be teachers because of not being emotionally fit or properly trained. He said, “From the teacher’s viewpoint, the teacher could be going through a lot of societal pressures, family issues or depression, so they react rather than respond to situations that might affect their state of mind. The teachers who inflict pains on these children do not have the appropriate behaviours to train the children “Also most teachers are not well equipped to be teachers. Teachers are meant to be in loco parentis; like the second parents to these children providing safety and care for them. “So, if a child is throwing tantrums or displaying certain unacceptable behaviours, it’s important that the teacher-student communication be effective first. Then corporal punishment could come in handy in extreme cases of negative incidence. Also, if you want to prove a point like having a ‘scapegoat’ for a certain incessant negative occurrence, it could come in with caution in such a way that it doesn’t in any way harm physically or impair the child’s health.” The psychologist said that as an expert who has had engagements with schools, most times when pupils display bad behaviours, essentially, one could not explain it without putting into consideration the exposure from the home environment. He explained, “It’s either they (the children) have seen aggression, shouting and other things. Such patterns might affect the way the child reacts to situations in school as well. “It’s important to draw inferences and tell parents to be worthy models so that they can behave well. Character development is key; the teachers themselves must be role models. Leadership must start from the top; role models through vicarious learning is effective for character development. “There should also be control and boundaries because some parents want to control the school because of the amount paid. Some have even made their children feel so entitled to the extent that the pupils disregard the position of the teachers and make the teacher feel disregarded or powerless. In return, such teachers begin to mete out corporal punishments on the child to regain their respect.” Mohammed stated that overall, such punishments were extreme for the minors and should be the last resort. He added that in policy development, it was important for the ministry of education, school owners and other players in the educational sector to look into the role of school counsellors and school psychologists because they have a role to play. He said, “If we have functional counsellors within the school, they could help in managing some of these behavioural deficiencies. There is a need to revisit having school counsellors and clinical psychologists in schools. Also, schools and the society at large must begin to give attention to the mental state of teachers. There should be periodic psychological evaluation of teachers, and we must emphasise the need for positive parenting on the pupils.’’ In the same vein, another psychologist, Dr Olaitan Oladele, said corporal punishment could be in many forms such as slapping, spanking, shaking or throwing children, pinching and hitting with an object. Supporting Mohammed’s view, Oladele she said, “Corporal punishment is associated with physical abuse and it is the most widespread form of violence against children, although it often leads to more immediate compliant behaviour in children. “It is capable of eliciting harmful physiological and psychological responses. Children exposed to this form of punishment do not only experience sadness, shame, guilt, pain, fear and anger, but they also feel threatened which leads to physiological stress and activates the neural pathways that help to deal with danger, thereby resulting in a change in the structure and functioning of the brain.” Oladele added that a lot of research had been done on the immediate and long-term negative outcomes of corporal punishment on mental health. She explained, “It can precipitate and perpetuate various forms of mental health problems such as depression, anxiety disorders, suicidal behaviours, and psycho-active substance abuse. “It can also lead to low self-esteem, adaption of poor coping strategies and poor problem-solving skills; disruption of cognitive and socio-emotional development. It makes a child vulnerable to other forms of abuse such as sexual and emotional abuse; poor academic performance and school dropout; poor moral internalisation and increasedconduct/antisocial behaviour such as aggression, violence and damaged relationships.” The psychologists suggested that to replace corporal punishment, positive and negative reinforcement could be used to increase the reoccurrence of desirable behaviours. Oladele stated, “Positive reinforcers are favourable events or outcomes that are presented after a desirable behaviour e.g giving tokens after washing the dishes. Negative reinforcers are about removing restrictions from a child when he/she follows the stipulated rules. “Furthermore, in place of positive punishment such as spanking a child, punishment like removal of a favourable event such as video games, to the reduction of undesirable behaviours can be used.” An educationist and teachers’ coach, Mr Akin Benjamin, said that there were two major errors those who use the cane and other abusive methods to control children make; they mistook punishment for discipline and conclude that those of us who are not beating and abusing children don’t discipline and we are spoiling the children. He said, “Discipline is teaching to correct the child, showing her or him the right ways of doing things, encouraging her or him to make attempts even if they fail initially, they learn that such is life and there is a great lesson in failure which impacts on future successes. Discipline does not mean caning or flogging. “Those of us who preach positive, supportive discipline have zero tolerance for indiscipline but our methods are different from quickly rushing for the cane or making kids sit in the air or sticking chewing gum on their heads.” Benjamin said it was important for parents and caregivers to first establish a loving, supportive, and empowering relationship with pupils. He added that they were free to relate with their tutors without cringing since they wanted to raise bold and assertive children who weren’t rude or brash. He said, “If we give them room, they’d learn to manage the access and liberty, they come to cherish it and treasure it to the extent that they give us obedience without being coerced. “They learn by precepts and positive examples from us how best to conduct. They are true in manners while we are there as adults or not!” The educationist added that there were a lot of logical ‘consequences for action’ approaches that educators can use like celebrating a child when they do well, loving the child to the extent that the love they have for their teachers wouldn’t make them do wrong even if no one  was supervising them. He further added that there were ways of making the environment conducive for the children in such a way that it would allow easy learning. He added, “Children learn best when they are happy and taught by a teacher who knows how to manage his or her classroom well. When learners are afraid to fail in your class, they may “freeze up” and fidget, finishing last on tasks or not even completing them. That child will rather not make any attempt than make a wrong one that incurs your wrath, yelling, and sometimes beatings. “Yet even nature teaches by mistakes, children neither crawl nor walk at first attempt. Do they? We must remove the fear of the heavy consequences that follow wrong answers and failed attempts in the classroom if we want learners to open up, learn better, solve problems and become more confident.” “Furthermore, in place of positive punishment such as spanking a child, punishment like removal of a favourable event such as video games, to the reduction of undesirable behaviours can be used.” An educationist and teachers’ coach, Mr Akin Benjamin, said that there were two major errors those who use the cane and other abusive methods to control children make; they mistook punishment for discipline and conclude that those of us who are not beating and abusing children don’t discipline and we are spoiling the children. He said, “Discipline is teaching to correct the child, showing her or him the right ways of doing things, encouraging her or him to make attempts even if they fail initially, they learn that such is life and there is a great lesson in failure which impacts on future successes. Discipline does not mean caning or flogging. “Those of us who preach positive, supportive discipline have zero tolerance for indiscipline but our methods are different from quickly rushing for the cane or making kids sit in the air or sticking chewing gum on their heads.” Benjamin said it was important for parents and caregivers to first establish a loving, supportive, and empowering relationship with pupils. He added that they were free to relate with their tutors without cringing since they wanted to raise bold and assertive children who weren’t rude or brash. He said, “If we give them room, they’d learn to manage the access and liberty, they come to cherish it and treasure it to the extent that they give us obedience without being coerced. “They learn by precepts and positive examples from us how best to conduct. They are true in manners while we are there as adults or not!” The educationist added that there were a lot of logical ‘consequences for action’ approaches that educators can use like celebrating a child when they do well, loving the child to the extent that the love they have for their teachers wouldn’t make them do wrong even if no one was supervising them. He further added that there were ways of making the environment conducive for the children in such a way that it would allow easy learning. He added, “Children learn best when they are happy and taught by a teacher who knows how to manage his or her classroom well. When learners are afraid to fail in your class, they may “freeze up” and fidget, finishing last on tasks or not even completing them. That child will rather not make any attempt than make a wrong one that incurs your wrath, yelling, and sometimes beatings. “Yet even nature teaches by mistakes, children neither crawl nor walk at first attempt. Do they? We must remove the fear of the heavy consequences that follow wrong answers and failed attempts in the classroom if we want learners to open up, learn better, solve problems and become more confident.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com