A Federal High Court sitting in Umuahia, the Abia State capital, has struck out Section 84(12) of the newly amended Electoral Act which the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had written to the National Assembly to delete. The court in a judgment delivered by Justice Evelyn Anyadike held that the section was unconstitutional, invalid, illegal, null, void and of no effect whatsoever and ought to be struck down as it cannot stand when it is in violation of the clear provisions of the Constitution. It would be recalled that the President had while signing the amended Electoral Act urged the National Assembly to delete the provision as it violated Constitution and breached the rights of government appointees. The President further wrote a letter to both chambers of the National Assembly seeking amendment by way of deleting the provision an amendment the Senate rejected in plenary. Justice Anyadike, in the suit marked FHC/UM/CS/26/2022 held that Sections 66(1)(f), 107(1)(f), 137(1)(f) and 182(1)(f) of the 1999 Constitution already stipulated that appointees of government seeking to contest elections were only to resign at least 30 days to the date of the election and that any other law that mandated such appointees to resign or leave office at any time before that was unconstitutional, invalid, illegal null and void to the extent of its inconsistency to the clear provisions of the Constitution. Counsel to the Plaintiff, Emeka Ozoani, SAN while addressing newsmen stated that by this judgment, the National Assembly is not required to further make any amendments to the section as the import of this judgment is that Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act is no longer in existence or part of the Electoral Act. The Judge thereafter ordered the Attorney General of the Federation to forthwith delete the said Subsection 12 of Section 84 from the body of the Electoral Act, 2022. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com