The Bishops of the Catholic Archdiocese of Onitsha Ecclesiastical province have issued 40-day fasting and prayers to its faithful for God’s intervention in the worsening insecurity and bloodletting in the South East. The clerics, in a letter titled ‘A call for prayers from the Catholic Bishops of Onitsha Ecclesiastical Province to the priests, religious, lay faithful and all people of goodwill’ read in all the local churches on Sunday, said the prayers became important and urgent, because the forces of darkness and death seem to have cast their shadows over the South-Eastern part of Nigeria. The letter was signed by the Archbishop of Onitsha and Metropolitan of Onitsha Ecclesiastical Province, Most Rev. Valeria Okeke, on behalf of the bishops. The letter partly read, “For quite some time now, the South-Eastern jurisdiction, which God entrusted to our pastoral care, has become a theatre of ungodly and wanton destruction of life and properties. The forces of darkness and death seem to have cast their shadows over the South-Eastern part of our country. This has not been part of our history or who we are as a people. “In the midst of these tragedies, many people are tempted to lose faith in God and hope in man. It is against this prevalent despondency that we, the Archbishop and Bishops of Onitsha Ecclesiastical Province, send you this message of hope and call for prayers especially this holy season of Lent. “We are indeed convinced that those who put their trust in the Lord can never be disappointed. We therefore invite our beloved Christian faithful and all men and women of goodwill to use this holy season of Lent to pray for the following major intentions: for security and peace in the South-East of Nigeria; that God may cause a change of heart in the murderers and make them once again realise the sacredness of human life. “That justice and equity will reign in Nigeria. In this wise, we ask God to give the Federal Government of Nigeria and some of our own political leaders the courage and the honesty to discuss the challenges facing the South-Eastern region which are part of the causes of youth restiveness and violence in our zone. “We therefore urge and appeal to all Christian faithful to be committed to the following prayerful actions: the prayers for peace and security are now declared in all the dioceses of our Province to begin on Ash Wednesday, March 2, 2022; the prayers will last for 40 days (from Ash Wednesday, March 2 to Palm Sunday, April 10, 2022 “There will be fasting for everybody on Ash Wednesday and all Fridays in the season of Lent. We suggest that people should not eat before noon on such days (the dates are March 2, 4, 11, 18, 25, April 1 and 8.” In addition to the listed general fasting days, members were also asked fast on all Tuesdays throughout the period of Lent including the Holy Week. “Since we are the bridges between God and His people, we are called to lead our people by example of faith and prayer,” the statement added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com