Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; his Kogi State counterpart, Yahaya Bello; and the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, were among prominent Nigerians, who on Wednesday paid tributes to the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, who clocked 80. They eulogised the cleric in separate statements made available to The PUNCH. Osinbajo described Adeboye’s life as a unique lesson for all and sundry as his humility, integrity and exemplary behaviour remained steadfast despite his huge achievements. The Vice-President said this in a tribute he personally signed on behalf of himself and his wife titled, ‘A tribute to Daddy G. O. at 80’. He wrote, “Dolapo and I are honoured to write this tribute to Daddy on his 80th birthday. “Very few leaders will ever have the geographical and spiritual reach of influence that Pastor E. A. Adeboye has. He is neither the Pope, nor the leader of the free world, but he heads a denomination that, since his assumption of office as its General Overseer, has established churches in over 198 countries and territories of the world. “He was, as early as 2008, listed by Newsweek, as one of the 100 most influential people in the world. Earlier in 1998, the Holy Ghost Congress of the Redeemed Christian Church of God in Lekki, Lagos, was reported to be one of the largest Christian gatherings ever, and every year, the RCCG conventions and congresses have live crowds breaking that record. Through the years, miracles of every kind have been commonplace in his ministry. “But the moral of the story is not in these achievements, but in how his behaviour has remained unaffected by them.” Osinbajo quoted the cleric’s wife, Pastor Folu Adeboye, fondly called Mummy G. O., to have said, “See how God uses your father as a smokescreen to do the miracles He wants to do.” He said the realisation that “apart from Him, you can do nothing” and that “no one can receive anything that is not given to him by God” probably explained why a man so spiritually and intellectually gifted, so revered, so respected by the high and low alike, would still be so genuinely humble, so self-effacing and so unfailingly respectful, even of his subordinates. Osinbajo added, “His (Adeboye’s) impeccable integrity; his measured speech and action at all times; his life of many challenges; many wars; his courage; his unshaken faith; his deep love for God, through phenomenal achievements and numbing personal tragedy, are all together the most persuasive evangelical message to all, even those of other faiths, of the grace and mercy of God in the life of the saved. “For us, we are extremely proud that this man of extraordinary faith, courage and humility is one we can call our daddy. “Daddy, happy 80th birthday! As your days, so shall your strength, wisdom and favour with God in Jesus’ name. Amen.” Sanwo-Olu, Obasa greet Adeboye The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has congratulated the RCCG leader on the occasion of his birthday. Sanwo-Olu, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile, commended the cleric for his devoted service in God’s vineyard. He said, “Sir, you have been a blessing, not just to the Redeemed Christian Church of God, but also to us in Lagos State – your unceasing prayers for us and your wise counsel over the years have contributed in no small measure to the phenomenal progress our state has continued to witness. “Because of your work, and of the name and legacy of the RCCG, the gospel has touched the very ends of the earth, in line with the great commission. In addition, your devoted service in God’s vineyard has helped put Nigeria in the global spotlight as a land of spiritual exploits and greatness. “As you celebrate your 80th birthday, it is our prayer that the Almighty God will grant you more grace and strength to continue to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ, minister to the poor and the broken, and proclaim liberty to the captives.” Similarly, the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, also commended Adeboye’s contribution to national peace. Obasa said this in his congratulatory message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Eromosele Ebhomele. He stated, “As you clock 80, I want to say it is only God that could have blessed you with such an age and agility. Many people would hardly believe that you are already 80. Your physical strength remains. “I have never seen you read the Bible or any other material with difficulty, your gait confirms your strength. This proves God’s words that He would bless those He would bless. “Your contributions to the efforts at having a peaceful Nigeria cannot be overemphasised. We follow your teachings; we hear your appraisal and words of encouragement.” RCCG leader, most active octogenarian I know, says Oyetola Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, described Adeboye as the most active octogenarian he knew. Oyetola, in a congratulatory message to the RCCG leader, which he personally signed and shared through his Facebook page, said being an indigene of Osun State, Adeboye had the aura of a genuine Omoluabi. The governor, who commended Adeboye for always identifying with the state, also acknowledged his constant support, noting that the cleric remained a blessing to the world. The statement read in part, “Baba Enoch Adeboye, you are probably the most active 80-year-old I know, who wears the look of a man in his early 60s.  Your look is no doubt a function of God’s grace in your life. You are indeed a great sage and brilliant luminary at 80. “On behalf of my family, the government and the good people of Osun, I join your family, friends and members of the Redeemed Christian Church of God worldwide to congratulate you, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, on this occasion of your 80th birthday anniversary. “As an upstanding and illustrious son of the State of the Virtuous, your aura is that of a genuine Omoluabi (responsible man). Over the decades, you have consistently remained energetic and untiring in your propagation and pursuit of a better society. You are a leader of immense spiritual depth and insight. You live and lead an extraordinary life. “Baba Adeboye, you are a blessing to our world and we thank you for your selfless service to humanity. As a government, we appreciate you for always identifying with the state and we acknowledge your constant support.” Yahaya Bello celebrates RCCG leader Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, extended felicitations to Adeboye on the occasion of his 80th birthday. The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Onogwu Mohammed, described the clergyman as a bridge-builder and a blessing to this generation. The statement read in part, “Daddy G.O., as many of us fondly call him, has not only contributed to lives through his ministry work, but his empowerment of people and nurturing them into nation builders. I’m always wowed by the simplicity and sense of humility of this man of influence. His good works are testimonies of his divine calling, impacting greatly on humanity, education, health and infrastructural development. It is no doubt that Pastor Adeboye is a blessing to Nigeria and the entire globe. “I salute his dedication to his calling and service to God, and it is my prayer that the Almighty God will continue to bless him with good health and strength, and many more years of impact. “I join people across different parts of the world to celebrate an icon, teacher and religious leader on the attainment of 80.” Bello also prayed that God would spare Adeboye’s life to witness more and continually reward him for the immense contributions to lives across the globe. Adeboye plans to celebrate 90th birthday for a month – Odesola An Assistant General Overseer of the RCCG, Pastor Johnson Odesola, has said Adeboye is looking forward to celebrating his 90th birthday for one month. Speaking to our correspondent on Wednesday at the Redemption Camp, Ogun State, Odesola, who said he had been with the G. O. for 48 years, explained that Adeboye had decided not to celebrate any birthday until he is 90. Adeboye was born on March 2, 1942 in Ife-Iwara, Osun State. He said, “Baba had told us that he would not celebrate his 80th, but by the time he gets to 90, he would celebrate for a month. Daddy G. O. is very hard to describe because I have been with him for 48 years; every aspect of his life is a compendium. “Talk about his humility and love; talk about his directives and advice; he is a man who can see into tomorrow.” Odesola extolled Adeboye’s gift of being able to see into the future, adding that he was a purposeful leader. He stated, “When I started working around him, I was thinking this man is unassuming, because if he wants to get results, he will say it in a gentle way. So, I felt the demand was too much, but that day as I was thinking, he suddenly said, ‘Some of you are thinking I am hard on you, a time is coming when you will go far from me and I want you to replicate what you see’. “It came to pass after 15 years; I had to go as a missionary and I spent close to 10 years; I was in Zambia, Malawi, Madagascar, Angola, Zimbabwe, Congo DRC and the likes; he (Adeboye) is a man who can look into the future and tell you this is it. “When we moved to the campground, incidentally, I was part of the people who moved in with him and he said this place would become an abode of millions of people and today it is so. G.O. is very hard to describe because he is not only a preacher, he is an apostle and an evangelist; not only that, he is a prophet; I don’t know how he is able to blend this huge number of people because parishes of the RCCG in Nigeria alone are close to 50,000. “We pray that God will continue to keep him, enlarge him. His wife is a bundle of energy; her hospitality is an addition to his ministry. As you can see, it is a low-key birthday, and we believe by the time he gets to 90, we will be able to celebrate.” While giving reasons why Adeboye deferred his celebration until when he would be 90, Odesola said, “The reason is that there are still many grounds to cover, and when you are still working and you haven’t got to where you are going, you don’t stop and start celebrating.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com