The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, on Saturday, scaled up its preparedness to wage relentless war against drug cartels in Nigeria with the graduation of 650 officers of its Strike Force Unit from the Nigerian Army School of Infantry, Jaji, Kaduna State. The graduation came after weeks of rigorous specialised training. During the ceremony, the Chairman/Chief Executive, NDLEA, Brig Gen Buba Marwa (retd.), told the graduating strike force operatives to “be mindful that today is a milestone in your professional career in the agency.” According to him, the specialised training―and the skill acquired thereof―will no doubt enhance their competence in the special role they are playing for the agency in the war against illicit drugs. Marwa said, “It is important that I should remind you that as the agency scales its operation against illicit drugs trafficking, your service will become increasingly essential to the successful attainment of our organisational goals. “The special nature of your training requires that you serve as force multiplier to the conventional NDLEA staff in the field. I have no doubt that you will measure up to the demand of the job, because generations of military and paramilitary personnel have passed through this course and have distinguished themselves on the field. “More so, the progress report I received, including on-the-spot assessment, confirmed that the objective of the course has been achieved. Therefore, as you graduate today, I urge you not to rest on your laurels as your competence will be tested from time to time by challenges that will recur in your career as anti-narcotic operatives.” Marwa, who was represented by his Special Adviser, Col Yakubu Bako (retd.), reminded the operatives that the Strike Force was one of the NDLEA’s tactical creations of 2021 to add strength and purpose to its drug supply reduction effort by providing cover for officers and men of NDLEA, who had to work in dangerous terrains, while carrying out their duties. He added, “The merit of having the strike force was evident in the month of February when on two occasions the agency was able to successfully carry our raid, seizure and destruction of a significant amount of psychotropic substances in territories, which in the past, were hostile and almost out of bounds for narcotic officers. “In Ondo State, for instance, 255 hectares of cannabis farms were destroyed across five local government areas in a seven-day operation. Similarly, in Lagos State, a notorious drug den in Patey, Lagos Island, was successfully raided in broad daylight with over 5, 000kg of cannabis and other assorted drugs seized along with the arrest of the drug kingpin and six other suspects. “Both operations were dangerous, but the strike force unit provided the needed cover, repelled mob attacks and ensured that our officers and men performed their duty safely.” Marwa urged them to shun any enticement that was in conflict with the ethos of their profession as anti-narcotic operatives. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com