Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, has assured his administration’s resolve in the actualisation of exploitation of the already discovered oil in Kolmani area of Pindiga Emirate of Gombe State. Yahaya stated this on Saturday, during a civic reception organised in honour of the retired Acting Chief Judge of the State, Justice Muazu  Pindiga, in Pindiga, Akko Local Government. According to the governor, the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC through the Frontier Exploration Division of the agency has injected a lot of resources and that a significant quantity of oil that is commercially viable, to the tune of over 6 billion barrels, has been found in the Kolmani area. He said he had on several occasions visited the corporate headquarters of the NNPC and also met with President  Muhammadu Buhari to interface with them on how best the state can benefit from the oil and gas deposits in the state. He said, “But for the economic crunch experienced lately, occasioned by Covid-19, the Federal Government had concluded plans to begin the exploitation of the over 6 billion barrels of crude oil in the area; but I assure you this will happen, and I am committed to seeing to that.” Yahaya urged the immediate past acting Chief Judge of Gombe State, Justice Pindiga, not to jettison his fine and exceptional characters that distinguished him as a forthright judge in the temple of justice. The governor expressed optimism that the retirement of Justice Muazu Pindiga would further provide opportunity for him to continue doing more for the good of his immediate community of Pindiga, the state and the country as a whole. Yahaya lauded the people of Pindiga Emirate for their steadfastness in supporting his administration’s policies and programmes, promising them that the state government would reciprocate the gesture by continually implementing programmes that have social and economic value to the people. The chairman of the occasion and former minister of Transport, Senator Abdullahi Umar lauded Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya contributions especially the actualisation of the full oil exploitation in Kolmani of Pindiga Emirate. He also expressed gratitude to the Emir of Pindiga for deeming it necessary to honour the retired Justice Muazu Pindiga, noting that the mammoth crowd that came to witness the reception is a pointer that the retired legal luminary is a man of the people. In her goodwill message, former President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, expressed satisfaction with the performance of the governor within short period of his stewardship. Bulkachuwa also congratulated the retired Justice Muazu Pindiga for successfully exiting the judiciary without blemish and thanked Pindiga Emirate for the honour done to her. She described Justice Pindiga as an astute jurist whose hard work and dedication to the dispensation of Justice is pragmatic. The Emir of Pindiga, His Royal Highness, Muhammad Ahmed, in his address, noted that the seeming conflict between Gombe and Bauchi states over the Kolmani oil field would not cause any rift between the two sister states.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com