Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, says he wants to become Nigeria’s President in 2023 to end the country’s hydra-headed problems majorly insecurity. He spoke on Monday as a guest on Channels Television’s ‘Politics Today’ programme monitored by The PUNCH. The two-term governor and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, who declared his intention to run recently, said, “Just look at what happened two days ago when bandits tried to take over an international airport. It is no longer bandits kidnapping people in buses but now trying to take over an international airport in Kaduna. “What does that portend in our country? What does that tell investors? How did they come in? What happened? No intelligence. The present government is not doing enough; no commitment. “As a leader, you owe a duty to superintend, supervise what is happening.” The governor also said he would end the oil bunkering in the Southern part of the country. According to him, he won’t engage in television rhetorics like the incumbent President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), or dish out orders on the media. Rather, Wike said he would lead from the front and ensure that the service chiefs do their jobs. Asked whether the PDP has the moral right to come back to power after its eight-year break from Aso Villa, Wike said, “Certainly, Nigerians have compared and seen; we were thinking that these guys (All Progressives Congress) are saints; we didn’t know that they have the worst record. It is unfortunate. In 2015, Nigerians are told all kinds of lies and today, Nigerians are saying that they have been deceived.” Other members of the PDP who have shown interest in getting the party’s 2023 presidential ticket include former Vice President Atiku Abubakar; former Senate President, Bukola Saraki; Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal; Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed; and ex-governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso. Aside from northern politicians, some southern stalwarts including former Senate President and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Pius Anyim; former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose; ex-governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi; media personality, Dele Momodu, amongst others have also expressed interest in clinching the PDP’s 2023 presidential ticket in the primary which is expected to hold later in May. Other presidential hopefuls include APC leader, Bola Tinubu; Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi; ex-Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha; former Governor of Abia State and Majority Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Kalu; former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Kingsley Moghalu, among others. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has also been rumoured to nurse an ambition to succeed his boss through the 2023 election but the professor of law has not officially made his intention known. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com