THE Nigerian Institute of Environmental Engineers has assured residents of Lagos State that it would utilise groundwater to tackle the problems of unsafe water and water scarcity. Residents of the state have been reacting to the water scarcity experienced in the Ketu, Ikorodu, Surulere and Alimosho areas of the state. The National President of NIEE, Sesan Odukoya, during an interview with our correspondent on Monday in Alausa, Ikeja, said the institute would partner with the government to ensure the availability of potable water. He said, “Water scarcity in the state is a concern to us because people must have access to clean water. The level of compliance coming from the water cooperation is less than 25 per cent and the type of water residents readily have access to, is not potable. Article VI of the Sustainable Development Goals talks about access to water and sanitation, and this water has to be potable. “Unfortunately, most of the surface water people use are polluted and not safe. There are many heavy metals that pollute our waters, particularly in Lagos, a major industrial hub. There is also seepage from landfills and septic tanks due to the indiscriminate siting of boreholes leading to health challenges among residents. “So, to tackle this lack of safe water, we want to first create awareness; collaborate with the government, the society and other stakeholders to ensure that people have access to safe water. “This year, as we observed the World Water Day, we plan to make groundwater feasible because we have seen that the water that comes from the supply is not adequate for the people. Groundwater has been well-utilised by various companies, but homes and businesses too need this, so we are working to create policies with the government, protect and preserve wetlands and promote the accessibility and visibility of groundwater through boreholes and promotion of integrated water system.” Odukoya also explained that the NIEE will tackle the challenges of exploitation of groundwater. “As environmental engineers, we are concerned about the way sewage and industrial wastes are dumped into the lagoon. This is one of the challenges we are facing because somebody is drinking that water downstream, so whatever thing that you have done upstream, its effects will be felt by somebody downstream. “The pollutants we dispose of in the waters return to us and this could explain some of the ailments people are now having. This is why we are working with the state and driving strong advocacies on preservation of aquatic lives and prevention of underground water activities that will cause its pollution like the discharge of hazardous waste materials,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com