The military authority said on Monday that troops killed 12 of the bandits that attacked the Kaduna International Airport on Saturday. It also the incident occurred six kilometres away from the terminal and outside the airport perimeter fence. The clarification was made when the Kaduna State Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan; Garrison Commander, 1  Division Nigerian Army, Kaduna Brig.-Gen. Uriah Opuene; and Air Force Base Commander, Air Commodore Ademuyiwa Adedoyin, visited scene of the attack on Monday. Opuene, while briefing journalists, said there are several layers of security at the airport and that bandits could not have dared to attack it. He said preliminary investigation showed that the bandits were passing through the back of the airport towards Riyawa village, when they sighted the security man engaged by the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency to watch over their metrological equipment around the axis. Opuene said, “As you can see, this place is about six kilometres away from the airport terminal. The bandits were only passing behind the airport perimeter fence when they saw the security man engaged by NAMA and they fired at him. They just took advantage of that to pass a message that they have attacked the airport. “There are several layers of security at the airport.  This is the first layer and even this first layer was not breached because from the moment of hearing that shot, it took our men just about three minutes to get here from the next layer of security. “On arrival, the bandits were already running away. So, we engaged them through the use of ground forces. Then we called for air strike and a helicopter was deployed and from the air report, about 12 of the bandits were killed. “So, as you can see from the distance, the insinuation outside that the terrorists took over the airport is not correct. If the terrorists had entered, they would have met us there.” On his part, the Air Force Base Commander, said security around the airport general area has been beefed up since the security of the Nigerian Defence Academy was breached last year, adding that bandits do not have the audacity to attack the airport. Meanwhile, the commissioner assured all that the airport is safe and secured, adding that the state government is engaging citizens in communities around the airport to scale up intelligence gathering. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com