The lawmaker representing Osun Central Senatorial District, Senator Ajibola Basiru, has said Governor Adegboyega Oyetola is sure of winning the governorship election in Osun State again. Basiru, who is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, said this in an interview with journalists in Ibadan on Monday. Speaking on the sidelines of the birthday party of an All Progressives Congress chieftain, Dr Akintunde Yunus, held at the University of Ibadan Conference Centre, the lawmaker said whoever wins the Peoples Democratic Party’s governorship ticket would just make up the number of contestants on the ballot papers but would not win. The lawmaker downplayed the feud between Oyetola and the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, saying the former Osun State governor would vote for the governor. He said, “There is no doubt that APC will retain power in Osun State in the coming election. I don’t have any doubt at all that Governor Oyetoka will win again. “The PDP is not a party to reckon with in Osun and whoever picked their ticket will just be on the ballot just to contest. Governor Oyetola will win again. He won 94 per cent in the governorship primary election. “Governor Oyetola has shown how governance should be and how it should reflect in the lives of the people. The APC has two senators and has six of the nine House of Representatives seats.” Asked if the crisis within the party will not negatively affect the chances of the governor at the poll, Basiru said he was confident that Aregbesola would vote for the APC. “He (Aregbesola) has always been a progressive and he will work for progressive. I’m confident of that,” he added. The PDP in Osun is expected to hold its governorship primary election on Tuesday (today) and whoever wins will face Oyetola and candidates of other political parties in the poll which is scheduled to hold in July 16. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com