Dear Mummy, I really appreciate your work and support. Before I stumbled on you on Facebook, I have been reading your column in Saturday PUNCH newspaper.  It’s so sad the world we are now don’t believe virgins exist but I’m so appreciative an accomplished and well-read woman like you can talk to us about its benefits and encourage us so passionately! Most people say no lady can graduate from the university as a virgin but I just laugh them off!  Ma, I’m happy to tell you I would be 23 this July, I’m still a virgin and I’ve  graduated from the university as well and currently serving in Benue State. Words alone cannot express how much I cherish the support you give us, ladies out there. Thank you, ma. Ayanmo Dear Ma, I lost my virginity and the pregnancy that came with it last year. The reality of it is just hitting me now and I’m finding it hard to heal. I feel very worthless as a woman now. I feel like I’ve lost something! How I wish I waited till my wedding night! What would I tell my husband? V. My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly-celebrated Nigerian sisters, When I tell you to exercise some patience and do things God’s way, it appears I’m not quite normal or do I say you feel I’m old school because the world has normalised premarital sex! The lady above is feeling so incomplete because she lost her virginity I’m sure to someone she wishes she never met! Who knows what other spiritual transactions could have taken place as a result of that sexual intercourse! You all need to be careful as far as your life is concerned and who you open up your life to! God created sex for the pleasure of marriage and procreation, not an indoor game! I keep getting messages over and over again from a good number of you, including those who were sexually abused, wishing you had your virginity intact. God Himself knows too many of you were not properly prepared for the world’s perversion and its influence on young and innocent souls, also no one asks to be raped either as a child or an adult. All you need now is what God thinks about you and not what someone you don’t even know yet would think. After all, there are technical virgins with very filthy hearts leading sinful lives. So why don’t you get Him on your side by living a completely holy life devoid of any form of sin and let Him prepare you on a journey of SPIRITUAL REFORMATION. If you make your future partner an idol in your heart and get carried away with what he would think about your lost virginity rather than concentrate on God and let His power overhaul you and fine-tune you, YOU WILL END UP WITH THE WRONG MAN! What matters now is a committed relationship with the one who created you and who exclusively knows and can control your life’s trajectory. YOU WILL BE AMAZED AT WHAT HE COULD DO TO A DEJECTED, REJECTED, BASHED, BATTERED AND SCORNED LIFE! That’s why I keep emphasising on you being SUPERNATURAL through the power of God. You don’t care what the devil or anyone thinks about you. Your brain, mind and soul are saturated with the spirit of God. You are too joyful with your conversations with God, what your future would bring and ever basking in the wondrous glory of God! Your divine identity makes you a super blessing to whoever you come in contact with. Stop worrying about what your husband would think on your wedding night as long as you don’t lie to him. Interestingly, a lady who had been sexually-active but abstained a few years before marriage told me how amazed she and her husband were on their wedding night after their first sex. The man in great shock professed he couldn’t believe her state and loved her the more. Besides, when the man God pairs up with you arrives, he simply MELTS AT THE PRESENCE OF GOD IN YOUR LIFE! PERIOD! He doesn’t want to know what happened in your past! Remember the scripture says “He who finds a wife, finds a good thing and obtains favor from God.” Prov.18:22. So why fret if you’re standing right before God? I congratulate you on you your rebirth! Your life will never remain the same again. However, if your virginity is intact and you are reading this, please save it for marriage, SAVE IT, SAVE IT, SAVE IT O!!! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowotemilolu Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com