The All Progressives Congress in Edo State, has advised Governor Godwin Obaseki to concentrate on fulfilling his re-election campaign promises to the people and stop indulging in self-adulation. The party was reacting to the lecture, Obaseki delivered on Tuesday at the Nigeria Institute of International Affairs, Lagos, in which he was praising himself as a successful administrator. The APC in a statement signed by its Assistant State Publicity Secretary, Victor Osehobo, said that Edo people are worried about such feedback by the Governor that his almost six-year-old administration had done exceedingly well. The APC contended that rather than tell his audience some bitter home-truths that the major pillars of his administration which includes the signing of frivolous MoUs and entering into dubious partnerships with all comers are not working, the governor embarked on reeling out a long list of failures and even congratulating himself on how well the lot of Edo has improved. The statement by the APC reads in part, “Following the lecture that Governor Obaseki delivered at the Nigeria Institute of International Affairs, Lagos, we are concerned with the feedback of chest-beating that his six-year-old administration has done well. “Rather than tell himself some bitter home-truths that his policies and programmes are not working, the governor embarked on self-glorification of how well he has managed the Affairs of Edo State. ‘‘As it has become customary for Governor Obaseki to travel to Lagos periodically to whitewash his administration, we owe it to posterity to let the governor know our candid assessment. “The government entered its fifth year in office with an unattainable MEGA theme that will focus on how to use governance to support Edo people, create enabling business environment so that Edo people can do their business without being harassed. But the reverse is the case. Official thugs are all over Edo state, harassing innocent citizens, all in the name of collecting taxes. “As it stands today, the average Edo person is tired of the Mr Obaseki-led PDP government because of its failed promises, multiple taxations including promotion of street trading with daily levies of all actors, inadequate funding of tertiary educational institutions and shutting them down, demolition of private and public properties, kidnapping of citizens and the violent activities of bandits masquerading as herders among others. “Edo State debt has more than doubled on the domestic front while on the international scene the state under Governor Obaseki has been turned into the most foreign indebted in the country. “Public schools have no teachers while many of them lack basic materials like desks and chairs as government bandies its failed hype of an education programme it calls EDOBEST everywhere. “The audience who are familiar with the scenario in Edo State must have been taken aback no doubt, as they listened to Mr Obaseki who has personalised governance in Edo State pontificating about a properly functioning democracy. “It is funny that Mr Obaseki claimed that for him democracy should be people-centred by providing basic social and economic goods, such as roads, potable water, and improved education, while providing the right of groups and individuals to hold their governments accountable; yet he crippled the state legislature, constitutionally charged with this duty.” According to the APC, “Rather than this exercise of a dishonest pat on the back, what Mr Obaseki should have given his audience is an honest self-appraisal, a plea for forgiveness from Edo people, for promising more than his capacity, and genuine willingness to retrace its faltering steps.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com