The Yoruba Nation activist, Sunday Adeyemo, fondly called Sunday Ighoho, has been released by the Government of Republic of Benin. The umbrella body of Yoruba Self-determination Groups, Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide, announced this in a statement on Monday. The statement issued by  Ilana Omo Oodua’s spokesperson, Mr. Maxwell Adeleye,  was titled, ‘Yoruba Nation activist, Sunday Adeyemo Ighoho released to Yoruba leader, Banji Akintoye; French language expert, Adeniran by the Benin Republic Government’. Details of his release were sketchy as of the time of filing this report. The statement read, “Yoruba Nation Activist, Chief Sunday Adeyemo, fondly called Sunday Ighoho, has been released by the Government of Republic of Benin. “The Activist was released on Monday to a Yoruba Leader and Leader of the Umbrella body of Yoruba Self-determination Groups, Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide, Professor Banji Akintoye and a French Language Expert/ Deputy Alana of Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide, Professor Wale Adeniran. “Akintoye described the release of Ighoho as a triumph of truth over darkness in Yorubaland.” Igboho, who escaped from a deadly raid on his Ibadan residence by the operatives of the Department of State Service on July 1, 2021, was arrested in Benin Republic on his way to Germany on July 19 together with his wife, Ropo. His wife was released earlier. During the bloody raid on Igboho’s Sooka residence, the Department of State Services arrested and detained 13 of Igboho’s associates. Two of Igboho’s supporters, identified as Adogan and Alfa, lost their lives during the raid. DSS also presented seven AK-47 rifles allegedly recovered during the raid on Igboho’s house on July 1, as well as three pump-action guns, 30 fully charged AK-47 magazines, 5,000 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition, five cutlasses, one jack-knife, one pen knife, two pistol holsters, a pair of binoculars, a wallet containing $5, local and international driving licences in his name, ATM cards, a German residence permit No. YO2N6K1NY bearing his name, two whistles, 50 cartridges and 18 walkie-talkies. Others were three charm jackets/traditional body armour, two laptops, one Toshiba and one Compaq laptop, Igboho’s passport and those of his aides. However, the aides were later released after a court injunction. An Oyo State High Court also awarded N20 billion in damages in the activist’s favour. The court also restrained the Department of State Security and Attorney General of the Federation from arresting Igboho. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com