THE Ogun State Civil Service Commission say it has conducted an internal examination for serving officers who seek inter-cadre to fill up vacancies in some Ministries, Departments, and Agencies, in order to address the shortage of staff. According to a statement on Friday, the cadres include, accountants, auditors, information officers, road traffic officers and superintendents, social welfare officers, land surveyors, land officers, and tourism officers. The Chairman, Civil Service Commission, Tokunbo Odebunmi, while speaking in Abeokuta during the conduct of the examination, said it was imperative to allow those who had acquired higher qualifications the opportunity to enjoy career progression. Odebunmi said those who participated in the last upgrading examination and could not be part of the successful candidates were given the opportunity to re-sit so as to be captured if merited. He said the state government was committed to job creation. The Permanent Secretary in the commission, Mr Kolawole Ogunlana, said the process would give priority to deserving officers in the civil service as a result of the inadequate number of personnel, and prevent under utilisation of staff where there is surplus number of personnel. According to him, the civil service rule states that “infilling of vacancy, priority should be given to the meritorious officer in the service who have the required qualifications rather than appointing people from outside, consideration should be given to those in service.” He said qualified officers would have sat for the examination and scored at least 50 per cent before being shortlisted for the extended and oral interviews, and that selection of successful candidates would be based strictly on merit in accordance with the declared vacancies in the agencies. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com