The immediate-past Director-General of the Progressive Governors Forum, Salihu Lukman, Wednesday in Abuja, said the People’s Democratic Party would likely repeat the mistakes of its 16 years in power if elected in 2023. Lukman explained that the party’s failure to recognise the Buhari regime’s infrastructure gains—in terms of road, rail and aviation—would ultimately reflect in a weak or lack of commitment to prioritise investment in infrastructural development. The former PGF Boss said this in his biweekly review of performances in government between the APC and PDP titled ‘APC vs PDP: A Comparative Review of Performances in Government Infrastructural Development: Road, Railways & Aviation.’ Lukman said one of the areas the All Progressives Congress-led government remains different from all PDP administrations is the drive to develop road, railways and aviation infrastructure across every part of the country. The APC chieftain was reacting to a piece authored on February 25 by a leading member of the PDP and a former Minister of Aviation, Osita Chidoka, titled ‘Minister Fashola and the Difference between APC and PDP,’ where he argued that the infrastructure would not unlock growth and individual prosperity without investment in human beings. He said, “Debate about what differentiates APC government from all previous PDP governments concerning infrastructural development should not be reduced to literary debates. It is about looking at all the evidence. It will be imprudent to seek to develop or conjecture some theories to nullify concrete evidence of APC’s achievement. “In fact, failure to recognise evidence by PDP leaders such as Mr Chidoka demonstrate an unwillingness to learn from their past mistakes, which could mean if they come back to power, they will make the same old mistakes of running government based on weak or lack of commitment to prioritise investment in infrastructural development.” Lukman argued that “More roads and railways infrastructure are being built and completed since 2015, than in the 16 years under PDP between 1999 and 2015. Several landmark infrastructure initiatives are being implemented. “Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund, Infrastructure Company, Highway Development Maintenance Initiative, Sovereign Sukuk Bonds, and the Infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme have been initiated to mobilise and coordinate the application of national resources to execute specific projects. These are unprecedented initiatives in developing and upgrading national infrastructure. Equally unparalleled is President Buhari’s commitment to completing abandoned and unfinished projects inherited from previous PDP administrations.” He added that any comparative debate about what differentiates APC from PDP requires some measure of honesty, not denial. According to him, it is not about grandstanding but recognising how far Nigeria’s democracy has evolved and the extent to which it is facilitating national development. “When politicians of the status of a former Minister of the Federal Republic such as Mr Osita Chidoka reduces Debate about government initiatives to the level of literary Debate, it only demonstrates high contempt for national development. “Mr Chidoka and PDP leaders need to grow out of their prebendal politics of sharing government revenue, which ends up in private accounts of public officials. Government revenue should be invested in tangible projects that would facilitate and support the growth of economic activities. “Nigerian politics and democracy must prioritise the execution of these tangible projects across every part of the country, which is the focus of the APC led government of President Buhari,” he said. When contacted for the PDP’s reaction, the National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, neither answered calls nor responded to the message sent to him. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com