Five persons were confirmed dead, while three were injured as fleeing terrorists shot at a passenger car on the Yantumaki/Danmusa Road on Saturday. The spokesman for the state police command, Gambo Isah, confirmed the development on Sunday. Isah stated, “The incident actually happened. You know, our operatives were involved in some operations in some locations on Friday and early Saturday, where some terrorists were killed and their camps burnt down. Our operatives also recovered some domestic animals. “The terrorists, who were fleeing back into the forests, wanted to cross the road when the vehicle involved in the accident ran into them. Out of anger and frustration, they opened fire on the vehicle, leading to the accident. Our operatives are still on the trail of the fleeing terrorists.” Independent sources revealed that the vehicle, a Golf car, left Yantuamki early on Saturday morning for Danmusa. Sources disclosed that the passengers in the vehicle were from Gobirawa and Kaiga Malami, and their intention was to board motorcycles that would take them to their various villages from Danmusa. The passengers were said to have arrived at Yantumaki from various parts of the country late on Friday and chose to pass the night there to avoid the risks associated with night trips. It was further learnt that the vehicle ran into the terrorists a few minutes after leaving Yantumaki. The terrorists opened fire on the vehicle when the driver refused to stop, one of the sources explained. The vehicle somersaulted several times before hitting a tree, leading to the death of five persons on the spot. The police, who were alerted to the incident, visited the scene and evacuated the corpses of the victims and rescued the three injured passengers. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com