The National Universities Commission has recognised the Shehu Shagari University of Education as the first of its kind in northern Nigeria. This was contained in a statement on Monday by the Special Adviser to the Sokoto State Governor on Media and Publicity, Muhammad Bello. The SSUE, which was formerly the Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto was upgraded to a university by the Aminu Waziri Tambuwal administration which will focus primarily on the combination of theoretical and functional education. The Executive Secretary of the NUC, Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, while presenting the letter of recognition to the Tambuwal in Abuja lauded the governor’s efforts in educational development in the state. “Prior to the visit, the NUC has looked at the antecedents of the SSCOE vis-a-vis the outstanding credentials of Governor Tambuwal in the area of education development, particularly, tertiary education; and gladly present to you a letter of recognition of the SSUE as the 58th state university in the country and first of its type in Northern Nigeria, in addition to being the fourth in such category in the country,” Rasheed was quoted as saying. In his remarks before presenting strategic documents for the University, Tambuwal explained the upgrading of the institution was born out of the need to increase the manpower in the state’s education sector. While assuring the NUC that the state government and the university will continue to abide by all its rules, Tambuwal stressed that all requirements that would ensure the smooth take-off of the institution had been completed. He also expressed hope that the university would address the human resource needs in Sokoto and other areas. “The university will go a long way in addressing the human resources gap and benefit the people of the state and its catchment areas,” Tambuwal stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com