Political stakeholders from the Sagbama and Ekeremor local government areas constituting the Bayelsa West Senatorial District of Bayelsa State have bought the senatorial form for a former governor of the state, Seriake Dickson. This was in fulfilment of the promise the two local governments made last week to ensure the return of Dickson because of his sterling performance as a senator in two years. Top political leaders from the senatorial district took turns to speak on the need for the former governor to continue with his vibrant representation at the upper chamber. The Deputy Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mr Michael Ogbere, said after buying the form that Dickson did exceptionally well as the governor for eight years and did a lot of life touching projects in the area. He said the Ekeremor people were impressed by his performance and energy on issues of concern in the district, Bayelsa State, the Ijaw Nation and even the Niger Delta region. He called on the former governor to contest the 2023 election on the strength of his impressive credentials, which had made Bayelsa West the surest senatorial seat for the Peoples Democratic Party in the state. He dismissed the purported zoning of the National Assembly positions in the area as shown by the fact that previous senators from Ekeremor re-contested for the third time and a former deputy governor from the area, Peremobowei Ebebi, contested and pursued the case on the electoral dispute to the Supreme Court, where he lost. A former Speaker of the old Rivers State House of Assembly, Kemeagbegh, on Tuesday, chronicled the exploits of Dickson, including the construction of the Sagbama/Ekeremor Road and many others, noting that it would be unfair and a monumental disservice for Bayelsa West to tell him to leave, after serving just two years in the National Assembly. He challenged those who were opposed to the former governor to campaign with their contributions to the development of the people of the district. He stressed that the Ijaw people were in dire need of efficient, skilled and credible brands of vibrant representation, which Dickson provided effortlessly. A former Permanent Secretary and Chairman of the Bayelsa Civil Service Commission, Peter Singabele, said Dickson had impacted so much in diverse ways on the lives of the people of the area and must continue with his brand of productive leadership at the Senate. Dickson, who accepted the nomination, thanked the elders for what he described as their humbling support, encouragement and unflinching commitment to the promotion of the interest of the district. He said Bayelsa West, Bayelsa the Ijaw Nation, the Niger Delta were in dire need of skilled, experienced and effective representation as the nation moved towards a critical period of transition Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com