A Peoples Democratic Party presidential hopeful and President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, Sam Ohuabunwa, has said the plot to deny Igbos Presidency, come 2023, will not see the light of day. The founder of Neimeth Pharmaceutical stated this in an exclusive interview with The PUNCH, on Saturday, saying he had worked harder than any other aspirant to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). “The plot will not work. God, Himself will not sanction injustice. I am still hopeful that wise counsel will still prevail as most God-fearing Nigerians are in support of justice. They support a shift to the East and by God’s grace, it will happen,” he said. According to him, the insinuations that Igbo Presidential aspirants had lost steam and were fizzling out of their presidential race, was unfounded, adding he would become the nation’s president, come 2023. Ohuabunwa said, “It’s not true, that Igbo Presidential aspirants have lost steam and are not consulting and campaigning again. Yesterday, I was in the South-East. On Thursday, I was in Delta and I met with the PDP caucus there. On Monday, I will be going to Oyo and from Oyo, to Kwara. We are moving. “It’s just that we don’t have the resources the way Tinubu has; he has so much money and if he coughs, everybody hears about it. But we are doing much more than he does. Our move is towards the delegates because we are not in the general elections yet. It’s the PDP delegates we are focusing on now; we are not entertaining the general public. “Therefore, we are strategic in our moves. It’s not true that Igbo Presidential aspirants are not doing anything about their ambition. If anybody is not moving, I am moving and strategising. I must tell you that in the last two or three weeks, I have done so much to ensure I clinch the PDP Presidential ticket.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com