The Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers has called on the Federal Government to convene a stakeholders’ meeting in order to get input over its planned enforcement of monthly rent payment in the country. President of the Institution, Chief Emmanuel Wike made the call in Port Harcourt, Rivers State while speaking to newsmen shortly after the logo unveiling event for the body’s 52nd annual conference slated for June, 2022 in Port Harcourt. Wike said while it was thoughtful for the Federal Government to tinker with the problems high rent was causing in the country, the monthly payment was not tenable due to present realities on the ground. “You cannot control what you don’t have. Over 70 to 80 per cent of the properties in Nigeria are owned by individuals or corporate organisations, and not by the government. So, will you be able to control what you don’t have? Again, on what grounds is the government trying to reduce the high cost of building construction? You cannot spend N20, N30 million on building construction and you are telling somebody to collect monthly rent. How is he going to cope? Wike stated that in such a stakeholder parley, the institution will be willing to proffer some solutions on how most of the problems associated with high rent payment can be resolved. He further said, “And again, the structure that the government has, does it allow for monthly rent collection? The answer is no. What we have is an annual payment. “How do you think somebody that has collected maybe a facility from a financial institution; you are asking him to pay an annual payment and he is collecting monthly rent. It might not work. So, I think the government should call a stakeholders’ meeting where some of these things will be related and we have done that with the Minister.” He however said the institution will come up with a position on that issue sooner than later. Earlier, the state chairman of the institution, Hamilton Odom said the forthcoming annual conference tagged ‘Garden City 2022’ would coincide with the 50th anniversary of the Rivers State branch.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com