A delegation of the Communist Party of the Peoples Republic of China on Thursday visited the leadership of the Inter-Party Advisory Council where they brainstormed on how to make the 2023 general elections a credible exercise. The convener of the meeting and national chairman of IPAC, Yabagi Sani, said that the visit coincided with the plan by the organisation to visit the Embassy of the Peoples Republic of China in Nigeria. The leader of the delegation, Comrade Wu Baocai, flanked by Comrade Zhao Jinshuo, said Nigeria and China have a long lasting relationship and that there must be cooperation in order to better the lives of the people. Sani said IPAC national leadership would be looking forward to more meetings with officials of the Embassy in the days ahead. He said, “As Nigeria inches towards another round of general elections in 2023, the political atmosphere in the country is already, characteristically, charged to a high pitch. “The emerging signals on the political horizon are clearly demanding greater levels of preparation and strategies on the part of IPAC and the other strategic key players in the country’s democracy project. “At this critical juncture, Nigeria will certainly need the robust support usually given by friendly nations in order to be able to surmount the looming challenges. “We are in this regard, especially looking towards the People’s Republic of China, through the Chinese Communist Party and other institutions in China that engage in engendering world peace and security in Africa and the rest of the developing countries. “True indeed, no model of democracy can be wholly imported and transplanted from one country to another. “We are, however, convinced that, while building a model of democracy rooted in their peculiar history, textures and characteristics, there is so much that Nigeria and countries in Africa can learn from the exemplary strides of the Chinese Communist Party. “In furtherance of the goals of enthroning universal peace and security, unity and fraternity among nations and peoples, the People’s Republic of China, under the supervision of the Communist Party, is expected and looked upon to stand by us towards the eventual achievements of these lofty ideals.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com