The Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria says the Contributory Pension Scheme is helping Nigerian workers to save for retirement and provide funds for infrastructure development. The operators, therefore, urged workers to increase their statutory deductions, noting this would enable them to raise their aggregate savings balances over time. The association said in a statement obtained by our correspondent on Friday. The statement read in part, “It is also pertinent to note that the Contributory Pension Scheme in its current state has in no small way fostered a savings culture in Nigeria. Prior to the enactment of the Act, Nigeria did not have large pools of domestic savings. “Many Nigerians do not have any other form of savings, except through this contributory pension scheme. What we should be doing as a nation is to encourage more of these savings rather than looking to dismantle the system. “This is probably the only form of savings most Nigerian workers are able to put aside for their retirement years.” PenOp also advocated for consistency and discipline in the contributions, adding that this would remove the need for any large lump sum payout at retirement. Explaining how long-term savings will boost the financial future of workers, PenOp said, “If a worker were to save N20,000 consistently every month for 15 years with an interest rate of 10 per cent per annum compounded for the 15 years, at the end of the period, he would have amassed over N16m. This is the power of consistency and compounding which the current system provides, and which should be encouraged.” It said it was opposed to the bill seeking to amend the Act in order to allow for at least a 75 per cent lump sum payment to owners of the RSA account upon retirement. According to PenOp, it is important to note that the scheme is working for millions of Nigerians. It said, “We should not cannibalise a scheme because there are some issues, rather we should look to strengthen the scheme for the benefit of all “The passing of the bill as proposed will actually do more damage to the pensioners we say we are trying to protect. “Countless studies and data show that many who have access to considerably large sums in retirement than they were used to when working only spend it on consumption without any long-term personal or economic benefit.” According to the organisation, the argument the proponents of the bill are making is flawed and based on past and archaic models where people elevate immediate personal consumption as opposed to long-term financial stability and national economic growth. It said, “Is it not better, for example, to have more roads, rail systems and other means of transport than have individuals buy more cars? Is it not better to have retirees and pensioners who are able to provide for themselves to some extent than have indigent pensioners and exacerbate the problem with old age poverty which currently exists?”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com