The Federal Government has approved a special gas pricing for emergency contracting of gas to power plants owned by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company Limited. Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, who disclosed this on Saturday, said the approval was given in order to optimise the capacity utilisation of the power plants following the recent spate of power grid collapse that led to nationwide blackout. The minister, in a statement he personally signed, stated that the emergency meeting convened on March 14, 2022 to address concerns in the power sector led to the progress so far recorded in the restoration of the national electricity grid. Aliyu explained that the national grid lost about 1,100 megawatts generation capacity as a consequence of simultaneous disruptions in gas supply to the Okpai, Calabar and the Afam VI power plants. Outlining some of the progress so far recorded, Aliyu said, “The gas pipeline affected by acts of vandalism has been restored and the Okpai power plant has resumed power generation and currently contributing an average of 300MW. “The Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc has been directed to enter into fast-track negotiation with Nigeria Agip Oil Company on an interim energy sales agreement with a view to bringing the new Okpai II power plant on the grid, thereby contributing additional 400MW of generation capacity. “The ‘pigging’ of the gas pipeline supplying gas to the Odukpani power plant is scheduled for completion on March 21, 2022, thus ramping up generation by about 400MW. He added, “In order to optimise the capacity utilisation of the power plants owned by the NDPHC, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission has approved a special gas pricing for emergency contracting of gas from the Nigerian Gas Marketing Company Limited. “We expect an on-grid improvement of about 800MW generation capacity from the NDPHC plants.” The minister noted that in the medium term, the ministry had agreed with a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited on the framework for the overhaul of the Okoloma gas processing plant thereby restoring the full capacity of the 650MW Afam VI combined cycle power plant. Aliyu stated that while the recent spate of system collapse was regrettable, it was a direct consequence of a snap on a 330KV transmission line. “The mitigation measures for avoiding such incidence of blackout are being implemented through several interventions including the Presidential Power Initiative,” he stated. Aliyu added, “We wish to reassure all electricity consumers that all relevant agencies involved in the restoration of normalcy in power supply have been charged to act in the context of the emergency state of the industry.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com