Ahead of the forthcoming Peoples Democratic Party’s primary for the 2023 presidential election, Senator Bukola Saraki Campaign Council has said that the former senate president is the best for the country. Many aspirants from the major opposition party in the country have shown interest in grabbing the presidential ticket of the party, but the Saraki Campaign Council said the two-term Kwara State governor was the best of all the aspirants. Addressing delegates from Ondo State, who converged on the party’s Secretariat at Alagbaka, Akure, the chairman of the campaign council, Alhaji Kawu Baraje, said the country needed a cerebral person like Saraki to fix the various challenges facing it. According to Baraje, the performance of Saraki as the President of the Senate was excellent as he ensured that the constitution of the country was adhered to in all government dealings during his time. He said, “Saraki is the best among the aspirants. We need a younger and more experienced person to rule Nigeria. He has the answer to all the problems facing the country.” A member of the campaign council, Prince Adenekan Olateru-Olagbegi, described the country as a failed state which needed a capable and experienced person to revive it. He said: “I am supporting him because of the challenges in the country. It’s more of a failed state. We have challenges in all sectors. People need to have the courage to make the right decisions. This country will move and become one of the four great nations in the world. “The only missing link in Nigeria is the leadership. Like a soccer game, if you have the best team, you will win. America is totally different from Nigeria because they have a system in place. We need to have the courage to choose the best person that will turn the nation around. We need truthful and dedicated person to lead us.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com