The Buhari Media Organisation has criticised former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, over his recent claim that the country’s judiciary and legislature were controlled by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd). The rebuttal statement signed by the Chairman of the BMO, Niyi Akinsiju, and its Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, on Saturday, said that Saraki made an irresponsible comment that lacked facts. The BMO said that Saraki hoped to destabilize the polity when giant strides were made by the 9th National Assembly, especially in the areas of electoral amendment, budget management, the passage of bills, especially the Petrol Industry Bill. The group stated that Saraki would be remembered for starting a culture of acrimony between the executive and the legislature. The statement read in part, “Our attention has been drawn to comments made by former Senate President Bukola Saraki through the Campaign Director, ‘Bukola Saraki Presidential Campaign Directorate’, Professor Iyorwuese Hagher at a political meeting in Kano where he made a number of unfounded claims against President Muhammadu Buhari. “Perhaps the most grating of those allegations is the suggestion that the judiciary and the legislature are not independent under this administration. “We see it as an attempt by a former Senate President to muddle up the waters at a time the 9th National Assembly is getting accolades for doing what the crop of Federal lawmakers led by Saraki could not do. “Here is a man that had the opportunity to pave way for the realisation of electoral promises made by his then party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), but opted for the path of infamy for the most part of his tenure as Senate President,” the group said. It added, “Saraki was not the first head of the Senate in the current political dispensation, but he was the first one since 1999 to embark on direct confrontation with the Executive in such a way that younger Nigerians assumed that Federal lawmakers are meant to be acerbic and confrontational. “It was therefore not surprising to us that he suffered the biggest loss of his political career in what looked like a referendum on his performance as Senate President.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com