Advantage Health Africa has re-introduced its e-commerce platform, ‘myMedicines’, which enables clients to access quality healthcare on the go. A statement by the organisation explained that myMedicines, a medicine ordering platform would increase access to affordable and quality healthcare directly to customers across Nigeria, and Africa. Founder and Chief Executive Officer of AHA and promoters of myMedicines,  Abimbola Adebakin,  said the digital platform would make it easier for customers to procure their medications from licensed pharmacies at their convenience and at an affordable price. She said, “For quick delivery within a few hours, the platform leverages a technology that routes customers’ orders to the nearest pharmacy in the network based on the customer’s location. “This is an exciting chapter for the myMedicines brand, and we thank our various supporters like Bayer Foundation, Google Black Founders Fund, our partners, and our investors who have stood by us to this stage. We cannot wait to introduce our clients to many more improved healthcare experiences coming soon.” Vice President, Tech Solutions at AHA, Eti-ima Brownson, explained that a professional pharmacist was also available to consult users online. “Customers have the option of a web or mobile version.  Those who visit the mobile platform can search for products using the voice search feature or simply by typing the product’s name on the web version, they can add multiple medications, medical devices, and other health-related products to their cart, upload prescriptions where necessary, confirm the delivery address and utilise multiple payment options to finalise their orders. “myMedicines includes other interesting features such as shopping incognito for privacy, automated medication refills and reminders, consulting with a cloud of pharmacists, order tracking, amongst others,” she said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com