A witness, Godwin Ikolo, on Thursday, demanded N3 billion compensation against the Police in favour of the National Commercial Tricycle and Motorcycle Owners and Riders Association, DeltaSstate chapter. He made the demand following alleged brutality and seizures of over 150 tricycles and motorcycles belonging to the association. Ikolo, National Public Relations Officer NCTMORA, stated this at the Independent Investigation Panel on Human Rights Violations by the defunct SARS and other units of the Nigerian Police Force in Abuja. Testifying before the panel, the witness alleged that a task force comprising some Police Officers, Delta State Ministry of Transport and the state Vehicle Inspection Officers had at various times arrested, brutalised and detained their members for no reason. According to him, the harassment and intimidation of their members by the Delta State task force led to the extra-judicial killing of late Joseph Ovedje. He also stated before the panel chaired by Dr Garba Tetengi (SAN) on behalf of the Chairman, Justice Suleiman Galadima (retd.), that the Delta State task force working with the police and other agencies of government in the state had impounded over 150 tricycles and motorcycles belonging to his association and had refused to release them till date. He said that those vehicles have been vandalised and that they need to be compensated to replace them, adding that the cost of one tricycle is N1.2 million while one motorcycle is N530,000. The witness informed the panel that NCTMORA members in Delta State have been maliciously prosecuted amid other alleged forms of human rights violations. Ikolo said a similar association recognised by the state governments as the state-owned tricycle and motorcycle operators usually connived with the state task force to frustrate the operations of his own association in the state. He further alleged that Delta State Ministry of transport expects his association to collapse into the state transport body, which according to him is not acceptable since they are fully registered to operate in the state. Counsel to the complainants, D. Faroae, who led the witness in his testimonies, agreed with the panel that Ikolo’s testimonies were enough and therefore there might not be any reason to call more witnesses. The panel adjourned the matter to March 9, 2022, for cross-examination of PW1 Ikolo and continuation of hearing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com