Operatives of Delta State Police Command have arrested a female suspected criminal who reportedly drugged a commercial motorcycle operator and stole his bike after becoming unconscious. PUNCH Metro gathered that the police effected the arrest following a report received by the Area Commander, Asaba, that on the 23rd of February, 2022, at about 1430hhrs, an okada rider (name withheld) carried a lady named Aisha Hassan and one other who pretended to be passengers to Kenu Guest House located at Bonsaac in the metropolis. On getting to the hotel, the victim stated that the lady brought out drink for them to drink unknown to him that sleeping pills and suspected hard drug had been injected into the drink. After drinking, he slept off and to his greatest surprise, when he woke up he discovered that his red coloured unregistered KC Sanya motorcycle with Engine No. 162FMJ510828953, chasis No. IPCKL11M1018611, valued at N330,000 had been stolen by the suspects. The Area Commander, Asaba, ACP Nuhu Hamidu, consequently detailed police detectives to investigate the incident and ensure that the suspects were arrested. The team went on an intelligence led investigation and arrested one of the suspects named Aisha Hassan. Investigation later revealed that her gang members took the motorcycle to an unknown destination. The police public relations officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, while confirming the incident told The PUNCH that investigation is ongoing in the matter with a view to possibly recovering the said motorcycle and to arrest the fleeing suspect. But the Commissioner of Police for the State Command, CP Ari Muhammed Ali, has urged members of the public to help with any useful information that will lead to the arrest of the suspect and also recover the said motorcycle. Meanwhile, CP Ari Muhammed Ali, following series of reports received regarding some drug cartels in the State, and the high rate at which youths are abusing drugs, has directed all tactical teams, Divisional Police Officers and Area Commanders to embark on intelligence led raiding to curb the menace, identify all illicit drugs hideouts, arrest and ensure that those found wanting are prosecuted accordingly. In compliance with the said directive, our correspondent gathered that the Command Crack squad on March 9, 2022 at about 1835hrs while acting on intelligence, raided a drug criminal hideout at Atata quarters, Ogbomro Community in Uwvie Local Government Area during which one Solomon Okodaso suspected to be a drug dealer and also the Ogbomro Community Chairman was arrested. Exhibits reportedly recovered from the suspect comprised 12 bottles of codeine, 14 sachets of tramadol, one and half compressed sack of loud, 73 wraps of weeds suspected to be SK, 65 tablets of happy mood drugs, one pack of Colorado, one pack of Arizona, nine packets of razlers, N192,000 cash, one Samsung handset, one Infinix handset, one ash coloured Mercedes Benz C350 with Reg No. KUJ 664 BH, one white coloured Lexus 330 vehicle with Reg. No. EFR 303 DC. The PPRO affirmed that investigation is ongoing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com