Women protesting against the rejection of bills seeking gender equality in the country have vowed to continue until their demands are met. The five bills are:  creation of special seats in state Houses of Assembly and National Assembly for women; expansion of the scope of citizenship by registration; provision for affirmative action for women in political party administration; provision for criteria for qualification to become an indigene of a state in Nigeria and 35 per cent slots for ministerial and commissioner appointment. The bills failed to get the required number of votes to be included in the proposed amendment to the 1999 Constitution on March 1. The development elicited anger from Nigerian women who protested against the action the following day. The protest which began on March 2 entered its 13th day last Friday. Since the protest commenced, the entrance gate of the National Assembly has been under lock and key, with lawmakers and staff  making use of the gate at the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. The development, our correspondent observed,  has caused difficulty in accessing the National Assembly with traffic jams being experienced. Besides, some staff of the National Assembly and lawmakers have complained about the loud music from the protesters. Although on the  fifth day of  the protest,  the House of Representatives promised to rescind their decision on three out of the five bills. It said the bills on the expansion of the scope of citizenship by registration; affirmative action for women in political party administration and qualification to become an indigene of a state in Nigeria would be recommended for consideration and will be part of the second batch of the constitution amendment. But the women under the aegis of Nigerian Women Group have stuck to their guns, demanding all the bills be reconsidered. Speaking with Sunday PUNCH, one of the leaders of the protest and  Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Women Trust Fund , Mufuliat Fijabi said Nigerian women are resolute and would not back down until all the bills are reconsidered by the lawmakers. She said, “We did all we could to ensure these bills are passed. The First lady visited and many groups lobbied with the leadership of the National Assembly and they actually gave us their words but  they deceived us. “Our male lawmakers should understand that a society that seeks balanced development and national growth needs to give women equal opportunity. We would not allow them be until what is due to the women is given to us.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com