It would not be an exaggeration to say that the topic “Death” is one of the most avoided conversations, often met with cringe-worthy reactions, in our country. This quote by an anonymous writer buttresses this point; “Life asked Death, ‘Why do people love me but hate you?’ Death responded, ‘because you are a beautiful lie, and I am a painful truth'”. This is apt, as many dread to talk about death despite its inevitability, be it in open discourse or a covert, between-the-lines mention, and if they must, they tend to seek the convenient route, or uttering the ever-evasive dismissal “GOD FORBID!” Death, however, is an inevitable reality with real-life consequences – sometimes in ripples – on many lives, especially the loved ones the demised left behind. Typically, the death of a loved one is a harrowing experience but having to deal with the hardship of survival while grieving is like being caught in a classic case of double jeopardy. Therefore, it is critical for all to consciously mitigate the many risks that come with death upon the bereaved. To do this, we must first embrace or understand the importance of having a conversation about death and then carefully consider answering the question, “what truly happens when a person dies?”. There are two possible answers to this question. A simple one and a rather difficult one. Indeed, when a person dies, the bereaved lose that life eternally; that is a simple truth. The not-so-simple answer is that death does not only take away lives, but it also sometimes flattens the curve on socio-economic performances and outcomes that negatively impact the demised family. In other words, death affects families, businesses and their socio-economic growth and development when a breadwinner is involved. All too often, we have heard of orphaned children who become school dropouts, families slipping into poverty, and small businesses going bankrupt or ceasing operations due to the death of a parent who is also a crucial business owner. Generally, the ripple effect of dying in a family unit or within a community can be devastating, leaving the affected in dire straits. According to research conducted by Paul Gertler titled “The Presence and Presents of Parents: Do Parents Matter for More than their Money?” buttresses this reality when revealed that at least 15% of bereaved children drop out of school compared to 7% of non-bereaved children. According to Forbes, most businesses do not survive after the owner’s death. Averagely, there is a 20% probability of an enterprise failing within four years after its owner’s demise. With Nigerian poor economic indices, from which the World Bank estimates that 40% of the population live in poverty, the citizens must be wiser to understand that the ‘economics of death’ should be studied intensely. The crude reality is that many Nigerian families are just one crucial death away from slipping into poverty. This fact, underpinned by the absence of superior social welfare, unsecured income capabilities, and the high economic dependency rate of 86%, leaves families, according to the World Bank, consistently living on the edge of deep poverty should a breadwinner dies, cutting off the human capital advantage to their loved ones. However, we must understand that it is possible to hedge against this potentially devastating consequence of death by having a mitigation strategy against it. This is what we have termed “the economics of death”. Simply put, “the economics of death” refers to the financial measures employed to assuage the potentially negative impact of death on bereaved families or loved ones of the deceased. It answers the question of leaving behind a legacy for my loved ones in the event of an unceremonious death. There are many strategies for achieving this, with financial risk management tools like savings, investments, writing wills, generational wealth transfers that ensure a sustainable path to economic emancipation, and life insurance. Of all these methods, we dare say that none is as all-encompassing, practical, structured, and dependable as insurance policies. If you are seeking a secure way of protecting your loved ones even after you can no longer be by their side, then you best believe that there is no better platform than insurance because, with life insurance plans, your family is poised to receive timely benefits that can ensure their economic sustenance. Sadly, insurance in Nigeria is so low despite being the continent’s biggest economy. Insurance penetration is incredibly low, at about 0.5%, ranking the country as one of the lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa and 79th in the world. When this is considered alongside Nigeria’s high economic dependency rate and the extremely high poverty level, one is pushed to convene a national dialogue on death to interrogate its economic impact on Nigerians. Deeper conversations about death will eventually awaken the citizens to the existence and capability of generational wealth transfer on the back of life insurance. Life insurance policies generally entail an agreement between an insurer and a policyholder, which states that in exchange for premium payments, the insurance company will pay a lump sum as a death benefit to named family members if death claims the life of the said policyholder. It ensures that death does not extend its cold hands on the grieving family. This means that with life insurance, you can be sure that the financial protection of your loved ones is guaranteed, with or without your presence. However, the curious point is that the conditions of dependability and integrity are non-negotiable when choosing a partner for your life insurance policy. You must be sure that the insurer is credible enough to pay out accurate and timely death benefits to your loved ones for their financial protection upon an untimely demise. In this light, there is no better insurer than Leadway Assurance Company Limited, an organization with 50 years proven track record of trustworthiness in a timely payout of insurance claims and benefits. Leadway’s life insurance policy offers two specially designed plans to help families create wealth and protect dependents in the case of death for as low as an annual premium of N7,500. In the case of death, the named beneficiaries are assured of N5,000,000 in claims payout. Even more impressive is that Leadway’s life insurance plan requires no medical underwriting before its purchase, making it easier to access for everyone, irrespective of specific biological factors. So, if you are looking to proactively protect your loved ones or are interested in getting more information on how to hedge against the sad reality of death, please visit www.leadway.com or call the Leadway Assurance Financial Management Experts on 01-2800-70 or email Lcs@leadway.com for professional advice. You can also request a call back by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me. We are also within your reach on WhatsApp via our virtual assistant support on 08129997044 or any of our social media outlets – @leadwayassurance on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. You can also send a DM, and we will revert with all the information you require.