The Ebonyi State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, on Monday, called on the newly elected National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, to keep his eyes on the ball to enable the party to win the next year’s general election. The party congratulated Adamu and other elected executives of the party and commended the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) and other stakeholders of the party for the display of maturity at the just concluded national convention of the party. A statement signed by the state Chairman of the party, Chief Stanley Okoro-Emegha said, “It is, however, my singular gesture to congratulate the new executives led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu, as the national chairman of our ever winning party, the APC. Sir, keep your eyes on the ball so that our party will cruise to a landslide victory in the forthcoming general elections. “This note of appreciation cannot be complete without the mention of some other critical stakeholders who helped to midwife the transparent, credible, reliable and peaceful process such as the security personnel, the Independent National Electoral Commission, and the media. Your diverse roles will ever remain indelible on the sands of time. “A commensurate note of gratitude of mine also goes to other National leaders of our formidable party who shelved their differences in other to accommodate the interest of the party and entire citizens of this great country- Nigeria. “In the same vein, l profoundly wish to appreciate our father and State Governor, His Excellency, Chief David Nweze Umahi, for having through the convention, domesticated the name of Ebonyi again in the national politics of Nigeria by producing the National Treasurer, Zonal Secretary as well as Zonal Legal Adviser of the APC. We have never had it this rosy.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com