The eight UEFA Champions League quarter-finalists are now known after Chelsea and Villarreal joined Atlético, Bayern, Benfica, Liverpool, Manchester City and Real Madrid in progressing through their round of 16 ties. Ahead of the quarter-final draw, UEFA assesses the sides hoping to reach the showpiece on 28 May, from stats and form to key players. Champions League quarter-final draw The draw for the 2021/22 UEFA Champions League quarter-finals and semi-finals will hold on Friday 18 March. Atlético
Why they can win it:
You just need to take one look at the dogged determination Atleti showed as they fought their way past Manchester United in the last 16 to see why they can go all the way and upset anyone in this competition. They are so resilient and masters of backs-against-the-wall football, nobody will want to be paired against them in the draw. Bayern Why they can win it:
Quite simply, because it’s Bayern; as long as they’re in it, they can win it. Tougher tests await in the next round, but with Robert Lewandowski fit and firing there’s no reason the Bavarians can’t go all the way and claim their seventh European crown. Benfica Why they can win it:
Unfancied Benfica are on an upward curve under caretaker boss Nélson Veríssimo. Drawing on homegrown players, the Eagles have had their wings clipped in the league but, in Europe, they are capable of making the most of the extra space they get in the attacking third, particularly Darwin Nuñez. Of course, there are big hurdles to negotiate but the dream is alive. Benfica have lost five finals since last winning the competition in 1962, when Eusébio struck twice in a 5-3 triumph against Real Madrid. Chelsea Why they can win it:
The reigning champions have the necessary experience to navigate their way through the Champions League knockout rounds and they seem to be basing this campaign on the same principles as last: a defence that is not used to conceding goals and enough quality in attack to hurt any opposition. And the man at the helm, Thomas Tuchel, has shown that he’s one of the best around when it comes to motivating a team and keeping them goal-orientated from game to game. The Blues have conceded just seven goals in 15 Champions League games since Tuchel’s arrival, three of them in their 3-3 draw with Zenit on Matchday 6. Liverpool Why they can win it: The similarity to the 2019 Champions League-winning campaign is that domestically Liverpool are chasing a rampant Manchester City and it seems that having such an objective always brings the best out of Jürgen Klopp’s team. When they hit top form, and everything works in devastating harmony, it’s hard to see anyone coping with them. If you add in the Anfield factor, anything is possible. Liverpool have been European champions six times – more than any other English team. That is as many titles as Bayern, with Milan and Real Madrid the only sides to have won more. Manchester City Why they can win it:
There are only one or two teams left in the competition – if that – who are capable of dealing with City’s metronomic passing and relentless pressing. Their strength in depth is unrivalled across Europe, while their hunger for a maiden Champions League triumph remains as ferocious as ever. After all, they couldn’t have gone much closer in Porto last May. Guardiola reached his eighth Champions League semi-final last season – the joint-most in the competition’s history alongside José Mourinho. Real Madrid Why they can win it: If they can turn that tie against Paris around, against all the odds, then nothing is beyond them. Two younger, energetic, less-used players produced star turns in eliminating the French side: Federico Valverde and Eduardo Camavinga. Their impacts need to continue in the ascendancy. But it’s the 70 goals and assists total which the Karim Benzema-Vinicíus Júnior partnership has produced this season that whispers potential winners. Madrid had scored in 23 successive matches in the Champions League round of 16 before drawing a blank at Paris in the first leg this season. Villarreal Why they can win it: The Yellow Submarine might not be fancied by many, yet they showed exactly what they’re made of when they won the UEFA Europa League last season. When you throw in the fact they’ve already knocked out Juventus and are welcoming back Gerard Moreno from injury, they’ll be confident they can go one better than their 2006 semi-final stage exit. Just under half of Villarreal’s 52,000 inhabitants can fit inside their 23,500-seater stadium. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com