The wife of the Abia State Governor, Nkechi Ikpeazu, has cried out over the refusal of the National Assembly to pass the pro-women bills last week Tuesday, Speaking in Umuahia on Tuesday on the occasion of 2022 International Women’s Day, Ikpeazu said, “We are disappointed at the National Assembly for failing to rise to the occasion and write its name in gold. “By not passing the pro-women bills last week Tuesday, the National Assembly has attempted to set the Nigerian woman back by several decades. “We are observing this year’s event with the mixed feelings of joy and disappointment in Nigeria”. The Abia First Lady noted that in the spheres of public service, women have reached the top, stating, “In spite of these, the realms of local and National politics have remained beyond the reach of women. “Over the past 16 years, we have seen political roles bequeathed or ‘concessioned’ to women dwindle. The story kept getting unpalatable until the recent action of the National Assembly last week”. However, she was not hopeless as she noted, “Nonetheless, in Abia State, against the backdrop of traditional stereotypes, we are leading effort to instigate change positively and break the gender bias. “We are currently working on a Gender Policy for Abia State. With support from UNFPA its development has reached 80 percent. We hope that its introduction in our state will help women get better access to relevant platforms and opportunity in life without the bias of gender”. “Another task is to engage with menfolk to collaboratively support gender mainstreaming and balancing. I have been engaging with stakeholders, house of Assembly, and the political party. “We are advocating and demanding for greater access for women. Notwithstanding the unfortunate setback at the National Assembly last week, we shall continue to press and to demand better treatment from men. We will not stop until we break the bias. “The road to attaining gender equity requires sacrifices from all the players including our men folk. They must make spaces for women at the table “We must make society recognize, appreciate and protect women’s right to identity and individuality, their sense of self-worth, their decision-making power, their access to opportunities and resources, their power and control over their own life inside and outside the home, as well as their ability to affect political and social change. “We must seek to close the Gender gap and discrepancy between men and women in the areas of politics while creating equal power and opportunities for men and women”. Speaking with newsmen afterwards, the chairman, NLC Women Committee and NUPENG chairperson, Comrade Nkechi Agwuncha, urged women to support and carry their kind along and should sit up. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com