The Erelu Okin, Pearl Ogbulu, host of the party where jerry cans filled with Petroleum Motor Spirit were shared as souvenirs in Lagos State, has honoured police invitation. Sources in the Lagos State Police Command made this known to our correspondent on Tuesday. The PUNCH gathered that police had invited the host of the party and threatened to declare her wanted if she failed to report at the police headquarters in Ikeja. “We came this morning. She apologised but police will still take a decision to forestall recurrence of such,” a police officer told The PUNCH. Erelu Okin had shared petrol as a souvenir during her coronation party last weekend in the Oniru area of Eti-Osa Local Government, in Lagos State, leading to an outrage on social media. The state government subsequently shut down Havillah Event Centre, where the party held. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, had ordered the arrest of people involved in the distribution of petrol as a souvenir at a party in the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Adekunle Ajisebutu, had confirmed the development in a statement. The statement read, “The attention of the Lagos State Police Command has been drawn to a video going viral on social media in which some individuals and organisers of an event were seen giving out some kegs containing PMS (petrol) as souvenirs. “It’s regrettable that in spite of series of warnings and sensitisations carried out by the police and other relevant government agencies, some individuals could be handling such combustible substance in a public place in total disregard for the safety of lives and properties. “Still concerned about the safety, and protection of lives and properties of citizens, the Lagos State Police Command once again appeals to citizens to avoid this kind of condemnable act in the name of generosity. “Although the event centre where the distribution of the souvenirs took place has been located and subsequently sealed, the Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, has, in addition, ordered the arrest of all persons involved in this regrettable and reprehensible act.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com