If you’re familiar with cryptocurrency, you’ve heard of Bitcoin (BTC) and Ethereum (ETH). The two behemoths dominate the market cap rankings, with a combined market dominance of roughly 60%. Although this is slightly down on its previous highs, where they had over 80% of the market, BTC and ETH are still king and queen of Crypto-land. Ethereum (ETH) is closing the distance on BTC, thanks in part to its functionality, which includes facilitating the vast bulk of the NFT market. However, there have been certain drawbacks to Ethereum (ETH). The slow transaction speeds and notorious gas fees. Solana (SOL), Polygon (MATIC), and Seesaw Protocol (SSW) could provide alternative solutions. Solana (SOL) was released in 2017 and has been branded an “Ethereum Killer” due to its rapidly growing ecosystem. “Solana is an open network,” says one Solana developer. ” Anyone can start building on it.” Its functionality enables it to implement DeFi (decentralised finance) solutions. It can compete with Ethereum by providing faster, cheaper transactions. Polygon is also concentrating on resolving the issue of Ethereum congestion. As a layer 2 blockchain, it can assist developers of decentralised apps (DApps) in avoiding hefty gas expenses. MATIC, its native coin, is used to pay the Polygon Network’s substantially cheaper fees. NFTs on the Polygon chain are also becoming increasingly popular. Transactions have surged by 7000% since the beginning of 2021, culminating at 8.9 million in June. Seesaw Protocol is a more delicate solution to a congested Ethereum (ETH) Network than Solana (SOL) and Polygon (MATIC). It intends to provide cross-chain swaps from the Binance Smart Chain (BSC) to and from the Ethereum and Polygon Networks. Holders can use SSW to bridge across blockchains and avoid any networks that are busy or require higher fees at any given time. Stage 2 of the Seesaw Protocol presale has just begun, and if it can replicate the success of stage 1, SSW is not one to be missed. SSW surged by 2000% in the first 6 weeks of the presale. Experts believe it might come close to doing so again in the time remaining until launch, suggesting that it could grow from its present price of $0.113 to about the $0.4-0.45 range. Enter Presale: https://presale.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol