Ace Real Estate Development Limited says it has successfully allocated lands to subscribers of its properties in Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos. The company, in a statement, said it was on a mission to provide Nigerians with worthwhile real estate investment and make property acquisition safe and affordable. According to the statement, the properties, Prestige Green Phase1 and Stallion Spring Phase1 are both located in Ikegun, Ibeju-Lekki with proximity to billion-dollar projects including the Lekki Free Trade Zone, Dangote Refinery, the proposed seaport, amongst others. The statement added that both estates were carefully designed as smart and modern estates which would be equipped with cutting-edge facilities including round-the-clock smart security, solar-powered energy, paved roads, treated and constant water supply, modern drainage system, recreational facilities, green areas, and much more. The Chief Executive Officer, Ace Real Estate Development, Ayobami Akindipe, while handing over the plots to the clients, reiterated the resolve and commitment of the company to always ensure the best value for money for its investors. “Today is another testament of Ace’s commitment to giving our investors and clients the best value for their investment. We assure all our current and potential investors that we will always stay true to our promises of allocating these properties to you and ensuring that we put the right things in place. At Ace, we strive to create long-term value for our clients and partners through secure real estate investment solutions like this one,” Ayobami stated. “We understand that real estate investing is a lifetime decision, and we want to walk with our partners every step of the way, from purchase to allocation and living in the estates,” he added. Ayodele Lawal, one of the subscribers said, “I am very happy today as I begin my practical journey to homeownership in Lagos owing to a professional service and partnership with Ace Real Estate. I look forward to developing my property soon.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com