No less than 112 graduates of Lagos State University, Ojo, have been shortlisted for First Class degrees at the institution’s 25th convocation. This was revealed to newsmen on Wednesday by the Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, during a press conference held at the senate building of the institution on Wednesday. According to the VC, the institution would be recording its highest number of First Class graduands, in a historic feat ever witnessed. “The total number of graduating students are 7,232 students in diploma, first degree, postgraduate diplomas and Masters degrees. “Benjamin Damilare Olowu of the Department of Mechanical Engineering emerged the overall best graduating student, having attained a 4.97 Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) out of the entire graduating students of the institution. “Also, two graduating students of Masters degree would be graduating with a 5.0 CGPA from the Department of Peace and Religious Studies and the Department of Transportation and Logistics,” Olatunji-Bello affirmed. She said that the convocation would also mark the first time the university’s Africa Centre of Excellence for Innovative and Transformative Stem Education programme would be producing graduates. Promisingly, the VC noted that the university would be administratively ready to retain any of the 112 First Class graduates interested in being employed as assistant lecturers within. With Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State unveiled as chairman of the auspicious occasion, the management’s highlights of activities for the convocation include: “a thanksgiving service; sports competition for staff; coconut breaking and cultural festival”. “The convocation lecture would be delivered by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former Governor of Lagos state, with the theme: ‘Global Trends: Nigeria’s Rightful Place In The World’. “Rank of Emeritus Professor would be conferred on distinguished Prof. Peter Okebukola; while Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, Gov. of Kano State; Prof. Babagana Zulum, Gov. Borno State, and Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman, Nigeria in Diaspora Commission, Abuja, would be awarded with honorary doctorate degrees,” the VC remarked. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com