The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Coronation Merchant Bank, Banjo Adegbohungbe, speaks on developments in merchant banks in this interview with NIKE POPOOLA How can the diversification of the economy be enhanced to reduce dependence on oil revenue? When you look at the country’s Gross Domestic Product, the economy appears well-diversified, however, the problem is where we are not diversified, which is in terms of sources of foreign exchange. There is an overdependence on the oil and gas sector for foreign exchange, which stands at about 90 per cent of foreign exchange earnings today. It is therefore crucial that we diversify our forex sources and reduce the dependence on oil for our foreign exchange earnings by the promotion of non-oil exports, as well as encouraging other export activities in agriculture, manufacturing and even in the services sector. The diversification would save the country from the disbursement of scarce foreign exchange for imports especially when these can be produced locally and it will reduce the pressure on foreign exchange demand, thereby creating more stability in the naira exchange rate. There are various structural issues that also need to be addressed to improve on this diversification. Nigeria is yet to meet its financial inclusion target, according to figures by the CBN. How can the country achieve this target? There are statistics that point to the fact that financial inclusion has been improving in the last five years or so. This is especially because of several measures that have been taken by the banking industry in conjunction with the regulators. For instance, the regulator has granted a wide range of licences for the provision of financial services; PSB licences, PSSP licenses, IMTO licenses, MMO licences and others. Also on the part of the banking industry, we have invested in electronic banking, digital products, agency banking, and so on. All these measures put together have really improved financial inclusion. The other aspect is also the fintechs and the telecom industry. In partnership with the banks, they have also made significant investments that have improved financial inclusion. In terms of what can be improved further, CBN recently inaugurated the eNaira which has the potential to improve on what has been done so far. With the investments that have been put in place by these sectors and the regulatory framework, I am certain the country will meet the financial inclusion target. The merchant banks offer major services to large enterprises. Do they have major contributions to SMEs? Merchant banks by the nature of their banking licence typically do not bank SMEs. However, a lot of the support they provide for the large enterprises indirectly supports the SMEs who are in their value chain. A typical large enterprise has suppliers, distributors, partners, the majority of which are SMEs that cut across all sectors of the economy. If these big players don’t grow then the businesses they are providing for these SMEs will be hampered as well and the spectrum of opportunities available to them will not expand. But by funding and supporting these companies with loans, financial advisory, mergers and acquisitions, debt and capital raising, and others, they are indirectly supporting these SMEs. Coronation Merchant Bank, for example, provides services to a lot of large entreprises that cut across various sectors, and through that we support thousands of SMEs in their value chain. How would you describe the level of non-performing loans in the merchant banking sector during COVID-19? Many businesses were shut down when they had loans to pay. What’s the impact on the business? The level of non-performing loans in the banking industry has not deteriorated significantly. There are a number of reasons for that, one being that the CBN provided support to the industry during the difficult period. For example, they gave an opportunity for loans that were adversely affected by COVID-19 to be restructured, which many banks, including merchant banks, took advantage of. However, Coronation Merchant Bank did not restructure loans in that regulatory window. For merchant banks generally, most of our clients were impacted by COVID-19 but business picked up once the lockdown eased and some sectors recovered like certain aspects of manufacturing and others. This recovery meant their activity level with the banks also gained traction and the earning capacity of the bank through those partnerships also recovered. We didn’t shut down businesses to recover our loans. In actuality, we supported these clients by providing lines of credit that helped businesses weather the pandemic-induced economic downturn. Did borrowers get palliatives from merchant banks when COVID-19 was still biting hard on businesses? It depends on what you mean by palliatives. If you mean providing them with financial support and market insights to navigate the difficult period, then the answer is yes.  Like I mentioned earlier, we provided significant financial support that enabled our clients to recover, but there were certain other things that financial support could not address; supply chain shocks, escalating freight costs, challenges with infrastructure, and others. So we made sure to also support them through financial advisory, debt and capital raising, and so on. Through it all, our goal was simple. To strengthen our partnerships with our customers by being there for them when they truly needed us. What are the major benefits business enterprises enjoy in using merchant banks? Merchant banks can do everything commercial banks can do and more. Just like commercial banks, we can provide loans, take deposits, and so on. However, in addition, we also provide investment banking services, financial advisory, debt/capital raising, and others, which a commercial bank cannot do unless they have a holding company licence. These products and services that merchant banks provide are areas of primary need for large enterprises. For example, Coronation Merchant Bank provides services across corporate banking, investment banking, and treasury for our various clients. We have seen that these are areas of primary need for them so there’s a synergy between the needs of our clients and these areas of business focus for us. Coronation Merchant Bank has been operating in Nigeria since 2015. What has the merchant/investment banking landscape been like and how has it evolved? The entire banking industry, particularly the merchant banking industry has evolved significantly in the last few years. It has emerged from the previous financial crisis of 2008/2009 and the last economically challenging period of 2015/2016, much stronger and more resilient. Banks are better capitalized, better managed, have more resilient governance structures, and are better regulated. In light of this, the merchant banking industry is better equipped to survive this crisis. Having said that, banking has become more competitive, customer needs and requirements have become more sophisticated and the nature of risks being managed in the environment have continually evolved at a very rapid pace. All of this means that only the banks that have the highest degree of understanding of the business environment and customers’ needs are the ones that will be stand out from the crowd. In our short history, Coronation Merchant Bank has established a reputation in corporate banking, investment banking, and treasury. In the last three years, we have been ranked among the top ten banks on the FMDQ’s league table for trading activity. We have evolved to be one of the top five banks in the debt capital market and we have been among the top 15 banks in regards to trade finance. This is a testament to the support of our customers and their appreciation of the value we add to their strategic objectives and their businesses. How was the bank able to navigate the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic challenges that came with it? COVID-19 impacted the bank in three ways. The first and most obvious one was the impact on our people. The second was the impact on our customers, which implied an impact on our business. And the third was the impact on our business continuity. How did we respond to these three things? For the first, we took deliberate steps as much as humanly possible to guarantee the health and well-being of our staff. We invested in the provision of personal protective equipment, financial support, amenities required to work remotely, medical treatment, psychological support, and so on. With regard to customers, as already mentioned, we were consistent in providing financial support to our customers throughout the difficult challenges and enabling their recovery. And with regards to business continuity, we made a significant investment in IT infrastructure and information security to enable most of our staff to work remotely and to strengthen our disaster recovery capacity. All of this enabled us to continue to serve our customers with over 80 per cent of staff working remotely. Today our infrastructure can support 100 per cent of our staff working remotely if necessary, both in our primary and contingency sites. While COVID-19 has been a traumatizing and challenging period for the whole world it has also brought its lessons and we have taken advantage of those lessons to improve our capacity to serve our clients and build our resilience for the long term. Do you feel the licensed payment firms are competitors/threats to banks? I see them as very fierce competitors and a possible threat if banks do not appropriately respond to the realities of the times. However, the business model of banking has evolved very rapidly even before the ascension of the licensed payment firms and that evolution is ongoing. The question is whether the pace at which the banks are transforming is strong enough to address the fierce competition brought on by licensed payment firms. This battle is currently being fought particularly in the retail space. I expect that this competition will extend over time into the corporate space as well. The business model of the future is one that can deliver customer satisfaction at the lowest cost to serve and that is the race that both the banks and the licensed payment firms are striving to win. What’s the way forward for the Nigerian economy? We expect to see stronger growth in 2021 as forecast by several experts. This growth will be more broad-based with more sectors of the economy contributing to growth in 2021 than in 2020. This economic growth will continue in 2022, although, growth might not be restored to pre-pandemic levels. Some of the structural challenges we still face might also remain with us in 2022, given how close we are to an election year. There are a number of reforms that are critical to accelerate economic growth and diversify our sources of foreign exchange. The question is how quickly the country will be able to effect the critical reforms that are required to make this happen. The earlier we do that the better for the economy and for us as a country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com