The new chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Abdullahi Adamu, Wednesday in Abuja, said he emerged as the party’s executive through “the endorsement of God.” Adamu who stormed Buhari House, the party’s secretariat, earlier on Wednesday in the company of supporters also noted that, a month ago, he did not know he would become chairman of the governing party. The former Nasarawa state governor who spoke during the formal handing-over ceremony in Abuja, said with less than 12 months to the general elections, all hands must be on deck to secure victory for the party as the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) would not tolerate failure. Adamu noted that becoming the national chairman of the ruling party does not feature among his plans for the future a month back. “A month ago, I didn’t know I would become the chairman of APC. Here I am today, receiving the instrument and authority from the outgoing chairman. Only God can do this. ‘It is not my personal wisdom nor my charisma. It is not personal doings. There may be elements on the way but all this was made possible by the endorsement of Almighty God .” While thanking the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for the successful national convention which was held on March 26, Adamu charged members of the National Working Committee to brace up for the bumpy ride ahead of the 2023 general elections which is less than 12 months away. “Let me thank President Muhammadu Buhari who gave us a lot and so much that happened during the National Convention.” “I want to say on behalf of the new NWC that it is not going to be an easy time for us. We have a major event that is going to test the water on how stable we are as a party. That is the general election that is coming. “We will work day and night. We have less than 12 months to face the general election. So, everybody should buckle up. The little I have heard about the President is that he has a complete allergy to failure. So, failure will not be in APC from today. We will work for success together. To my colleagues, if there is an issue, don’t begrudge me, let me know,” Adamu said. He, therefore, urged the new NWC members to show loyalty saying that anyone who falls out of line would be properly dealt with. “I promise you in the spirit of collective leadership that team is the only way. I cannot deliver alone. What I am asking for is something called ‘loyalty’. You have to be loyal. You must have one team. “If you bring division tendency, we will deal with it. This country is greater than any one of us. And this party is bigger than any single member of this party,” he warned. Adamu condemned the terrorist attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train service on Monday night, saying that the government needs all the support it can get in these trying times. He noted that “The timing of these events is quite disturbing considering the economic situation of the country. And we are not going to go all out and start crying. “We will have to face the situation more squarely. The attention is on terrorists. And we will stand up for the government and support it in different ways we can. And then see to the end of it. This will not be left entirely to the military operation.” Earlier, the Chairman of the now-defunct Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, informed the new NWC of the herculean task ahead of it. He noted that the CECPC, having done its best to bring the party to this point, expects the NWC to build on the gains made in the past 18 months. He said, “I want to also add that as members of the National Working Committee of the Party, you have a herculean task. “First, to sustain the gains and coming at a time when this Party will soon start its nomination processes. Obviously, the task before you is enormous. “We have done our best in the membership registration exercise. We have done the Ward, Local Government, State Congresses, and up to the National Convention. That cannot be without problems here and there. But, by and large, we have succeeded.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com