Super Eagles midfielder Joe Aribo returned to training with Glasgow Rangers on Wednesday and is in line to play a part in the Gers’ clash against Red Star Belgrade in Thursday’s (today) Europa League last-16 second leg, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Aribo had suffered an ankle injury in Glasgow Rangers’ 3-0 win over Red Star Belgrade in the Europa League last Thursday and missed his side’s Scottish Cup quarter-final win over Dundee United on Sunday. The Scottish champions are aiming to reach their first European quarter-final in 14 years, and take a 3-0 lead to the Serbian capital for the second leg. Speaking ahead of the tricky game in Belgrade, Rangers coach Giovanni van Bronckhorst revealed that he has a fully fit squad to face the Serbians with the exception of  Ianis Hagi and Steven Davis, who are the only absentees from the players eligible. “We have a fit squad to prosecute the game but Ianis (Hagi) and Steven (Davis) are the only absentees for the game,” said boss Van Bronckhorst. “Other players (Joe Aribo, Leon King) who missed the Scottish Cup game are back and ready for the game. “We have to be mentally and tactically prepared. “We know we are going to a place with a hostile atmosphere; this is something we need to cope with, with our experienced team. We need to enjoy playing in this atmosphere. “Obviously when you play so many games in Europe you will have players one yellow card away from suspension, but this won’t impact our team selection. “We will take our strongest 11 possible and do everything to win this tie.” Aribo, who is one of the four Rangers players one booking away from a suspension, has scored seven times this season, providing eight assists for the Gers. His compatriots Calvin Bassey and Leon Balogun also took part in the Gers training session before their departure to Belgrade on Wednesday. The game will be Balogun’s 55th for the Scottish champions. The defender has scored twice since he arrived on a free from Brighton two years ago. Bassey, on his part, is in contention to make his 38th appearance of the season across all competitions. At the Stade de Gerland in France, Zaidu Sanusi is expected to feature for FC Porto will be looking to overturn a 1-0 first-leg deficit when they face Lyon for the second leg of their Europa League last-16 tie. The game will be the Nigerian’s 30th of the season.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com