The Ijaw Youth Council has commended the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for signing the reworked Electoral Act Amendment Bill, 2022 into law. The council described the presidential assent as laudable and said it showed Buhari’s commitment to ensuring credible elections in 2023. It also added that the signing of the bill into law was the finest legacy that Buhari’s regime would bequeath to the country. The IYC, in a statement on Tuesday by its spokesman, Ebilade Ekerefe, said the new electoral law would strengthen the nation’s democracy and electioneering process. He, however, urged the President to demonstrate the same commitment to other areas of governance, particularly issues concerning the Niger Delta. Ekerefe said the issues included the appointment of a substantive board for the Niger Delta Development Commission; publishing of the NDDC forensic audit report; investigation of the commission’s accounts between October 2021 and February 2022; and the completion of the East-West Road. He stated, “The decision of President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, 2022 is commendable and remains the finest legacy his government will leave behind in view of the outcry by Nigerians for our electoral process to be strengthened. “This has also shown that all hopes are not yet lost as the Niger Delta people will continue to demand the immediate setting up of the NDDC substantive board, publishing of the forensic audit report and probe of the NDDC accounts between October 2021 and February 2022. “Another germane issue that requires the President’s intervention is the completion of the East-West Road, which serves as the economic nexus of the Niger Delta region.” Ekerefe called on the Independent National Electoral Commission to leverage on the amended electoral law to conduct free, fair and generally acceptable polls to guarantee constitutional democracy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com