THE House of Representatives has urged the Federal Government to increase the number of security personnel stationed along the Abuja-Kaduna railway as well as increase surveillance and intelligence gathering in the surrounding areas. Furthermore, the House mandated its Committee on Land Transport to “investigate the extent to which the variation to accommodate the perimeter fencing of the rail lines was carried out and the level of implementation,” and report back within four weeks for further legislative action. A member of the House, Zakaria Nyampa, at the plenary on Tuesday, moved a motion titled ‘Need to Investigate the Perimeter Fencing of the Abuja-Kaduna Rail Lines,’ which the lawmakers unanimously adopted. Nyampa, who noted that railway is one of the oldest and most efficient means of transporting passengers and cargo across the world, decried that the railways in Nigeria have, for many decades, suffered severe neglect. “But the rail projects recently embarked upon by the Federal Government will contribute significantly to easing the movement of persons and goods across the country,” he stated. The lawmaker also noted that the Abuja-Kaduna railway is a standard gauge that runs through nine stations, from Idu Station in Abuja to Kuchibon, Asham, Jere, Gidan, Rijana, Dutse, Kakau and terminates at Rigasa in Kaduna. He said, “The House is aware of the need to provide perimeter fencing to avoid accidents that could arise from human beings or animals crossing rail tracks and to install a digital security system to enable the operators to know when there is an impact on the rail, and consequently get the needed help. “The House is concerned that the operators have been having a running battle with communities surrounding the rail lines, particularly herdsmen, some of whose cattle that strayed into the rail tracks were crushed by a moving train.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com