Former President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki, has urged the national, zonal and state youth leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party to start mobilising young people across the nation ahead of the 2023 general election. Saraki told the youth leaders to choose a president that would meet the aspirations of young people in the forthcoming election. The presidential aspirant of the PDP made this known through a press statement made available by his Media Office on Saturday. He said, “We have never had a national youth leader who symbolises such youthfulness in our party — or any other party in the country. We have never had a time in our history when it is clear that it is our party, the PDP that is truly the party of the young people. “This is why I ask you all to be excited about the journey ahead. This is because, by God’s grace, the PDP will be at the helm of the nation’s affairs in 2023. However, it is clear that we cannot win without the strength, network, and influence of the young people in this room. “I have had the opportunity to meet with members of the National Working Committee — and we are all on the same page that a PDP federal government must be a government that works functionally. Therefore, the only way we can be functional is to ensure that young people and women are fully integrated at the onset in all our strategies. Saraki noted that over 18 million Nigerian young people were not yet registered to vote. “We need you all to go out there and give these young people a reason to register to vote. You need to start mobilising at the ward, state, and zonal levels. “It goes without saying, at this time, young people should not only come out to vote, they should also come out and vie for elective positions. With the new Electoral Act, it is clear that we will have freer and fairer elections — and only young people can and will win,” Saraki said. The former Kwara State governor told the youths that when he was the chairman of the PDP National Reconciliation Committee, he recommended waiver on the nomination fees of aspirants under 35-years. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com