The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, has described the former presidential aide, Dr Doyin Okupe, as one of those who kept the democratic vision alive by opposing the oppression of the military era. The speaker also urged public servants to tell their own stories and narratives of politics and government during their service. Gbajabiamila said this on Monday during his address at the inauguration of Okupe’s autobiography titled, ‘Double Jeopardy,’ to commemorate his 70th birthday in Lagos. He said, “Dr Okupe has served our country as a doctor, a politician, and public servant. In the darkest years of military rule in Nigeria. He was amongst those who took risks to oppose the oppression that defined the lives of citizens at that time and keep the democratic vision alive. “I am glad that Dr Okupe has resolved to document his life’s story in a book that will inform and educate and guide future generations. It is said that until the lions have their own historians, the tale of the hunt will always glorify the hunter. As it is in the jungle, so it is in life. “Until those who serve in politics, government and public service make it a duty to tell their own stories, the narrative of politics, government and public service will be determined by those who at best have been mere observers. And the public perception will be determined, often detrimentally, by these incomplete or incorrect narratives. This book may very well be Dr Okupe’s greatest public service, and I thank him for that. “In matters of politics, Dr Okupe and I have very rarely found ourselves on the same side. Despite that, I have only admiration and respect for his hard work and the many profound lessons of his life. So on this occasion of his 70th birthday anniversary, I join family, friends, and well-wishers in wishing him a long life of good health and peace, joy and satisfaction, and gratitude for the abiding grace of God.” The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun who was represented, his Deputy, Noimot Salako-Oyedele, said, “Okupe is a gift of God to Ogun State and to Nigeria as a whole and we expect that what he wrote in his book would guide us through.” The leader of the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo described Okupe as a committed man who contributed to Yorubaland. “Okupe is a very committed man in any course he believes in. He is one of the stars in Yoruba land. While in the opposition, he is somebody you may not like but cannot ignore. I am very proud of people like him. Whenever any historian is writing the history of Nigeria, if Okupe’s part is not there, then the history is incomplete,” he said. The former governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba said, “Okupe was part of those that formed the Alliance for Democracy before he eventually went to join the Peoples Democratic Party. When Abacha’s men invaded my house and wanted to kill me, Okupe was one of the doctors who treated my security aide.”