As football takes centre stage this weekend across Europe, KELVIN EKERETE writes about five Eagles stars to watch across the continent Sadiq Umar (Almeria vs Lugo) After firing blank in Almeria’s 2-0 loss to Real Zaragoza last week, Umar Sadiq will be hoping to return to scoring ways when the Rojiblancos welcome Lugo to the Municipal Stadium of the Mediterranean Games for a Spanish League II game on Saturday (today). Sadiq who was named Segunda Player of The Month for February after scoring five goals in four games will be eager to return getting the goals for his side as they continue their bid to return to the topflight at the end of the season. He has grabbed 14 goals and nine assists in 27 games for the club in all competitions this season. Anthony Nwakaeme (Trabzonspor vs Goztepe) In-form Trabzonspor forward Anthony Nwakaeme is the man to watch when title chasing Trabzonspor entertain 17th place Goztepe in a Turkish Lig encounter at the Şenol Güneş Stadium on Saturday. The one-cap Eagles player has been in superb form for the Turkish leaders this season scoring 10 goals while providing nine assists in 22 league games. Nwakaeme has been on target in his last three league games. Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal vs Celta Vigo) Samuel Chukwueze is expected to make his 18th league appearance for Villarreal when they face off against Celta Vigo in a Spanish LaLiga match on Saturday. The Nigeria international who has already grabbed two goals in 17 league appearances this term will fancy getting his name on the score sheet. The 22-year-old last found the back of the net in December against Real Sociedad. Taiwo Awoniyi (Union Berlin vs Stuttgart) After scoring the own goal that led to his side’s 1-0 defeat in the hands of Wolfsburg last week, Nigeria International Taiwo Awoniyi will be hoping to redeem his image when Union Berlin face off against Stuttgart in the German Bundesliga on Saturday. Awoniyi has been one of Bundesloga’s best players this season and he is his team’s current top scorer with 10 league goals from 22 games this term. The striker who ended his six game goals drought against Mainz on February 26 will be hoping to get his 11th goal of the season against relegation Stuttgart. Moses Simon (Troyes vs Nantes) In-form Moses Simon is billed to make his 23rd league appearance when Nantes pay a visit to 16th placed Troyes in the French Ligue 1 on Saturday. Simon who has scored two goals this season has made more impact in the assists department. He is currently ranked fifth in the league’s assists ladder behind Lionel Messi (10), Kylian Mbappe (10), Dimitri Payet (9) and Jonathan Clauss (9).  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com