Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the Peoples Democratic Party’s Youth Restoration Organisation has urged youths in the country to unite and restore Nigeria’s lost glory. Speaking to journalists shortly after the PDP Youth Summit in Asaba, Delta State, the National Coordinator of the organisation, Mr Muhammad Barau, expressed concern over what he described as worsening insecurity in parts of the country, economic difficulties and corruption involving highly placed Nigerians. He said it was unfortunate that youths and women were worst hit by the prevailing challenges confronting the country. Barau stated, “The group was borne out of the need to raise youths to speak against the nation’s socio-economic and political challenges, ranging from economic hardship, reckless borrowing, corruption to maladministration, with a view to changing the ugly narrative. “Nigeria in the last seven years has suffered the worst state of insecurity, especially in the North-East and North-West, and gross mismanagement of the nation’s resources. The situation has made many young Nigerians worried. “We are a support group for the PDP; we are not only working for the PDP, but also working for the sustenance of democracy in Nigeria.” The group urged the Federal Government to find a lasting solution to the strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities, which it noted was having adverse effects on the nation’s educational system. While calling on youths to refrain from violent tendencies, Barau stressed the need for them to work as a team to make their impact felt in the 2023 general elections.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com