… Obaseki, Shaibu can’t win against PDP, Wike Kassim Afegbua, a former campaign spokesman for ex-Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, has disclosed that the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, and his Deputy, Philip Shaibu, cannot win against the Peoples Democratic Party and Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State in the ongoing verbal war occasioned by an intra-party crisis. This is as he also alleged that Obaseki had been in the habit of manipulating Shaibu and “making him (Shaibu) the fall-guy of a system that has been heavily compromised.” The PUNCH reports that both governors had been engaging in verbal war, with Wike and Obaseki going after each other jugular. While Wike said he was not in the same class as his Edo counterpart when it comes to party politics, Obaseki warned Wike not to cause disruption in PDP, adding that the party is not (Wike) personal property. But Afegbua, also a PDP member in the state, said he was in “doubt if they (Obaseki and Shaibu) will live to enjoy the spoil of their new agitation.” Giving insight into the protracted party crisis in an article titled, ‘Wike and political asylum seekers in Edo (1)’, Afegbu blamed Obaseki and his deputy for the ongoing verbal war. According to him, Wike’s position is predicated on the new arrogance of power that has become the second nature of the Edo first two citizens. The article read in part, “For being an insider to all processes that threw up Governor Obaseki and his Deputy, Governor Wike knows exactly what he was talking about. And the solution to all these is the 9-lettered word; gratitude. “Just show appreciation and gratitude… Otherwise, the present political impasse in the state will continue its macabre dance. “Governor Obaseki and his co-travellers often behave like political asylum seekers. As migrants who were helped to cross the border, they got into the asylum camp, participated in the internal politics of the camp, and got familiar with it. Having been given residency, they now want to undo the real citizens of the country. “In fact, they are telling the real citizens that though they are migrants, but that the other integrative laws apply to them. And that if the host country refuses to accord them the leadership, they are ready to tear down the walls, flag, and other insignia that the country holds dear. I doubt if they will live to enjoy the spoil of their new agitation.” Afegbua, who was Commissioner for Information during the administration of former Edo Governor, Adams Oshiomhole, also accused Obaseki of manipulating his deputy. “What Governor Obaseki cannot say, he pushes his pliant Deputy to vomit, making him the fall-guy of a system that has been heavily compromised in terms of failed promises and empty rhetorics. “Obaseki’s Deputy, Phillip Shuaibu, often wants to be seen as fearless, outspoken, and more political than his boss.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com