A 31-year-old man identified as Nicodemus Ignatius has been arrested by the Adamawa State Police Command for allegedly beating his 75-year-old father to death. City Round learnt that Nicodemus, who hails from Unguwan Bistel in Song town, in the Song Local Government Area of the state, carried out the act on March 3, 2022, shortly after returning from a bar. He was said to have been arrested sometime in November 2021 for threatening to kill his father before he was released after the septuagenarian pleaded on his behalf. One of his neighbours, who chose to remain anonymous, said the suspect clubbed his father to death. “Nicodemus had returned home from the bar where he usually drinks at about 8 pm on that fateful day and met his late father and mother in the room and decided to lock both of them in. But the 75-year-old Ignatius, sensing danger and afraid of the possibility of his son setting the house on fire, jumped through the window to escape. “But unknown to him, his son armed himself with a stick. The suspect who was wielding the stick pounced on his father and hit him with the stick and broke his head, resulting in his untimely death,” the neighbour said. But after taking the life of his father, the suspect, while confessing to the crime, blamed his action on the influence of Indian Hemp. Nicodemus, who could not give any coherent explanation for the murder of his father said, “I smoked Indian hemp on that fateful day and bitterly regret my action.” The Police Public Relations Officer in Adamawa, DSP Suleiman  Nguroje, who confirmed the incident, said the suspect would be charged to court upon completion of the investigation and cautioned the public to desist from taking the law into their hands.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com