The Imo State Commandant of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Mr. Besong Ogar, has vowed that insecurity cannot lead to the displacement of population in the state. “It is a fact that in Imo State, there is no displaced population, but efforts are being put in place by the government alongside the security agencies to ensure that insecurity does not lead to the displacement of population in the state,” he said. Ogar said this on Tuesday during the International Day for Civil Defence celebration in Owerri, capital of the state. Speaking at the occasion, Ogar said that March 1, annually was slated as International Day for Civil Defence to bring to the knowledge of the general public the dangers of insecurity, dangers of illegal oil bunkering and other sundry crimes. He said that security was everybody’s business and that the International Day for Civil Defence was slated to harp on the need to live in peace and above all, the need to support security agencies in the fight against crime and criminality. Ogar further stated that NSCDC became a member of International Civil Defence Organization on October 7, 2004, adding that it has domesticated the core operational standards set by ICDO which were in line with the Acts of establishment of corps in Nigeria. He thanked the NSCDC Commandant General, Dr. Abubakar Audi for providing him and other states Commandants the platform to contribute to the security architecture of the states and Senator Hope Uzodimma of the state for the maximum support to the Imo state NSCDC command. He said, “He has given me all the needed support to ensure that the essence of establishing NSCDC remain at the front burner in the state”. He listed: Fight against vandalism, Fight against trafficking in human persons, protection of critical assets of government, use of Alternative Dispute Resolution to settle cases, protection of farm settlements and protection of schools with the introduction of NSCDC female squad. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com