THE global telecommunications giant, Huawei, has pledged to provide more support to operators in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry to further boost the performance of the sector. Speaking to journalists at the just concluded Nigeria International Energy Summit 2022, the Huawei IP product Manager, Chinedu Emekekukwu, said the company was committed to continuous support and collaboration with stakeholders in the energy industry. “We will continue to revolutionise the industry with cutting-edge technological innovations that promote safety, productivity, value and nature,” he stated. Huawei’s pledge came as its partners with operations in oil sector commended the company for its impact on the Nigerian oil and gas industry. “Huawei has been a wonderful opportunity for my organisation based on the nature of their technology, product and solution portfolio which speak to my customer needs,” the Executive Director, Emecom Technology and Consulting Limited, Ayodele Afenifero, stated. At the summit in Abuja, Huawei received an award for Best Technology Provider in the Offshore Oil and Gas category. Afenifero said, “You can see that in the area of oil and gas, which is the reason we all came for this event, quite a number of customers have been going to the Huawei stand just to see what Huawei is offering to the industry. “People have been looking at the pipeline monitoring solution, the pipeline intrusion solution, and also the Exploration and Production storage infrastructure.” The Managing Director, Monac Global Investment Limited, Chinyere Okonkwo, said she had been a partner with Huawei for more than 10 years, adding that her relationship with the company had remained the best. “We’ve been Huawei partners for over 10 years and we have come a long way, and I can tell you Huawei remains the best in having to get such strong durable technology, solutions and devices to meet the needs of customers, especially in the oil and gas sectors,” she stated.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com