The Nigerian Export Promotion Council has organised a sensitisation workshop for exporters and prospective exporters on how to package their goods for exports. According to the council, the workshop was organised in order to address the issue of poor packaging of goods for exports. Speaking during the workshop in Lagos, the Regional Coordinator, NEPC, Mr Samuel Oyepiyo, stated that the issue of packaging had been a recurring problem with Nigerian exporters. According to him, poor packaging of products for exports is the reason why many Nigerian products get rejected in other countries. He said, “The issue of packaging has been a recurring problem in terms of how our prospective exporters pack their products and whether it conforms with what is obtainable in terms of standards in the importing countries. Most times this leads to their products being rejected and that is why we have gathered them together with packaging experts.” Oyepiyo added that the workshop would equip exporters with knowledge on how best to package their products for export. He stated, “To advise Nigerians on how best they can package their products taking into cognisance the environmental needs and the need for conformity with what is obtainable in the importing countries and the need to also ensure that their products meet the standard packaging requirements of different countries of the world. “This is to ensure that their products won’t be rejected when accessing those countries. This is why we brought them together so that they can be advised on what needs to be done in order to ensure their products meet the standard packaging requirement. “We operate on a quarterly level. We try to bring exporters who are in different aspects of products, especially those adding value, together during every quarter. Adding value is very important as it increases the price value of the product. “We bring them together and teach them what they need to do and where they can go to source for packaging materials that will enable them to package their products very well.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com