The management of the Federal Polytechnic, Ede, Osun State, has suspended until further notice the Students’ Union election over violence that broke out between two groups. This was contained in a memo signed by the Dean, Students’ Affairs, Dr Oluyemi Omotosho (Jnr), where the school management noted that the Students’ Union election needed to be suspended due to the violence caused by the campaigns. The school management stated that the decision to suspend the election was made after it reviewed the security situation on campus and how it impacted the Ede community. The statement reads, “When the ban on politics was lifted on March 21, 2022, by ISEC, everybody was hoping for a violence-free election until two presidential aspirants, Akeem Kabiru Olawale (Kaybright) and Edward Ayodeji Michael (Edward) commenced their campaigns on March 24, 2022. “The two groups clashed and violence erupted, leading to serious injuries on many students. A cutlass welding supporter was caught after using the cutlass to injure one student and another student with a gun was apprehended. “The management reviewed the security challenges in the Federal Polytechnic Ede campuses and Ede community and took the following decisions; “That the 2021/2022 SUL election is hereby suspended until further notice, when the security challenges improve to prevent the loss of lives and properties. “The arrested students that are involved in criminal activities should be investigated. “Students have been directed to start preparing for their second-semester examination commencing from 4th April, 2022.” Meanwhile, the incumbent President of the Students’ Union, Adekunle Jimoh, stated that the management did not involve the Union when the decision to suspend the election was taken. He stated that he would be meeting with the school’s management on Monday to ensure the suspension is lifted, while advising that the aspirants involved in the violence be disqualified. “I will be meeting the management on Monday. The management cannot because of what happened stop the election. We are going to have our election. “Instead of stopping the election, the two aspirants involved in the violence should be disqualified,” Jimoh stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com