A former Imo State governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the 2019 election, Uche Nwosu said that he has forgiven those who ‘abducted’ him during the outing service in honour of his late mother, Jamaimah Nwosu, at St. Peter’s Anglican Church at Eziama-Obaire in Nkwerre Local Government Area of Imo State last year. He, however, told them to repent and pray to God for forgiveness. Nwosu in an interview with journalists in Abuja also warned the leaders and stakeholders of the APC to tread cautiously and desist from actions and utterances that may further inflame the current crisis in the party. He said, “I have forgiven all those that abducted me and dehumanised me during the funeral service of my mother. The Bible taught us to forgive, just like Jesus Christ forgave those that crucified him. I have also forgiven them, but they should pray and ask God for forgiveness”. According to him, the founding fathers who were neglected and abandoned in the course of events should be brought back to a roundtable to discuss the issues in the APC. While blaming the internal crisis rocking the APC on the derailment of the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, he solicited the direct intervention of the President, Major General Muhamamadu Buhari (retd.), in the peace efforts if it must succeed. Nwosu told Journalists in Abuja that the previous delegation of governors and Ministers did not yield results. Lamenting the failure of the Buni’s Committee, Nwosu, son-in-law to ex-governor Rochas Okorocha, said that instead of it to be committed to the task by reaching out to those who laboured to build the APC, it pitched tenth with selected few to grab party structure. He warned that until those that formed the merger that gave birth to the APC were brought on a roundtable to discuss the future of the party, genuine peace and reconciliation will remain elusive. Among the founding fathers being recommended by Nwosu for consultation included a former Lagos State and its national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; pioneer national chairman of APC, Chief Bisi Akande; a former governor of Edo State, Chief John Odigie Oyegun; Owelle Rochas Okorocha; Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu; Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige; former Borno State governor, Kashim Shettima; former Zamfara State governor, Abubakar Yari, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com