A human rights organisation under the aegis of the Coalition of Minority Rights on Monday raised fresh concerns over the security challenges in the Middle Belt, saying about 625 attacks were carried out by armed bandits in Plateau State alone in the last 20 years. The coalition was reacting to the rejection of the Bill to change the name of Barkin Ladi Local Government Area in Plateau State. Members of CMR were Community Action for Popular participation; Social Justice and Human Development for Peace Initiative; Stefanos Foundation; Association of Middle belt Ethnic Nationalities; Country Women Association of Nigeria; International Centre for Peace Charities and Human Development and League for Human Rights. During the plenary session last week, the Senate had among others voted against the change of Barkin Ladi LGA, Plateau State and the Bill seeking to create an office of the Mayor of the Federal Capital Territory, nomination of a Minister from the FCT to the Federal Executive Council and some gender-related Bills. But at a press conference in Abuja, the Convener of the CMR, Rev. James Pam, said 151 representing 24 per cent of the 625 attacks took place in Barikin Ladi LGA alone between 2001 and 2020. According to him, the decision of the National Assembly was against natural law, Nigerian laws and international conventions to which Nigeria is a signatory. Pam said, “Five Bills simply sought to change or correct the names of seven LGAS in Nigeria. While 4 four bills for six name changes or corrections received the favour of almost all Senators present. However, 26 Senators from at least nine states voted against the change of Bankin Ladi’s name. We wonder why. “All people have the fundamental right to tell others what name they prefer to be called by. If the people of Afikpo North and Afikpo South LGA in Ebonyi State, Egbado North and Egbado South LGAs in Ogun State, Kunchi LGA in Kano State, Atigbo LGA in Oyo State, and Obiu/Akpor LGA in Rivers State all qualify to have name changes or corrections, why not the people of Barikin Ladi LGA in Plateau State as well? “We want the public to know that the people of this LGA have experienced the highest number of assaults by herders as documented by Stefanos Foundation a member of our coalition between 2001 and 2020, they recorded a total of 625 attacks with 151 of them (that is, 24 per cent ) taking place in Barkin Ladi LGA. “The public should know that this is not the first time that the people of that LGA are requesting for name change, but the third time. They definitely have good reasons for the request and denying them this right goes against natural law, Nigerian laws, and international conventions to which Nigeria is a signatory.” Speaking on the rejected gender-related and FCT Bills, Pam applauded members of the House of Representatives for passing the Bills for a Mayor and a Minister for the FCT. “These people graciously surrendered their ancestral homes so that Nigerians may have central and befitting Federal Capital City. Yet, their desire was denied by our Senators. Note that their Traditional Rulers have not been accorded the same status by the FCT administration as other states are doing. We feel this is very unfair treatment of a minority group,” he added. Pam called on the National Assembly to reconsider their positions by passing the bills in honour of the minority groups.