Justice Muhammed Sani of the Federal High Court sitting in Ilorin, on Thursday, sentenced 24-year-old Taiwo Emmanuel from Ibadan, Oyo State to six months imprisonment for impersonation. He allegedly posed as a US citizen to defraud unsuspecting victims. The defendant was among the suspected internet fraudsters arrested in the Ogbomosho area of Oyo State on October 26, 2021 during sting operations by the Ilorin Zonal Command of the EFCC. The defendant in his various chats claimed to be a contractor and businessman based in the US, a decoy he employed to swindle his victims. The charge against him read, “That you, Taiwo Oluwapelumi Emmanuel, sometime between February and March, 2021 at Ogbomosho, within the Judicial Division of the Federal High Court of Nigeria, did fraudulently impersonate one David Williams George; an American, with the intent to gain advantage for yourself from one Mindy whom you chatted vide your created gmail; davidwilly1205@gmail.com and you thereby committed an offence contrary to section 22(2) (b) (I) of the Cybercrime Prohibition prevention Etc.) Act 2015 and punishable under Section 22 (2) (b) (iv) of the same Act.” The defendant pleaded guilty to the charge. Based on his guilty plea, the counsel to the EFCC, Andrew Akoja, reviewed the facts of the case and tendered one iPhone X, one Lenovo Laptop and the extra-judicial statement of the defendant as well as fraudulent messages printed from his device, which were admitted in evidence. Akoja, thereafter urged the court to convict the defendant as charged. In his judgment, Justice Sani said the court was satisfied with the evidence adduced by the prosecution and pronounced Taiwo guilty of the charge. “The judge sentenced the defendants to six months imprisonment with an option of fN200,000 fine  and ordered that the iPhone X and Lenovo laptop, which he used to perpetrate the crime be forfeited to the Federal Government,” a statement by the anti-graft agency said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com