Cryptocurrency has provided many avenues to financial freedom for many people. As the technology improves, the industry goes from strength to strength. Blockchain technology is now being used to enhance almost every single sector. From gaming to cross border payments, crypto is now involved. Whilst Bitcoin (BTC) and Ethereum (ETH) cement themselves as the two powerhouses of the crypto world, many new exciting projects aim to aid real-world problems. Three of the most appealing projects to keep an eye on over the coming months and years are VeChain (VET), Quant Network (QNT) & Secure Crypto (SCT). VeChain (VET) is an eco-friendly blockchain platform that’s primary mission is to provide businesses and institutes with technology and solutions that fit their specific needs. With offices in China, USA, France and more, VeChain is a global powerhouse. They also have some big names in terms of partners, including Walmart, BMW and Bayer. VeChain’s technology has its hands in many different pots, with their website stating that they can provide food safety traceability, automotive passport solutions, as well as digital carbon footprint and sustainability. At a price of just $0.046 at the time of writing, the network has fantastic growth potential. In 2021 it reached a price of $0.28, which is the coin’s all-time high. It should easily climb back to around that price when the bull run starts again. Quant Network (QNT) is a blockchain connectivity network and operating system established in 2018. Its primary purpose and use is to bridge the gap between various blockchains and applications, allowing them to plug in and out of the network’s ledger. Quant Network (QNT) can easily integrate ledgers such as Bitcoin and Ethereum to enable them to cross over and join as one using a unique technology known as the Overledger DLT Gateway. As the gradual acceptance of central bank digital currencies (CBDCs) progresses, this type of technology will be advantageous. Quant Network (QNT) is an ISO 20022 compatible company alongside the likes of Ripple (XRP), meaning that in the future, it will be providing the technology that enhances cross border payments between countries.  Secure Crypto (SCT) is a brand new cryptocurrency that was founded in February 2022. The decentralised communication protocol plans to bring people together in a safe and secure environment where users can connect, socialise and do business in the digital world. Secure Crypto (SCT) has many advantages over the more traditional messaging apps such as WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger. The decentralisation of the project results in user data not being stored on the platform. This increases security and removes the risk of a possible hack. Similarly, personal information is not held long term, so data that could be considered sensitive is completely avoided. Secure Crypto’s (SCT) network of anonymous, independent, and disconnected nodes maintains a record of messages and files that are not shared with anyone or anything, resulting in complete transparency. The whitepaper also states that users may be able to earn $SCT in several different ways. Sharing/reposting content, providing feedback and bringing additional people to the platform are just some of the ways this could be done. It is important to separate the legitimate projects from the pump and dump schemes when investing in cryptocurrency. VeChain (VET), Quant Network (QNT) and Secure Crypto (SCT) all have solid fundamentals that could be the cornerstone of a very successful future. Buy the Presale here: https://presale.secure-crypto.io/ https://secure-crypto.io/ https://t.me/SECURECRYPTO_OFFICIAL https://twitter.com/SECURECRYPTO_io KEYWORDS: VeChain, VET, Quant Network, QNT, Secure Crypto, SCT, Cryptocurrency, crypto