Veteran fuji musician and Mayegun of Yorubaland, Wasiu Ayinde, aka K1 de Ultimate, has said he will always be loyal to his former boss and fuji originator, Sikiru Ayinde (Barrister). K1 spoke at an event to celebrate the late Barrister, tagged, ‘Sikiru Ayinde Barrister’s First Colloquium’, which was held at Radisson Blu, Ikeja, Lagos, on Wednesday, March 16, 2022. While making his remarks at the event, the ‘Ade Ori Okin’ singer said, “I am sorry that it took us over 10 years (since the demise of Barrister in 2010) to come up with a programme like this. “However, a lot has been put in place. We had to wait for this long because there were various ideas we had to sample as regards doing this the right way. “It took me a while to seek the support of relevant stakeholders in the industry to make this a reality. I called a lot of professionals and even Barrister’s fans that he never met in his lifetime. “It gladdens my heart to see the turnout here today. I could not just sit down in my house and make this happen. I needed support from stakeholders and I’m happy I got it. Today, it is obvious that the wait was worth it. “I am doing this to honour the memory of a man I loved. I never had any animosity with my boss. Barrister has gone (passed on). One day, I’ll also go; just like everybody else. “But if we do the right thing, long after we are gone, the records of the contributions we made will always be there. Leadership changes and life continues. The only way to make an impact is to do something that would outlive one.” K1 also stated that plans were underway to get the government to immortalise the late Barrister. He said, “The next stage is to get the government to immortalise Barrister. We also want them to declare that fuji music is the only indigenous African music that has evolved and endured over the years.” Calling on all fuji musicians to better position their careers, the ‘Vivid Imagination’ singer said, “I think this is the best time for all fuji musicians, wherever they might be, to draw from their inner strength, wake up from their slumber and boost the image of this genre of music. “You may not like me but you cannot change the will of God over my life. So, it is better you join hands with me to duly recognise and celebrate the pathfinder of fuji music (Barrister), who created opportunities for many people.” K1 also maintained that he had given about five decades of his life to fuji music. He said, “I started doing music at the age of 15. I may not be good at calculations but I am sure I have put in more than 50 years of my life into fuji music. If you think it’s not a big deal, I think it means a lot.” While welcoming another fuji veteran, Ayinla Kollington, to the event, K1 said, “Permit me to welcome one of our fathers to this programme. It is my hope that one day, an event like this will also be held in his honour.” Other guests at the event, which was hosted by comedian and master of ceremonies, Gbenga Adeyinka, were Barrister’s children, 9ice, Taiwo Hassan (Ogogo), Muka Ray; Lagos State Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Akinbile Yussuf; and Steve Ayorinde, among others. There were also performances by artistes such as 9ice, Pasuma, Taye Currency, Barry Jay (Barrister’s son) and Kolade Onanuga. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com