THE Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said his administration is committed to empowering and equipping unemployed youths in the state with digital entrepreneurship skills. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Folashade Jaji, disclosed this on Friday during the graduation of trainees from the five divisions of the state in Alausa, Ikeja. The programme themed, ‘21st Century talent discovery and IT-enabled entrepreneurship skills and mentorship,’ was organised by the Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment in conjunction with Messrs Digital Age Consulting. Sanwo-Olu said, “I commend the 1,140 youths that have participated in this intensive, cutting-edge training programme for taking a good step and taking advantage of the opportunities promised by the scheme organised with the intention of empowering and equipping unemployed youths in Lagos State with 21st century digital entrepreneurial and mentoring skills. “The reality we all must have seen today is that there is a gradual reduction in the number of available white-collar jobs. Young people must therefore stop seeing academic certificates as an end in itself, but rather a means to an end; the true essence of education is to enhance your ability to identify and harness your innate abilities and talents.” The Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs Yetunde Arobieke, said 20 best-talented youths have been selected among the trainees to become the ministry’s wealth ambassadors. “We have recognised and selected 20 best talents from each local government and local council development area in Lagos State and trained them appropriately to become world-class entrepreneurs and they will be joining our wealth ambassadors so they can start their businesses as Chief Executive Officers. “A website has been developed by the consultant to accommodate online officers to provide each beneficiary of the programme business access to the global market and every one of them today would be presented with a smartphone, a kind gesture from our governor,” she said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com