The Nigerian Bottling Company Limited has restated its commitment towards its renewable energy initiative in a bid towards actualising the global net-zero emission targets by 2050. The NBC Managing Director, Matthieu Seguin, disclosed this in a press briefing in Lagos. He said, “NBC is part of the Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company group which has a commitment to minimize our environmental footprint whilst enriching the communities where we operate. “In line with this, CCHBC has instigated a set of sustainability commitments ahead of 2025 that address six major areas including the reduction of emissions, water use, and stewardship, working towards a world without waste, ingredients sourcing, nutrition, people, and communities and advancing towards these commitments.” He added that the NBC has eight manufacturing plants spread across the nation including its Ikeja plant which is the biggest Coca-Cola manufacturing facility in Africa. Seguin said, “We have taken this challenge of climate change head-on and over the years, have been investing in solutions which have enabled us to make significant advancements in our focus areas of energy use reduction, water use reduction, emissions reduction, and waste generation. “50 per cent of the company’s manufacturing plants are powered by solar. From 2020, we commenced the process and today we can boast that our manufacturing plants are now powered in part by solar energy with the photovoltaic cells delivering up to 3,640-Kilowatt peak power output to the facilities.” According to him, the hybrid power set up in NBC plants allows them to generate some of their power needs from solar sources, thereby reducing the consumption of power from less environmentally friendly sources.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com