As part of its commitment to feeding the Nation every day, Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc has backed the National Sugar Master Plan Agenda through its Sugar Cane Outgrower Scheme. The result presentation of the Scheme’s pilot edition took place on March 30 at the Golden Sugar Company’s Sunti Sugar Estate, Niger State with over 100 attendees including leaders of the scheme’s participant communities. Speaking on the processes involved in attaining the applaudable results by the Outgrowers, Anlo the General Manager, Sunti Sugar Estate, Du Pisani, said, “Prior to the progressive agricultural interventions by FMN, there was no sugar cane cultivation in the area. By establishing the Outgrower Scheme its showed local farmers that sugar cane is an easy to grow and lucrative crop. “With the Golden Sugar Company estate and sugar mill on their doorstep technical experience and support are on hand and there is a guaranteed market for their crop. “The result has been beyond expectation. We have trained hundreds of sugarcane farmers under the out-grower scheme and have sent some to Malawi for training to scale up their output.” Also, commenting on the impactful and transformative nature of the program, FMN’s Director, Group Strategy and Stakeholder Relations, Mr. Sadiq Usman highlighted the applaudable commitments taken by FMN daily to ensure food sufficiency in Nigeria. “At FMN, we are greatly invested in feeding the nation every day and the Out-Grower’s Scheme is a pragmatic example of our commitment to Nigeria and the citizens. As a group, we are once again leading the industry in line with the implementation of the National Sugar Master Plan mandates. “The results of the Outgrower scheme pilot edition depict that first, farming, and in this case, sugarcane farming is a profitable venture especially when an inclusive investor and industry player like FMN orchestrates the process. Secondly, we would continue to work with the Federal Government and the National Sugar Development Council to ensure food and sugar self-sufficiency in Nigeria. “Finally, we beckon on more local farmers to key into the Golden Sugar Company Outgrower scheme as all existing results and feedback has proven that the program is an inclusive investment with a shared profit model.” Top performers in the pilot edition of the Golden Sugar Company Outgrower scheme were awarded during the event to encourage dedicated and committed participation in the programme.