A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Tonye Princewill, said he has begun consultations with critical stakeholders on the prospects of his intentions to vie for the governorship position in Rivers State come 2023. Speaking to newsmen in Port Harcourt on Tuesday, Princewill said he has been reaching out to party leaders and stalwarts. This is coming ahead of the governorship primary of the APC and the 2023 general election in the country. Princewill, who is a son of the monarch of the Kalabari kingdom, met with the Local Government leaders of Port Harcourt and Obio Akpor Local Government Areas and other party stalwarts in a series of closed door meetings. After the meetings, Princewill told newsmen that he was meeting with leaders to listen to feedback from key stakeholders on his intentions and his plans for the APC and for Rivers State. “This whistle stop tour is designed for me to consult, before a declaration is made. You can’t put the cart before the horse. “I need to sit and look into the eyes of leaders and have them look into mine, so we can tell each other the truth. A declaration that comes after this kind of a process will stand the test of time. “We have discussed all issues under the sun, from internal issues within the LGA, my father the King, how we will build a formidable front for our 2023, the leader of the party, Rotimi Amaechi, our commitment to his Presidency and of course, my ambition. I’m encouraged on all fronts. “They have all spoken very well,” he stated. In a related development, Princewill also met with the chairmen of the nineteen wards in the Khana Local Government Area of the state. The former governorship candidate said the meeting was part of a communication strategy of deriving information of the state of the party and her members at the grassroots, describing both as “frank and fruitful.” Overwhelmed by the reception accorded him, the businessman and philanthropist thanked all the ward chairmen for keeping faith with the party and for remaining resolute in their support and loyalty to the leader of the party in the state and the South-South, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi. Prince Princewill expressed optimism that the future is very bright for the party and her members in the state, even as he promised to justify their faith in him and their support sooner than later. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com