A businessman, Salisu Adamu, has been allegedly defrauded of N1.3m by a spiritualist, identified as Alhaji Bala. PUNCH Metro gathered that Bala was introduced to the victim by one Ado Mohammed of Sabon Layi, Gombi town, in the Gombi Local Government Area of Adamawa State. Bala had reportedly promised to print a sum of N500m for Adamu, as he collected N1.3m from the victim to facilitate the money ritual, which included the purchase of animals for sacrifice as well as consulting demons. But after some time, Adamu, who became suspicious that the spiritualist had yet to make good his promise, reached out to Mohammed. Both men went to the house of the spiritualist only to discover he had disappeared from his residence along Army Barracks Road in Jimeta. Adamu later reported the matter at the State intelligence Bureau, Adamawa State Police Command. The SIB subsequently arrested the intermediary for questioning. Mohammed, who is now facing charges following his arraignment before a Yola Magistrate’s Court for criminal conspiracy and fraud contrary to sections 60 and 317 of the Penal Code Law, said he was only helping Adamu. He said, “I came in contact with the victim in Gombi market, where he briefed me about his quest to get rich. “It was after that conversation that I introduced him to Alhaji Bala, the spiritualist, so as to print fake currency for him. We both arranged to visit the residence of the herbalist located along Army Barracks Road and requested him to print the money for him. “Alhaji Bala, who agreed to do as requested, took us round his house where he showed us a drum full of N1,000 notes and assured us that he would print same for Alhaji Salisu (Adamu), but asked him to deposit N1.3m. “But after the expiration of the time given, Salisu became worried and suspicious of the whole deal and decided to report the matter to operatives of the State Intelligence Bureau.” He was, however, remanded in prison after his arraignment on Friday at the Magistrate’s Court I presided over by Muhammad Digil. The case was adjourned till March 30, 2022, for trial. Speaking to PUNCH Metro, the defendant recounted how he first gave the spiritualist N300,000 to print N40m for him to boost his business. He said Bala never printed the money on the excuse that he (Mohammed) had black demons who made it impossible for the magic to work. “I took Alhaji Salisu to the herbalist so that he would try his luck, perhaps Alhaji Salisu’s demons will give permission to the herbalist to print the money he demanded,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com