Residents of Ungwar Yazawa community, in the Lafia Local Government Area of Nasarawa State, have protested an eight months power outage on the community. This, according to the residents, has increased the level of insecurity in the area. Speaking on Monday after a peaceful protest held at the head office of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company, Lafia, spokesperson of the community, Shuibu Zanwa-Buba, said darkness had enveloped their community for eight months and the AEDC had been adamant in reaction to their plights which necessitated the protest. He explained that the protest was staged to draw the attention of the Nasarawa State government and residents of the state about the unfair treatment and injustice being meted on the community by the AEDC. He said, “For the past eight months, residents of Ungwar Yazawa community in Lafia LGA have been living in darkness as there has not been electricity supply despite the efforts we made to get a new electricity transformer from the state government but the AEDC has refused to connect us till now. “Governor Abdullahi Sule approved our request and released the electricity transformer for over two months now but the AEDC seem to be deliberately working against the interest of the community for reasons best known to them. “We are appealing to the Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission to intervene in this matter and call the AEDC to order so that the new transformer would be fixed to ensure steady growth and development of the community.” Responding, the Human Resource Manager of the AEDC Lafia branch, Zainab Ibrahim, assured residents of the community that the electricity transformer would soon be fixed and powered for sufficient electricity supply as directive had been given to the staff of the company on the matter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com