The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), former president, and other leaders have congratulated ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo on the occasion of his 85th birthday. Amongst those who hailed Obasanjo on his birthday were the President, former president, Goodluck Jonathan, the  National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; the former Senate President, Bukola Saraki; the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, and others. Buhari, in a congratulatory message signed by his media aide, Femi Adesina, described him as a study in patriotism, leadership and courage. The message which was titled, ‘President Buhari congratulates former president Olusegun Obasanjo at 85,’ read in part, “ President Buhari believes the former Head of State, 1976 — 1979 and former President of Nigeria, 1999-2007, is a study in patriotism, leadership and courage, leading the country to democratic government in 1979, and taking over the reins of power as elected President in 1999. “The President affirms that the former President’s influence continues to resonate beyond the country, extending to the international community and multilateral institutions.” Also, former President Goodluck Jonathan in a goodwill message to the former head of state congratulated him on the occasion of his birthday, while describing him as a leader with a good reputation and a statesman. He said, “I join your family and friends to celebrate you as you mark your birthday this year. You are an accomplished leader, with a sterling reputation in statesmanship and a peacemaker in Nigeria and across Africa. “Your legacies in Nigeria and Africa have continued to endure many years after you left office as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. As you celebrate, on behalf of my family and the Goodluck Jonathan Foundation; I wish you more strength, good health and peace in all spheres of life.” The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu said that although he had disagreed with Obasanjo on important issues, the ex-President’s commitment and numerous contributions to the country could not be ignored. He said, “President Obasanjo has made numerous useful contributions to this country. There have been instances where I have disagreed with President Obasanjo on important substantive issues. “Our debates have been spirited yet always professional and without personal animus. Through it all, I have come to respect his love of country and legendary work ethic. President Obasanjo has worked tirelessly for Nigeria, Africa and indeed the black race. “President Obasanjo has earned his stripes as an important statesman on the world stage. Baba Obasanjo is bold and courageous and will continue to be so for that is the essence of his character. The former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, described the ex-President as the pride of Nigeria and Africa. He said, “The various institutions that you built between 1999 and 2007 as elected President remain the symbols of progress that our country has witnessed since the return to democracy. “From EFCC, ICPC, UBEC, NCC, TETFUND, and many others, your indelible marks in the sound of time show you on the frontline among the makers of modern Nigeria.” In his remarks, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, who also joined his voice to the outpouring of congratulatory messages, described Obasanjo as an elder statesman and nationalist. Gbajabiamila said at 85, Obasanjo “exhibits a high sense of patriotism, working to see that Nigeria and Nigerians remain united.” In a similar vein, the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, felicitated the former president. Bello said, “As a true Pan-Africanist, your peace and mediation roles in other African countries, including your recent intervention in the unrest in the Tigray region of Ethiopia is a clear testament of your love for peace and stability of the African continent.” Furthermore, the former governor and senator representing Bayelsa-West Senatorial District, Seriake Dickson, described Obasanjo as a leader and mentor. He also praised him for his contributions to the country, and his wisdom. Meanwhile, the Governor of Delta State, Ifeanyi Okowa described Obasanjo as “an epitome of nationalism and statesmanship” on his birthday. Okowa said, “As a country, we recall with nostalgia, the economic reforms in the banking, communication and health sectors, introduced during your administration which paved the way for the revolution in the Nigerian economy.” In addition, the President, African Development Bank, Dr Akinwumi Adesina, reiterated that Obasanjo’s love for Africa has made him have conversations with global players for the growth and development of the continent. Adesina said, “You have remained engaged with former Heads of State and Government across Africa, to relentlessly find solutions to challenges and mediate to resolve conflicts.” Correspondingly, the Peoples Democratic Party described former President Olusegun Obasanjo as an exceptionally patriotic leader. The National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Debo Ologunagba, greeted the statesman in a statement titled ‘PDP salutes former President Obasanjo at 85.’  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com