VICTORIA ADENEKAN asked couples if they like wearing same clothes (otherwise called anko by Yoruba) with their partners to gatherings I love it but my husband isn’t romantic to that level Mrs Amaka Ajaero I would love to wear the same outfit with him because it will give me that ‘he is mine or I am his’ mentality and a kind of ‘we are together’ show, it also creates memories. But my man isn’t romantic so he sees it as nothing. I really love it and would love to try it one day. I believe it’s a beautiful thing Mr Oyewole Rilwan Yes, I can put on the same outfit with my spouse, I love it because I personally believe wearing the same outfit with one’s spouse is a beautiful thing. It might not be every day, but it’s nice when we wear it. My spouse likes it when we wear the same outfit. I don’t feel anything special when we wear the same outfit, I just believe it is beautiful. I like to wear same outfit with my husband Mrs Faith Abolaji I can put on the same outfit with my husband. There are some couples that always put on the same outfit. Even if it’s not the same outfit it can be the same colour and there are some that don’t like going out in the same outfit. As for me, I don’t care about other couples, I like wearing the same outfit with my husband, of course, he’s my husband so there’s no reason for me to be ashamed to wear the same outfit with him. We should be proud of each other putting on the same attire, it’s not every time but there are some occasions that my husband will be the one to pick. I don’t like wearing the same outfit with my spouse. Mr  Sotunde Olusesan I can’t wear the same outfit as my spouse. The reason is that anything people like generally I don’t seem to like them, I always want to be unique, being different from what everyone likes. I don’t feel anything special about wearing the same outfit with my spouse, because I don’t like it. Though we sew the same clothes, when she wears it on Monday, I would rather wear mine on Tuesday. I don’t like anything that is common. That is just how I am. My wife has complained so many times that we should wear the same clothes at the same time to the same occasion. After so many years in marriage, she understands now that it’s my lifestyle. We wear same clothes sometimes Mrs Bisola Adetunji My husband and I do wear the same outfit sometimes, even when there are no special occasions. When we wear the same outfit, I used to be excited. There’s a feeling of acceptance and I have someone. Anyone that sees us will know that we are couples without us telling the person. Besides, they will know that there is genuine love between us and in our home before we can put on the same outfit. My husband likes wearing the same outfit as me. We are okay with it. The feeling is great Mr Taiwo Salami Yes, I can wear the same outfit with my spouse because I love my spouse. I feel special when we wear the same outfit, the feeling is great. I can wear the same outfit as her even when we don’t have special occasions. It’s a way of expressing love in a chic way Mrs Ajewole Bukola I love wearing the same outfit with my spouse because it gives us a great look. Wearing the same thing every day is the quickest way to become famous, you become known. When people know us for a particular style, we look classy, comfortable and confident. We will communicate confidence because of what we put on and our comportment. Wearing matching outfits with one’s partner is a way of expressing love in a fashionable way. It also saves time, in the morning when going out I don’t need to start thinking of what to wear. Whatever my husband where I’ll put on too. It’s good for couples Mr Ayiti Stephen Yes, because we are one family. My wife likes it when we put on the same outfit. The special thing there is that it unites us and gives us more boldness. Wearing the same is beautiful and I believe it’s a good thing for couples. It signifies love Mrs Tolu Matthew Yes, of course, I can put on the same outfit with my spouse because we are one and that signifies love. My husband likes it  too because he loves me. I feel special when we wear it. It shows unity and it also shows the love between us. It’s a romantic way to declare our union Mr Adelere Samuel Yes, I can wear the same outfit as my spouse and she likes wearing the same outfit with me too. Putting on the same outfit with my spouse is a romantic way to make a statement about our relationship. It makes us feel connected to each other. It makes us look great, and builds our confidence. It makes us look cute and coordinated. It also shows to the world that we are married and enjoying the union. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com