The Kaduna State Government says no fewer than 34 persons, including two military personnel, were killed in the Sunday night attack on Agban Kagoro in Kaura Local Government Area of the state by bandits. The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, who made the confirmation on Tuesday, said four locations of Tsonje, Agban, Katanga and Kadarko, all within the Kagoro Chiefdom were attacked on Sunday night. The commissioner said over 200 houses and 32 shops were burnt during the attack while three vehicles and 17 motorcycles were vandalised. He added that seven persons sustained injuries during the attacks and are currently receiving medical attention in an undisclosed hospital. According to him, the 24-hour-curfew slammed on Jema’a and Kaura Local Government Areas in the wake of the attack is still in force, adding that the curfew is meant to check further breakdown of law and order in the affected areas. The commissioner quoted the state governor, Nasir El-Rufai, as condemning the attack just as he condoled the families of the victims as well as the military authorities over the death of the two personnel. Aruwan identified those killed during the attacks to include Angelina Aboi,  Godiya Iliya, Peace Iliya, Stephen Emmanuel, Patrick Pius, Gwamna Ishaya, Philip Joseph, Godwin Latong, Aba Chawai and Nancy Luka. Others, he said, are Sophia Luka, Hosea James, Daniel Sofa, Geoffrey Ado, Bala James, Henry Dauda, Augustine Iliya,  Irmiya Michael. They also include Murna Luka, Monday Buki, Reuben Kumai, Zilien Gudak, Anita Kawai, Rifkatu Kawai,  Titi Bawa,  Jacob Yayock, Samuel Ufui, Silas Bulus, Victor Ayuka,  Jummai Yunana, Sunday Tachio and Hope Luka. The commissioner said, “Security agencies have reported to the Kaduna State Government that after search operations and detailed checks, 34 people have been confirmed dead following Sunday’s attack in Kaura Local Government Area. “According to the report, four locations were attacked by unidentified assailants: Tsonje, Agban, Katanga and Kadarko, all within Kagoro Chiefdom of Kaura LGA. “Two military personnel were among the 34 killed, with local residents making up 32 casualties. “One Mrs Abigail Joshua from Adan community is currently missing. “Furthermore, over 200 houses and 32 shops were burnt in the attack. Three vehicles and 17 motorcycles were vandaliSed.” He added, “Condemning the attack in the strongest terms, Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i expressed his grief at the feedback, and sent condolences to the families of the locals killed. He prayed for the repose of their souls as he wished the injured a quick recovery. “The governor also condoled the Military High Command, and the families of the military personnel who paid the ultimate price in the line of duty during this attack. The governor offered prayers for the repose of their souls. “Going further, the governor appealed to citizens to remain calm and cooperate with security agencies as efforts were sustained to stabilize the area. “The Kaduna State Government enjoins all residents to carefully observe the 24-hour curfew in force in the area. The curfew was declared on the advice of security agencies to prevent the escalation of violence. “Security reports revealed that criminals took advantage of the chaos to wreak havoc of their own. A bus was attacked by a mob in Agban, and the conductor was killed. Similarly, some places of worship were torched as tension rose in Kafanchan. “The curfew is therefore essential to urgently stem the tide of violence. “Government is working ceaselessly with security forces to restore normalcy to the area. Deep consultations with stakeholders are also ongoing.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com