Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, says the Nigeria’s economy will remain vulnerable and weak if illegal bunkering and artisanal refining of crude oil continue unabated. Wike made the observation at the inauguration and presentation of 14 ballistic gunboats donated by the Rivers State Government to the Nigerian Navy, Army, Police and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, at NNS Pathfinder, Naval Base, Rumuolumeni in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area on Friday. The governor said the seeming frustration in the fight against illegal refining  of crude oil was caused by security personnel who were deeply  involved in the illicit activity or providing cover for the criminals. Wike’s assertion was contained in a statement signed by his media aide, Kelvin Ebiri, and made available to newsmen. “Most of the problem we have with illegal oil bunkering is that security agencies are fully involved in this illegal oil bunkering. “That’s the truth. Civil Defence is involved, Army is involved, police are involved; navy is involved. Let us tell ourselves the simple truth,” Wike stated. He explained that the oil and gas sector was the mainstay of the nation’s economy and Nigerians owe it as a duty to ensure that the country’s economy is salvaged. “All of us owe it as a duty to see how we can salvage this country. Eighty per cent of the revenue of this country comes from oil and if we cannot reduce or stop this illegal oil bunkering, this country is in for problem. And so, we must all work together to help this country,” he added. He said his administration had remained committed to the fight against illegal bunkering and achieved tremendous results leading to the reduction of soot and oil theft. The governor dismissed notions in some quarters that governors put their state’s security vote  in personal pockets  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com