A governorship hopeful in Akwa Ibom State and Estate Surveyor and Valuer, Mr. James Iniama, has identified the crisis in educational system as the major challenge confronting the state. He said it was unfortunate that most graduates today are unable to read and write  clearly compared to his days when a child was taught how to read and write in the primary school. Iniama said this at the secretariat of the Peoples Democratic party during his consultation with party members in Uyo, the state capital. He said the challenge in the sector is one that all must rise up to in order to get the sector turned up for the growth and development of the state. “I’m thoroughly knowledgeable that if there is any challenge we have in Akwa Ibom State today, it has to do with our educational system. It’s a challenge we all must rise up to. I was taught to read and write in my primary school; I was taught to draw in my primary school, but very regrettably, today I found graduates who are unable to write and to read very clearly. “So, it is a challenge; a challenge to our dream. We believe that the time has come when we must rise together and ensure that we get our educational system turned up” he said. He, however, expressed happiness that there is a NEEDS documents and everybody is knowledgeable in the contents of the document, adding that we have already what we need to offer to the children so as to have quality education. While promising quality education, the aspirant assured that if voted into power, his administration would address the issue of infrastructure and training of teachers. “In quality education, we will need to train quality teachers, equip our educational system and ensure we address the issue of infrastructure. That will demonstrate to our sons and daughters that we love them, not in giving gifts, but the knowledge we impart to them” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com