SOME leaders and stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party in the Ekeremor Local Government Area of Bayelsa State have expressed their support for the second term bid of the incumbent Senator representing Bayelsa West, Seriake Dickson, ahead of the 2023 general elections. They have, therefore, announced their resolution to buy the party’s senatorial expression of interest and nomination forms for the former governor of the state. The PDP Ekeremor LGA stakeholders, led by the deputy speaker of the state House of Assembly, Michael Ogbere, and the local government chairman, Bertola Perekeme, decided during a meeting in Yenagoa on Saturday. At the meeting, they backed their resolution by raising the sum of N10m through voluntary donations by stakeholders present to purchase the senatorial forms for Dickson. The development happened two days after officials of the Ekeremor Elders Stakeholders Forum, led by Martins Agbede and Dein Benadoumene, visited the state PDP leadership at the party’s secretariat in Yenagoa and urged it to uphold the existing zoning agreement alternating the Senate and House of Representatives seats between Sagbama and Ekeremor council areas that make up Bayelsa West. They insisted that it was the turn of Ekeremor to produce the senator for Bayelsa West at the forthcoming 2023 National Assembly polls. While Dickson comes from Sagbama LGA, the member currently representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Fred Agbedi, hails from Ekeremor LGA. The Ekeremor PDP stakeholders said the donations were made in appreciation of “the numerous good deeds and developmental projects” Dickson brought to the area during his time as governor. They also appreciated the fact that against all odds, Dickson backed, supported and handed over to their son, Governor Douye Diri, whose mother was from Ekeremor LGA. They declared that they were in total support of the former governor and were not ungrateful. They also advised the public to discountenance some mischief makers who are bent on dividing the party with propaganda on a purported zoning arrangement. They claimed that the zoning agreement had neither been implemented nor respected in the senatorial district at any time.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com