Members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers in Oyo State have asked Governor Seyi Makinde to warn members of the Park Management System against further threatening them or attacking them in order to avoid bloodshed. The NURTW members gave the warning in a petition dated March 24 and signed by their counsel and a former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in the state, Mr Michael Lana. A copy of the document was made available to our correspondent on Thursday night. The NURTW also said in the petition that it was illegal for the state government or  its agents  (PMS)  to be collecting  union dues from commercial drivers because the NURTW was not proscribed and the matter was still pending before court. The union accused members of the PMS of threatening to kill them if they visit the union’s state office recently built along Iwo Road . The petition read, “Our clients are the owners of the building lying and situated at Plot 4 Aduloju Layout along Iwo-Road, Ibadan. Our clients alleged that while on the inspection of the said building by the executive and the members of our clients today, March 24, 2022, their members were accosted by the so-called Park Managers wearing Mukaila Lamidi aka auxiliary’s caps and T-shirts with picture of Governor Seyi Makinde. “These miscreants threatened to attack our clients should they come to their office again, boasting that they have the backing of the governor of the state and could not be arrested even if they kill any of our client’s members. “It is of note that in the above named suit, the governor of the state deposed that it did not proscribe our client’s union, therefore, there is no order or law preventing our client from using their property. “Kindly be informed that under Section 43 of the Constitution of Nigeria, our client has the right to own the said property and no person has  the right to own their property. “Also, it has been established that the state government is not a trade union, therefore, neither it nor or its agent have the right to collect the union’s dues from commercial drivers and this is the subject of the above named suit. However, our clients have copious evidence that the so-called managers are collecting the union dues from commercial drivers in the state.” “The law is that when a matter is pending before the court, neither the parties can do anything thereon. Our client has been-law abiding since 2019 when your government handed over the parks to Mukaila Lamidi aka Auxiliary thereby leaving our clients jobless to wallop in abject poverty. “To avoid bloodshed in the state, it is better to warn Mukaila Lamidi to reign in his thugs and make no attempt to disturb out client from occupying its  office. “It will also be in the interest of peace if you also warn the park managers and the local government in charge of collecting union dues from commercial drivers. We believe that as a man of peace, you will heed to our request.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com