***as Dickson, Fintiri obtain senatorial, governorship forms Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, Wednesday in Abuja, joined the race for the Peoples Democratic Party’s presidential ticket ahead of the forthcoming elections. Udom’s N40m expression of interest and nomination forms were obtained at the Party’s National Secretariat by a group, the Brekete Family, that said the Governor would turn around the fortunes of the country for good if elected President. The group’s leader, Innocent Orji, who spoke on its behalf, said: “Today is a new dawn in our country Nigeria because for the very first time in the history of Nigeria, this is the only time a group of people came together and said, change must take place come 2023. “The Ordinary President, Dr Ahmed Isa, and the founder of the Brekete Family Radio and Television came out to say to the world that change must start come 2023. The change will start with us this time around. We the Brekete Family globally will purchase 10 Presidential nomination forms. “Each person that wants to participate must have outstanding antecedents and we must purchase the form. We are starting from this particular person today. That’s why we purchased one today for the person of Dr Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom state. This is just the starting point.” Meanwhile, former President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria and ex-chairman of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group, Sam Ohuabunwa, has also obtained his copies of the expression of interest and nomination forms. The Presidential hopeful, who was at the Party’s national secretariat on Wednesday, promised to solve the country’s security challenges with technology if given the chance to fly the party’s flag in next year’s presidential election. According to him, “The first thing I am going to do is to call the people together and ask how did we get here? We will sit at a table and decide what we need to do to solve our problems.
“That is the primary thing and is the major thing to do. The solution is to apply high-level technology to security surveillance. “With technology, you can see anybody wherever he is located. With technology, you can hear, you can see with technology, we don’t even need to send physical force, we can send technologically-driven forces and modern drones to get them (bandits) where they are,” he added. In a related development, former Managing Director of FSB International Bank, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, has also expressed interest to run for the office of President on the party’s platform. Hayatu-Deen who recently joined the PDP called for the declaration of a national emergency to tackle the rising spate of terror attacks across the country. “We must declare a national emergency, bring in all the stakeholders—the youths, traditional rulers, academia, specialists in security, retired and military brass, police, intelligence because these are people who live among us. It is important to craft a lasting solution for dealing with this issue.” “Extraordinary times call for extraordinary solutions. We need to build up the size of the military, re-train and re-arm them, and provide them with the motivational tools that they need so that they can fight this battle successfully,” he said. In the senatorial race, former Governor of Bayelsa State and serving Senator representing Bayelsa-West, Seriake Dickson, has also obtained nomination and expression of interest forms to run for another four years in office. Addressing delegates from Ekeremor and Sagbama Local Government, who presented the forms to him at his Abuja residence on Wednesday, he said, “We need a steady hand at the centre to continue to guide and to support and to make the case that has to be made for our people. “Even our opponents in the other party know that we don’t even need to campaign because our leaders are in control of the grassroots. There is no other party in Bayelsa West.” In the governorship race, a group of indigenes of Adamawa State on Wednesday also purchased the PDP nomination and expression of interest forms for Governor Ahmadu Fintri, for another four-year tenure. Leader of the group, Good People of Adamawa State, Abdulrahman Bobboi, told journalists that the good works begun under the incumbent governor should be sustained. “It is the will and decision of the good people of Adamawa state to buy the nomination form for him (Fintiri) and this is because of the enormous achievements that Governor Fintri has achieved within the period of three years.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com