Africa Prudential said it recorded significant success in its diversification into the digital technology solutions space in 2021 while reinventing its traditional registrar business. A statement from the firm on its 9th annual general meeting in Abuja said the company also recorded N2bn profit in the period under review. It said, “Overall, gross revenues increased by 0.4 per cent to N3.5bn despite the 12 per cent decline in interest income as the non-interest income lines strengthened, while profit before tax was up 1.3 per cent to N2bn. The firm maintained its dividend payout at 50 kobo per share for the year 2021, the same payment as in the year 2020.” Despite significant macroeconomic headwinds, including double-digit inflation and a weaker naira, the company said it recorded 71 per cent growth in registrar maintenance fees in 2021 while adding 19 new clients in the associated business line. Over the same period, Africa Prudential hit significant milestones in its digital technology business, culminating in a 58 per cent rise in revenues in the business line, it said. Speaking during the annual general meeting, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mrs Eniola Fadayomi, was quoted as saying, “Amid a slow economic recovery but still challenging business environment, the 2021 performance reflects the impact of deliberate efforts to diversify the business and to deploy business solutions to strengthen our business and that of our clients for superior value creation. “We look forward to recording greater success in this regard in the coming years.” During the 2021 fiscal year, the statement said Africa Prudential made further investments and partnerships to broaden and deepen its service offering. It launched its biometric identification management solution as its latest offering, enabling a wide range of companies to capture and authenticate the biometric information of their customers. The company also launched the Reddeals platform, which aggregates discounted deals on a web-based platform. Commenting on the 2021 performance, the Chief Executive Officer, Africa Prudential, Mr Obong Idiong, said “the 2021 performance provides further evidence of the success of our evolution as a business solutions provider even as we strengthen our traditional registrar business for superior value creation to our customers.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com