A group, Rochas Peoples Movement, on Sunday, asked the leadership of the All Progressives Congress to micro-zone its presidential ticket to the South-East geopolitical zone. In a statement in Owerri on Sunday, by its National Coordinator, Chief Njoku Okechukwu, and National Secretary, Eze Ugochukwu, the group said that it is patriotic for the APC to allow the South-East zone the opportunity to produce the next president of the country. The group said that Nigeria needs a president that can unite the country, create wealth by engaging jobless youths and care for the weak and indigent ones in the society. The statement read “We, the members of Rochas Peoples Movement, with a strong belief in equity and justice have met and deliberated extensively on the ongoing political debates with regard to the 2023 presidential election. “As you are all aware, the issue of the Presidency in Nigeria come 2023 has remained a major discussion in all the media spaces within Nigeria as to geopolitical zone the next President of the country should come from. “As those who stand for equity and justice, we wish to state as follows: It is the consensus of patriotic Nigerians that the Igbos should be given a sense of belonging this time and avoid any political action that would make them feel as if they are not part and parcel of the Nigerian nation. “We call for support for Nigerian President of South-East extraction which we hereby endorse. lt is, however, important to address the mood of the nation to what type of leadership it deserves come 2023. “We are all aware of our present situation in the country and all efforts been made by the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration particularly as it affects the nation’s life.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com