A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, Olanrewaju Jim-Kamal, has assured residents that if elected the next governor of Lagos State, he will provide free and compulsory education and health care for all. Jim-Kamal, according to a statement on Wednesday, said this while he formally disclosed his interest to contest the state governorship election on the platform of the PDP in 2023. The governorship hopeful noted that it would take both infrastructural and human capital development to curb most of the social ills in society. He said, “Once elected we will ensure the provision of automated free and compulsory e-education at all levels, automated free e-healthcare facilities, social security, mechanised food production, sports development, modern transportation system and restructuring. We are out to tell Lagos residents in particular and Nigerians in general the truth and nothing but the truth and then to discuss issues, debate issues and deliver issues through dividends of democracy that have eluded Lagos for sometimes now. “Infrastructure without giving these teaming youth free and compulsory education, free health, mass employment for youth, women emancipation, availability of subsidised food to our market women, modern day security network that is devoid of force and mass killing of innocent people will only compromise our security networks.” Jim-Kamal also explained that the Lagos PDP now has a brighter chance to win through elective primaries. “We have not been winning because Lagos PDP has always promoted imposition but our last elective state congress has brought in the light that we can get it right now. The best way to address all these problems is for the party to go for elective primaries in Lagos like we did in the congress. “I opted out in 2015 when I discovered somebody was to be imposed on us. Now that the PDP has come to stay and the chances are brighter, we should not spoil it; our primaries should be one man one vote and it should be a free and fair direct primaries,” he added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com