Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, has said the Peoples Democratic Party has to rescue the country to save it from an imminent collapse. Speaking while addressing party supporters at the PDP secretariat in Kaduna on Saturday, Tambuwal, who has declared his intention to contest the presidential election on the platform of the PDP, stated that the ruling All Progressives Congress had shown a lack of capacity. He said, “It is only incumbent on us as PDP to work together as a united front, working with other good and well-meaning Nigerians to rescue our country from an imminent collapse. “We are seeing that the APC has not been able to and cannot manage even their affairs as a party, not to talk of providing governance and leadership for a country as great, dynamic and complex as Nigeria. “We know the crisis in the APC; today they would say it is Abu Sani Bello; tomorrow it is Mai Mala Buni. They are even confusing their supporters and their members, just the way they have succeeded in confusing the economy of this country. Initially, we were thinking they were using voodoo economics.” Meanwhile, some supporters of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, who is also eyeing the presidency on the platform of the APC, have agreed that the country must be rescued. They however said Bello was the best man for the job. The supporters, mostly youths from the 20 local government areas of Bauchi State, marched through various streets, to showcase their numerical strength and show their support for Bello. The National President, Rescue Nigeria Mission, Ahmad Damat, said, “We won’t mind the naysayers, we won’t mind those who have embarked on a campaign of calumny. We have worked with many leaders and assessed many across the length and breadth of Nigeria but Governor Yahaya Bello stands out.” The Chief of Staff to the governor, Abdulkareem Jamiu Asuku, who led other government officials to the rally, assured the youth that his principal would heed their call and address them soon. He also advised them not to engage in thuggery. He added, “You have been consistent in your call for His Excellency, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, to contest the presidency come 2023. He has heard you clearly and will not disappoint you. He has demonstrated in Kogi that it is ‘Youths O Clock’, and it is paying off with all the giant strides. We will repeat the same feat for Nigeria by the grace of God.” Also, the Executive Secretary, Office for Disability Affairs, Zaccheus Michael Dare, has called on people living with disabilities to support Bello’s presidential aspiration, saying the governor had surpassed the employment quota due for PLWDs yearly. In a statement in Lokoja on Saturday, Dare said, “Bello has shown over a period of six years that if given the chance to become the president in 2023, he will carry everyone, including persons with disability, along because he believes in the abilities in disability.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com