The Council of the All Progressives Congress Stakeholders in Nasarawa State have endorsed a former governor and Senator representing Nasarawa West Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Abdullahi Adamu, for the national chairman of the party in the forthcoming national convention. In a statement made available to newsmen in Lafia on Monday, Chairman of the Council, Kassim Muh’d-Kassim, said the endorsement was based on information the council received from top APC leaders that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has endorsed the former governor’s aspiration to lead the party. He called on other aspirants to accept the choice of Abdullahi Adamu as the will of God and to withdraw their political activities regarding the national chairmanship position in honour of the decision of the national leadership of the party. He commended the President and the National Working Committee of the APC for agreeing to zone the national chairmanship of the party to the North-Central, and to Nasarawa State in particular. “We are thanking President Muhammadu Buhari for finding Nasarawa State worthy of this kind gesture and promise that the state will not disappoint the president and the party. What Senator Abdullahi Adamu needs now is the cooperation of all stakeholders of the party to build on the gains of the Mai Mala Buni-led national executive. “We are also appealing to Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State to sacrifice his presidential ambition in order to pave way for the North-Central to produce the national chairman of the party and we are hoping that he would see the need to respect the decision of the party even though we know that it is his constitutional right to contest any election”, the statement read in part. The statement further said that Adamu, the first civilian Governor of Nasarawa State, who served for two terms from 1999 till 2007, a former presidential aspirant and currently a three-term Senator at the national assembly, has all the credentials to lead the party to victory in the 2023 elections and beyond. “Senator Adamu is a widely accepted and well-known politician in Nigeria. He believes in the leadership qualities of President Buhari and we know that he will take the party to greater heights if he is given the opportunity to emerge as the national chairman of the APC. “It is on this note that we are calling on all contestants across the country to accept our endorsement of Senator Abdullahi Adamu for the unity, peace and progress of the APC in 2023 and beyond,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com