Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, has said that he doesn’t know why politicians who failed to provide necessary infrastructure for the people of the state are campaigning to come back to the govern the state again. Speaking on Sunday while receiving elders and youth leaders of the All Progressives Congress of Ilorin South Local Government Area who paid him a courtesy call at the Government House, Ilorin, Abdulrazaq said he is investing heavily on infrastructure to make the people of the state happy. He called on the people of the state to be wary of politicians who intend to return the state to the days of non-payment of salaries and collapse of infrastructure. He said, “You are one of the first set of groups we are receiving here at the Government House. We just renovated this place. When we came in, this place was leaking. “That was the way the former administration left the state. They left a collapsed state. We have been able to gradually turn it around, changing things from wards, local government areas to the state level. “When you see these people saying that they want to contest and come back, I don’t know what they want to come back to do. Do they want to come back and completely collapse the state? These are the people that could not even pay salaries. What are they coming back to do? To continue not to pay salaries? “These are the people that could not put basic hospitals in place. So, they want to come back to empty the hospitals completely? There is a lot that we have achieved across every sector. People can see and relate with those things themselves.” AbdulRazaq said the government was aware of challenges in some communities in the state and would do more to improve the socio-economic wellbeing of the people.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com