Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has said the menace of human trafficking and irregular migration among youths in the state was curbed through public trust and favourable business partnerships. Obaseki disclosed this in a lecture titled, ‘Making politics work for citizens, governance and development: The Edo State experience,’ which he delivered at the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs in Lagos on Tuesday. The governor noted that open political and institutional reform implemented in the state can be adopted to tackle the myriad of challenges in the country. He said, “Having built public trust, we had to open up the business environment which led to robust partnership with the private sector and international development organisations. “With their support, we have been able to substantially curb the menace of human trafficking and irregular migration, which once pillaged our most valuable resources – our young people. “We were able to open up the political space to a broad range of players to the chagrin of the godfathers. These patrons of the old order thrived in the exclusion of the majority from participating in the political process. For them, the fewer the actors in the system, the more relevant they were and the more they were able to take the process hostage. “With the opening up of the political system, we embarked on institutional reforms to enhance the capacity of the government to deliver public services. This was done by enhancing the work environment, ensuring regular payment of salaries and pensions, improving compensation packages, and creating better conditions of service for workers.” Obaseki also explained that his administration embarked on infrastructure projects to win the trust of the electorates and foster inclusion in the state. He added, “In Edo, we had to take deliberate and intentional steps to retool our politics to engender development. This has led to the introduction of people-centric policies and programmes which have won our administration significant public trust. “We also revamped the public service to cut back on waste and with this, we were able to deliver more projects with less resources than would have been required. We rolled out infrastructure projects in a fair and equitable manner that engenders a sense of inclusion among the people across the various sections of the state. “We were able to win the trust of the electorate in Edo State because we had focused on ideals that have come to define our politics and through which we have made the most impact in their lives.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com