The Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project has said it would not abuse the memories of the Ogoni 13 who died in the course of the struggle for a better deal for the Ogoni people. The agency said any attempt to squander the funds released to it for the cleanup of Ogoni land in Rivers State would be tantamount to abusing the memories of the Ogoni martyrs. The newly-appointed Project Coordinator of HYPREP, Dr. Ferdinand Giadom, stated this at a press conference in Port Harcourt on Monday. The PUNCH reports that the Ogoni martyrs including late playwright, Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight of his compatriots were hanged by the military junta of late Sani Abacha om November 10, 1995, while four prominent Ogoni chiefs were allegedly killed while in a meeting by irate youths in Kiokoo community in Gokana Local Government Area of Rivers State in 1994. Giodom said the 13 martyrs would be the first consideration in all decisions that HYPREP would take in order to honour their memories and give their families a sense of belonging. He said, “For the families of Ogoni 13 and people that actually laid down their lives so that we could live today, we say that these projects will not leave you behind. “You will be part of everything that we are doing because we know that you laid down the choicest blood that can be found in any part of Africa.
“We will at all times respect their memories. In fact and indeed, that should be the first consideration in all decisions that we are going to take. We will not abuse their memory by doing what is not right. “We will not abuse their memories by squandering these funds. We will not abuse their memories by not being interested and committed to this process. “When we are demanding for things, let us always remember that people died for us to live. The only way we can honour their memory is to make sure this project succeeds. “Not only succeeding for today, but succeeding for future generations; not only for them, but the many people who died for this course.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com