Former Senate President, Bukola Saraki; the Peoples Democratic Party, Kwara State branch of the All Progressives Congress and Kwara NUJ Correspondents’ Chapel have mourned the PDP Publicity Secretary in Kwara, Tunde Ashaolu, who died on Sunday less than 24 hours after celebrating his 47th birthday anniversary. Ashaolu was reported to have slumped in his residence in Abuja on Sunday evening after celebrating his birthday with another birthday mate, Akintoba Fatigun, Saraki, in a condolence message signed by Olu Onemola of Abubakar Bukola Saraki Media Office, Abuja, expressed shock, disbelief and sadness over the sudden death of Ashaolu. “I am devastated by this loss because, in everything that he did, Tunde was exemplary. He was committed to his work; courageous with his words and press statements, and a helping hand to everyone around him. “Today, as we mourn our dear Tunde — our comrade, our friend, our brother, a father, a husband, a son, and most importantly, a champion in our fight — we celebrate the tremendous impact that he had on all of us throughout his life. “My prayers are with his father, his wife, other members of his family — and all the friends that he has left behind, who in the hours since his death, have rallied round his family and embraced them through their support. Tunde will be dearly missed,” Saraki said. The APC in the state in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Aro Folaranmi, said that it shared the pains of it opposition PDP over the saddening and unfortunate passing of Ashaolu. “We also commiserate with members of the deceased family whom the late Ashaolu has left behind. “We pray with a fervency that the PDP family and the members of the immediate family of the deceased will find the fortitude to bear the loss and strength to carry on in this tragic moment. Please do accept our deepest condolences,” the statement said. The PDP also described the death of Ashaolu as “Sunset at Dawn”. The Party’s National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, disclosed this in a statement titled ‘PDP grief-stricken, mourns Kwara State spokesperson, Tunde Ashaolu’. Ologunagba said, “The Peoples Democratic Party is heartbroken and heavily grieved over the death of Kwara State Publicity Secretary of the Party. Indeed, the PDP family grieves; we are devastated, and our hearts bleed. Tunde’s death is a shattering blow, not only to our great Party but also to our dear nation and humanity at large.” The Correspondents Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists in Kwara also sympathised with the family, describing the deceased as “an astute media personality, a man of the people who increased the media presence of his party in the state and Nigeria in just few period he manned the position” The chapel, however, prayed God to forgive, grant him eternal rest and give his family, PDP the fortitude to bear the loss. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com