The National Youth Service Corps has urged the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Stream 1 corps members to serve their fatherland with passion, adhere to its bye-laws and be good ambassadors of their respective families and alma maters. A statement on Monday by the Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations, NYSC, Emeka Mgbemena, quoted the Director-General, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, as issuing the warning in his nationwide virtual address to the corps members and camp officials. He added that anyone who violated the NYSC bye-laws and the oath of allegiance would be sanctioned. The DG advised the corps members to utilise the opportunities of the service year to excel in life, adding that the NYSC was a platform that could only be appreciated by those that were serious-minded. He stated, “I want you to take a critical understanding of the four cardinal programmes of the NYSC, namely; orientation course, primary assignment, community development service and winding-up/passing-out. “Ensure that all the rules are strictly obeyed and don’t violate any of the camp rules so that you won’t be decamped.” Ibrahim urged the corps members to take advantage of their enrolment into the National Health Insurance Scheme to give their best and avoid self-medication, adding, “Once you have any health challenge, report to the appropriate quarters for treatment.” The Director-General also advised them to abide by all the COVID-19 safety guidelines and ensure strict compliance with the protocols. According to him, the NYSC management introduced the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development programme in 2012 to impart skills in corps members to become job creators, instead of searching for scarcely available white-collar jobs. The DG added that many ex-corps members who embraced the SAED programme were today employers of labour in different vocations. He informed them that the proposed NYSC Trust Fund Bill, which passed the second reading as well as public hearing at the National Assembly, would enable corps members to have access to start-up capital as they exited the scheme. He also said the trust fund would help to expand the scope of the skill acquisition and entrepreneurship development programme of the scheme. The DG added, “The Trust Fund will also enable the training of staff and it is expected that when it is passed into law with presidential assent, all of you will be given start-up capitals to drive your business initiatives based on the skills you have acquired during the service year. “By God’s grace when the bill is passed, I can assure you that the NYSC will take millions of Nigerian youths out of the unemployment market.” Ibrahim appealed to the corps members to avoid the negative use of social media, and advised them to use it to promote national unity and integration. He also warned against unauthorised journeys and night travels during the service year. The DG advised the corps members to board vehicles at designated motor parks in order to ensure their safety. He stated, “I want to urge you to be security conscious. Don’t put yourself in harm’s way and be wary of the use of social media. “Use social media wisely to promote our unity and understanding, and don’t use it to spread fake news. “Under no circumstances should any corps member be permitted to leave the camp. The orientation is compulsory and all of you must participate in all the activities.” While he advised that any journey extending beyond 6pm should be broken, Ibrahim asked them to pass the night in military barracks, NYSC formations, corps lodges and other safe places. “Avoid free rides in order not to fall prey to kidnappers and ritualists. Shun every act of criminality in the camps. Say no to drugs, no to cybercrimes and don’t let your action of today mar your future, because you are potential leaders,” the DG warned. In a vote of thanks on behalf of his colleagues nationwide, the Osun State Corps Camp Director, Ezechi Wisdom, expressed appreciation to Ibrahim for re-jigging the NYSC SAED programme that had empowered a large number of corps members with skills to become self-reliant and employers of labour. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com