Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich is considering selling the Stamford Bridge club, according to reports. Abramovich is set to receive offers for Chelsea by the end of this week, with at least three parties interested in buying the Blues, Express Uk reports. Abramovich faces the threat of sanctions following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine last week. The 55-year-old has already attempted to hand over the day-to-day running of Chelsea to the club’s charitable foundation. Abramovich did so in the attempt to put distance between himself and Chelsea but the trustees are yet to accept his proposal, with some considering quitting. The Telegraph claims that parties interested in buying the west London club believe that was the first step from Abramovich to suggest he would be open to selling. Offers are set to be made to Abramovich this week but that could change if he does receive sanctions. Chelsea have always maintained the club is not for sale but the Telegraph says Abramovich could be left with no other option. He has previously turned down offers worth £2.2billion. The report claims Chelsea are £1.51bn in debt to their owner. Chelsea head coach Thomas Tuchel was asked about the situation at his pre-match press conference on Tuesday ahead of the FA Cup fifth-round tie at Luton. Thomas Tuchel had pleaded for the media to stop asking him about Roman Abramovich as parliament hears the Chelsea owner is hastily selling his UK properties. A visibly moved Tuchel asked reporters to stop asking him questions about the war in Ukraine, saying the situation is “horrible”. “You have to stop, I am not a politician,” Tuchel said, eventually halting journalists after several questions at his pre-match press conference before Chelsea play Luton in the FA Cup. “I can only repeat myself, and I feel bad to repeat it as I never experienced war. So even to talk about it, I feel bad. “I’m very privileged as I sit here in peace. I do the best I can but you have to stop asking me these questions as I have no answers for you.” The Charity Commission have asked the six trustees of the Chelsea Foundation for information on a range of issues and have confirmed that the Chelsea Foundation has made a ‘serious incident report’ over Roman Abramovich. Labour MP Chris Bryant used Parliamentary Privilege to reveal that Chelsea owner Abramovich is selling his UK home and another flat, telling the House of Commons the Russian billionaire is “terrified of being sanctioned”.