N10.06bn has so far been disbursed for the construction of the N21bn Presidential Wing of the State House Clinic. The Permanent Secretary, State House, Tijanni Umar, revealed this on Tuesday in Abuja when he received the Senate Committee on Federal Character and Intergovernmental Affairs who were on an oversight inspection of the progress of works. The Director of Information, State House, Abiodun Oladunjoye, disclosed this in a statement he signed on Tuesday titled ‘State House Clinic: Senate committee expresses satisfaction at progress of work.’ Giving an overview of the financial status of the project, Umar said the Federal Government has released the sum of N10.06bn to the contractors for the ongoing project since 2021. He added that the N416.6m budgeted for the project in 2020 and N1.06bn in 2021, have already been paid in full. The Permanent Secretary indicated that out of the N20.8billion budgeted for the project in 2022, the federal government has paid N8.5bn. Umar recalled that in line with due process, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) had granted approval to engage Messers Julius Berger Plc to review and develop the concept design and proceed with the construction of the project as a turnkey contract. ”Accordingly, on July 29, 2021, the company was instructed to proceed with the review of the concept design and other site works simultaneously, based on which a roadmap/timeline for the construction of the facility was developed. ”In furtherance to this, the site was handed over to M/s JBN on August 23, 2021, which proceeded to undertake necessary and extensive site survey and other ancillary works paving the way for the groundbreaking and foundation laying that was performed by the Chief of Staff to the President on November 1, 2021. ”It is instructive to note that the schedule of payment plan which is linked with the work plan that was negotiated with the company in line with the advice of the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, outlining milestones at which the client is expected to effect regular periodic payment for work done in order to sustain the momentum of work and to deliver/commission the project by December 31, 2022 is yet to be fully aligned,” he said. On their part, the Senate Committee on Senate Committee on Federal Character and Intergovernmental Affairs, expressed satisfaction at the progress of work on the Presidential Wing of the State House Clinic slated for completion by December 2022. The Chairman of the Committee, Danjuma La’ah, affirmed this during an oversight inspection visit by members of the Committee. According to La’ah, ”For the remarkable steps so far reached on the project site, I am highly impressed,” The Senator commended the contractors, Julius Berger Plc and the management of State House, led by the Permanent Secretary, Tijanni Umar, for complying with the time schedule for the completion of the project. ”We will take it as a point of duty to keep a tab on this project until it is completed,” he said. He recalled that when he assumed the leadership of the Committee, he had pledged that the Senate would ensure that the clinic is properly equipped to provide world-class medical services to principal officers in the Presidential Villa. The regional manager of Julius Berger Nigeria, Oliver Berger, who took the lawmakers through the milestones on the projects so far, assured them that the project which is situated on an area of 2800sqm will be completed on schedule. Members of the Senate Committee who inspected the project include Senators Istifanus Gyang (PDP- Plateau North), Mpigi Barinada (PDP-Rivers South-East), Tofowomo Nicholas (PDP-Ondo South), Nmachi Ama (PDP-Ebonyi South), Gershon Basset (PDP-Cross River South), Bulus Amos (APC-Gombe South), Dimka Ayuba (APC-Plateau Central), Frank Ibezim (APC-Imo North APC) and Halliru Jika (APC-Bauchi Central). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com