A financial technology company, Tingo Mobile Plc, has unveiled a multiple payment financial application for Small and Medium Enterprises and other customers of Deposit Money Banks. Speaking at the virtual unveiling of the platform, the company’s Chief Operating Officer, Alao Ayoade, said the new solution would address delays in bank transactions and provide multiple platforms to perform day-to-day transactions. “The new financial platform, an all-in-one solution aimed at addressing challenges for SMEs, as well as bank customers with smartphones, the Tingo Pay SuperApp, will tackle the challenge of limited payment options for users,” he stated. He noted that the Central Bank of Nigeria’s cashless policy that started in 2007 had seen a lot of improvement with its implementation in different sectors, as various SMEs channelled their businesses to adopt the policy. Ayoade said CBN’s directive in 2021 to Deposit Money Banks to implement higher charges on cash transactions made tech savvy firms take advantage of the order by developing solutions to address its adoption. He said, “Bank customers enjoyed a 43 per cent increase in consumer loans in two years, as banks and Fintechs intensified competition for the lucrative retail lending space through digital lending services. “To further enable loan companies, CBN has enabled DMBs to directly debit customers irrespective of where they have funds, which will reduce the risk on loan companies.” He, therefore, explained that the firm’s new platform would ensure an easy way for SMEs to generate online invoices for customers with various payment methods. “It will also grant ‘Checkout,’ an online integration for web applications and CMS to complete payment on their sites,” Ayoade stated. He added, “It has provision for funds transfer option and also an application to process funds transfer from external applications while providing a dashboard for a detailed reporting system to report inflow, outflow, invoicing and monitor users’ traffic.” He said the Tingo Pay was also expected to provide agency banking, where the solution would provide POS terminals for agents to perform cash-in/cash-out transactions. Ayoade further stated that the new solution would provide soft loans to customers with ease of access and repayment. He explained other functions of the new platform, adding that the app would allow end-users to purchase airtime as well as data from network providers in Nigeria including MTN, Airtel, Glo, 9Mobile, Smile, and Spectranet. “Television subscription within Nigeria for Startimes and Multichoice would also be allowed on the platform as well as generation of token for users from electricity providers in Nigeria,” Ayoade stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com