Confusion has surrounded the death of Confederation of Africa Football’s doping doctor, Dr. Joseph Kabungo. Kabungo, a Zambian medical practitioner, was said to have died shortly after Ghana stopped Nigeria from qualifying for the 2022 World Cup on Tuesday. There are reports that Kabungo died as a result of the stampede that occurred at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja before the commencement of the match. However, another account blamed fans’ invasion of the pitch after the match for the doctor’s death. It was also reported that the doctor suffered a cardiac arrest. Neither officials of the Nigeria Football Federation nor CAF have confirmed the cause of the doctor’s death. This is as efforts to reach the officials proved abortive as of the time of filing this report. British-Nigerian journalist, Osasu Obayiuwana, tweeted that the doctor’s death was confirmed after he was rushed to the hospital. It was learnt that Kabungo’s family, the Zambia FA and the Government of Zambia had been informed. Osasu tweeted, “Sad news: I understand that an official for the
@NGSuperEagles vs @GhanaBlackstars
match (not a referee or assistant referee) died in #Abuja today. “His name is Dr Joseph Kabungo from Zambia. He was on duty as Doping officer. He collapsed suddenly and died. Cause of death not confirmed yet. His family, the Zambia FA and the government of Zambia have been duly informed. “If the death of #Zambian doctor Dr Joseph Kabungo at the #Abuja stadium was caused by being attacked by the #Nigerian fans who invaded the pitch, after the @NGSuperEagles lost the
@FIFAWorldCup ticket to @GhanaBlackstars
, @thenff would be in terrible trouble with @FIFAcom.” A Ghanaian sports journalist, Collins Poku, who was also at the venue of the match, alleged that the doctor was beaten to death. While replying Osasu’s tweet, he posted, “They beat him, he fell and they throded on him. He lost consciousness was rushed to an ambulance closer to the Ghana dressing for CPR. The entire Ghanaian contingent watched on as resuscitation attempts were made with oxygen mask. He was taken to hospital later and now this. Sad.” Meanwhile, a sports expert, Saddick Adams, claimed Kabungo had a cardiac arrest. He tweeted, “A reliable CAF source tells me the death of the CAF Medical officer at the Moshood Abiola stadium last night was NOT related to the crowd violence.” A report sent to the CAF team by the Game Control Department was quoted as reading in part, “Kabungo had a cardiac arrest when walking towards the team dressing rooms and collapsed on the floor. “Both team doctors and other medical personnel administered CPR on him but after a while he was taken to hospital and that’s when the terrible news was confirmed.” The deceased, a former Mufulira Wanderers goalkeeper, also once served as Chongwe and Siavonga District Chief Health Medical Officer. At UNZA his mates fondly called him, “Walter Zenga” after the Italian great goalie. The PUNCH had reported that Nigeria failed to qualify for the 2022 FIFA World Cup finals billed for Qatar after the Super Eagles could only draw 1-1 with the Black Stars of Ghana on Tuesday. The draw in this home leg of the qualifying competition’s playoff round came short of helping Nigeria’s pursuit of a seventh mundial appearance. Both sides had drawn goalless on Friday in the opening leg at the Baba Yara Stadium in Kumasi. The Super Eagles had then needed an outright win at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com