THE House of Representatives has resolved to investigate the planned termination of a public-private partnership deal between the Federal Capital Territory Administration and concessionaires at the Garki General Hospital Abuja, which may lead to the loss of over 900 jobs. At the plenary on Thursday, the House consequently ordered the FCTA to suspend action on the termination of the contract pending completion of its probe into the deal. Members of the House, Messrs Benjamin Mzondu, Yunusa Ahmed, and Kakale Balarabe had moved a motion titled ‘Urgent Need to Save Over 900 Medical Officers from Losing Their Jobs over the Termination of Public-Private Partnership Concession Agreement on Garki General Hospital, Abuja.’ The lawmakers recalled that in 2007, the Federal Government, through the Federal Capital Territory Executive Committee, authorised the concessioning of Garki General Hospital Abuja on a PPP arrangement to a competent private healthcare provider on the basis of a PPP for a period of 15 years. According to the lawmakers, the FCTA, on March 1, 2022, gave the management of the hospital a notice to vacate and hand over the facility by April 1, 2022, following the expiration of the concession agreement and the PPP arrangement with NISA Premier Hospital. Adopting the motion, the House resolved to ask the FCTA to “stay action on the termination of the concession agreement on Garki General Hospital Abuja pending the intervention of the Committees on Privatisation and Commercialisation; and Health Institutions on the matter. Reps want Oyo dam revived for 60MW generation, others Meanwhile, the House of Representatives has urged the Federal Ministry of Water Resources to “resuscitate and ensure full functionality and utilisation” of the Ikere-Gorge Dam in Iseyin Local Government Area of Oyo State. This call followed the unanimous adoption of the motion moved by a member of the House, Shina Peller, at the plenary on Thursday. Moving the motion titled ‘Need to Resuscitate the Ikere Gorge Dam in Iseyin Local Government Area of Oyo State,’ Peller noted that the Federal Government had recorded huge successes in the agricultural sector, which is aimed at diversifying the economy to improve Nigeria’s internally generated revenues, strengthen food security, create more agro-related jobs, enhance national pride and yield more income for farmers.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com