The Lagos State Police Command on Monday disclosed that a dispatch rider, Williams Tadule, got the consent of one Lovina Biturs to take her 10-month-old baby away. According to the police, Tadule and Biturs were neighbours and the baby was fond of the rider. The police, in a statement, added that the rider wanted to go pick up something in the neighbourhood and the baby’s uncontrollably cries won’t let his mother be. “To pacify the baby, his mother allowed him go with the rider,” said police spokesman in Lagos, Adekunle Ajisebutu in the statement, titled, ‘Child Found With Dispatch Rider Not Stolen’. The statement read, “On 11th March, 2022, a video of a dispatch rider accused of concealing a suspected stolen child in a courier box went viral on the social media, causing apprehension. “Although the incident was not reported at any police station, however, the Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, fdc, mnim, psc, directed that the incident should be investigated immediately. “In compliance with the directive, investigation was initiated which led to the discovery of the scene. Upon further investigation, it was discovered that the child was not stolen after all and that he was not kept in the courier box as alleged by the mob. “The child’s mother, Lovina Biturs, was contacted. It was then revealed that the child was actually taken away and put on the dispatch motorbike by the rider with the consent of his mother. “According to the mother, the 10-month-old baby is fond of the rider who is a relative, a neighbour and was crying uncontrollably when he (rider) wanted to go pick up something in the neighbourhood. To pacify the baby, his mother allowed him go with the rider. “Passersby who saw the child with the rider along Sangotedo area, Ajah on the said day, became suspicious and concluded that the child might have been stolen, raised the alarm which attracted a mob. The mob subsequently pounced on the rider, beating him without finding out the truth. “The dispatch rider later identified as Williams Tadule, was said to have been rescued by the Chairman of the Sunview Estate, Sangotedo. “The Commissioner of Police, therefore warns members of the public against any form of jungle justice as such uncivilized action has grave consequences.” The security situation in Lagos has been disturbing in the last few months as residents fall victims to kidnappers, ‘one-chance’ robbers, amongst others. A Bus Rapid Transit passenger, Oluwabamise Ayanwole, was recently brutally murdered by her abductors who later dumped dismembered her body on the Carter Bridge by Ogogoro Community. Bamise got missing while returning to Ota from Ajah on February 26 when she boarded a BRT bus with number 240257 going to Oshodi at about 7pm at Chevron Bus-Stop. The victim, who worked as a fashion designer in Ajah spent her weekends in Ota, Ogun State, with her sister, had sent some voice notes to a friend when she sensed danger on the bus. The friend had escalated the matter and it attracted widespread condemnation with many Nigerians calling on security agents to fish out the perpetrators. A prime suspect, Andrew Nice, who was the driver of the BRT, has been arraigned by the police. Also, masked gunmen kidnapped Air Vice Marshal Sikiru Smith (retd.), in the Ajah area of Lagos in September 2021 but later released him after ransom was paid. Smith is a cousin to a former Inspector-General of Police and current Chairman of the Police Service Commission, Musiliu Smith. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com