There is a heavy presence of security operatives at Eagle Square, the venue of the national convention of the All Progressives Congress. The security operatives were placed at strategic locations around Eagles Square. The operatives combine soldiers, policemen, men of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corp, and other paramilitary operatives from the Federal Road Safety Commission, National Drug Law Enforcement agency and the Nigeria Immigration Service. Our correspondent, who moved round the venue of the convention, observed that police patrol vans, manned by armed policemen, were stationed at strategic locations around the Eagle Square. Also, stop and search had commenced for those who attempted to pass through the road that linked the venue while vehicular movements were restricted and several vehicles were also turned back by security operatives. They include areas such as the Goodluck Ebele Jonathan road by the Court of Appeal; behind the Court of Appeal; ECOWAS by Women Affairs ministry; Finance junction; behind Foreign Affairs ministry; Kur Mohammed by National  Mosque; Benue Plaza; Nitel junction; Phase 3; NNPC Tower; Ceddi Plaza bridge; Gana street by Transcorp hotel; DSS headquarters; Phase 1; NASS Junction; Bullet junction and Bayelsa House. The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, had ordered operatives to ensure effective collaboration with the Nigerian Police Force and other security agencies to ensure hitch-free vehicular movement In a statement by the Corps Public Education Officer, Bisi Kazeem, operatives drafted to cover the national convention were equally mandated to clear obstructions from the roads, carry out rescue operations in case of emergencies, and maintain orderliness around the cordoned areas. To ensure that the Corps plays an effective role to make traffic flow seamless, the Corps Marshal also directed the Deputy Corps Marshal in charge of the Department of Operations to activate the deployment of 1500 personnel of the Corps and 35 Vehicles including tow trucks, bikes, and ambulances to strengthen enforcement of restrictions during the entire process of the convention. He warned the personnel deployed to play active role in the democratic exercise and exhibit the highest sense of professionalism, ingenuity, and avoid any temptation that could lead to abuse of the rights of electorates. While reading out the marching order to the personnel, the Corps Marshal wished the ruling party a peaceful, free and fair convention. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com