The Police in Anambra State have arrested a 27-year-old woman, Ozioma Orakwe, over the alleged murder of a 75-year-old man, Martin Orakwe, from Amatutu village, Agulu Anaocha Local Government Area of Anambra State. The deceased, who was the uncle of the suspect, was said to have been killed and his corpse feigned to look as if he committed suicide. There had been news of a man, who allegedly committed suicide in Agulu Anaocha Local Government Area on Wednesday, with no reason for the action. But the state police spokesperson, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, in a press statement, on Friday, said men of the command were alerted over the development, and findings rather showed that the man was murdered and set up to look like he committed suicide. He said investigation revealed that the deceased died in a fight, and to cover her track, the suspect set him up to look like a case of suicide. Ikenga in the statement said, “The Commissioner of Police CP Echeng Echeng has admonished the public to always seek other means of settling their differences rather than resorting to fight/violence. “The CP gave this counsel while reacting to arrest of one Ozioma Orakwe ‘F’ age 27years on alleged murder of Martin Orakwe ‘M’ age 75years of Amatutu village, Agulu Anaocha LGA. “Against the report received on 2/3/2022 at 3:08pm from one Mr Martin Orakwe of alleged suicide by the deceased, preliminary investigation reveals that the victim had a cut on his head with marks of violence all over his body. “Additional information shows that before the death of the victim, he had a disagreement with the suspect which resulted in a fight.” Ikenga added that the police had recovered the body of the deceased and the suspect had also made useful statements helping in the ongoing investigation. He stated that the case would be charged to court. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com