Rivers State Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, Sydney Gbara, tells DENNIS NAKU that the state Governor, Nyesom Wike, does not deserve to be called names after helping his Edo State counterpart, Godwin Obaseki, to win a second term in office Some are saying your governor, Nyesom Wike, is meddling into the affairs of other states and needs to mind his business as the Rivers State Governor. Do you think nothing is wrong with Wike’s alleged interference in Edo PDP affairs? I wonder why today, they will tag it interference. This was the same Governor Nyesom Wike who was the director general of campaigns for the Peoples Democratic Party in Edo State during the last governorship election. This was the same Governor Wike who led the fight; he sent relief materials from Rivers to Edo State prior to the election. He was in Edo State until the day of the election. It was Governor Wike whose life was on the line when some police officers laid siege to the hotel where he lodged (in Edo State). It took the intervention of Rivers indigenes who raised the alarm and also went to the media before the police left the place. So, it is the same Governor Wike we are talking about. Are we saying that as DG campaigns, he stayed in Port Harcourt while the election that Governor Obaseki contested took place in Edo State? The answer is no. He travelled to Edo State and was there throughout that election to ensure that Governor Obaseki was duly re-elected as governor. Don’t forget the role the Rivers State governor played to ensure that Obaseki got the ticket of the PDP when he defected to enable him to contest that election. Why is the same Governor Wike who has done all of these now being tagged as interfering in the affairs of other states? There is nothing like that. Obaseki said Wike should not pursue his (Wike) presidential ambition in a disruptive manner. Is the Rivers State governor gunning for the presidency? Well, the governor has not declared or said anywhere that he was going to contest for the presidency. So, I don’t know where Governor Obaseki got his information from. Wike said one of his grouses was that the Edo State Deputy Governor, Phillip Shuaibu, threatened the PDP.  Was that enough to justify your governor’s anger? Of course, it is said that to whom much is given, much is expected. Considering the circumstance through which Governor Obaseki and his deputy, Philip Shaibu came into the party, they were welcomed and embraced by party members. Not only that, they were given what they demanded. So, it is only normal and natural that Obaseki and his deputy should realise and appreciate how they won that election and were re-elected into office and act in line with that through means of courtesy. It is not after assuming power, he (Obaseki) decided to sideline the structure that brought him to power in the state. Before they joined the PDP, the party had a structure. So, because they are not working with that structure, that is the reason for the issues. Governor Wike’s position is that let the right thing be done. You cannot come into a house as a tenant and decide to push away the owners of the house. The Edo State governor implied in an advertorial that Wike was carrying on as if the PDP was his (Wike) personal property. What is your reaction to that? That is not true. You know the governor (Wike) had addressed them himself in his comments recently. He has addressed most of these issues and he has equally said if he decides to run for the presidency in 2023, which he hasn’t said he will, that he will run and he will win. He (Wike) told them that they called him a bully today, but he is the same bully they came to meet for help, the same bully that gave him (Obaseki) the governorship ticket of the PDP. The same bully that made him win election and he (Obaseki) brought his wife to come and thank him, the same man in Government House, Port Harcourt, and today, he is tagging him a bully. The Edo State deputy governor once said they (new PDP members) could consider leaving the party if they were not welcomed. Are you not worried that it will be a minus to the PDP if they leave? I can tell you from my standpoint here that the Edo State PDP is a formidable house. If the Edo State PDP was not strong, by the time they (Obaseki and his deputy) joined the party, they couldn’t have won the election. So, it is the same people, the same structure that won the election for them and they are still there intact. I don’t see them being a threat to the strength of the PDP in Edo State. How can the disagreement between Wike and Obaseki be resolved? The PDP is a mature party. The PDP is a united party and the PDP is an organised party. The PDP has leadership and I can tell you on good authority that even as I speak to you today, whatever is the issue must have been resolved. I don’t know what the outcome of the Board of Trustees’ meeting in Abuja is, but I can tell you that in the PDP, we don’t do do-or-die politics. We disagree to agree and we move on. So, what is going on is not an issue at all. It will be resolved in earnest and the two governors will still come together and work for the actualisation of the PDP dream to capture Aso Rock in 2023. Do you think Wike’s description of Obaseki as a serial betrayer was a fair statement against a fellow governor? He (Wike) did not only describe him as such. He equally sent apologies to former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, for not believing the point he (Oshiomhole) was trying to make as at that time, that Obaseki was a betrayer. Governor Wike must have had his reasons for him to brand him as such. You know that the Rivers State governor is a man of truth. He does not hide his feelings and he says it the way it is. Obaseki said Edo State would not accept political bullies and overlords. Has Wike displayed any behaviour that could pass him as a political bully? Like I said, the governor (Wike) has addressed that issue. Governor Wike said Obaseki referred to him as a bully, but he did not brand him a bully when he helped him to win election. The long and short of this story is that Governor Obaseki has never appreciated the efforts of the PDP. We have not seen such swiftness when you are in a party and the party denies you ticket. Then another party graciously dropped their candidate and gave you the ticket. The party also stood by you, fought alongside with you, you got into office and what they got was negative reactions from you. There is nobody that will take it. It is not only Governor Wike that is angry, a lot of people are equally angry. But be that as it may, I think that the PDP, from what we know of the party, always have a way of resolving its issues and I think this matter will equally be resolved. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com