The Senator representing Uyo Senatorial district at the National Assembly and governorship aspirant in the 2023 governorship elections in Akwa Ibom State, Senator Bassey Albert Akpan, on Monday led members of his campaign organisation on a consultative visit to the leadership of the Peoples Democratic party in the state where he officially declared his readiness to contest for the office of governor, come 2023. Addressing an enlarged executive council of the party, the senator urged them to ensure a level-playing field for all aspirants in the contest. He boasted that if a level- playing ground was guaranteed for all aspirants, he would emerge victorious in the race. “I want to assured the party that if the party will remain neutral in coordinating the primaries, and provide a level-playing ground for all aspirants, I will win by a landslide to the glory of God and the state PDP,” he said. He said there was a time when there was a growing concern over the objectivity of the party but that to the glory of God, the leadership eventually arrested the situation. He also debunked claims in a section of the media that he had a problem with Governor Udom Emmanuel, insisting that his love for the governor is unshakeable The Senator recalled that the love he had for Emmanuel made him to step down in 2014 to pave the way for his peaceful emergence as governor, adding that the same love was “repeated in 2019, when I stood by the governor for a second term, after the others defected to the APC.” The aspirant, who used the occasion to highlight his scorecard, said he has sponsored more than 426 students on scholarship, with monthly stipend, adding that about 21 of them have graduated with first class honours. Responding, the state Chairman, Aniekan Akpan, commended the aspirant for effective representation in the senate, describing him as “one of the finest.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com