The first point to make about the gruesome murder of Miss Oluwabamise Ayanwola and the mystery surrounding it is to caution Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu about his responses on this issue. On Tuesday, the governor spoke to the media about comments indicating that some people “are of low minds and have no conscience.” He also said that some people are being “deliberately sensational, posting that the Lagos State Government wanted to cover something, even my person.” While it is wrong for anyone to make presumptuous and outlandish insinuations about the governor and his administration on this heartrending event, there are three things that the governor must understand about this matter. The first is that there could be nothing more justifiably emotional and capable of arousing sensational reactions as the death of someone who represents the best of Nigerians in a public facility. We are going to return to this issue presently. The second thing Sanwo-Olu must realise is that rather than get angry and talk at any citizen, his administration owes the people adequate and prompt explanations for what happened to this young woman and what the government is doing to bring the perpetrators book. The failure to do this as regularly and promptly as expedient would generate speculations, to which the government should not even attempt to disparage anyone. A government elected to serve the people owes the citizenry tireless clarifications and not a war of words with any citizen. That duty is even more so at this time of grief and fear, especially as two versions of statements have emerged from this suspect within a few hours! Being sensational, even alarmist, is entirely human especially as there have been little preliminary information and updates as to what has happened. Every human should understand this. That brings us to the critical point of how governments in Nigeria treat the people. Were this unfortunate incident to have happened in a public facility in some other countries of the world, the government would by now have a public outrage, possibly too difficult to handle on its hands. Why is this so? A public facility should be the safest place for a citizen to be. In the case of public buses, the issues should not just be about providing alternative and cheaper means of transportation but also about ensuring security and safety, giving comfort and setting standards for private operators of similar facilities. When life is therefore lost in the gruesome way Bamise was killed, it sends the undisguised signal that no one is safe in that society. That Lagosians are still writing press statements and not on the streets in their tens of thousands indicates those who lead Nigerians have either succeeded in cowing the people into submission or that citizens have become so accustomed to these needless deaths that they are now numb and can no longer be bothered; everyone is now waiting, helpless for their own day of evil. It is a dreary place for society because whatever happens, the country is the loser. Avoidable loss of lives puts people on edge. The country loses its reputation and the most productive citizens migrate to other parts of the world, where they can at least be sure of some sense of governmental affection. Or what else can one say about a country, which in addition to not being able to provide education, health care, good roads or any necessities, cannot assure them of their security? How do citizens remain loyal to a country where a president, who attained office on the strength of the revolutionary votes of the people, still travels abroad for medical care, seven years on; and chairman of the ruling party, who is also a state governor is in Dubai ostensibly for medical reasons? So, what hope do the people have? Do Nigerian leaders even understand the import of incidents like the murder of this young lady? Recently, all attention has been on Nigerian youths, their penchant for quick wealth and the attendant ruthless ways they go about it. I argue that the growing desperation amongst Nigerians results from; the failure of the country to provide the basic needs of her people, lack of education for all Nigerian children; unemployment amongst the youths; the narcissistic mentality of our elite and the ostentatious display of wealth by leaders of the country. The late Miss Ayanwola here presents the example of your ideal Nigerian youth. Even though we do not know her educational attainment, she was undoubtedly hard-working and ambitious. Multiple testimonies say she was a fashion designer. And these days, when parents do not know what their children, especially girls, are up to, everyone in this young lady’s family could tell her every step. To leave home in Ota, Ogun State, work in Ajah, Lagos State six days of the week and return to her parents’ house should tell that she was diligent and passionate about what she was doing. She also seemed ready to do the best for herself regardless of what government does or does not. On the fateful Saturday, her mission to Ikotun also tells that Bamise was a loving lady. From all accounts, her sole aim was to be with her sister-in-law, who was only hours from becoming a mother. She wanted to be at the lady’s side when the baby came and had even sent a name for the new baby! She was a lovable part of the family, someone over whom everyone, including older siblings, apparently doted. In addition to these, the young lady did everything to be safe and alive today. While the yellow Danfo buses have become death traps, which are in the most unkempt conditions when not harbouring kidnappers and armed robbers, she chose to travel in the Lagos Bus Rapid Transit. If the recently released information about buses without light had been in public hitherto, she probably would have run away from that death conveyor of a bus. Yet, when she realised that things were not normal on this bus, she started relaying messages to family and friends. She made voice notes, made videos and even screamed at some point if the confused testimony of Andrew Nice, the now arrested driver of the bus, is anything to go by. And imagine that point about this bus not being equipped with some surveillance equipment because they were purchased locally. Why is it difficult to insist on this standard even for locally sourced buses? Does this portray us as serious about the wellbeing of our people? The truth is that this young lady did everything to stay alive but Nigeria failed her like it failed most of her people. The other day 84-year-old Prof Obidinma Isaiah Okoli Onyemelukwe was reportedly gunned down in Anambra State. Before then, it was Dr Chike Akunyili and so many other intellectual and productive Nigerians. Yet, Nigeria does nothing to stem this worrisome tide beyond the initial uproar. The country is bleeding and losing some of its best to criminals, while politicians are dragging at each other over who holds what position without caring for the people. Are they planning to govern a ghost society? Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com