An All Progressives Congress’ chairmanship aspirant, Senator Sani Musa, has promised to provide the party with what he called visionary and pacesetting leadership if elected. He said the kind of leadership he will provide would give the party a new direction and philosophy. Musa, who currently represents Niger East Senatorial District in the National Assembly, said this in a statement on Sunday has he intensifies his consultations and strategies ahead of the party’s national convention. Speaking on his programme, Musa said if given the opportunity to lead the APC, he would completely re-engineer the internal structures and workings of the party, stating that the governing party needs total leadership re-orientation for it to actualize its institutional potentials. He said, “The APC needs total leadership reorientation for it to actualise its institutional potentials. I will be adaptive to participatory work style that will usher visionary and pacesetting leadership for the party that will give the party a new direction and philosophy. “The APC must be made an institution, which is the only antidote to reckless abuse of office and ethics which brings about disharmony and wrangling within the various organs of the party viz-a-viz its followers.” He added, “We need to reorganise the party in such a manner that it is able to effectively mobilise all segments of the country from youths to women groups to meet up with the INEC timetable timelines for 2023 elections. “And thirdly, we must redirect our efforts towards winning elections and nation building and not wrangling. Most importantly, we shall govern by the rule of law; abide by the party constitution, guidelines, manifesto and in line with the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria.” Musa promised to run an inclusive leadership, adding that under his watch, the party be self-funding and not rely on individuals that will later want to be dictating the tunes, which will create wrangling and disharmony in the party.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com