The Katsina State Police Command confirmed on Wednesday that its operatives, made up of mainly mobile police, on Tuesday evening repelled a terrorist attack at Mararabar-Kankara community, Kankara Local Government Area of the state. The Command said its operatives received a distressed call around 5pm on Tuesday that terrorists, in large numbers, were in the community and had, among others, rustled a large number of domestic animals. The spokesman for the Command, SP Gambo Isah, who confirmed the development, said its Mobile Police operatives were subsequently mobilised to confront the terrorists and repel them. The police Area Commander for Dutsin-ma was also said to have led a reinforcement team to ward off the terrorists. Isah added that although no death was recorded during the encounter, a man believed to have been initially abducted by the terrorists was rescued by the police team. The spokesman also said that the police team was able to recover all the rustled animals from the terrorists. Isah said, “Our operatives were able to repel the terrorists who were over one hundred in number and who divided themselves into two groups during the attack. They were seriously engaged. We repelled them, rescued a victim and recovered all the rustled animals. No death was recorded.” The residents, however, gave a contrary account of the incident. The residents claimed that the terrorists attacked at least five communities including Gidan Dankunda, Kungiya, Gidan Kurty, Centan Dangera, and Gidan Malumfashi, all in the council. The residents further claimed that the attack was carried out by some Fulani herdsmen from the forest who were on a reprisal mission over the recent rustling of their domestic animals by some fellow Fulani herdsmen residing in the town. The residents alleged that at least five people were killed in the incident. One of the residents who pleaded anonymity revealed, “The terrorists came in their numbers, armed with sophisticated weapons, with three persons each riding on one motorcycle. “They gathered together at Gidan Dankunda where they moved from community to community, killing and maiming people. “The five bodies we have discovered so far are non-herders. Right now, we don’t know the actual number of people that have been killed, but they are many. “People are still discovering bodies in the affected communities; we will get to know the figures later in the day.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com