Gunmen, on Sunday, morning attacked the Omuma Divisional Police Headquarters in the Oru East Local Government Area of Imo state. Omuma is the home town of the governor of the state, Hope Uzodinma. The attack came just 24 hours after yet-to-be identified gunmen attacked Umuguma Divisional Police Headquarters situated in the Owerri West LGA of the state, killing two police constabularies on duty, burning vehicles and freeing suspects in cells. Same night, gunmen also attacked the country home of the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof George Obiozor, at Awo-Omanma in the Oru East LGA. Our correspondent gathered that the attackers engaged policemen in a gun duel on arrival at the Omuma Divisional Police Headquarters. This is not the first time gunmen were attacking the Omuma Divisional Police Headquarters. Gunmen had in 2021 attacked the Omuma Divisional Police Headquarters, killing the Divisional Police Officer and four other policemen on duty. Confirming the latest attack, the police spokesperson for the command, Micheal Abattam, said that four of the attackers were killed as policemen and the operatives of the Department of Security Service engaged the gunme in a gun battle. Abattam, a Chief Superintendent of Police said, “Sequel to the modified and invigorated strategies emplaced by the Command under the watch of the indefatigable Commissioner of Police, Imo State Command, CP Rabiu Hussaini psc, to forestall all criminals activities within the state, especially attacks on police station, on the March 20, 2022, at about 0300 hours, Hoodlums suspected to be members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra/Eastern Security Network terrorist group came in large numbers with various calibres of Improvised Explosive Devices to Omuma police station shooting sporadically, but were swiftly repelled by the ever gallant and combat-ready Imo Police Command’s tactical teams and operatives of the DSS who responded immediately, positioning themselves professionally and strategically. “The Police operatives engaged the hoodlums in fierce gun duel and in the process four of the bandits were neutralised on the spot, while other scampered into the bush having suffered a huge defeat, with a number of them sustaining various degrees of bullet wounds. There was no casualty on the side of the joint security operatives. “On the spot, five undetonated different capacities of Improvised Explosives Devices were recovered from the neutralised bandits, and charms. The Police Bomb Unit have taken custody of the bombs for detonation. “Meanwhile, the Command’s Tactical Teams are conducting a vigorous and aggressive combing of the bush to arrest the fleeing hoodlums and to recover their arms/ammunition since they cannot go far because of the huge damage done to them. “The Commissioner of Police, CP Rabiu Hussaini psc, while commending the officers and men for their gallantry, urged them not to relent in their efforts until all criminal elements and their partners are apprehended and made to face the full wrath of the law. “He then appealed to Imolites for the continuous support and collaboration by giving security agencies especially the Police, credible and timely information and to report any person seen treating bullet wounds or hiding within the community to the nearest police station for prompt action.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com