The Managing Director, Bridge Nigeria, Foyinsola Akinjayeju, has advised Nigerians to invest in the educational needs of children, as it is the best means of impacting lives. Akinjayeju said this at the scholarship signing ceremony between The Special Foundation and  Bridge Nigeria. A statement by Bridge Nigeria said The Special Foundation collaborated with the Bridge Nigeria to provide full scholarships to children from economically disadvantaged communities. “If there is anybody or organisation seeking to make a real impact, there is no better place to invest than in the lives of children who are the future of any nation. “At Bridge, we believe that a child’s potential should not be limited by his or her socio-economic status, hence our support for low-income families through the access we provide to life-changing education and by collaborating with credible individuals and organisations like The Special Foundation to offer scholarship opportunities to indigent pupils.” Akinjayeju said. Founder, The Special Foundation, Seyi Akinwale, disclosed that the decision to set up the foundation was informed by the need to provide a platform to improve the quality of leadership in Africa, through improved access to education for less privileged children. According to Akinwale, “The Inspire Scholarship is targeted at orphaned and vulnerable children in disadvantaged communities. We provide tuition, including the cost of books and other materials to children in primary and secondary schools. Bridge Nigeria is one of our partner organisations for our education intervention programs”. “We decided to partner with Bridge because their mission of providing quality education to children of low-income families aligns closely with our goal. “We intend broadening the partnership with the Bridge and furthering the impact of their work, while ensuring the sustainability of same.” The parents of five-year-old Chidera and her three-year-old, Prudence, Mr & Mrs Victoria Stanley, who are both visually impaired said the scholarship was a huge relief for their family. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com