Several persons were injured after an annual festival known as the Resettlement Day turned violent in Plateau State on Saturday. It was learnt that among those who sustained injuries was the Chairman of the Lantang South Local Government Area of the state, Vincent Venman. The incident, it was gathered, happened in the Sabon Gida community in the council area. In one of the viral videos of the incident, supporters of rival groups were seen throwing tables and chairs at each other, while others hauled stones. Eyewitnesses said trouble started when the Master of Ceremonies invited a popular chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party and embattled Chairman of the Lantang North Local Government Area, Joshua Ubandoma, to take his seat at the high table and address the gathering. The development did not go down well with his counterpart from the Langtang South, who is also the leader of the All Progressives Congress in the local government area, Venman, who was alleged to have stood up and attacked Ubandoma. An eyewitness stated, “It was on Saturday that The Resettlement Day was held in the Sabon Gida community. The occasion was peaceful until the attack on Ubandoma. The APC leader actually slapped the PDP leader. We know that the two persons involved belong to rival political parties, but they shouldn’t have allowed their rivalry to degenerate to this level. “The action of Venman disrupted the ceremony and led to a free-for-all among the supporters of the two politicians, thus raising tension in the community. “The stampede that ensued led to many people sustaining injuries. “As I speak to you, so many people are injured and among them is the Chairman of the Langtang South LGA, Vincent Venman. He is currently receiving treatment at home, while those who came to the rescue of Ubandoma, smuggled him out of the venue.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Ubah Ogaba, said the command was aware of the incident. He, however, said the situation had been brought under control. “The incident in Lantang South has been brought under control. Our men were deployed in the area and the people are going about their normal business,” Ogaba added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com