The United States of America has designated four Islamic State of Iraq and Syria and ISIS-Mozambique financial facilitators in South Africa. The facilitators are Farhad Hoomer, Siraaj Miller, Abdella Abadigga, and Peter Mbaga. They were accused of facilitating funding for ISIS branches and networks across Africa, including the Islamic State for West Africa Province, perpetrating evil in Northern part of Nigeria. These were contained in a statement on Wednesday by the spokesperson of the US Department of Treasury, Ned Price. Price quoted the Department’s Secretary, Brain Nelson, as saying the designation was in pursuant to Executive Order 13224, as amended, which targets terrorist groups and their supporters, among others. He said the US was working with its African partners to dismantle ISIS financial support networks on the continent. The statement was titled, “Designation of ISIS organisers and financial facilitators based in South Africa.” It read, “Today, the United States designated four ISIS and ISIS-Mozambique financial facilitators in South Africa. Farhad Hoomer, Siraaj Miller, Abdella Abadigga, and Peter Mbaga are being designated pursuant to E.O. 13224, as amended, which targets terrorist groups and their supporters, among others.” “ISIS members and associates in South Africa are playing a role in facilitating the transfer of funds from the top of the ISIS hierarchy to branches across Africa. “We are taking today’s action to further disrupt and expose key ISIS and ISIS-M supporters who raise revenue for ISIS and exploit South Africa’s financial system to facilitate funding for ISIS branches and networks across Africa. “All property and interests in property of the individuals named above, and of any entities that are owned, directly or indirectly, 50 per cent or more by them, individually, or with other blocked persons, that are in the United States or in the possession or control of US persons, must be blocked and reported to OFAC. Unless authorised by a general or specific license issued by OFAC or otherwise exempt, OFAC’s regulations generally prohibit all transactions by US.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com