A former Governor of Lagos State and national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has said he is the most qualified aspirant to become the next President of Nigeria. Tinubu also took a swipe at other presidential aspirants on the platform of the APC, who he said, have at one time or the other defected from one political party to the other, while he has remained consistent in rebuilding the parties he belonged. Tinubu met with members of the APC caucuses in the Senate and the House of Representatives at the National Assembly Complex in Abuja on Wednesday. Tinubu said, “I have discussed this aspect; my lifelong ambition with Mr President, Muhammadu Buhari, that after the end of his term, I want to step in his shoe and not step on his toes. “He joyfully and enthusiastically responded to me and said, ‘Well, come out, let’s see you run and we will see how best you can promote your democratic credentials.’ I love that. “I love the opportunity today to come and consult with you: if you want to call it consultation or any other name because of the Electoral Act and INEC.” Tinubu also noted that he has been consistent in his political careers. He said, “I am not here to be defensive; I am here with humility to say that I am one of the best products that you can sell. No other one in the race, hiding or open. I am the only one in the race, hiding or open,that is most competent, most qualified to be your President, come Year 2023. “First of all, I am the only one who has been through the tutelage, the turns and bends of the National Assembly. Where is that other person? None! I am the only one among them who has been consistently in one party to the other, building bridges. They are full of divorcees; they are not stable; some of them are rolling stones. “I have been through the National Assembly. I have been in the corporate world with a background in public sector accounts, finance and development. Where will they start from?” Recalling his performance as Lagos State governor, the APC leader noted that he “inherited one of the first bad-managed states of this country,” which was then referred to as the third dirtiest and messed up city in Africa. “I can look back now today; I am proud standing before you representing that state which is now a mega city with national budgets higher than triple (some) countries of West Africa,” he said. Majority Leader of the House, Alhassan Ado-Doguwa, who is the leader of the APC caucus, told the lawmakers that it was time for them to repay Tinubu for the benefits they had enjoyed from him politically. Ado-Doguwa then moved the motion for Tinubu’s endorsement for President and it was unanimously adopted by members of the caucus. Earlier in his welcome address, Gbajabiamila described the visit and the meeting as an “epic moment.” This is just as the Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Wase, noted that it was the first time that Tinubu or a presidential aspirant would be meeting with lawmakers since he joined the National Assembly in 2007. Tinubu, in response to some issues raised by Wase concerning the crisis in the APC, said the ruling party is “doing well.” Meanwhile, some members of the House in opposition parties were sighted at the meeting. They include Lynda Ikpeazu (Anambra State) of the Peoples Democratic Party and Leke Abejide (Kogi State) of the African Democratic Congress.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com