Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, a member of Standard Bank Group, has said it is committed to developing leadership skills and supporting youths to achieve their goals. The Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, Dr. Demola Sogunle, said this during its annual Youth Leadership Series in Lagos with the theme ‘Becoming’, which was organised to upskill and empower young Nigerians to become future business leaders. He said, “We are pleased that the 2022 edition of the YLS engaged young Nigerians, and thereby set them on the path to self-discovery. This occasion marked the fifth year of our YLS series, and we are proud to have chosen to inspire youths to be the best versions of themselves and encourage them to achieve their goals and aspirations. “At Stanbic IBTC, we recognise the youths are the leaders of tomorrow, and we are conversant with their needs. We thus created this platform to sensitise youths to imbibe a solution-oriented mindset. Not only to position them to think outside the box, but also help them proffer solutions that will enhance the economy.” At the event which attracted youths across Nigeria, Sogunle said that that one of the financial institution’s core mandates remained the creation of opportunities for the youths, who are the leaders of tomorrow. As an organisation that leveraged new digital technologies to ensure seamless banking, he said the firm introduced its AI robot called Pepper to participants. He said the robot displayed at the event further reiterated its innovation and readiness to serve its customers and clients. The statement said the 2022 edition of the YLS had two engaging panel sessions which are ‘building achievement through consistency and perseverance’, and ‘life planning in an unconventional career’. Professional and illustrious individuals drove discussions that touched various sectors at the high-impact sessions. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com