The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has disclosed that the proposed agro-cargo airport being constructed by his administration in the state will be ready for use by November this year. The governor made this known during the All Progressive Congress meeting for the Ogun-East Senatorial District held in Ijebu-Ode, on Thursday. The governor said the construction of the  airport,  which commenced in March, 2022, would probably become the fastest constructed airport on the continent. According to him, the project when completed will provide no fewer than 25,000 jobs for the people of the state He said “The impact of the agro cargo airport will bring positive effects on hotels and warehouses being constructed in the area. The Nigeria Customs Service and the Nigerian Air Force are coming there. “We estimate that in the first eighteen months, we will create a minimum of 25,000 jobs in that airport, this is not a power point airport.” On electoral issues, Abiodun noted that his administration had come up with a committee that would handle issues bordering on logistics in each local government in the state in order to make it easier for the people to register He added that the Independent National Electoral Commission had assured his administration of their support when needed He said, “It is important that our people are duly registered to vote, we have spoken with the Independent National Electoral Commission to take their machines to our wards, but they said it is not yet time.” In his remarks, the Chairman of the Governor’s Advisory Council, Dapo Okuboyejo, commended  Abiodun for embarking on the total turnaround of the senatorial district through the various infrastructural development. He called on the governor to address the infrastructural decadence in some of the Government Reserved Areas in the state. Also, a former deputy governor of the state, Segun Adesegun, acknowledged the governor for not relenting in his efforts to make the senatorial district and the state as a whole better than he met it. Adesegun called on the party faithful and the people to continue to support the current administration. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com