The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has joined the world to mourn the passage of the United States’ first female Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright. In a statement released in Abuja on Thursday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, the President condoled with the US President, Joe Biden, and the Albright family over the passage of Madeleine. Buhari equally condoled with the global diplomatic community, adding that he had pleasant memories of meeting with the international diplomat at Washington in 2015. He described Albright as a warm and savvy woman who excelled in a turf hitherto considered the exclusive preserve of men.
Buhari said, “She helped shape and steer Western foreign policy after the Cold War. She will be sorely missed. He praised the deeds of the woman who first served as the US Ambassador to the United Nations under President Bill Clinton and later as Secretary of State. “It is to her eternal credit that she championed human rights and democracy round the world,” he said. The President noted that the deceased was able to raise funds for democratic presidential hopefuls. He added that Albright also co-chaired the Independent Global Commission on Justice, Security, and Governance, along with Professor Ibrahim Gambari of Nigeria, which was called the Albright-Gambari Independent Commission. The President also recalled that the late Secretary was the convener of the Aspen Ministerial Forum of former Foreign Ministers drawn from all over the world. He lauded the mentoring that Albright gave younger diplomats, most of who are now at the peak of their careers. He concluded by praying that her soul would rest in peace, “even as America and the world continue to relish her services to humanity.’’ The PUNCH reported that Albright died on Wednesday, March 23, 2022, as a result of cancer. This was according to the statement released by her family and posted to her official Twitter page. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com