The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has said 1,837,011 candidates have been registered for the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. The board, which disclosed this in its weekly bulletin on Monday, said the figure included Direct Entry candidates. Registration commenced for the 2022 UTME on February 19 and ended on March 26. The examinations are scheduled to hold from May 6 to May 16. JAMB also disclosed that the cumulative sum of N238,105,700 derived from the regulated N700 service charge from the fifth week of registration had been remitted to its accredited computer-based test centres. The board had earlier banned the use of cash in all its accredited CBT centres during the exercise. It directed all candidates to pay the service charge to the e-PIN vendors along with the N3,500 application fee, which it remitted to the centres on a weekly basis proportional to the number of candidates they registered. The board, however, said payment of the accumulated sum to all centres excluded JAMB-owned CBT centres. Meanwhile, the board has appealed to the CBT test centre operators over the recent hike in the price of diesel. The Registrar, JAMB, Prof Is-haq Oloyede, stated that the board was engaged in consultations with relevant agencies of government on the necessary assistance to be rendered to owners of the CBT centres. The bulletin stated, “The board is in consultation with relevant agencies of government on providing appropriate remedies as part of its strategies for a holistic solution to the problem. He reiterated the desire of the board to offer critical support to its service partners at every point of its operational processes. “According to the registrar, this assurance was necessary in view of the heavy reliance on diesel-powered generators to administer the board’s examination. “Hence, he declared that the board would always go the extra mile to render support to its critical partners such that no service provider would have any excuse for failure. “Consequently, the registrar expressed the desire of the board to, among other measures, offer necessary palliatives to the CBT centres within approved government limits. He, therefore, appealed to the CBT centre owners to give the board a little more time to get the necessary approvals that would go a long way in ameliorating their plight.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com