The Managing Director, Okomu Oil Palm Company Plc, Graham Hefer, has says the company paid N20m last year under its whistle-blowing policy in order to improve intelligence gathering and harmonious relationship with host communities. Hefer, who disclosed this at a lecture on Wednesday at he  South-West Local Government, Edo State, said the company was able to get 50 per cent conviction, ranging from six months to six years, for the over 100 cases of stealing in 2021. Hefer said the lecture, which came on the heels of recent attacks on the company that led to the death of one of its workers, was to build a better and more cordial relationship with the 24 communities around Okomu plantation. He said it was high time the communities started looking after the company which, according to him, was doing so much to better the lot of its people. Hefer said, “Last year, we paid N20m under our whistle-blowing policy because it helps in intelligence gathering and we were able to apprehend 100 criminals with 50 of them getting various jail terms. “We protect those who give us the information and we hope they will continue to partner us to ensure security is guaranteed in the area. “If my company gets attacked, my staff gets killed, my equipment get destroyed, the products stolen and the communities keep quiet or look the other way, how would I be able to do things for you if I continue to lose revenue? Hefer added, “I have 24 communities around Okomu and no one has been able to point out any of the hoodlums who attacked the company recently. “It is either the communities are backing the hoodlums or do not want Okomu’s continuous existence. If you don’t help us secure the plantation, do you as communities have the moral right to ask the company to do more for you?” Some of the participants acknowledged the enormity of the task ahead and promised to work with Okomu to improve the security of the area.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com