The Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Farouk Yahaya, says the nation’s population growth has partly contributed to the insurgency in the country, despite creating a larger talent pool for economic activities. Similarly, the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Oladayo Amao, has said illegal oil refining in the Niger Delta region is a rising threat. The nation had been grappling with Boko Haram insurgency in the North-East and terrorism, which began as banditry, in the North-West, in addition to other crimes like kidnapping in different parts of the country. Speaking at an interactive session with editors on Friday, Yahaya said he shared in the pain of those who had lost family members and friends to the activities of criminals and terrorists and that he also felt the heartbeat of those rescued. He said the Army remained committed to ensuring that every Nigerian was safe from internal and external aggression, noting that synergy among the Armed Forces had never been better. When asked the biggest obstacles to ending the terrorism, Yahaya said, “One thing that most stakeholders agree on is that the high rate of population growth has been a double-edged sword. Ordinarily, higher population means there is a larger talent pool for economic growth activities, but this larger talent pool has also led to a significant growth in the number of those who are being lured to use their energies negatively.” He asked Nigerians to be wary of fake news and publicising terrorists’ activities so as not to encourage them. While commending the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for the tough choices and decisions he had made in tackling insecurity, Yahaya added, “However, national security and defense should not be the responsibility of only the military.” Meanwhile, the NAF chief said the Air Aforce would continue to maximise the air advantage it has over the terrorists, noting that NAF was providing support across the country. When asked about the precision of the Super Tucano jets, Amao said the jets had made significant impact in deploying canons and bombs, adding that the jets would soon be optimised for night operations. On the situation in the Niger Delta, he said there were more than 3,000 creeks in the Niger Delta. “Illegal crude oil refining is a rising threat. What is required goes beyond a security only solution. Stakeholders have to dialogue, negotiate and design innovative means that leads to a Win-Win solution. “We believe that there should be more political will followed by action. There is a growing gap in exemplary leadership in some of the local government areas. Some leaders have been accused of sponsoring illegal crude oil refining sites.” He pointed out that some leaders in the region trying to please everybody had created more problems than solutions. He also noted that development of modular refineries should be explored in partnership with the Nigerian National Petroleum Company and communities. On the recurring attacks despite reports that insurgents were surrendering to the government, Amao said 36,000 had so far surrendered but that “bandits and terrorists recruit quickly. As we take them out, they recruit. We are now taking them out faster than they are recruiting.” Meanwhile, the Theatre Commander of Operation Operation Hadin Kai, Maj.-Gen. Christopher Musa, has charged troops to flush out remnants of the Boko Haram terrorists to end the insurgency in the North-East. Speaking on Saturday while addressing troops of the 5 Brigade, Nigerian Army in Damasak, a neighbouring town to Niger Republic, which is the headquarters of Mobbar Local Government Area of Borno State, Musa promised special promotion for gallant soldiers and those who distinguished themselves in the fight against the insurgents hibernating in the area. “Your deployment to serve in the North-East is a privilege that places you ahead of your colleagues outside the region,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com