“Optometry is a health care profession that is autonomous, educated and regulated (licensed/registered), and Optometrists are the primary health care professionals of the eyes and visual system who provide comprehensive eye and vision care, which includes refraction and dispensing, detection/diagnosis and management of diseases in the eye, and the rehabilitation of conditions of the visual system” — World Council of Optometry World Optometry Day is celebrated on March 23 of every year and it is a day set aside to celebrate every optometrist and eye care professional worldwide. The day was started in 1986 by the International  Optometric and Optical League to celebrate the growing profession of Optometry in the world. Currently, Optometry is practised at different levels in the world, with some countries still not having the profession. The rapid growth in Optometry is commendable as it addresses a huge growing need. Optometry offers professionals who understand optics, ophthalmic, optics, eye anatomy and physiology and all the diseases and conditions that affect the eye. In the early and middle 20th century, optometrists perfectly performed the art of refraction and concentrated on prescribing the proper spectacles, tailored-made for each patient based on their specific optical and binocular vision needs. By the mid to late 20th century, it was clear that optometrists could, and would, learn not only to refract and prescribe but to evaluate for all types of ophthalmic diseases, many of which could be treated without surgery. Furthermore, optometrists in the 1970s, in a few countries, earned the training to use diagnostic medications to evaluate the eyes. In the 1980s and 90s, some of us earned the legislative backing (LFN, CAP 09 refers) to treat eye diseases with topical and oral medications. Thus optometrists became the primary eye care practitioners and the profession spread around the world with this idea in mind. The success of Optometry in many parts of the world can be attributed to high standards of educational training and licensing to build public trust. In Nigeria, where I practise, we are much more numerous than any other eye care professionals and better spread from the rural areas to urban settings across all spheres of human settlements. Optometrists are more accessible, affordable, patient-friendly with good interaction and communication prowess, which enable us to clerk, take good history and get useful information on the medical and ophthalmic history of the patient, use scientific methods to apply optometric and medical knowledge, and then recommend treatment or professional referral to other medical/health experts as needed. We professionally apply our acquired knowledge to prevent eye diseases and injuries. However, due to technological growth, our scope of practice has also evolved and is still evolving. According to an international colleague of great repute, Dr J Daniel Twelker, who is the President of Volunteer Optometric Services for Humanity, optometrists in many countries are working hard to ensure proper recognition and to get optometric training/education, and practice to international best standards. He further said that the power of collaboration and researching/learning together is why our education initiative seeks to maximise opportunities to support the development of optometric education across the world. Therefore, there is still a long way to go to improve public awareness about the importance of good eye health, prevention of visual impairments/blindness and the role of each of the eye care professionals—optometrists, ophthalmologists, ophthalmic nurses, opticians, ophthalmic assistants and workers. Looking at the Nigeria context, Optometry has grown in education and scope with over 15  universities offering it as a healthcare course of study leading to the award of Doctor of Optometry. The profession is regulated by the Optometrists and Dispensing Opticians  Registration Board of Nigeria and the scope includes eye examination to determine refractive errors and other departures from optimally healthy and visually efficient eyes; correction of refractive errors using spectacles and contact lenses; correction of errors of binocularity by orthoptics; management of eye infections that do not pose a threat to the integrity of the visual system, and ocular first aid. Also, the speciality areas include Primary Health Care Optometry; Paediatric Optometry; Cornea and Contact Lenses; Orthoptics; Low Vision and Rehabilitative Optometry; Ocular Health, and Public Health. Doctors of Optometry can pursue careers in eye clinics and hospitals (private and public); lecture at the university; be engaged as research fellows in research institutions; work with the Medical Corps of Armed Forces, police, immigration, customs, Federal Road Safety Corps, etc;  consultants to companies, ministries and parastatals; sports and environment vision consultants, and public health practitioners. In conclusion, the public health of the people is now increasingly challenged so much with vision impairment and avoidable blindness confronting the world. We must support optometry as an independent primary health care profession, well educated and licensed professionals that can deliver more efficient, accessible and equitable care to our communities. Happy World Optometry Day to everyone in the World, Africa, and most especially Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com