In a bid to strengthen his legal team, the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, has hired a new lawyer, Chukwuma Machukwu Umeh (SAN). One of Kanu’s lawyers, Aloy Ejimakor, on Monday evening, announced the latest development. He had on January 18, Kanu’s lawyer, unveiled Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN) as the leader of the defence counsel for Nnamdi Kanu. The IPOB leader is standing trial before Justice Binta Nyako over charges bordering on alleged terrorism and treasonable felony filed against him by the Federal Government of Nigeria. “Just exited from a groundbreaking visitation with Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. It was groundbreaking because we covered many new grounds, including the addition of Chukwuma Machukwu Umeh(SAN) to the Legal Team. Onyendu sends his love and felicitation to all his true followers,” he posted. Kanu, on Monday, expressed optimism that his “freedom is near”. He also commended his followers for always exploring peaceful measures in the expression of their solidarity. Kanu’s lawyer and human rights activist, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, in a statement issued after the visit of his legal team, said his client was sure of freedom soonest. He said, “Today, March 14 2022, we visited our amiable client – Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu at the headquarters of the DSS Abuja. We had frank and fruitful discussions, which dwelt predominantly on prospects of his forthcoming case, and other strategic legal measures to be adopted upon the delivery of the ruling. “Onyendu also expressed his implicit confidence in our indefatigable legal team led by the erudite and distinguished learned silk, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN). “Also prominent is our untiring efforts to ensure that orders of the court are henceforth obeyed to the letter by the DSS. “Onyendu is firm and unshaken in his convictions and consequently, encourages millions of his followers to follow suit. Onyendu recognises the Ezigbo Umuchineke who have remained extraordinary, firm and resolute in their resolve. “He is indeed very proud of you all, as you continue to show the world what the exemplary peaceful expression of one’s inalienable rights to self-determination represents. “Onyendu seized the opportunity offered by the visit to remind UmuChineke that his freedom is near, and implored you all not to lose focus or be distracted by dissidents, who do not mean well for his peaceful movement. “Furthermore, Onyendu commended the peaceful efforts of his indefatigable team who are steering the ship in his absence, in carrying on within the best international practices and conventions. “Onyendu applauded his followers for always exploring peaceful measures in the expression of their peaceful solidarity, he is indeed, very grateful. “We thank you all Umuchineke for your steadfast trust, love, confidence and belief in the ability of our legal team to frontally face the task ahead to ensure that Onyendu is unconditionally released. “Be assured once again that God being our helper, it will definitely come to pass, Umuchineke. May we also use this medium to reassure Umuchineke that we are equally not resting on our oars to ensure that everyone who is arrested and illegally detained by the various Nigerian security agencies is released. “In doing this, we are invoking all the instrumentality of the judicial process to ensure that they get Justice. We are indeed, very proud of you all, Umuchineke, and may you all remain hugely blessed.
It will surely end in praises Amen.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com