The Lagos State Government has urged the people of the State, especially the residents of Lekki and Ikoyi, to show understanding over the proposed reopening of the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge Toll Plaza by the Lekki Concession Company Limited. The appeal was made by Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotosho, and his counterparts in Transport, as well as Home Affairs, Dr. Fredericks Oladehinde, and Prince Anofi Elegushi respectively, during a stakeholders’ meeting held on Wednesday at the Lekki Coliseum in Lekki Phase 1, Lagos. They assured the residents of Lagos that the government would look into all the requests and recommendations made by the stakeholders and would respond adequately. The stakeholders’ meeting was held to engage key residents on the plan of LCC to reopen the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge Toll Plaza, and it was attended by key stakeholders which included, the President of Lekki Estates Residents and Stakeholders Association, Olorogun James Emadoye; human rights activists, pressmen, residents among others. Responding to the key stakeholders who expressed their views about the LCC decision to reopen the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge Toll Plaza in April, Omotoso lauded the speakers and implored them to show some understanding with the Lagos State Government. In his words, “We are here to seek your understanding as a government about the matter at hand. We are also citizens of Nigeria. We are all Lagosians. I have listened to all of you talking about our rights, privileges, and how government should be responsible for everything. I also feel that as citizens, we should have some responsibilities. “Lagos is a city of about 25 million people and out of the 25 million people, there are about six million taxpayers, and among six million taxpayers, only 4.2 million are active taxpayers. So, let us reflect on all these things. I know how people feel and I understand what has been said but I believe that the matter at hand is about seeking your understanding. It is a matter of showing some compassion for people who have one thing or another to do with this company.” He also appealed to the people not to be shortsighted, that the decision of the government was not to punish people but to create an enabling environment for more jobs through private sector participation. “What Lagos State is trying to do is to create an enabling environment to create more jobs and when you create more jobs. We should not be shortsighted. The only way to create jobs is to create an environment where we can attract the private sector to build more infrastructure in the state. Let us look at the issue from the view that we are trying to resuscitate the economy of Lagos State,” Dr. Oladehinde said. The Commissioner for Home Affairs, Prince Anofi Elegushi, who also spoke, said that the purpose of the stakeholders’ meeting was to engage the key stakeholders on the matter of reopening the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge Toll Plaza. He appealed for cooperation from the people, saying “we must all work together.” The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the LCC, Mr. Yomi Omomuwasan, said that the resumption of operations was necessary for the company not to default on its payment of local and international loans, as well as to cater for the welfare of its workers. He said LCC had also introduced new technology and innovations to make movement at the Toll Plaza seamless and faster for commuters. Some of the speakers who spoke earlier had expressed their views about the plan to reopen the toll plaza, pleading to the State Government to halt the process for now. They based their plea on the harsh economic situation in the country, adding that the tolling would aggravate the situation.
However, in his response, Omotoso appealed to the residents to consider the number of Lagosians, whose sources of livelihood depended on the Tollgate. The LCC, however, stated that tolling would kick off officially on April 1, adding that motorists would be given two-week free access at the toll plaza. Omomuwasan said that payments for access would start on the 14th of April, 2022. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com