The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has disclosed that his administration is driven by the “simple desire” of making Lagos a better place for all and sundry. Sanwo-Olu stated this when he paid a working visit to Eti-Osa East Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of Lagos state on Wednesday. A statement by his spokesman, Gboyega Akosile, titled, ‘Sanwo-Olu: Infrastructure delivery in Eti-Osa, a top priority in our plan’, said Sanwo-Olu inaugurated the newly constructed Sangotedo market built by the LCDA during the visit. The governor, who described Eti-Osa area as “an important economic corridor” of Lagos, said his visit was to personally take stock of the ongoing government’s development projects and to get undiluted feedback from the residents on the interventions. Sanwo-Olu said he was elated with development activities initiated by all the four local councils making up Eti-Osa, which, the governor said, are supportive of the state’s interventions. As the closest tier of government to the people, the Governor observed that the councils had prudently managed their resources, which enabled them to drive development from the grassroots. He said: “As elected officials, we embrace every opportunity to visit and engage with our people to give account of our stewardship of the resources entrusted to our care. “We consider visits like this an opportunity to see first-hand how well the various local governments, the closest tier of government to the people, are implementing our collective governance agenda, using our Government’s development blueprint known as THEMES agenda. “Our administration is driven by the simple desire to deliver the dividends of democracy in every sector and in every neighborhood to ensure that no one is left behind. “And we certainly have made sure that Eti-Osa is not left behind, given the wave of infrastructural development we have initiated in this important economic corridor of our State. “We have completed numerous road reconstruction projects and getting other infrastructure projects done to give our people a new lease of life.” Furthermore, the governor promised to accelerate construction activities on the ongoing projects in the area, while appealing to residents to bear the pain of the road construction in the Eti-Osa corridor with patience. He said: “Tangible benefits being delivered consistently and create new socio-economic opportunities for the people. “This is what good governance is all about. We will not relent in this regard. Three years on, we have been able to make it abundantly clear that power is to be wielded in service of the people. I am pleased that our local councils are as committed as the State Government.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com