Ghana’s Ministry of Youth and Sports says fans that will be in attendance to watch the Qatar 2022 World Cup qualifier between Ghana and Nigeria at the Cape Coast stadium on March 25 must be fully vaccinated before gaining entry into the match venue, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. This was contained in a press statement issued by the Public Relations Directorate of the Ghana Ministry of Youth and Sports on Tuesday, titled “Attendance of football fans to various stadia.” “The Ministry of Youths and Sports wishes to inform the general public particularly football fans who wish to enjoy their favourite game at various league centres, including the game between Ghana Black Stars and their Nigerian counterparts at the Cape Coast Sports stadium on March 25, 2022 to ensure strict adherence to all COVID-19 safety protocols put in place by the government,” a part of the statement read. “To this end, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has directed the managers of the stadia (National Sports Authority) and the Ghana Football Association to admit only fans who are vaccinated into the stadia. “Furthermore, the Ghana Health Service will mount a vaccination centre at Kumasi, Cape Coast, Takoradi and Tamale stadia one week before the Ghana-Nigeria derby. Both teams are vying for one of the five automatic spots for the World Cup billed to hold from November 21 to December 18 in Qatar. Meanwhile, Ghana FA president Kurt Edwin Simeon-Okraku had in October 2021 announced a ‘no vaccination, no entry’ policy for fans ahead of the 2021/22 league season. He said the GhanaFA was working with other government agencies and stakeholders to ensure that fans took their COVID-19 jabs and got vaccinated before they were allowed to watch games at the various league centres. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com