The All Progressives Congress vice chairmanship aspirant, North-Central, Yusuf Elaigwu, has vowed never to step down for other aspirants irrespective of any consensus arrangement. Speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria in Abuja on Monday after purchasing the N5 million expression of interest form, Elaigwu reminded the party of his earlier sacrifices, especially by stepping down for other aspirants as a show of loyalty to his party. “I have been a loyal member of the party and I have done that before by stepping down and I think this time around the party should give me that consideration,” he noted. “The party should also ask others to step down for me because this time there is no stepping down,” he kicked. Hinging on his youthful vigour and resourcefulness, Elaigwu maintained that with the current crisis rocking the party, only a candidate who is “vibrant, young and with energy” would be able to remedy the situation and boost the party’s chances of winning at the polls. He opined that as a young aspirant in his 40s, he would be able to interact with elderly ones, adding that it was high time the young ones were considered for critical roles in party politics. In his words, “We need to look at electioneering year; it is about youths and women, so when a young person is in a position, I can assure you that we will mobilise and remobilise for the party”. Elaigwu explained that fielding a younger candidate would reach out to more membership, increase mobilisation and consolidate unity amongst party members, all of which would ensure that the party sail to victory in 2023. “If I emerge as the vice chairman, I will go into serious consultation and reconciliation to ensure the party is victorious in every nook and cranny of the region,” he vowed, pointing out that one of the problems bedevilling the country was that people’s voices were not respected by the party, and vowed that all aggrieved parties would be given a fair hearing accordingly. (NAN) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com