The media subcommittee of the All Progressives Congress Convention Planning Committee has commended the media for the successful conduct of its National Convention in Abuja, saying that without the contributions of the mass media, the convention wouldn’t have attained the degree of success it had achieved. This is contained in a statement signed late Monday by the Secretary of the Publicity Committee of the Subcommittee, Garba Shehu, titled ‘APC media committee commends the press for a successful convention.’ The subcommittee which was Co-Chaired by Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nassarawa State and the Minister of Information and Culture, noted that publicity was critical to creating public awareness of any issue. In the statement, Shehu explained that “without the contributions of the mass media, the convention wouldn’t have attained the degree of success it had achieved. We are particularly impressed with the maximum publicity accorded to the convention by the press and their patience to withstand inconveniences in the course of covering the event. “In a democracy, the press plays a significant role in creating public awareness of political events and issues. A majority of the citizens depend mainly on the media to gain information about the government or political activities. “The level of commitment that you dedicated to the coverage of the event went a long way to bring about the success of the APC national convention. Besides, members of the media were also able to provide analyses and insights on the convention, thereby helping members of the general public gain knowledge of the issues and candidates.” On behalf of the Sub committee, he expressed regrets for any difficulties encountered by journalists in their coverage of events and expressed the hope that none of such incidents, if any, would be allowed to happen in the future. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com