The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, on Monday, raised the alarm over the use of four brands of male sex enhancement pills sold on Amazon. The agency made this known in a public alert signed by the Director-General, Prof Moji Adeyeye. The notice stated that the alarm was necessary following undeclared tadalafil/sildenafil present in the pills. It stated, “The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control is notifying the general public of the voluntary recall of four brands of male sexual enhancement pills by their manufacturing companies. These recalls were as a result of Amazon notifying the FDA of the laboratory analysis, which found the products to contain undeclared tadalafil and/or sildenafil. “Sildenafil and tadalafil are ingredients known as a phosphodiesterase (PDE-5) inhibitor found in FDA approved products for the treatment of male erectile dysfunction. The presence of sildenafil and/or tadalafil in the products makes them unapproved drugs for which the safety and efficacy have not been established and therefore, subject to recall.” “The implicated products are marketed as dietary supplements for male sexual enhancement and sold online (at www.amazon.com).” On the risks associated with the usage of the enhancers, NAFDAC said, “The undeclared tadalafil or sildenafil ingredient may interact with nitrates found in some prescription drugs, such as nitroglycerin, and may lower blood pressure to dangerous levels that may be life threatening. “Consumers with underlying medical issues, who take Alpha Male Plus Male Enhancer with undeclared tadalafil, may experience serious health risks as the PDE-5 inhibitors may interact with nitrates found in some of their prescription drugs.” The agency listed the affected brands as MegMan performance booster capsules, Mac Daddy red and Mac Daddy red capsules, The Red pill and Rise up edition capsules. NAFDAC implored consumers to stop the purchase and use of the products. It added, “Members of the public in possession of the implicated products are implored to stop the sale or use and hand over the products to the nearest NAFDAC office. “Patients should contact their physician or healthcare provider if they have experienced any problems that may be related to using any of the implicated products.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com