The list of aspirants chosen by top stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress is out, Saturday night. The aspirants on the list are assured of the support of the party leadership at the highest level. They will make up the National Working Committee of the APC and will pilot its activities ahead of the 2023 general elections. According to the list obtained by our correspondent late Saturday and signed mostly by APC Governors, a former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdullahi Adamu would be the national chairman of the party while former deputy governor of Osun State, Iyiola Omisore would serve as its national secretary. Also on the list is Senator Abubakar Kyari (Borno State) who will serve as Deputy National Chairman (North) and Emma Eneukwu (Enugu) would be Deputy National Chairman (South). The new NWC members include: 1. Abdullahi Adamu – National Chairman 2. Abubakar Kyari – Deputy National Chairman (North) 3. Ema Enaukwu – Deputy National Chairman (South) 4. Otunba Omisore – National Secretary 5. Festus Fuanter – Deputy National Secretary 6. Muhazu Rijau – National Vice Chairman (North Central) 7. Mustapha Salihu – National Vice Chairman (North East) 8. Salihu Lukman – National Vice Chairman (North West) 9. Ijeoma Arodiogwu – National Vice Chairman (South East) 10. Victor Giadom – National Vice Chairman (South South) 11. Isaac Kekemeke – National Vice Chairman (South West) 12. Ahmed El-Marzuk – National Legal Adviser 13. Uguru Ofoke – National Treasurer 14. Bashir Gumel – National Financial Secretary 15. Suleiman Argungun – National Organising Secretary. Also endorsed are; Ahmed El-Marzuk, National Legal Adviser; Beta Edu, National Woman Leader; Abdulahi Israel, National Youth Leader; Tolu Bankole, Special Persons Leader; Uguru Ofoke, National Treasurer; F.N Nwosu, National Welfare Secretary; Felix Morka, National Publicity Secretary; Abubakar Maikafi, National Auditor; Bashir Gumel, National Financial Secretary; Suleiman Argungun, National Organising Secretary; Ibrahim Salawu, Deputy National Legal Adviser and Omorede Osifo, Deputy National Treasurer. Saturday PUNCH also observed that the Deputy National positions who are non-NWC members and Zonal Officers would emerge through consensus as contained in the unity list. Earlier on Saturday, six National Chairmanship aspirants; George Akume, Tanko Al-makura, Abdul’Aziz Yari, Sani Musa, Saliu Mustapha, and Etsu Muhammed had stepped down for Abdullahi Adamu to emerge as the consensus candidate. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com