The Edo State Government has trained and deployed over 3,000 new teachers under the Edo Supporting Teachers to Achieve Results Fellows Programme into the basic education schools across the state. As gathered, the training and deployment are in line with the government’s plan to improve learning outcomes, digitalise education, and expand the Edo Basic Education Sector Transformation programme to junior secondary schools in the state. The Executive Chairman of the Edo State Universal Education Board, Mrs. Eyita Ozavize Salami, said the deployment followed a six-week intensive training of junior secondary school teachers geared at implementing the EdoBEST programme in the schools. Salami noted that to mark the conclusion of these training, and the commencement of the EdoBEST methodology of teaching in 379 new schools across the state, a graduation ceremony has been scheduled to take place on Friday, March 11, 2022, adding that the ceremony will officially kick-off the implementation of the disarticulation of junior secondary schools in the state. The SUBEB boss stated, “The Edo State Universal Education Board has, over the past six weeks, trained 2,650 teachers comprising of Progressive Primary School teachers, Junior Secondary School (JSS) teachers and successful EdoSTAR Fellowship candidates. “This training signifies yet another milestone in the basic education sector transformation reform program initiated by this administration in 2018, as 231 Junior Secondary schools, 148 rural, hard to reach and riverine primary schools are now added unto the EdoBEST program. “In addition, 3,000 new teachers have been deployed into all our basic education schools across all the 18 local government areas under the EdoSTAR fellowship program. (1,200 of these fellows were part of the just concluded training).” “To mark the conclusion of these training, and the commencement of the EdoBEST methodology of teaching in 379 new schools across the state, a graduation ceremony has been approved by His Excellency, The Executive Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki to hold at 12noon on Friday, 11th of March, 2022 at the Tennis Hard Court, Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin City. “This ceremony will formally declare the commencement of the JSS disarticulation in Edo State.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com