A governorship aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party in Gombe State, Jamilu Ishayaku, has bemoaned the state of affairs in the state, stating that the people of the state got thuggery and poverty for voting for the All Progressives Congress. He added that the APC is not in tune with the aspirations of the people. Ishayaku made this disclosure in Gombe during the weekend in an interview with journalists. According to him, his visit to the state was geared towards building the Peoples Democratic Party and registering his interest, having defected recently. He said, “Today, I came to see the party executives of the PDP and to tell them of my intention to contest the governorship position of Gombe State for the 2023 general election. Basically that is why I want us to rub minds and notify them of my intention to build the party in order to wrestle power from the failing APC government of Gombe State.” Ishayaku, who rendered an apology to stakeholders in his party, revealed that was because of his role in installing the Muhammadu Yahaya’s led administration. “I apologised because I’m part of those that participated actively in bringing the APC to Gombe State; for their failings. This is not what the people want from the current APC government. They (APC) are not in touch with the aspiration of Gombe State. What the people of Gombe got from the APC are terrorism, poverty and lack of appreciation. This is why we need to change the narrative and we have to do this collectively by those who have participated,” he added. Commenting on the level of destruction of vehicles in his convoy, the governorship hopeful blamed the state governor, adding that they would be forced to retaliate if it happens in future. Ishayaku said, “The governor organised thugs to attack our convoy and about three or four vehicles were attacked. Just about an hour ago, he sent thugs to the PDP chairman’s residence, thinking I was there. It is very unfortunate that someone who has the trust of the people will turn himself into a terror. What stops someone from coming to Gombe to play politics? What is he afraid of? “Let me sound this warning that if the trend continues, we will not fold our arms; we will retaliate and if anything happens the governor should hold himself responsible. Who are you killing? You are killing your own people? “We must change this government. Instead of encouraging our youths to study, they are busy enjoying thuggery.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com