The Lagos State Government has inaugurated a command of the Lagos Traffic Management Authority at the Lekki Free Zone to address the traffic challenges within the zone. The state also gave out two towing trucks, one patrol van, and two motorcycles to the command to help in performing their duties. Speaking during the inauguration, the Commissioner of Commerce, Industry and Corporative, Dr Lola Akande, said “The influx of global business in the area has given rise to traffic lockdown. Hence It has become imperative for the state governor to provide solutions to the issues. “The state cannot rest on its oars and watch traffic challenges disturb residents and users of this area.” According to the Managing Director, Lekki Worldwide Investment Limited, Mr Tunde Sodade, the newly launched command will help to manage the traffic situation of the zone. He said, “Today, the Lagos State Government, by virtue of granting some critical equipment required, has decided to launch LASTMA command here. The governor, being aware of the equipment required here, has granted LASTMA equipment like towing vehicle, patrol vehicle, and other equipment they need to officially launch the LASTMA office at LFTZ. “So, what is happening here today is the launching of the LASTMA Command at the LFTZ which will cover the area along the coastal road, all the way to the Eleko and Lekki area.” According to Sodade, the increase in the number of tankers in the area is fuelling traffic congestion around the axis. He added that the Lekki Deep Seaport, when fully operational towards the end of 2022, would increase vehicular movements around the area. He said, “The expectation is that a lot of the traffic management problems and accidents on the roads would have been avoided if we had better traffic control system along this area. “Even as we speak now, there is near chaotic traffic situation along this road, occasioned by the upsurge in the number of tankers coming here to load fuel. You are also aware that the Lekki Deep Seaport will be launched at the end of the year.” Also speaking at the inauguration, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Transportation, Toyin Olayinka, said the issues of indiscriminate parking on the roads would also be addressed.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com