An unidentified number of terrorists terrorising Magama Local Government Area in Niger State have been neutralised by the joint security task force in the state. The security task force, in collaboration with local vigilante group members, were said to have surrounded the terrorists, killing some of them who are notorious in attacking Munya and Mariga communities. A source, who did not want his name in print, told our correspondent that the security task force and vigilantes are still in the forests flushing out the bandits at the time of filing this report on Sunday. Our correspondent also gathered that over 300 cows have already been recovered from the onslaught on the bandits in both local government areas. It was gathered that in Mariga Local Government Area, troops of the 31 Artillery Brigade successfully neutralised a large number of terrorists within Chikarumbu and Mahoro communities in Gulbin Boka district and recovered over 200 cattle. The Head of Vigilante of Mariga Local Government Area, Saidu Bello, said the terrorists had already invaded the communities and were taking the cattle away when the troops and the vigilantes mobilised and went after them. He added that soldiers and vigilantes ambushed the terrorists when they were attacking Maraba Dandaudu and killed many of them. When our correspondent contacted the state Police Public Relations Officer, Wasiu Abiodun, he said the incident happened in Mariga and Mashegu areas but declined to give further details, saying it was a joint operation and he didn’t have the authority to speak on it. The state Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy Affairs and Internal Security, Emmanuel Umar, confirmed that the incidents  happened in Mariga and Magama, saying he will be addressing a press conference on Monday (today) to give details.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com