THE Lagos State Government has unveiled its plan to integrate theatre performances in the entertainment sector through the creation of functional theatres across the state. The state Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday. Akinbile-Yussuf, who was represented by the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Mrs Oyinade Nathan-Marsh, was quoted to have said this during an event organised by the Association of Nigerian Theatre Practitioners in Alimosho to commemorate the 2022 World Theatre Day in Igando. She said, “World Theatre Day celebrations came into being so that everyone can appreciate the entertainment and the change which theatre brings to life. The state government plans to integrate the culture of theatre performances into the entertainment scene through the establishment of functional theatres across the state. “This will ensure that Lagosians have the opportunity to appreciate and enjoy theatrical performances and the government’s quest to create an enabling platform for the teeming youths in the state to embrace theatrical works led to the rehabilitation of the iconic Glover Memorial Hall which has since become functional and is attracting important personalities from all walks of life across the country.” The commissioner added that the government has partnered with organisations to support the creative sector. “It is also instructive that the state government, through its partnership with two reputable creative organisations: EbonyLife Creative Academy and Delyork Creative Academy under the Lagos Creative Industry Initiative, had trained about 1,500 youths in film production, directing and acting, among others,” she said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com