The world was shocked and some delighted when Bitcoin (BTC) hit an all-time high of $68,000 last November 2021. However, BTC has since crashed and fallen to $39,000 due to the ongoing plummet the cryptocurrency market is facing in general. So, you might be thinking, which cryptocurrencies can get you your bang for your buck? Well, on our list we have Seesaw Protocol (SSW), Avalanche (AVAX), and Polkadot (DOT). Seesaw Protocol (SSW) Seesaw Protocol (SSW) is a multi-chain DeFi platform that doesn’t have one person in charge of it.  It will let people move data between 3 primary blockchains (Ethereum, Binance, and Polygon). To choose the network that is fastest and least expensive, holders will be capable of switching between the three networks at will. Since starting its presale, this coin has had a huge +2500% growth and can be expected to rise even more before the end of its presale. It might be worth saving the date of the launch of this new crypto, April 8th, 2022. With a Metaverse immersive learning approach, they are focused on providing education to the next generation of students. This immersive learning experience may benefit youngsters throughout the globe as teenagers are spending more and more time on their mobile devices and computers. Phase 2 and 3 of SSW’s presale will be available up until April 8th. Avalanche (AVAX) Avalanche (AVAX) is an already established cryptocurrency, a digital exchange platform created by a Cornell University (Ivy League) professor, entrepreneur, and founder of Ava Labs in the United States. The Layer-1 blockchain, AVAX, has been gradually increasing in market worth and is fast establishing itself as a viable contender to other cryptocurrencies. Instead of Ethereum’s slower and more out-of-date PoW Protocol, Avalanche employs the smarter, quicker, and more gas and energy-conscious PoS Protocol (proof-of-stake), which attempts to solve the Blockchain trilemma in order to make decentralisation and scalability easier. AVAX is currently trading at $72.55 according to coingecko.com and its market capitalisation is just over $19 billion which makes it the cryptocurrency as the tenth-largest token. Polkadot (DOT) Users may build and manage their own blockchain networks using Polkadot’s (DOT) distributed ledger. There are open-source protocols that can be used to establish a network of blockchains that can transport data or assets (not only crypto) and help build the “Internet of blockchains” (Web3). Through sharding, the blockchain is broken up into “shards” so that transactions may be processed one at a time instead of simultaneously. Decentralized apps (dApps) and decentralised financial services (DeFi) may be run on parachains that are linked to the relay chain. Parachains, like Ethereum, may connect with other blockchains, such as the Ethereum blockchain itself. At the end of November, Polkadot started selling parachain slots to developers. Polkadot plans to enable 100 parachains in the near future, even though only five parachains have been linked to the relay chain as of February 2022. DOT is currently trading for $16.90 according to coingecko.com and has a market capitalisation of just shy of $18.5 billion making it the eleventh-largest token. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) Enter Presale: https://presale.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol