Gunmen have killed 11 people in the Bassa and Zangon Kataf local government areas of Plateau and Kaduna states, respectively. The victims of the Plateau incident were three women and two men. PUNCH Metro learnt that three other persons sustained gunshot injuries, while a bus was burnt by the gunmen, who carted away motorcycles. A spokesman for the Miango Youth Development Association, Plateau State, Nuhu Bitrus, said the bandits attacked two villages – Nzhwerenvi and Kpara. Bitrus said, “Our people have been attacked again and five people were confirmed killed. “The attacks happened yesterday night (Monday), March 28, 2022, around 7.57pm. “Three women were killed at Mararaban Tipper along Nzhwerenvi village, and another man killed at Kpara village. “One was ambushed along Gero Road from Tin mining site and taken to the hospital, but he later gave up the ghost. “Three people sustained gunshot injuries and are receiving treatment in a hospital. “A vehicle was burnt and motorcycles were carted away.” The youth leader identified the deceased as Talatu Benson (45), Talatu Danladi (33), Mama Danladi (15), James Yah (42) and Adamu Amedi. Those injured were identified as Godiya Danladi, Redzie Ive and Alheri Danladi. The Plateau State Police Public Relations Officer, Ubah Ogaba, could not be reached for comments as of press time. But sources from the command headquarters in Jos said security operatives had been deployed in the affected communities, adding that investigation was ongoing. In the Kaduna incident, terrorists attacked Ungwan Bulus, Zaman Dabo village, Atyap Chiefdom, in the Zangon Kataf LGA of the state. The President, Atyap Development Association, Mr Samuel Achie, who confirmed the attack, said six persons were killed. According to him, the assailants invaded the community in large numbers with sophisticated weapons and unleashed mayhem on innocent people, who were asleep. A source said the latest attack was disheartening and inhumane. “So many people have become homeless; women have become widows and children have been turned to orphans,” the source lamented. He called on the government and security agencies to ensure that every life in the chiefdom was protected from terrorists. The Kaduna State Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige, could not be reached for confirmation as he did not take his calls as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com