Yoruba Nation agitator, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, has said the struggle for self-determination for Yoruba people will be successful. Igboho, who was recently released from detention in Benin Republic, however, said self-determination agitators would realise the Yoruba Nation without firing a single bullet. Igboho said this in a statement issued on his behalf by his counsel, Chief Yomi Aliyyu (SAN), to commend some Yoruba leaders, including Prof Banji Akintoye, Prof Wale Adeniran and Chief Dele Momodu. He also hailed Aliyyu for taking up his case against the Department of State Services without collecting a dime. The agitator, whose house was attacked by operatives of the DSS on July 1, 2021, urged his supporters and all self-determination agitators to use dialogue and peaceful means to achieve their aim. The statement read in part, “Sunday Adeyemo, aka Igboho Oosa, thanked all who are supporting him, especially his leaders, Prof Akintoye and Prof Wale Adeniran, and all Nigerians, especially his people in Ilana Oodua and affiliates seeking self-determination. “He continues to preach against war, seeing what is happening in Ukraine and some parts of Igboland in Nigeria.” He implored all, especially his kinsmen at home and in the Diaspora, to embrace dialogue in their quest for self-determination without heating up the very fragile situation in Nigeria. “He believes that their ambition will be achieved without firing a bullet as he used to say at rallies. “He appreciates Chief Dele Momodu, being the only Yoruba man of note that came to visit him in the Cotonou prison. He remains grateful to the President of the Republic of Benin, President Talon, for releasing him from prison with a view to uniting him with members of his immediate family, albeit only in Cotonou for the time being. “He assures all those in support of peaceful self-determination through referendum that the struggle continues as he will not relent in his efforts in that regard. “He pledged his eternal loyalty and respect to Chief Yomi Alliyu, SAN, who though an extreme Buharist and a nationalist, who does not believe in the balkanisation of Nigeria, exhibited extreme professionalism in taking up his case with the DSS without a kobo and winning it.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com