“(If ordinary bread is not available) let them eat cake (a luxurious form of bread made with eggs and butter)” — Marie-Antoinette, 18th century Queen of France. The opening quote is credited to one of the Queens of France who was so disconnected from the sufferings of the French masses that when she was told that there was great dissatisfaction over the scarcity of ordinary bread, which had been priced out of the reach of the poor, she answered almost nonchalantly that if there is no bread, the common people should make do with cake. My French coach said to me that the French word translated “cake” is actually a luxurious form of bread far more expensive than ordinary bread. That is to say, she was totally oblivious of the differences between the two kinds of bread and, in any case, was indifferent to the plight of people who were disgruntled because their staple food had become too scarce for their convenience. If we translate this further into modern day discourse in Nigeria, it would amount to something like asking people who cannot afford to travel by road because of the escalating price of fuel, to go by air and stop wasting time complaining. To bring this further home, the politicians are in a world of their own and carrying on business as usual in a season of approaching elections. How else do you explain that amidst the frustrations of the hour, the All Progressives Congress is asking that forms be sold to chairmanship aspirants at N20 million? Most of the politicians travel out of the country for sundry reasons at the drop of a hat and usually at public expense. That is perhaps why they are unable to hear the groans of consumers or citizens as the prices of services and products escalate. Take for example the recent nightmare of commuters, bus drivers and car owners as they queued up for fuel for several hours, which in some cases were sold at prices ranging from N180 to N250 when it was available. Even as I write, the queues are yet to fully go away in some cities and of course, hardly anyone is talking about price hike because a situation had been created which made almost everyone desperate to find Premium Motor Spirit to go around. It took over a month and several broken promises to bring the situation under a modicum of control and to ease the plight of Nigerians. Add to this the cost of diesel required by Small and Medium-term Enterprises to run their businesses but which had jumped from N300 per litre to N750 per litre within a space of two months with no cushioning effects or policies. Bear in mind that diesel alone accounts for over 30%, if not more, of the operating costs of these enterprises, many of them already pushed to the margins of survival. To be sure, some of the triggers are linked to the vagaries of the international market, especially the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. Obviously, Nigeria is not the only country affected by these shocks, although its successive leaders are to blame for not getting their acts right as an oil-producing country, which ordinarily ought to have been insulated from the worst fall-outs of the crisis. That is not all. Within the space of 48 hours this week, the national electricity grid collapsed twice, setting  in motion prolonged blackouts in most parts of the country. As a colleague remarked, there is little or no difference between times when the grid collapses and times when it is working normally in that electricity is often not available in many parts of the country. When this columnist told a friend that the nation’s electricity grid has collapsed, he replied sharply, “What exactly in Nigeria has not collapsed?” As usual, we are offered excuses, explanations, apologies, most of which are lame. For instance, we are told that in dry seasons there are challenges with water levels and also that some of the problems have to do with maintenance. Are we just discovering that water levels ebb in dry seasons? If the problems are maintenance-related, are there no workers assigned to bring the equipment up to par? At any rate, grid collapse is not new in this sector as last year it occurred in February, May, July and August including the rainy months in which water levels were not issued. The explanations, so to call them, are improvements on times in the past when we were told by officials that large snakes were responsible for insistent power outages in some districts of the country but they do little to mollify a distressed citizenry. Fundamentally, low and erratic power distribution has been the bane of governance and the economy. Successive administrations, including this one, have spent billions of naira without raising significantly the megawatts generated. According to Nairametrics, at least $14 billion are spent by Nigerians on generators and fuels annually. Of course, government departments including state houses vote hefty sums for the maintenance of generators. The worsening power situation will play into the hands of politicians who will make even more fantastic promises than in the past with no hope of fulfilling them. What has happened to the much talked about deal with Siemens and the profuse talk about the Germans coming to the rescue of that sector? It will be interesting to know exactly how much resources have been pumped into the power sector since the Fourth Republic began with little or no improvement Why is it that South Africa with a population of roughly 60 million generates over 51 000 megawatts while Nigeria is stalled at less than 4 000 megawatts? Do you want to compare us with Brazil, roughly the same population as Nigeria but which generates over 100 000 megawatts? Why is it that in so many crucial areas such as maintaining our refineries, which would have ended the fuel subsidy albatross, refurbishing and recalibrating electric power infrastructure, maintaining educational infrastructure and paying decent wages to university workers which would have terminated frequent strikes by the Academic Staff Union of Universities; we are simply unable to get it right? Talking about the ongoing ASUU strike which has kept out of campus university students for five weeks, the President of ASUU, Prof Emmanuel Osodeke, made clear that if the government wanted or had the will, it could have ended the strike in one week. What happened? The government sidestepped and postponed the resolution of the matter by setting up yet another committee to study with a view to renegotiating an already renegotiated agreement. The new committee was given three months to do its work indicating that the government was not in a hurry to come upfront or quickly end the impasse. This is a heavy list of woes for any citizenry, not forgetting that double-digit inflation continues to make food scarily expensive, sending Nigerians to untimely deaths. What is required is a turnaround in fulfilment of the social contract which mandates that the governors and the governed must fulfil reciprocal duties and obligations in order to make life less of a hell-hole for citizens. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com