The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen Faruk Yahaya, has said the Nigeria Army has been recording success in the fight against terrorists and other criminals in the country. Yahaya spoke at the Chief of Army Staff First Quarter Conference in Abuja on Tuesday. He said before his assumption of office, there were heightened insurgency in the North East, banditry in the North West as well as agitation for secession and sundry disturbances in other parts of the country. He however attributed the success recorded to the Nigeria Army’s collaboration with other security agencies in the country. He stated that the successes recorded against terrorists among others were being globally recognised. Yahaya said, “Our modest successes against terrorists in the North East are being recognised and applauded in the global index. “Our untiring efforts and gains against bandits and other violent criminals in the North West and North Central, secessionists in the South East and other criminals in other geo-political zones are also gaining success. “These were achieved through increased synergy with our sister services, other security agencies and stakeholders.” He also said the re-equipping and increased deployments of troops have placed the Army in a better stead to confront security challenges facing the country. Yahaya added, “This has been largely achieved with the increasing re-equipping of the Nigerian Army which has made the force better poised to tackle the myriad of contemporary and emerging security threats. “The increased deployments of NA troops in various theatres of operations across the country as well as creation of new units and forward operating bases have provided the much-needed impetus in our operations with several successes recorded.” The Army chief promised that the Nigerian Army would not let Nigerians down in its pursuit to ensure a secure and safe nation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com