The Peoples Democratic Party in Kogi State has expressed worry at the percentage payment of salaries at both the Local Government and State levels. A statement issued and made available to newsmen, on Sunday, in Lokoja stated that such practice under the leadership of Governor Yahaya Bello, who also doubles as a presidential aspirant under the All Progressives Congress, was questionable despite the huge debts it has plunged the state into since assuming office in 2015. The statement, signed by Comrade Dayo Onibiyo, the party’s Director for Media and Communications, read in part, “We are worried at these so embarrassingly low and inhuman payments, which are amounting to nothing but added debts to the state profile under domestic profile and the resultant external debts, from their army of borrowings, which when put together, may just sink the state into the hell of debts.” The party noted that, despite the release of the bail out it applied for and got approval for, but was denied its administration under the immediate past governor, Captain Idris Wada, and ultimately given by Buhari to his godson, Bello, the APC-led debtor Government has not been able to make the workers smile, as it pays percentage when it cares to manage to pay. “We, therefore, charge the state government to please turn a new leaf in the little time left for it to spend in office before it will be booted out in 2023, by God’s grace, through the suffering masses’ and good people of the state’s votes,” the statement said. The party also called on the labour sector to wake up to the realities of speaking, protecting, defending and working in the interest of the betterment of its members rather than paying lip services while the innocent workers suffer in abject poverty, silence and sudden deaths, as it also noted the jokes of paying new salary when the state could not even measure up to the old one they inherited. It called for prayer for God to deliver the state from the clutches of the debtors. Government sources, however, said that the percentage payment to the state workers last month was due to negative allocation from federation account . “Even at that we still made sure that the minimum wage promised by the state government was implemented for junior workers of grade level 1-6.” The source, who did not want his name mentioned, told our correspondent in a telephone conversation on Sunday. He said that the state government was not responsible for the payment of local government workers and has nothing to do with what percentage they were being paid. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com