Claimants to the stool of Oba of Ogbaland in Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area of Rivers State have approached a Rivers State High Court sitting in Omoku, Onelga, to stop Nwachukwu Nnam Obi, the son of the immediate past ruler of the Kingdom from parading himself as Oba. After the demise of Chief Chukwumela Nnam Obi, II, his first son, Nwachukwu, had ascended the throne on the grounds that it was his position to take over from his late father. The development had caused a sharp division in Ogba as a section of the kingdom who were against the development insisted that the stool was not that of Obi. However, a claimant to the throne, who hails from the family that claimed it was their right to produce the next king dragged Nwachukwu Nnam Obi, the Rivers State Government, and Nigeria Agip Oil Company to court. Prince Henry Nwata and others who are all caimants prayed the court to restrain Nwachukwu from parading himself as Oba of Ogbaland. Nwata and others through the writ of summon in suit no, OMHC/20/CS/2022, before the court in Omoku, ONELGA, want the court to also restrain Nwachukwu from acting in that capacity of an Oba. The claimants are also seeking an order of the court restraining the governor of Rivers state from recognising and or issuing certificate of recognition to the defendant, having not emerged through the legitimate traditional selection process of Ogba kingdom. Joined in the suit as defendants are governor of Rivers state; state ministry of chieftaincy; Nigerian Agip oil company among others. However, the notice of writ of summon which was filed by the Umuokoya kindred of Umuebe family in Omoku Ogba Egbema Ndoni local government area, issued by Omoku Division of state high court, has been served on the son of the Late Oba of Ogbaland and other defendants. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com