The national grid, on Monday, experienced its second collapse in 2022 resulting in blackout across the country. The states affected include Lagos, Enugu, Kaduna, Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu, and Imo States, among others. Confirming the development in a text message to its customers, The Eko Electricity Distribution Company, said that the system collapse occurred on the national grid at 10:40 am. “Dear esteemed customer, a system collapse occurred on the national grid at 10:40 am today, leading to outages across our network. “We are working on the situation with our TCN partners and will keep you updated. We sincerely apologize for the inconvenience this may have caused.” the text message read. Also, Kaduna Electricity, on Monday, while confirming the system collapsed, assured its customers that power would soon be restored. “We regret to inform you that the power outage being experienced in our franchise states is due to System Collapse of the National Grid which occurred at about 10:40 am,” the firm said. “Power supply shall be restored as soon as the National Grid is powered back. Our sincere apologies for any inconvenience,” the text message read. In its notice to customers, the Enugu Electricity Distribution PLC said that the system collapse affected supply in Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu, and Imo States. The notice signed by EEDC Head, Corporate Communications, Emeka Ezeh, read, “The Enugu Electricity Distribution PLC (EEDC) wishes to inform her esteemed customers in the South East of a general system collapse which occurred this morning, Monday, 14th March 2022 at 10:40 am. “This is the reason for the loss of supply currently being experienced across the network. “Consequently, all our outgoing feeders are out and supply to our customers in Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu, and Imo States are affected by this development.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com