The Association of Professional Women Bankers says it is committed to supporting professional women bankers and other women across the country and the world in general. The association made this known during an event organised to celebrate International Women’s Day. The APWB also said it used the occasion to identify with women and the people of Ukraine. While speaking, the Chairperson, APWB, Funke Ladimeji, pledged solidarity with women and girls who are victims of gender imbalance and persecution. She said, “We are living in interesting times. We experienced many shocks in the last few years. While we cannot predict when these shocks will come, we know they will come. The First Vice-Chairperson, APWB, Mrs Olukemi Ibiwoye, disclosed that the association has the vision to develop women leaders in the corporate world. She said, “Our vision is to create a platform for positive development, promote good conduct and build leaders among our women in the financial circle and corporate world. “Our mission is to increase female participation in leadership roles and to promote a culture of integrity and professionalism in the banking industry. International Women’s Day is a global day celebrating the social, economic, cultural, and political achievements of women. Speaking of her experience in banking, the special guest at the event/Board member, Coronation Merchant Bank, Dr Evelyn Oputu, said a person’s upbringing could significantly influence their career. She said she navigated a workplace filled with men through hard work which earned her respect from men. According to Oputu, most women spend more time at work than men because of job security. While promising her support to women who want to venture into politics, she added that women must lookout for and support women with the required skill set for politics.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com