A frontline National Chairmanship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, Saliu Mustapha, Monday in Abuja has said that he stepped down for the consensus candidate, Abdullahi Adamu, a few hours before the national convention for the larger interest of the party. According to a statement he signed on Monday titled ‘We ran a good race,’ the Turaki Ilorin, however, noted that his decision to step down was far from easy. He said, “Since our party held its long-awaited national convention, I and my team have been inundated with calls from political associates and friends, and even the media on what they viewed as an unexpected turn of events that saw me stepping down on the convention day. “Indeed, many would have wanted me to take the battle to the convention ground because that was our goal but we had to pull back in deference to our great leader the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). “My decision to concede was never an easy one but I pride myself as a core party man who does not joke with loyalty and party supremacy. Only a few years ago, I considered the greater goal and refused to take steps that could have cost our party, Kwara state, when I was unfairly treated at the gubernatorial primaries but not once did I regret that decision.” He congratulated the new set of party leadership and urged them to hit the ground running and complete the reconciliation process which Senator Adamu started because “we have an election to win in a few months’ time.” Mustapha also commended members of his campaign team for their commitment and zeal. He said, “To my political associates, friends, members of my campaign organisation and other volunteers in support groups across the country who all worked tirelessly on the project, I urge you all to keep the faith. “And I also won’t forget to appreciate the good people of Kwara state for their unquantifiable support despite everything. We may have lost a battle but we did not lose the war. We brought colour and brilliant ideas to the race, and indeed our party members and the leadership took notice. “We hope to meet with the new party executives led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu with a view to sharing our thoughts on the way forward with them.”