I was still contemplating something memorable that the governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said recently when a different state governor said another. This was from Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State. There was this video clip in which El-Rufai addressed a gathering and said residents of Lagos State deserved to go straight to heaven because they had been living in hell all this while. He was referring to the notorious Lagos traffic gridlock in which one could spend at least four hours going and returning from the place of work. The imagery of the living hell that is Lagos traffic gridlock won’t take any effort to catch by whoever has experienced it. I came to live in Lagos when I got admission into the University of Lagos. The only time I felt relaxed outside the campus was when I was on the premises of the National Stadium and Lagos University Teaching Hospital. Those were the two locations, apart from the University of Lagos campus, where I had my Taekwondo training under the supervision of Mr George Ashiru, President of International Taekwondo Academy and past president of the Nigerian Taekwondo Federation.  Beyond these locations, I felt like a fish out of water, especially when caught in the Lagos traffic gridlock and in those congested streets. I suppose this would be the case when you grew up in a serene, orderly environment that an institute such as Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria, Oyo State, could provide. Even in those days, anytime I found myself in the Lagos traffic gridlock, I had always wondered why the government looked on without finding a solution to it. You were on the bridge across the Lagos lagoon, caught in the crawling traffic and you wondered why the government wouldn’t make it possible for commuters to travel across the waterways below, taking traffic gridlocks off the roads. You think about the intra-city trains that should seamlessly move hundreds of thousands of commuters across the city that weren’t there. At least, as a youngster, if one didn’t understand anything else, one understood that one of the purposes of government was to identify challenges to the smooth running of the economic activities of citizens and provide solutions to them. Providing adequate means of transportation was one way to do this. Do it for citizens and that would be all they would ask the government for, not much more. Our people know how to find their way around, they know how to fend for themselves, how to leverage on what the government has provided. We’re that creative, that enterprising. I’ve always made the point in private conversations that “our people don’t ask for much.” They just want to have that which only the government can provide and they’ll work out the rest for themselves. I made this point several years ago in a discussion with Dr Emman Usman Shehu, President, Abuja Writers’ Forum, and Provost of the International Institute of Journalism. Shehu was so hit by the simplicity of this view that he proceeded to write a poem with the same title in one of his published poetry collections which he then dedicated to me. It’s gratifying though that recently Sanwo-Olu was explaining the things his government was doing with regard to the traffic gridlock in Lagos. I would want to note that his administration has tried with regard to the beautification of Lagos. He has built excellently well on what his predecessors did with regard to overturning the disorderliness and the degraded state of the environment that many parts of Lagos have come to represent. He’s moving in the right direction. I stated on this page in the past that Lagos has no reason not to be excellent in anything that has to do with the efficient planning and running of a city-state. This is the state in Nigeria with the highest concentration of “been tos”; I mean citizens who have travelled abroad and who know what obtains out there. I’ve also submitted that if one state has the kind of best minds that can think right and do what’s right, it’s Lagos. I suppose Lagos State has the highest concentration of university graduates in its LGA offices; quality people run the government at that level. The same situation, without equivocation, applies at the state government level. It’s simply inconceivable to not expect so much from the administrators in Lagos. For if there’s any accumulation of awareness and experiences anywhere in Nigeria, with regard to what obtains in foreign lands, it’s in Lagos. Lagosians had actively been sending their children to study in Europe from at least the 1870s. One of the 19th century UK-educated Lagosians was the late nationalist, Herbert Macaulay, who studied a course in the area of Estate Management and returned to practice in Lagos and in other parts of Western Nigeria. I recall one story about how Macaulay travelled to Ibadan to work on land-related matters in the early decades of the 20th century. For the simple reason that one of my forebears, the then Alaafin of Oyo (who was the suzerain over Ibadan at the time), didn’t like what Macaulay was doing in the land case, he sent his Ilari to order Macaulay to leave Ibadan immediately. Macaulay quickly complied. T’oba l’ase. Having thought of what Lagos should be with the quality of people it has—well-travelled and urbane—but which it wasn’t at a stage, now hearing the state governor speak about dealing with the known Lagos transportation challenges is gratifying. I did have this sense of elation and relief when I heard Sanwo-Olu speak about it. It feels like this is what I’ve been waiting to hear over the years—the vision and the assurances that a leader of Lagos has decided to face the transportation challenges and confront them. This is the kind of leadership I’ve always wanted to see, the kind I call attention to. If we have all those in political offices taking this kind of transformational step, our nation would be in the future not where it currently is. The progress of a nation is dependent so much on the vision the leader has and the will he has to push the vision forward. Now, Nigerians often complain that what their politicians say cannot be trusted. It’s even one reason some say they don’t want to watch news about politicians. Since dealing in trending issues is my trade, and I must be current by monitoring events as they unfold, I’ve had to reason with sceptics that if one closes his eyes to everything that passes by because of a few politicians who tell lies, one may miss out on what’s good and beneficial. So watch the news; you never can tell when an item that can do you good would come by. One of such was the explanation Sanwo-Olu gave on the transportation master plan for Lagos State. So it’s not right that I should let the occasion of this announcement made by the state governor pass without pointing to it. For there’s no way one would see the uncomfortable traffic situation in Lagos and wouldn’t expect a grand plan from the government of the state with regard to how it wants to turn it around. Now we know how; here I point to it so that other political leaders can take note. Always identify what impedes our people in their efforts to make a living for themselves and address such. It’s all that our people ask for. Sanwo-Olu said an aspect that’s already being executed in the Lagos Transportation Master Plan “is the talk of the town now.” True, Lagos residents are relieved that they would soon be free from traffic gridlocks. But leaders who take steps that positively and directly impact people’s lives are always remembered for exactly that, although they may not recall the details of the policies involved.  They don’t forget the name of such a leader either. So I think Sanwo-Olu should be prepared to be “the talk of the town” himself, not the grand and complex Lagos Transportation Master Plan he announced. Sanwo-Olu will see what I mean when he pulls this through only to hear Yoruba residents call the newly acquired trains and ferries, “Traini Sanwo-Olu”, “Ferri Sanwo-Olu”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com