THE Tony Elumelu Foundation and Google have announced the launch of Google.org Fellowship to provide one million Africans with access to a platform that will accelerate the growth of their business. The platform, TEFConnect, offers tailored tools, market partnerships, and access to coaches and investors to small businesses. According to the firms, their partnership will offer opportunities for Africa’s digital community. They added that nine full-time Google employees will work with the Foundation to design and build an upgraded version of the TEFConnect platform. In a statement, the co-Founder of TEF, Dr Awele Elumelu said, “We are pleased to continue to share our unique ability and platform to identify, train, mentor and fund young entrepreneurs across Africa with like-minded institutions like Google.org who share in our commitment to empower young African entrepreneurs. “It will be exciting to see the ways in which the refreshed TEFConnect platform will continue to provide a space for growth, personal development, and meaningful exchange for African entrepreneurs. In line with our founding philosophy of Africapitalism, we believe that entrepreneurs are the catalyst for the social and economic development of the African continent.” Global head of technology at Google.org, Jen Carter, added, “We are delighted to kick off our first Google.org Fellowship in Africa. “The Tony Elumelu Foundation does so much to empower African entrepreneurs, and we are thrilled to be able to lend the expertise of Googlers to expand the reach of the TEFConnect platform to an additional 1 million entrepreneurs. “Google’s commitment in Africa has progressed from sponsoring projects to collaborative partnerships with established African organisations like the Tony Elumelu Foundation, dedicated to developing young African talent. “As Africa’s digital economy grows, African entrepreneurs are in a prime position to establish a powerful digital footprint, and this fellowship is one step closer to transforming the landscape.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com