As part of ongoing activities aimed at improving business operations and processes at the Nigerian Exchange Limited, the Board of the Exchange says it has approved a new strategy centred on digital transformation, strategic partnerships, and customer-centric solutions. It said these would ensure that the bourse becomes a leading organisation with a focus on deepening the capital market, diversifying its products and services, enhancing retail participation, and delighting its stakeholders across the board. The NGX said in a statement that this came on the back of the impressive performance recorded at the Exchange following the demutualisation. To effectively consolidate the results recorded, the board of the Exchange said it had approved the restructuring of the bourse to efficiently implement its new strategy. As part of the restructuring, the board has equally approved a change in the organisational structure with the attendant workforce restructuring to better position the bourse to deliver competitive value in today’s dynamic technology-driven global capital market. It said, “As such, the Exchange will transition from an operational structure of four divisions, namely, listings business, trading business, business support services, and technology services, to a refreshed operational structure of three divisions namely: capital markets, digital technology, and business support services. “While there is a deep appreciation for the efforts of all employees in building the thriving Exchange that exists today, these actions are necessitated by the need to effectively position Nigerian Exchange Limited to lead the digitalisation and digital transformation of the Nigerian capital market.” It said, “In 2021, Nigerian Exchange Limited experienced growth in trading figures with the NGX All Share Index returning 6.1 per cent and turnover in the fixed income market increasing by 158.19 per cent. “Equity capitalisation rose by 5.89 per cent, while fixed income figures rose by 12.81 per cent during the year. Several landmark transactions were also recorded including the first-ever end-to-end digital offer in the Nigerian capital market, the ground breaking listing of BUA Cement Plc’s N115bn, the largest corporate bond issuance, etc.” road All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com