THE National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control has recalled from the market Abbott Similac Infant Formula, which is manufactured in Sturgis Michigan, United States, over complaints of infant illnesses reported in the US. NAFDAC, in a notice obtained by our correspondent on Sunday, said four consumers had submitted complaints between September 2021 and December 2021. It stated, “In the US, four consumer complaints of infant illness were received from September 2021 to December 2021. These include three reports of Cronobacter sakazakii infections and one Salmonella Newport infection. All four infants were hospitalised and Cronobacter may have contributed to one death. “Abbott’s recall of this powdered infant formula produced at its facility in Sturgis, Michigan MI, has spread globally and now includes Croatia, Italy, Ireland, Netherlands, Slovenia and Spain, among many other countries. The Food Standards Agency is investigating whether three infant illnesses reported recently in the United Kingdom are connected to an outbreak in the United States from the recalled infant formula.” NAFDAC explained that Cronobacter bacteria could cause severe and life-threatening infections (sepsis) or meningitis. Symptoms might include poor feeding, irritability, temperature changes, jaundice, grunting breaths and abnormal movement in infants. The infection could also lead to bowel damage and spread through the blood to other parts of the body. The agency added, “Salmonella bacteria causes gastrointestinal illness, fever called salmonellosis, which may lead to diarrhoea, fever and abdominal cramps. A severe case of salmonella infection results in headache, lethargy, rash, blood in the urine or stool, and may be fatal in some cases. “Parents of infants experiencing any of these symptoms after consumption of the recalled Abbott Infant formula should notify their child’s healthcare provider and seek medical care immediately. Healthcare providers and health departments are encouraged to report any confirmed cases of Cronobacter sakazakii to the relevant authorities. “The affected products are: Similac Advance Step 1 Milk-based Iron-Fortified Infant Formula Powder;  Similac Advance Step 2 Milk-based Iron-fortified and Calcium-enriched Infant Formula Powder; Similac Alimentum Step 1 Hypoallergenic Infant Formula Powder; Similac Human Milk Fortifier Powder; Similac Pro-Advance Step 1 Milk-Based Iron-fortified Infant Formula Powder; Similac Pro-Advance Step 2 Milk-based Iron-fortified and Calcium-enriched Infant Formula Powder; Similac Sensitive (Lactose Sensitivity) Step 1 Milk-based Iron-fortified Infant Formula Powder and Similac Total Comfort Step 1 Milk-based Iron-fortified Infant Formula Powder.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com