The Secretary of the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, on Tuesday, returned to the Wuse 2 headquarters of the APC amid tight security and jubilation among the party staff. The PUNCH reports that there were moves by some governors including Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai to remove Akpanudoedehe and the Chairman of the caretaker committee, Governor Mai mala Buni of Yobe State. The plan was to install Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello, as the substantive caretaker chairman of the APC at a National Executive Committee meeting slated for March 17, 2020. However, the attempt was botched by a letter from the Independent National Electoral Commission which affirmed Buni’s leadership. INEC also stated that it would only recognise correspondences from Buni and Akpanudoedehe. Having been reaffirmed by the secretary by INEC and the APC, Akpanudoedehe returned to the party secretariat on Blantyre Street on Tuesday morning and was escorted to his office by four AK-47 wielding policemen. Many of the APC staff members were seen clapping and celebrating the return of the caretaker secretary. The APC has been enmeshed in a crisis in the last two years which led to the removal of its erstwhile Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. Although things simmered down for some months, the crisis sprang up again after the local government and state congresses were conducted, leading to the emergence of factions in at least 13 states. Also, at least 208 court cases have thwarted peace moves while its national convention has been postponed four times since December 2020. The party is now expected to hold its national convention on March 26, 2022. However, the party has yet to begin the sale of forms or reach a consensus on who should emerge as its national chairman. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com