Lai Koiki is the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Greensprings Schools. She tells BLESSING ENENAITE about her career and other issues As the CEO of Greensprings Schools, what are your responsibilities? It is to make sure that Greensprings Schools works. The strategic leadership of the school rests on my shoulders. We have many campuses. So, we need to ensure that we continue to fine-tune the vision of the school and ensure that we are toeing the right path. Majorly, I make sure we continue to blaze the trail and stay relevant. What are the challenges you face in the course of discharging your duties? The challenges are human (in nature) because this is a human-centric sector. We have the students, parents and staff. We are trying to ensure that everything flows and works well. There is also the challenge of government policies that we face in the growth and development (of the school) over the years. What prompted your decision to establish the school 37 years ago? That is a story on its own (laughs). After my first degree, I set out to read Accountancy. I was articled to a firm of chartered accountants. I started the article-ship and in the course of that, I got married and had a child. As every young mother would do, I started exploring with the mindset that I wanted the best for my child. I started exploring and reading education and development for children, and I started looking for schools for my child. Funnily enough, I must have had a dream of some sort based on what I had read, and the particular kind of school that would aid the development of my child. Going round in my mind, I did not find any (laughs). The only one that could fit into exactly what I wanted, I could not afford it. So, I enrolled my child in the school that I could. In the course of that, I came across the Montessori style of education and I decided I was going to study the programme because it addressed the natural development of the child. Even though it is an educational programme, it re-inforces that which the child would experience at any given time in their growth and development. I then decided that I should give it a shot. I dumped Accountancy and went on to the United Kingdom to get a Diploma in Montessori Method of Child Education. Basically, it was because of a personal desire in getting a proper school which I felt woukd aid the development of my child that I started Greensprings Schools. When you initially started the school, did you have the vision to make it big or you just wanted something that would simply suit the standard for your child? Actually, I just wanted a small school and I presumed the Montessori method (would do fine). (However), what I studied was the pre-school aspect of it but the Montessori method goes on to elementary school. I was not dreaming that big at the beginning. However, by the time we had gone through a year of that programme in 1985, there weren’t too many Montessori schools around. It was not well known and the approach was very different. So, one had to set up and convince people, and let them know it was the best pathway for their children. We got challenges in questions such as, ‘My child is three years old and they are just learning 1-10 whereas my neighbour’s child can count from one to 100’. Another aspect was reading. The Montessori method does not teach ‘abcd’. It teaches the sounds of the letters of the alphabets which means that after the child has learnt those sounds, they would be able to read or attempt to read anything. So, it was a bit of a struggle getting people to buy into it. But when the child attends the programme for about two or three years, especially with the reading, the parents would come back saying that as they drove, their child would look at billboards and read the words there, using the sounds of the letters of the alphabets. They don’t necessarily have to get it completely right. The English language also has some different blends that may be different. The point is that the child has the confidence that they can do it. When it comes to multiplication, we don’t start by telling the child to memorise. We teach the child the way multiplication works. So, when the child gets to an older class, the child would learn it by heart. This even happens to most of us (adults). You are trying to do nine times nine and you forget. You remember nine times eight, then you add nine to it and you see that it is really addition. Montessori method is still the best. What makes GS distinct from other schools? We are very child-centered. The Montessori method itself is child-centered and that is the foundation. It follows the developmental stages of a child, so, if the child is at that stage where they need to pick up things, there are exercises that the child would be doing. Also, nature has its own way of preparing us. That is what has made us different. We love what we are doing; and, it is passion and vision-driven. That is why we are where we are. Also, God has been extremely good to us. What do you regard as the greatest impact the school has recorded over the years? How does one measure that? Perhaps, (in the area of) the thousands of children that have passed through the school and are making waves in the world and making us proud. They are tech giants and doing well in other spheres of life. Really, that is the purpose of education. Education is meant to impact the world. It is not about me really. It is about the impact (we have made). We are very happy and proud that we have succeeded in that aspect. Late last year (2021), the John Hopkins Smartest Child in the World was from our school. Academically, our students excel. We are doing great, not only in academics, but in innovation (as well). Two of our former students are presently at the final stage of the Global Tech Organisation and they have developed an anti-kidnapping app. One of the other things we ensure is to teach them (students) that they are a generation of privileged children. If you are in GS (as a student), you are privileged in terms of your parent’s societal standing and more. So, you have a responsibility to give back. We instill that in them at a very young age. One creative way we achieve that is through the ‘mufti day’. Our students wear uniforms but on a particular day in a term, the children come with their own clothes from home. With the privilege of doing that, they have to give something to the charity purse; either N500 or N1000. With that, we raise money which is used in public schools. We have done a whole lot of renovation works in public schools, and we involve the children. We take them there to see how other people live and learn, so they woukld appreciate what they have. Human beings tend to take for granted the things they have. We try to make them know that they are very privileged, so they must make the best use of what they have and remember that they have the responsibility of improving (the lives of) a lot of other children. What were the challenges you first encountered when you set up the school 37 years ago? The challenges were mainly financial then, which are the same with developing any business. It is only now that the financial hurdle has become easier. Back in the day, one had to go through the eye of a needle to get financial support. In addition, starting the school the way I did was borne out of passion. There were some rudimental things I did not know about finances. I did not know how to source for a loan. I needed to keep proper books, and that is part of the challenges entrepreneurs still face. My advice to young entrepreneurs is that they should at least open even a small shop first. Then, they need to learn proper bookkeeping, and separate their personal spending from the expenses incurred on the shop. If not, they would ‘eat’ up everything without realising that they are eating their investment. Things are easier now in the sense that people can ‘Google’ certain things and learn on their own. However, one has to be intentional about learning. I see that some people still make the same mistake that I made 37 years ago, even though there is enough information out there. How did you overcome the challenges that came your way in the course of growing your school to this level? Sheer determination and grit (helped me grow to this level). If one wants to climb a mountain, it takes determination. It may be a bit slippery, and one may miss one’s steps here and there. But, if one gives up, then that’s the end. One has to continue trudging on. We are not there (yet); we are still moving. The journey was very tedious (laughs). By the time I started growing, the dream was to have a big campus. I used to wonder why Nigerian schools were so tiny compared to what obtains in Europe where they have massive schools. I decided to do something about it. That was how our Lekki campus came to be. The campus is set on 15 hectares of land. The educational system has witnessed a decline over the years. What do you think are the direct and indirect causes of this? I don’t see a decline in the private (educational) sector. I think we are moving on and trying to embrace new ideas and still be relevant. However, in the public sector, I would not say there is a decline. I will say there is no adequate funding for the sector and the population is growing very rapidly, yet enough attention has not been given to the sector. For the same reason, you find that the curriculum is not being revamped (to flow with the present times). Maybe in that sense, there is a decline. It is something we need to pay attention to. Information is changing rapidly and we need to ensure that our children are well prepared and well positioned for the future that they are going to live in. Remember that even that future, we are not sure how it is going to be. That is why a lot of the facts we teach children are very irrelevant. What children need are skills. We can Google now and get the facts. You don’t need to spend the whole time learning facts. It is a given that there will be obstacles. So, would one give up because of that? Those are some of the things children need to learn. They need to learn how to use technology. I cannot recall when we introduced our online platform but it was way back. When the COVID-19 pandemic came, we did not have to struggle. It was more like a plugging in and letting things happen. The public (sector) is very important and it is strategic to the development of this nation. We cannot afford to neglect the public sector. Otherwise, we won’t have a nation in a few decades. What do you think is the cause of the lackadaisical attitude of some students to learning? It is also lack of adequate preparation by all. Information is (readily) available now. But, all those things (information) were hidden and we could not gain access to them then because our parents felt the time was not ripe. As adults in the system, we also need to upgrade, so that we know how to communicate with children. We have to ensure they use all these tools in the right way. And, that is where the problem is. Some children spend a significant part of their time playing games. Parents are a bit more affluent (now), and they put televisions in their children’s rooms. Do they know what that child is watching? Even if they are watching something good, they would not get adequate rest. They watch the TV late into the night and when it is time for work, they are not strong enough, able and alert. That is what we term lackadaisical attitude to learning. When God created humans, he did not just leave us like that; he put us in families because we need nurturing. It is our responsibility (parents and teachers) to take charge. Remember that some of these children do not like to be controlled too much. You have special interest in special needs education. What’s the reason for that? I don’t want to take the credit for special education needs in the sense that, earlier on in the development of the school, I had a principal called Dr Dolapo Ogunbawo, who was very interested in special needs (pupils). She was the one who stirred me in that direction. We knew there were children that were different. We also knew people hide such children from the public. However, it was Dr Ogunbawo’s special area. She encouraged me to bring those children out of the closet and start supporting them. We have recorded quite a number of successes. Even if it is only the socialisation aspect that they are able to get, it helps to a very large extent. It also gives a lot of relief to the families of those children. What are some of the successes you have recorded in this aspect? There are many of them. About a month ago, a parent called me that her child (who is now 32) had graduated. The child struggled but finally graduated and the parent was very happy. The child could have graduated at the age of 25 or 27, but the parents were still grateful and remembered to thank us for creating a platform and hope for that child. Those are the successes. The fact that these children have a place to go, even during the day, because some may never be able to read or be very social. We try to bring out the skills inherent in those children. It seems children are coming up with different types of needs— either severe or mild. It also has to do with the condition of the environment and the food they eat. Many more children are being diagnosed with (special) needs. How do you manage the special needs of such children? There are specialists in the field. I won’t say I am a specialist but I know how to empathise with the children, and to let them know that they are loved. Beyond that, one of the earliest reasons we started the special needs-inclusive programme is for the ‘regular’ students to know that there are children with special needs in the world, and that they should show empathy too. At times, the regular children see the special needs children and they want to run away. Some may even jeer at them. The aim is to make them have empathy. What advice do you have for parents who have children with special needs? Things are easier now and one can do a lot of research on the Internet. Also, there are many specialists all over the place. They (parents) need to seek for help, either by going online or looking for a specialist that can support them. The issue of sexual harassment and exploitation of minors has become a major issue. How do you ensure things like that don’t happen in your school? We have a child protection and safeguarding policy. In our school, we ensure that every member of staff is trained regularly, and they are certified. We have given information to everyone because they have to be the eyes of the organisation. They ensure that they are not molested too. We have cameras all over the place, and also empower the adults within the environment. Molestation does not necessarily have to be from an adult to a child. It could be from a child to another. We just have to be alert to our responsibilities. How do you deal with difficult students? For difficult students, we keep supporting them. There is punishment though because if there is no consequence, the children would just behave anyhow. Whenever they err, there are consequences. Beyond that, what some term being a ‘difficult child’, could stem from an underlined disability. For instance, there are some children that cannot see the board well or are not good at Mathematics. When such students are in a Mathematics class, they would cause disturbances so that the teacher would send them out of the class or even punish them. Aside from just punishing, we need to understand why the child is behaving that way. In the course of trying to find that out, we could find out that the home is dysfunctional and a lot of things would come to light. It is not just about punishment. By the time one punishes once or twice and the act is still recurring, one needs to look a bit deeper and ask what is happening to the child. One would be shocked at the things one would find. In the school, there have to be counsellors who are trained to get information from children. Some parents beat up teachers for disciplining their children. Have you ever encountered such parents? We have not had those kinds of parents but we have had overbearing parents. We dialogue with them and let them understand why we do what we do. At the same time, we have to let them know what we think is right and what we stand for. We have a responsibility to ensure that the children are well brought up. How do you bring out the best in your staff? That is done through continuous training and encouragement, especially after the COVID-19 pandemic. Most of us are still going through the post-pandemic trauma and mental health issues. Everyone needs that level of encouragement, and ensure work-life balance. It is a struggle but we are trying. What is the difference between the system of education then and now? The only major difference now is that things are moving away from absolute learning of facts into critical thinking and problem solving. Once one has those skills, one would be able to do almost anything. How do you maintain the standard of education at GS? Through continuous re-engineering, ensuring that we learn about what is happening in the world, understanding what our local needs are and applying that information to what our needs are. Education is not stagnant; it is constantly evolving. Did you ever plan to be a school owner? No (laughs). Back then, not everyone wanted to be a teacher. That was why I studied Accountancy. Do you have any regrets in life? I don’t have any regrets in life because I consider every so-called regret to be an opportunity to move higher. What are your memorable moments as the CEO of GS? That would be when we started the Lekki campus. I had the dream of having a big campus, and we secured the land. Out of the blues, an opportunity came and we started construction. We had advertised that the school would start in September 2006. That date came and we were still struggling. I did not fully grasp the magnitude of what I had started. We then decided to start the Lekki campus at the Anthony campus. The Lekki students were separated from the Anthony students, and they had their own classrooms and hostels. January came and the hostels were still not ready although the classrooms had been completed. We decided to start anyway. But, we did not tell them that the hostels were not ready. We just announced that they should come. At the end of the tour with the parents, we informed them that unfortunately, the hostels were not ready. We also told them not to worry that we had made arrangements. We rented some hostel rooms and that was where we kept them for the next two weeks. To my greatest surprise, no parent took their child (away from GS). They left their children with us and it was quite remarkable. One of the parents (a couple) were having a conversation and the husband said, ‘This happened and the proprietress was not even there to talk to us. She just left us with the teachers’. The wife then told him, ‘The person that took you round the school is the proprietress’. He had to come back to apologise to me, although he did not do anything wrong. If you were not an educationist, what would you have become? I would have become an accountant. Do you think you would have been this fulfilled if you were an accountant? I would say ‘no’ because of the impact we have made, and not because it is a big school. At airports and other places, former students walk to me and express appreciation for our roles in their lives. That dwarfs all the challenges I have faced. Are any of your children following in your steps as an educationist? They are trying. Some children do not really want to walk in their parent’s shadows. They want to have their own lives. They have their own paths; except they recognise that this is a path for them. At least, I have one that is like that. Do you think women are making enough impact in the education system in Nigeria? The education system in Nigeria belongs to women. It is because of our love for children. They also need more support because it is challenging. Policies should be put in place to support female entrepreneurs. Have you ever been in a disadvantaged position because you are a woman? I think so but I don’t focus on such things. I cannot afford to divert my gaze from my goals. What is your favourite food? My favourite food is that food I am not supposed to eat (laughs). I like fried plantain. How do you like to dress? I like to dress conservatively and simply.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com