Ile-Ife indigenes, under the aegis of Ife Progressive Forum, on Thursday alleged that oath of secrecy was administered on members of the selection committee before the process of selecting new Vice Chancellor for Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, commenced. The appointment of Prof. Simeon Bamire as the 12th Vice Chancellor of the university has been greeted with demonstration by indigenes of Ile-Ife, who felt aspirants for the post who are indigenes of the town were schemed out. Although the group announced the suspension of protest, it however called on the President, Maj.-Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (retd.); and the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, to investigate the selection process and ensure justice. It insisted that two indigenes of the town, Profs. Rufus Adedoyin and O. Makinde, got the highest scores during the interview, and one of them should have been appointed VC, if the process was transparent. Addressing journalists in Ile-Ife, the group’s President, Dr. Gbolagade Famoriyo, alleged that Makinde had the highest rating among applicants from outside OAU, adding that another indigene, Adedoyin got best rating within the university. Famoriyo, who said the community had tolerated unfair treatment from some elements within the university before the last VC’s appointment, further stressed that indigenes were usually denied opportunity to attain higher post within the system, while those that had managed to reach good positions were unceremoniously relieved. He said an indigene of the town, Prof. Anthony Elujoba, who filled post of VC in acting capacity, though did well while in the saddle, was still being owed his entitlements by the management, forcing him to approach the court on the issue. “The entire citizens of Ife, home and abroad, are appealing to President Muhammadu Buhari; the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu; and well-meaning Nigerians to come to our rescue and look into the selection process in order for justice to prevail. “We are not saying it must be an Ife indigene at all cost, but all we are saying is that merit should be the basic for Vice Chancellor’s selection and that human prejudice should not come to play, “Famoriyo concluded. When contacted for reaction, the university’s Public Relations Officer, Abiodun Olanrewaju, said he was unaware of any oath-taking, saying all concerned should wait for the outcome of a petition written on the matter. “There are civilised ways of seeking justice, especially if a process is perceived unjust. We learnt that a petition has been written. So let’s wait for the outcome of that. I am not aware there was any oath-taking,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com