A nutrition security expert, Adedotun Owolabi, has urged the Nigerian government to pay better attention to the regulation of genetically modified foods. Owolabi also called on the government to focus on encouraging the fortification of locally produced food products to ensure they have the important nutrients. According to the diet expert, the Nigerian nation should look into the importation and consumption of foods containing genetically modified organisms because of the uncertainty about its safety. Owolabi while stressing that such foods should be regulated noted that the absence of regulation on it was inappropriate. The nutritionist noted that the safety of GMO foods is still a contentious issue around the world, adding that while most European countries have banned them due to health concerns, they have received favourable regulations in the United States and Brazil. Recall that in 2021, Nigeria introduced genetically modified seeds through the National Biosafety Management Agency. Speaking at a workshop, the Director-General of the agency, Rufus Ebegba had stated that safe science and technology have been known to be drivers of economic change the world over, adding that Nigeria cannot be left behind. Owolabi, who is a food and nutrition security expert, also noted that Nigeria should focus on the biofortification of food products to ensure that they contain nutrients that may be lacking in such food produce. According to Owolabi, biofortification is the process of breeding staple crops to have higher levels of essential nutrients either through selective breeding or genetic modification. “In Nigeria, we do not have regulations that support GMO foods. Instead of GMO foods, Nigeria talks more about biological fortification of staple foods- Biofortification.” “That is if a food product is lacking in a particular nutrient, this nutrient that is lacking can be introduced into the foods through conventional breeding or genetic engineering.” The nutrition security expert said while there has been no conclusive evidence to support or ban the use of GMOs, it should still not be left unregulated. He urged the Federal government to formulate policies and regulations on GMO foods to protect the citizens. According to experts, genetically modified organisms are any organisms whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques. Some examples of it include a wide range of organisms, from insects and plants to animals used in food production. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com