Sickle cell anaemia is a serious inherited blood disorder where the red blood cells, which carry oxygen around the body, develop abnormally.   Normal red blood cells are flexible and disc-shaped, but in sickle cell anaemia they can become rigid and shaped like a crescent (or sickle). The abnormal cells are also unable to move around as easily as normal-shaped cells and can block blood vessels, resulting in tissue and organ damage and episodes of severe pain. Such episodes are known as a sickle cell crisis or a vaso-occlusive crisis. They can last from a few minutes to several months, although on average most last five to seven days. No one born with Sickle Cell wished it upon themselves – not anyone born with any long-term illness for that matter – but allow me to concentrate on Sickle Cell.  In a country where statistics show that Nigeria has the highest number of people living with Sickle Cell in the world, one would think that perhaps the government would help individuals with Sickle Cell. If Nigeria has the highest rate of people living with Sickle Cell, that means, prospective couples believe that despite the two of them being carriers, they will not have a child/ren with Sickle Cell because of their faith.  To believe God is a good thing.  However, did you do your due diligence to find out what both your blood groups are before marrying each other?  God is not in the business of finishing what He has not started. Every person with Sickle Cell is left to fend for themselves.      If an adult or if a family has a child or children with Sickle Cell, they are on their own. Those who do not have any immediate family with a child with Sickle Cell have no sense of neighbourliness for those who have and that is where, as a society, we must all do better. Sickle Cell has an individual manifestation to its turmoil and chaos.  Some people might have Sickle Cell solely on paper. By this, I mean such a person is hardly sick.  Some people might have a yearly full-blown crisis and other than that, they are okay and carry on with life.  Other might have a full-blown crisis twice a year. For others, it is every three months; while for others, it is either every month or every week. Other than the first two examples above, any other type of crisis will disrupt the person having the crisis and the people around such a person.  I remember well my childhood and I would cry in pain; I mean yell in pain.  I wonder how my siblings coped with hearing me at night, screaming my head off.  Everyone at home took it in their stride and it was I guess, ‘Tola has started again.’  As you know, we find it difficult to separate the issue at hand from the person.  In the Bible, the blind man was known as ‘blind Bartimaeus;’ such is life.  It is that thing that one dislikes the most that people will remember one by. My point is, can you imagine what life must be like for someone who has a crisis several times a month?  Can you equally imagine what it must be like for the siblings or parents of this person living with Sickle Cell?  There’s a lot of blame between couples and children to their parents.  Why did you not check your blood groups to see if you were compatible? Why? These are ‘why’ questions that cannot be answered but at least can be corrected. We know that couples who married each other, and they are carriers can’t do anything about their child/ren with Sickle Cell.  But they sure can talk about the mistake they made and how such a mistake must not happen with the next generation because it is financially costly, among other things. Here we are as a country with the highest number of people living with Sickle Cell and no help from the federal or state governments.  There are mandatory tablets that anyone who has Sickle Cell must take on a daily basis.  That is an area of help. A lot of women have been abandoned by their partners because of having a child/ren with Sickle Cell.  The woman is left to struggle on her own in order to put food on the table for her child/ren.  If a single mother has more than one child with Sickle Cell, it would be very difficult for her to keep working or have a business. Due to no aid coming from the government, both federal and state, it comes down to whom the person living with Sickle Cell knows or who the family knows.  I mean the support network that such a person or family has in times when their son or daughter is admitted into hospital and perhaps needs blood transfusion.  How can a single mother cope with the bill of the hospital? Living with Sickle Cell is tough for anyone in Africa as a whole.  If you know someone living with Sickle Cell or a family, show some consideration towards such a person or such a family.  No form of help is too small. As a nation, Nigeria has the highest number of people living with Sickle Cell and something needs to be done about it.  Both the federal and state governments need to offer some help to this group of people who must mandatorily take three to four tablets daily.  Also, we have to look into the issue of carriers marrying each other.  I am not sure that a blanket ban on them not marrying is necessarily an option, as we know by nature, people like to rebel.  It is precisely that thing that a mother tells her little baby not to do that the child will do.  I believe that inasmuch as there are a lot of NGOs out there, working within the community that they are located, state governments also need to work hand-in-hand with these NGOs to get the message across to the common man. If you would like to get in touch with me about SCD or this article, please do so on: t.dehinde@yahoo.com and do visit my blog for more information about SCD – www.howtolivewithsicklecell.co.uk  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com