The just-inaugurated Governor of Anambra State, Chukwuma Soludo, on Thursday, said he will roll out his list of commissioners within one week. The former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria during his inaugural address at the Government House, Agu-Awka, Awka, the state capital, said he has no time to waste but would start work immediately. Soludo said, “Today is my first day at work. I just reported for duty and will work for at least eight hours. We had more than a month since the election to celebrate our historic victory. Now is the time to work, and there is no minute or kobo to waste in fanfare. In a few minutes, I will announce some of the principal officers of the administration, and commence with serious meetings of the Anambra State Security Council, followed by a meeting with the permanent secretaries, a meeting on Okpoko, and with my Strategy, Execution and Evaluation team. “Within the next one week, the list of commissioners will be laid before the House of Assembly.” On the insecurity engulfing Anambra and other four South-East states, the governor said, “To IPOB/ESN, the Movement for the Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra, as well as the disparate armed groups in the forests, it is time to interrogate both the purpose and means of your campaign. To the politicians playing politics with the insecurity, you are riding a tiger. “The current trajectory is a road to desolation. Let us get around the table and talk. Let the elite in the closet come out, and let’s debate our future and forge a consensus. “The conspiracy of silence by the elite and some community leaders must end. If you see something, say or do something! Securing Igboland and Nigeria must be our collective responsibility. “Let those in the forests come out, surrender their guns and let’s work together to rehabilitate and empower you to contribute positively to the peace and prosperity of our homeland.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com