AXA Mansard, a global insurance and asset management firm, says it has provided financial and capacity development support for over 200 female small and medium-scale enterprises in Nigeria. A statement from the firm said this was part of its continued effort to support women and SMEs in Nigeria. The firm said it provided the support through a capacity development conference organised by SME 100 Africa, in commemoration of International Women’s Day. SME 100 Africa is a social enterprise that supports young African entrepreneurs along their journey towards professional success, the statement said. Speaking during the conference, the Chief Client Officer, AXA Mansard, Rashidat Adebisi, said collaborating with SME 100 to empower SMEs was another way in the series of programmes and initiatives that AXA Mansard was using to inspire and empower women. She said AXA Mansard’s commitment to SMEs was not just about the ripple effect it would have on the economy, but also about the gap that it would bridge. “And empowering these brilliant business owners around the International Women’s Day, is our way of raising the awareness about the different socio-economic possibilities of unlocking the potentials of women either in business, career or other social endeavour,” she said. Commenting on the theme of this year’s International Women’s day, Adebisi said, “In life, we will face challenges and different biases. These biases affect everyone however, it is stronger against women. “We must therefore identify these biases and collectively start making changes. To unlock the full potential of the world, we must be ready to put in the work and it starts from breaking our biases, especially against women.” Speaking on the SME business pitch competition, which happened during the conference, the Chief Customer and Marketing Officer, AXA Mansard, Jumoke Odunlami, explained that the goal of the company in investing in the competition was not just to highlight the ingenuities of female SMEs in Nigeria, but also to give them constructive feedback on how to improve their business and help them understand the importance of Insurance. She said “For us, It is not just about who gets to win the prize money. The prize money is one of the many benefits of participating in this competition.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com