Female lawyers in Ondo State on Tuesday joined their counterparts and other women organisations across the country to protest against the alleged constitutional bias meted to women in the country. The lawyers, under the auspices of the International Federation Of Women Lawyers, Ondo State chapter, lamented the alleged bias in the state judiciary as very few women were allegedly elevated to higher positions in the judicial sector of the state. The state chairperson of FIDA, Catherine Ogunjebi, who addressed journalists after the protest, which was held at the state House of Assembly, Akure, the state capital, said the association was ready to address issues of gender bias and all forms of violence against women in the state. She lamented that in the state judiciary, only four females were elevated to the position of judges out of the 28 judges, the rest are males. She called for more elevation of females in the state judiciary. Ogunjebi said, “It is our mandate to protect, preserve and promote the rights of women and children in the society. To this end, allow me to reiterate that we have well trained and capable hands to handle gender cases and engage communities and the government in driving the needed change. “As we speak, the mega rally to protest the constitution bias meted to Nigerian women is ongoing. We joined our sister organisations/associations to protest this morning (Tuesday) at the House of Assembly. We are ready to do more and we know that Nigerian women and Ondo women shall be free from all gender-based discrimination and violence. “It is important to note at this point that the government of Ondo State under the leadership of our Executive Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu continues to elevate women in places of authority. We are grateful to Mr Governor for the appointments of more women in the cabinet of the state. “We use this opportunity to ask that women be elevated to the bench of the Ondo State Judiciary where we currently have an appalling 24:4 ratio of men to women judges in the state.” She enjoined women to participate in politics, register to be members of political parties so that their voices could be heard and enable them to have more representation in the political and elective positions in the country. “As we continue to protest the constitutional bias of the National Assembly against Nigerian women, which has smeared this year celebration; we assure you that we shall continue to engage our rural and urban women on the need to take part in politics, our political party leaderships to create safe spaces for women in politics to thrive; and government to allow women to thrive greatly. “It is our hope that, come 2023, Ondo will have her first female senator and member of the house of assembly,” the FIDA leader stressed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com