The Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar III, has warned traders to be fearful of the day of judgment and not increase the prices of foodstuffs and other essential commodities and services as Ramadan approaches. He also called on the government to devise a way of deliberately reducing the prices of foodstuffs to cushion the hardship being faced by Nigerians. Sultan Abubakar, who is also the President-General, Nigerian Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs, said this at the closing ceremony of the week-long 2022 National Qur’anic Recitation Competition hosted by the Bauchi State Government in collaboration with the Usman Dan Fodio University, Sokoto. He said: “Ramadan is coming and the cost of living in this country is going higher. I would like to use this medium to call on all market people, who sell things, to be fearful of what the Almighty Allah will do to them when they get to Him on the day of judgment. Instead of increasing the prices of foodstuffs and other necessary things, please try to reduce them to get the blessings of the Almighty Allah. “The cost of foodstuffs is high and it’s going up and up; the government has to do something to have this very serious challenge tackled. “I was in Abuja yesterday (Friday) with President Muhammadu Buhari at the inauguration of a Masjid before coming here and the Imam made the same comment. “With the President sitting in the Masjid with us, I think it is left to all of us in authority to see how we can work together and bring this rise in the cost of foodstuffs to a minimum and an affordable level where all of us can have a successful Ramadan with ease. I believe it’s not too much to ask our government, after all, we elected you into office, to serve us and not for us to serve you.” The Sultan warned that as the 2023 general elections were drawing near, politicians should not see winning positions as a do-or-die affair just as he reminded them that it is only God who gives power. He stated, “By 2023, politicians will be up to their normal game; please, play politics with the fear of the Almighty Allah. Knowing that He is the only one who gives power to whom He wants at the time He wants and He will take it away from you when He wants. “So, do not make it a do-or-die affair, because Allah already knows who is going to be the leader in 2023, whether at state or federal level, but we don’t know, because we are mere mortals. Let’s play the game by the rules. We must be fearful of that day that we will meet our creator.” In his speech, Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, lamented that the world was faced with numerous challenges ranging from corruption, intellectual bankruptcy, insecurity and other social maladies, adding that this state of affairs was threatening the socioeconomic system and the very existence of the world as a planet worth living in. He called on well-meaning and God-fearing Muslims, especially the Ulama, to intensify prayers at all times and places for God to have mercy on the country and save it. Mohammed further said, “We should not only fear the EFCC or ICPC, we should fear Allah; and also, our people should know that they should select people that are God-fearing. They should not just only be induced by money over personal interests, over matrimonial or other relationships, they should know that they are electing leaders.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com