The Head of Media, Pastor Umo Eno Campaign Organisation, Mr Anietie Usen, has said that over 600 support groups are working to actualise the governorship aspiration of Eno, who was endorsed by Governor Udom Emmanuel as his preferred successor in Akwa Ibom State. Eno, the Commissioner of Lands and Water Resources, was unveiled recently by the stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party as Emmanuel’s anointed successor for the 2023 governorship election in the state. Usen, a veteran journalist and author, disclosed this on Tuesday, shortly after he was elected as the chairman of the Friends of Umo Eno League. He said, “Umo Eno’s political journey is beyond politics, it is a movement of the people backed by the host of heaven’. As we speak about 600 support groups are working for his governorship aspiration.” He described the aspirant as ‘a man of peace, tailor-made for this land of peace and serenity, adding that Akwa Ibom State needed a transformational leader in 2023 rather than a transactional politician. He lauded the governor for not only discovering Eno but for identifying his qualities and character of humility, integrity and entrepreneurial mindset The media head predicted that Akwa Ibom people would have caused in the nearest future to look back and thank the governor for endorsing Eno, whom he also described as a man of depth and insight in the operations of Small and Medium Enterprises. Usen noted, “Umo Eno is a guru in SMEs and MSMEs. SMEs and MSMEs are the engine rooms of both developing and developed economies around the world. “His credentials as one of the most successful indigenous entrepreneurs, with a staff strength of more than 2000 and a monthly salary bill of more than N26 million  speak volumes about the unique capacity and pedigree of this particular governorship aspirant to advance the entrepreneurial spirit of Akwa people and build the capacity of the coming generation.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com