Health workers in Nigeria are currently an endangered species following their high risk of contracting Lassa fever due to the recent outbreak of the disease. Data revealed that no fewer than six Nigerian doctors and 36 health workers had been infected so far in 10 weeks. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control on its website specifically appealed to health workers to maintain a high index of suspicion for Lassa fever, adding that not all fevers were malaria. Since the last outbreak of the disease in 2016, the NCDC noted there had been an increase in the number of cases. In 2019, the centre noted that 796 cases were reported; it also noted that 1,165 cases were reported in 2020 during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. The NCDC said the activation became necessary, given the increase in the number of confirmed Lassa fever cases across the country. So far this year, 86 deaths have been reported, according to the NCDC, while six doctors have been killed and 36 health workers infected in 10 weeks. On December 15, 2021, two doctors were killed by Lassa fever in Nasarawa State. Similarly on January 10, 2022, one Dr Samuel Nyityo lost his life in Benue State to Lassa fever. Media reports on February 28, 2022, also cited the death of another doctor, Abel Obetta. The Nigerian Medical Association, Oyo State chapter, also announced the death of two doctors due to Lassa fever within 72 hours. The NCDC’s Lassa fever advice to health workers read in part, “Healthcare workers are mostly at risk of person-to-person transmission of Lassa fever, especially doctors, nurses and other health workers providing direct patient care with poor adherence to standard precautions and infection prevention and control measures. “Hospital staff, who clean and disinfect contaminated surfaces, materials and supplies without adequate protective gear; laboratory staff, who handle blood samples of suspected Lassa fever patients without appropriate precautions; medical or support staff, who prepare and or handle dead bodies of infected patients without appropriate precautions are also at risk. “To reduce the risk of Lassa fever, the NCDC offers the following advice to all healthcare workers: practice standard precautions while handling patients and body fluids i.e., always wear Personal Protective Equipment irrespective of patient’s provisional diagnosis. “Maintain a high index of suspicion for Lassa fever; be vigilant and look out for symptoms of Lassa fever. Not all fevers are malaria.” NMA demands PPEs as Lassa fever kills two doctors In a related development, the Nigerian Medical Association, on Thursday, said two medical doctors died as a result of Lassa fever within 72 hours in Oyo State. The NMA Chairman in the state, Dr Ayotunde Fasunla, who said this in a statement in Ibadan, asked all health facilities to make Personal Protective Equipment available to prevent the further loss of lives among doctors and other health workers. He said the PPE had been exhausted in some health facilities, which should be replenished to stop the further spread of the virus. Fasunla stated, “The NMA announces with deepest regret and sorrow the demise of two of our members from Lassa fever. “The tragic deaths occurred within a space of 72 hours. It is indeed a sad week and our eyes are still soaked in tears. “While we thought that COVID-19 had done its worst, we are now dealing with another onslaught of a Lassa fever outbreak. “Furthermore, we are worried about other health workers, who have had contact with the deceased unknowingly. We have advised them to quarantine and report if they develop any symptoms of viral hemorrhagic fever, not only for the sake of their health and safety, but also in the interest of patients and public health. “Members, especially frontline doctors and other health workers, must wear appropriate Personal Protective Equipment at all times. “We appeal to the management of health institutions in the state to make PPEs readily available as well as soap and running water for hand-washing immediately after attending to patients. “This is to protect our members and other healthcare workers from contracting transmissible infections. “We appeal to the Oyo State Government to conduct intensive surveillance and sensitisation on Lassa fever outbreaks in the affected communities as well as across all local government areas in the state. “We commiserate with the families of our colleagues, who lost their lives in the course of performing their professional duties to the service of humanity. May their gentle souls rest in peace.” The NMA urged its members to treat all febrile illnesses with a high index of suspicion. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com