The chairman of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress and governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, has lauded the Protocols Subcommittee for instilling confidence in members, while stating that all was set for the party to hold its National Convention scheduled for March 26. Receiving a briefing from the chairman of the subcommittee and governor of Kano State, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, the vice chairman and other members at his residence in Abuja, Saturday night, Buni noted that the committee has gingered hitherto pessimistic party members that the convention is tentatively holding on the slated day. A statement issued by the Commissioner for Information, Kano State and co-opted member of the committee, Muhammad Garba, quoted Buni as assuring that the party is organising a convention with a global outlook which calls for concerted effort by all members. The chairman commended the committee, which he said has been doing a good job in ensuring an organised convention of the party. Buni said the subcommittee is second to the main Convention Planning Committee in view of its importance, which informed the appointment of Governor Ganduje to chair it alongside other illustrious members who have track record of achievements in their respective endeavours. He also charged the committee to work in synergy with other committees and particularly with the Protocol Office, State House, Abuja, in view of the fact that President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo would be attending the convention. Earlier, chairman of the Protocols Subcommittee, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje, had said that recruited young men and women to serve as protocol officers and ushers had been completed and were receiving training as part of the responsibility of the committee. He said the committee has also been working to come up with a programme of event for a successful convention of the party. Ganduje also thanked the chairman of the CECPC for finding him and other members of the committee worthy to serve and promised to work with the main planning and other subcommittees to ensure a successful convention. Other members of the committee are Senator Godswill Akpabio, former governor of Akwa Ibom state and Minister of Niger Delta Affairs; Senator Adeleke Mamora, former Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly and Minister of State for Health; Rep. Hafiz Kawu, Tarauni Federal Constituency; Head of Protocol unit of the APC, Abdullahi Shu’aibu, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com