A group, Amaechi Vanguard in the United States of America/Canada has urged the All Progressives Congress to choose the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, as the party’s consensus presidential candidate. The coordinator of the group, Daniels Chukwuma, said that Amaechi had made enough sacrifices for the party to be considered qualified to emerge as a consensus presidential candidate of the APC for the 2023 elections. According to the group, Amaechi’s courage in canvassing for Muhammadu Buhari’s presidential ambition in 2015 in South-South and southeast zones was one of the major reasons APC is today the ruling party in the country. Chukwuma said “Chief Chibuike Amaechi had made enough sacrifices for the APC. He has taken enough bullets for the APC. Amaechi was at the forefront of canvassing for Muhammadu Buhari’s presidential ambition in the South-South and South-East zones in 2015, at a time it was like a sin to do so in the two regions. “He canvassed for Buhari in Rivers, Bayelsa, Edo, Akwa Ibom and other states in the South-South. Remember these are Goodluck Jonathan’s home-states and areas he was hugely supported. But Amaechi took the bull by the horn and went through the humiliation process to ensure that APC won the 2015 presidential election. “Also, remember that he was the one who in 2014 led five aggrieved governors of the People’s Democratic Party to the APC. That move fortified the APC and positioned it for victory in 2015. Also, he led Buhari’s campaigns two times across the lengths and breaths of this country in 2015 and 2019 as the Director-General of the campaign organization and the APC emerged victoriously. So it is a pay back time. All the stakeholders of the party should elect him the consensus presidential candidate. “We, Amaechi Vanguard USA/Canada under the leadership of Haruna Bature, the global chairman, believe that Nigeria now needs a nationalist in the capacity of Amaechi as the president. We need to prioritize our needs and should be able to say no to irredentists who want to hijack this country again.” The group also said that Amaechi’s presidency would unite and bring peace in all parts of the country, adding that ” Nigeria at this time needs a president who will be accepted in all the regions”. Chukwuma added, “Amaechi is a unifier. That is the kind of president Nigeria needs now. We need a president who will see all parts of the country as his constituency and treat all the zones equally in terms of appointments, infrastructure, basic amenities and so on. “He has been in the Federal Executive Council since 2015 and this is after he was governor and speaker in Rivers State for many years. He understands the political complexities of the country. The Northerners and Southerners trust him.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com