The Bayelsa State Government has expressed its commitment to implement the outcomes of the state’s recently-held first education summit to achieve a workable 15-year education plan and policy for the state. The Commissioner for Education, Gentle Emelah, said in Yenagoa, on Monday, that the implementation would involve partnerships and collaborations to realise the objectives of the summit aimed at addressing educational challenges on short, medium and long term. He was flanked by the permanent secretary in the ministry, Christopher Ehwrudjakpo; the education summit committee co-chairman, Alice Atuwo; secretary, Stella Ugolo and the technical adviser to the commissioner, Warmate Idikio. Emelah stated that the summit, which was themed, ‘Optimising the delivery, performance and sustainability of outcomes in the education sector,’ was successful. He said, “The summit generally agreed that Bayelsa State has taken a very bold and right step to address its educational challenges for improved education delivery. “It was stated that the outcomes of the summit should be adapted, conscientiously followed and implemented to achieve the broad aims of providing a concise and workable state education plan and policy, including future partnerships and collaborations.” According to him, the summit reiterated the need for the critical evaluation of current educational structures, practices, objectives and principles to align them with new aspirations of government for educational transformation. He said the summit affirmed the appropriateness of the ten themes that were framed to x-ray the issues, problems, prospects and the way forward in the education sector. Emelah highlighted the themes as access to education; school administration; financing and funding education; infrastructural situation, requirements and needs; quality assurance and quality control; curriculum; establishment and management of primary and secondary schools; establishment and management of higher institutions; standards and stipulations in education delivery, and issues on teacher emoluments, incentives and motivation. He further noted that the summit proposed the setting up of a committee of professionals, technocrats and stakeholders to carefully examine all the presentations, opinions and recommendations, and come up with an actionable report. The commissioner commended Governor Douye Diri for his support and applauded former President, Goodluck Jonathan, for delivering an outstanding keynote address as well as other eminent scholars, partners and stakeholders for their contributions toward the success of the summit. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com