As league football return across Europe, KELVIN EKERETE takes a look at five Super Eagles players to be on the lookout for on Saturday (today) Ademola Lookman (Leicester vs Leeds) Super Eagles invitee, Ademola Lookman, will be in action for Leicester City when they go head to head against Leeds United who are under new leadership after the departure of long-serving manager, Marcelo Bielsa. Bielsa has been replaced by American Jesse Marsch who will be looking to start life in England with a win. Lookman who has been impressive for the Foxes this term will be looking to grab his fifth league goal of the season against the Peacocks. Despite the club’s recent drop in form, the 24-year-old who is currently on loan at the King Power Stadium has impressed the coaching crew and the fans. He has scored six goals and provided four assists in 28 games across all competitions. Samuel Chukwueze (Osasuna vs Villarreal) Chukwueze is in line to make his 17th league appearance of the season for Villarreal when they file out against Osasuna at the El Sadar Stadium on Saturday (today) while he will be seeking his third league goal of the season in the match up. Chukwueze would be hoping to make an impression on Unai Emery in the game in order to earn himself more starting roles in the future. Since returning from a hamstring injury, the Nigeria international has been able to score five goals and provide two assists in 22 games in all competitions. Taiwo Awoniyi (Wolfsburg vs Union Berlin) After ending his six-game Bundesliga goals drought in Union Berlin’s 3-1 win over 10-man Mainz last weekend striker Taiwo Awoniyi will be hoping to get his name on the score sheet and grab his 11th Bundesliga goal of the season when they travel to Wolfsburg on Saturday (today). Awoniyi was on target the last time both sides met in the league. The capital side emerged 2-0 winners and will be hoping to repeat the feat. The 24-year-old is Bundesliga’s seventh top scorer this season. Joe Aribo (Rangers vs Aberdeen) Joe Aribo has been an instrumental player for Glasgow Rangers this season but recent results in the league have not been in favour of the Gers. They’ve drawn two of their last three league games and are currently three points behind arch rivals, Celtic. Rangers will be at home against Aberdeen and Aribo who is expected to be in the starting line-up. He will hope to score his eight goal of the season. The 25-year-old has found the back of the net seven times and provided five assists in 27 league games this term. Paul Onuachu (Cercle Brugge vs Genk) He’s scored 16 goals in 25 league games this season but his hunger to score more rages on. Paul Onuachu missed the game against Cercle Brugge in the first half of the season but will be hoping to continue his good form against them when Genk lock horns against Cercle on Saturday. Onuachu scored three goals against Cercle last season in both halves of the season and will be dreaming of hurting them again. Although the Nigeria international is yet to find the ruthless form he was in last season, he’s been able to manage 18 goals in 33 games in all competitions this season. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com