Gunmen have again attacked a venue of a burial ceremony in Ndingbu Village, Nnewi South Local Government Area of Anambra State and abducted one person. It was not clear who was being buried, but our correspondent gathered that the gunmen targeted vigilante operatives who were at the ceremony to provide security during the event late on Friday. The attack is coming less than 20 days after a similar one occurred in Ebenebe community, where about 20 people were killed. It was said to be the burial of a member of a rival cult group. Also, recently, gunmen, who are now called ‘umu oma’ in the South-East, have been going from community to community targeting vigilante groups in a bid to disarm them. According to eyewitness account, the gunmen also went to Utuh community in the same local government area, where they also attacked an office used by vigilantes operatives, setting it ablaze and also abducting one person. As of the time of filing this report, the details of the attacks were still sketchy, but the state police command’s spokesperson, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, confirmed both incidents took place. Ikenga said the Commissioner of Police, CP Echeng Echeng, had ordered the police to be on the trail of the gunmen. He said the operatives ordered to go against the gunmen include Police Mobile Force, Counter Terrorist unit, Special forces and others, who he said were already in the area, and that normalcy had been restored, while operation are still going on. He said, “Although no notification was given to the Police about the planned burial, but information revealed that the vigilante groups were invited. “Further details received showed that the miscreants arrived the ceremony and started shooting sporadically in attempt to disarm the vigilante operatives. “In another development, the hoodlums also attacked Utuh Viligante office, abducted one of the employees and set the Viligante Operation vehicle on fire.” Ikenga, however, assured that the police and other security agents were firm in providing security services in the state while also urging residents of the area to help Police with information that will aid the ongoing operation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com