The prosecution in the alleged murder of the postgraduate student of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Timothy Adegoke, on Monday, closed its case as a crime scene analyst and Deputy Commissioner of Police, Samuel Odeh, testified before the court. Odeh, who is attached to the forensic laboratory of the Force Criminal Investigation Department, Abuja, said on January 11, 2022, his unit received a letter from the Investigative Police Officer working on Adegoke’s case, requesting an analysis to be done on the sample brought. He was led in evidence by the prosecution counsel, M. Omosun. Odeh stated, “A Commissioner of Police minuted the letter and sent it to my superior. The request was to identify the substance on the cutting of a swab stick and analysis was done and a report was issued to the effect. “The head of my department is Assistant Commissioner Police Benedict Agbo. He is in Ghana on an official assignment. This is the only report, but the first one issued had a typographical error of date and has been corrected.” Following the prayer of the prosecution counsel, the court admitted as evidence the report issued by the crime scene analyst. Reacting to the report, Yusuf Ali (SAN), who is the counsel for the owner of Hilton Honours Hotel, Ile-Ife, Dr Ramon Adedoyin, opposed the admissibility of the report. Counsel for the defendants, Muritala Abdulrosheed (SAN), Rowland Otaru (SAN), and Okon Ita, opposed the documents but reserved further comments till when the final written address would be presented. They did not cross-examine the witness. Before closing, Omosun said his last witness, an employee of United Bank for Africa Plc, was absent even though a summons was served on the bank. Counsel for the defendants informed the court of their decision to file a no-case submission for Adedoyin and the others and asked the court for 48 hours to file the final written addresses. Omosun requested four days to respond to the written addresses of the defence counsel. In her ruling, Justice Adepele Ojo adjourned the matter till Friday for the adoption of the final written addresses. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com