Sickle cell anaemia is a serious condition which is inherited (genetic). It affects the red cells in the blood. With SCA, the red blood cells tend to go out of shape and become sickle-shaped (like a crescent moon) – instead of their normal doughnut/disc shape. This can cause various problems such as episodes of pain, infections and various complications. Indeed, the terms Sickle cell anaemia and Sickle cell disease or Sickle cell disorder are often used interchangeably. However, there are various other disorders that are classified as subtypes of SCD with each having a slightly different genetic makeup. Examples are Sickle cell/beta thalassaemia and Sickle cell/HbC. The main symptoms of sickle cell disorder are anaemia and episodes of severe pain. The pain occurs when the cells change shape after oxygen has been released. The red blood cells then stick together, causing blockages in the small blood vessels. These painful episodes are treated with strong painkillers such as morphine to control the pain.   People with sickle cell are at risk of further complications such as stroke, acute chest syndrome, blindness, bone damage and priapism (a persistent, painful erection of the penis) etc. Sickle cell disorder affects millions of people throughout the world and is particularly common among those whose ancestors came from sub-Saharan African; Spanish-speaking regions in the Western Hemisphere (South America, the Caribbean, and Central America).   It is also widely spread through the Middle East, Southeast Asia (India), and Mediterranean countries such as Turkey, Greece and Italy. Three things get on the nerves of people living with Sickle cell.  They are firstly the magnitude of the pain, it is difficult to explain to someone that one minute one is okay and the next, one’s body is on fire, so to speak.  Secondly, the volatile nature of having a crisis gets on the last nerves of anyone having a Sickle cell crisis.  This disease has no respect for one’s plans and to-do list.   Thirdly, the complications that arise from having Sickle cell.  I have named just a few things that people living with Sickle cell dislike and it wasn’t typed in any hierarchical order.   What then happens when one is dealing with all three all at the same time?  I mean, a crisis could occur when the individual living with Sickle cell has a project to submit, for example. With this crisis comes an unimaginable pain and at the same time, this one person is already dealing with a SC complication or more, that is a stable.  When one is in the depths of pain, and one can’t see a way out, it is easy to see one’s life as worthless. Recently, I was having to deal with all the above and being human, my mood started getting affected.   It seemed every time I got better, then another crisis would start again.  I have not been sick like this in years, and I did not understand what was going on.  I felt so helpless and downbeat.  As I searched for answers regarding what was making the crisis reoccur so rapidly one after another, I was reminded of something that I do but had not done for a while because life got in the way.  It was to speak ‘life,’ into my life.  I have always done this, and it has been part of my daily prayer routine. As an individual, it is important for me, to fortify myself words that define a better day, tomorrow or future.  They are words validation that anyone can speak onto themselves at any time during the day.  I prefer speaking these words over my life first thing in the morning.  I wanted those words to have settled into my body, soul and spirit before I start my daily business. What these words do for me is convey my love of myself, gratitude, and esteem of the person Tola.   They also help me to face the day ahead with no fear.   They are simply uplifting words that help me to focus on the good side of life that I live in.  The more one is sick, it is so easy to feel low, feel anxious or depressed and one way to not succumb to these negative feelings or that voice that wants one to concentrate on what is going on is to speak these words of inspiration. Here are examples of some of what I say: “I command all my body organs to function flawlessly.  I will not suffer any Sickle cell pain as from now on.  My life is enjoying a pain-free existence.  I speak life into all my joints.  “Sickle cell crisis, you are a liar!  I will always enjoy splendid health because Sickle cell does not have a hold on my future.  Sickled blood cells in my body, you will not stick together. “I will fulfil my purpose in life.  I am above and not beneath.  I will prosper.  I am brave.  My hope will not be cut off.  My needs shall be met.  I am determined that whatever I lay my hands upon will flourish.   I affirm that my wishes will come to pass.  Every day, I do the best I can.  I will not give up on life.  I will keep striving.  I believe my tomorrow will be better than today.  I am grateful for today.  I will not give up.” The reason why I say the above is because I am responsible for myself.  I must speak good things into my life because no one else will, particularly as I live with Sickle cell.   I do not mean that people wish me evil.  No, I don’t, but I mean that speaking these daily inspirational words will not do me any harm but will rather lift my spirit up and make me focus on attaining my God-given goals.  Of course, my loved ones wish me well.  But ultimately, I must love me.  I must try to like me.  Speaking these words of inspiration into my life make me feel upbeat about myself.   Until next time, don’t give up. If you would like to get in touch with me about this article or about Sickle cell, do so via email: t.dehinde@yahoo.com and do visit my blog: www.howtolivewithsicklecell.co.uk.   The e-copy of my book on Sickle Cell – HOW TO LIVE WITH SICKLE CELL is available for purchase on www.toladehinde.com and if you want to purchase a paperback version, it is available on Amazon.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com