Actress, Didi Ekanem, has advised women to work for their money, rather than depend on any man. In an interview with Sunday Scoop, she said, “It is important for a woman to work for her money. There is no point for any woman to depend on a man for money. I don’t know how to ask for favours and I refuse to ask men for money. I am happy that my money sustains me. It has helped me to live within my means.” On how she recovered from the shock of her house which got burnt late last year, Ekanem said, “It all boils down to the need to work hard and make one’s money. Some persons were asking why I cried and put up pictures (of the burnt house) on Instagram. They said I was chasing clout. But, one week after, I got a new apartment, and some people started talking again. I then said to myself, ‘My house got burnt, not my account balance’. It was easy for me to come out of it because I had savings.” The actress also stated that she creates funny content on social media for people to see another side of her. She said, “I love to create videos because I am a very funny person ‘when I am inside of me’. I just felt my fans needed to see my funny side. I can be very serious with work but there is another side of me that is very funny.” Speaking on her other interests aside from acting, Ekanem said, “I have just opened a store, and I am working on my new collection. I have also started a food business. These are things I have always loved. I love cooking and feeding people. We are in the social media era where people can easily monetise their passion. Becoming a fashion designer is not something I had always thought of. I needed to make extra money for myself. Anything you see me do, it is because I have passion for it. I went into fashion designing because it is something I enjoy doing. It was not easy because I had to go to school to learn the basics and have a better understanding of what it takes to become a fashion designer.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com