NAAT threatened the action over the non-implementation of the Memorandum of Agreement it signed with the Federal Government in 2009. The Chairman, Michael Okpara University of Agriculture Umudike chapter of the union, Mr Kenneth Nwaji, said this to newsmen on Monday. Nwaji, who is the South-East Zonal Public Relations Officer, read the memo from the national secretary, Abuja, signed by the General Secretary, Mr Abubakar Yusuf. He said the Federal Government had been issued a two-week ultimatum starting from Feb. 28, and ending on March 14, to address all the union’s grievances. Nwaji also noted that NAAT would hold its National Executive Council meeting on March 17, for a possible declaration of two weeks warning strike. He said that the NEC will take a final decision on indefinite strike action after its meeting which is scheduled to hold on March 30 and 31. NAAT has alleged delay in the renegotiation of the FGN/NAAT 2009 Agreement, insensitivity, and provocative attitude of the government on the matter. It also accused that the government had failed to release enabling circulars for CONTISS 14 and 15 as contained in the FGN/NAAT Memoranda of Understanding of September 2017, November 2020, and that of February 2021. The union denounced the non-release of funds for payment of Earned Allowance to defray the backlog of arrears which led to some branches battling with payment for the period of 2009 to 2012. Nwaji also complained about the lack of adequate, modern, and functional laboratory equipment, as well as non-payment of minimum wage arrears. The union also raised other issues which included the deplorable conditions of laboratories/workshops/studios in the nation’s universities and poor funding of state universities. Another concern raised was the non-composition of Governing Councils for Universities of Agriculture for more than a year now, saying that the development had caused unnecessary delay in the promotions of its members in those institutions. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com