The Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, on Tuesday, said he nurses no fears about the court orders threatening the March 26 national convention of the All Progressives Congress; assuring party stakeholders that the convention will hold as planned. This is as he disclosed that over 250 men and women enrolled to serve as protocol officers at the forthcoming convention are undergoing training already. Ganduje said this while fielding questions from journalists when he visited the APC national secretariat in Abuja. In an earlier report, The PUNCH had revealed that a Bwari division of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory in suit number FCT/HC/CV/2958/2021 had restrained the governing party from holding its convention until a substantive suit has been heard and determined. The suit filed by one Salisu Umoru had the APC, the Independent National Electoral Commission, and Mai Mala Buni as respondents. Also, our correspondents learned that there are at least 208 pending court cases, some of which are seeking a declaration nullifying all state congresses under the leadership of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee while threatening the party’s national convention. Reacting to questions about the court order, the Governor said, “I have no fears. Our convention will hold Insha Allah. Don’t worry, we are equal to the task. We are the biggest party in Africa and we have the experience to handle it. “We are organising the convention, the selection is taking place, the consensus is taking place and we believe we will give you the best.” On the purpose of his visit to Buhari House, Ganduje who chairs the protocol subcommittee said he came to witness the ongoing training of 205 individuals who will serve as protocol officers at the March 26 convention. “If you see what is taking place inside you will know we are members of the protocol subcommittee. We are preparing for the convention. Apart from the selection of about 250 able young men and women, they are undergoing training, after which they will proceed to Eagle Square, the venue of the convention. “I will be there myself together with other members of the protocols subcommittee. You know there will be many dignitaries; legislators, governors, president and vice President even ministers who will be there as observers anyway. It is a gathering of who is who not only in APC but in government. So, our protocols and ushers must give the best services to benefit our great party at the convention.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com