The Metaverse has catapulted onto the public domain since November 2021, when Mark Zuckerberg announced that Facebook would be rebranded to Meta, to bring the Web 2.0 giant into the popular virtual world. The new cryptocurrency Seesaw Protocol (SSW) is already making waves in the crypto world, with a value increase of over 30% in recent weeks. As the crypto draws near to the end of its pre-sale phase 2, it could become the next Millionaire maker coin and follow in the footsteps of giants Litecoin (LTC) and Terra (LUNA). Seesaw Protocol (SSW) is the hot new crypto, as since its launch in mid-January 2022 the revolutionary coin has grown by almost 2250%. The coin has a great mission, which is to educate and invest in the younger generation on how to use the up-and-coming technology centred around the Metaverse. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) will use 1% of its marketing pot, to fund global educational institutions.  Furthermore, the Seesaw Protocol’s (SSW) whitepaper states that they are, “committed to creating a Metaverse dedicated to immersive learning. It is the purpose of this Metaverse to especially attract children to also live in an interesting virtual world, where learning is the natural outcome of enjoying the Metaverse.” This commitment also shows its long-term potential to be a lucrative investment. Older crypto Litecoin (LTC) has been going from strength to strength since its launch on October 7, 2011. It was designed to provide low-cost, fast, and secure payments by utilising the unique features of blockchain technology. Litecoin (LTC) was created with Bitcoin (BTC) protocol in mind and its creator, Charlie Lee wanted to make a cryptocurrency that is a “lite version of Bitcoin,” with similar features but a much lighter version. This is achieved by Litecoin (LTC) having a block time of just 2.5 minutes and small transactions fee at the point-of-sale for payments.  This technology is great for employers sending money to overseas employees. So, it is not surprising that Litecoin (LTC) is up 3.44% in the last 24 hours, with a live price of $107.51 and a 24-hour trading volume of $864,079,124. Litecoin’s (LTC) current ranking is #21 on CoinMarketCap. Alternatively, Terra (LUNA) which was launched at the end of 2020, stands out from a lot of other coins and projects in the crypto world because it aims to solve the lack of decentralization amongst the prominent stable coins on the market. Also, Terra (LUNA) has made many of its investors’ Millionaires because it has a very popular NFT Play-to-earn (P2E) game called The Dungeon, which is taking the Metaverse by storm. Gamers can earn up to 100 UST a day. If the gamers defeat the final boss in the game, they could earn up to 10,000 UST. The NFT game is also the first PSE game to be funded by the Liquid liquidity pool (LLP). So, this is a great crypto for budding gamers looking at capitalising on making a second income. Presently, the live Terra price today is $89.11 with a 24-hour trading volume of $3,078,547,800. Terra (LUNA) is down 2.43% in the last 24 hours, with a current ranking of #7 on CoinMarketCap. Even though the coin is down now, it could be a good time to invest in it as it is still ranked very highly and has great long-term investment potential. Furthermore, it could be worth purchasing Seesaw Protocol (SSW), as its presale price is very low at $0.13742 and as the crypto has some analysts predicting that the price of SSW could rise from $0.2 to $0.45 (between now and April 2022 when it enters its pre-sale phase 3). It is looking like the coin is on its way to competing with older cryptos. So, if you are looking for the next crypto investment which cares about the future generation’s education of the tech world and the Metaverse, and with predictions by some analysts that the price of SSW units could rise from $0.2 to $0.45 (between now and April 2022 when it enters its pre-sale phase 3). Then this could be the long-term investment that could make you a Millionaire. Enter Presale: https://presale.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol