A Coalition of 52 Northern Groups has announced its partnership with relevant stakeholders to unveil a community-based initiative aimed at rehabilitating youths struggling from drug abuse and addiction in the region. The organisation said its intervention became necessary because substance abuse had become a major problem facing the North. The Director of Strategic Communication in CNG, Samaila Musa, told Journalists that the programme tagged: ‘Initiative for Community Action Against Drug Abuse’ would also provide empowerment schemes for drug addicts, thereby driving the economic recovery of the Northern region and the country. He said that the ICAADA would involve both traditional and religious institutions. Musa said, “We are concerned by the fact that drug and substance abuse have become one of the major problems facing Northern Nigeria in particular, with the rapid proliferation among the youths and even housewives. Consequently, the CNG has initiated an action that would complement government efforts towards checking this menace. “Recall that in 2017 a committee of experts was inaugurated by Professor Ango Abdullahi at Arewa house Kaduna with the responsibility of tracing the remote causes of drug abuse, assessing the extent of penetration, identifying manufacturer and supply roots and suggesting alternative ways of tackling the menace. “The committee in its report recommended among others a community-based action by which communities will own the fight and prosecute it. “The CNG adopted this recommendation and came up with the ICAADA which aims to involve traditional, religious and community leaders as well as youths and women groups and all segments of the society in a training and retraining process on the techniques of detection, apprehension, vigilance on prosecution, checkmating supply routes that will lead to the final eradication of the problem.” Musa, however, explained that due to unforeseen circumstances, the formal launch of ICAADA had been postponed from the 15th to the 28th of March 2022. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com