Nigeria’s extractive industry is full of impunity. The government is complicit because it has not been doing its regulatory duties with diligence and patriotism. For instance, in spite of the fact that we are daily besieged by oil spills from international oil companies, we have not tightened the laws guiding environmental regulation in the oil industry. For the past 12 years, the government keeps promising to give the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency the teeth to bite. But up till now, no tooth has been manufactured for the NOSDRA, as if amending a piece of legislation is rocket science. One would then ask, is it that our political leaders enjoy the suffering of the masses from massive oil spills and other avoidable hazards from the extractive industry? Are the legislators – who we maintain with humongous budgets – satisfied with just sitting and deliberating without impact? Is our president, who some of us thought was eco-friendly when we voted him into office in 2015, happy to watch our environment degrade, without raising a finger to save the day? According to the Federal Ministry of Environment, Nigeria recorded 4,919 oil spills between 2015 and March 2021 and lost 4.5 trillion barrels of oil to theft in four years. The number of oil spills caused by collision is 308; those caused by operational maintenance is 106, while sabotage is 3,628 and yet to be determined 70. This gives the total number of oil spills on the Nigerian ecosystem to 235,206 barrels of oil. Indeed, this is very colossal damage to the environment. What is more, Nigeria has lost approximately N4.75 trillion on oil activities in the four years between 2015 and 2018, as estimated by the Nigeria Natural Resources Charter. Several statistics have emphasised Nigeria as the most notorious country in the world for oil spills, losing an estimated 400,000 barrels per day. The country following behind us is Mexico, which reports only 5,000 to 10,000 barrels per day. Apart from the environmental effect, the country is losing so much revenue. There is also the impact on local people and national security. All these would have been avoided if our leaders were serious about governance. In more serious countries, any breach by the extractive industry players activates an immediate reaction by the government. This is to serve as a deterrent to other operators, as the industry is very lucrative and operators will not hesitate to take advantage of any loophole in the regulatory structures. Let us take Ghana for example. The country was called Gold Coast because gold is its major export, the same way crude oil is to us. But even up to this day, the government never allows the foreign players to take the people of Ghana for granted. Because of this, when the government of Ghana barks, the foreign mining companies sit up. On January 20, 2022, a large blast occurred in an area at Apeatse community, near the city of Bogoso about 300km (180 miles) west of the capital of Ghana, Accra. The explosion occurred when a motorcycle went under a truck carrying explosives that were en-route to the gold mine at Bogoso. It was later reported that a total of 3,300 people were affected by the event, with 17 people confirmed dead and some 59 people injured. Reports from the National Disaster Management Organisation of Ghana indicated that 500 buildings were destroyed by the blasts and approximately 1,500 people were rendered homeless. The explosion blew off portions of major roads in the area, with many commuters getting stranded due to the situation. In fact, the incident attracted global attention, the same way oil spills do on our shores. What caught my attention, however, was that immediately after the mining-related disaster, the Ghana government set up a three-member committee to investigate the explosion at Apeatse. And within days, the Spanish company, Maxam Ghana Limited, in charge of the truck that exploded and killed 17 people at Apeatse was fined $6 million for regulatory breaches regarding the manufacture, storage and transportation of explosives for mining and other civil works. In a press statement signed by the Ghana Lands Minister, Samuel Jinapor, the government noted that Maxam had breached regulatory processes. Remarkably, although the penalties for the said breaches, pursuant to L.I. 2177, range between ¢600 and $10,000, the Ghana government imposed a hefty fine due to “the nature and the totality of the circumstances leading to this tragic incident.” The Lands Minister had also set out 14 conditions to be met by the company before restoring their operating permit. The measures included a ban on Ammonium Nitrate and Fuel Oil transportation on a public road to a mine or civil work site unless expressly permitted by the Chief Inspector of Mines. Other measures include explosives being guarded by two escort vehicles, one in front and one at the back, both having sirens to warn people about the explosives. The company is to notify the Chief Inspector of Mines of their intention to transport explosives 48 hours before the scheduled transportation. According to the minister, the 14 measures apply fully to all companies involved in manufacturing, supply, transportation and use of explosives. The statement also said sanctions against Jocyderk Logistics Limited and Arthanns Enterprise and Transport Services, two other (local) entities involved in the Apeatse tragic incident, were being reviewed and would be applied and communicated in the coming days. Now, the most interesting aspect of the entire incident was the reply from the indicted foreign mining firm, Maxam Ghana Limited. According to reports, the company denied breaching mining regulations but was quick to declare its commitment to paying the government’s $6 million fine and abiding by laid down rules from the government of Ghana. There are a couple of lessons for Nigeria in this incident in Ghana. The first is the short time frame that elapsed between the time of the accident and the government’s punitive intervention. The second is the number of people involved in the committee which reviewed the accident—just three persons. Over here in Nigeria, committees take the form of a classroom, as politicians see every committee as an opportunity to share the national cake. Thirdly, the transparency involved in apportioning punitive measures, which dovetails into the palpable spirit of patriotism displayed by the government officials involved. They clearly stated that the Ghana extant laws stipulated a light penalty ($10,000), but due to the damage to the nation, the government arbitrarily increased the fines to a whopping $6 million; while also reviewing the mining process to instil industrial safety. To me, this is the apex of patriotism and creativity in governance. The foreign firms have no choice but to comply! In contrast, over here in Nigeria, the penalties for pollution and environmental damage are abysmally low. For example, the fine for failing to report an oil spill to NOSDRA is N500,000. The fine for failure to clean up the impacted site “to all practical extent, including remediation” incurs a fine of paltry N1 million. Of course, these fines are inadequate to ensure compliance with the law and to prevent damaging practices; but our politicians are not patriotic enough to change them, nor are they creative enough to review the practice. O God, who did we offend?  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com