Armed security personnel, on Tuesday, took over the Cross River State House of Assembly complex. The security personnel, drawn from the police Anti-Kidnapping Squad, riot and regular policemen, and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, were strategically stationed on the routes leading to the state House of Assembly complex. Movement into the complex, which is located off Hope Waddel Avenue, Calabar, was restricted as the gate was shut against the lawmakers and workers. An armoured personnel carrier was seen moving around the vicinity. The presence of the security operatives followed Monday’s ruling of the High Court, Abuja, which sacked 20 lawmakers in the state for defecting from the Peoples Democratic Party to the All Progressives Congress on May 20, 2021. Unconfirmed reports had it that the affected lawmakers, their supporters and members of the APC were planning to protest against the judgment at the Assembly complex. Speaking about the deployment of security personnel, the state Police Public Relations Officer, SP Irene Ugbo, stated, “Nothing is happening; we are just protecting government’s property. We are doing that in respect of the pronouncement of the Abuja Federal High Court yesterday (Monday). “Some people, in a situation like this, will agree, while some will disagree, and some miscreants may want to invade the place. We are just ensuring law and order, and to stabilise the place. That’s all.” Meanwhile, the APC has appealed the judgment. A statement by the Special Adviser to the Governor, Christian Ita, stated, “This is to inform All Progressives Congress members of the National Assembly from Cross River State, members of the Cross River State House of Assembly and the general public that an appeal against the judgment of the Federal High Court, Abuja, has been filed at the Court of Appeal, Abuja. “Also, a motion for a stay of execution of the Federal High Court judgment has been filed. Both processes were filed by renowned constitutional lawyer, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN).” “Following the filing of the two processes, the orders of the lower court are automatically stayed. “Consequently, the APC members in both the National Assembly and the Cross River State House of Assembly should go about their duties freely.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com