THE Head of the Department of Economics, University of Uyo, Prof Emmanuel Onwioduokit, on Wednesday faulted Governor Udom Emmanuel’s claim that the controversial N150bn was not a loan but a strategy to create money. The leader of the House of Assembly, Mr Udo Kieran Akpan, had while defending the governor’s request claimed that Emmanuel was on course to use his banking experience to create money from the money market. But speaking in Uyo, the university don advised the governor to be open to the Akwa Ibom people to enable them to understand his direction and be properly positioned to support government activities and programmes. He said, “No state government can create money through instruments. Any form of instrument that a state issues is a debt because it would involve a payback with interest, and to that extent, it is a loan. Only the private sector can issue equity and shares, that makes you an owner with the company”. The professor further blamed the number of abandoned road projects on the mood of contract awards and the government’s alleged inability to open up to the people, adding that it was impossible to prosecute defaulting contractors who were not subjected to proper processes of bidding before being awarded contracts. “Why are they not bidding for the roads? Why do they sit down and allocate contract to their friends? Even the procurement law requires bidding and competition before contracts are awarded. “The state is further deprived by the shoddy approach to contract award because even the bidding process would have attracted some revenue to the state. “The likelihood now is that when your friend whom you awarded the contract without due process defaults, you cannot prosecute him. Are there ongoing court cases to recover funds from defaulting contractors? We do not even know how much was involved in all the projects across the state”. The ex-employee of the Central Bank of Nigeria decried the state’s huge debt profile which he said was above N400bn, challenging the governor to defend the N18bb it borrowed for the installation of CCTV cameras in the state. “This same government borrowed the sum of N18bn for installation of CCTV Cameras across the state to help in the fight against criminality. Where are the cameras? where were they installed? what happened to the money?” he queried  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com