The Federal Commissioner, National Commission For Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons, Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim, has said that the commission does not have an Act yet but a bill is awaiting the assent of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd). The commissioner disclosed this, according to a statement, in Lagos on Wednesday during a press briefing. Sulaiman-Ibrahim explained that the commission will strengthen its internal framework to organise projects to tackle the plights of vulnerable people in society. She said, “The NCFRMI Bill is currently in its final phase and would be assented to soonest by President Muhammadu Buhari, who is so passionate about the plights of the vulnerable ones in the society. “The commission’s mandate is to become a leading, world class humanitarian organisation, with effective and sustainable solutions for all persons of concern. “To achieve the mandate, the commission adopted the following strategy to achieve its mandate; strengthening of internal framework, streamlining of existing data, standardised digitalisation, sustainable and durable solution, and strategic partnership for resource mobilisation.” “The strategic project drivers of the commission’s vision are at varying stages of implementation like the NCFRMI Project Zero Hunger initiative, which is a project aimed at bringing immediate relief to vulnerable persons of concern and their families facing food insecurity. “It incorporates a whole-of-society and whole-of-systems approach to providing assistance and support to persons of concern and also developed to help streamline and enhance the accessibility, distribution and availability of food and non-food items, thereby eliminating waste and duplication of efforts that was evident in the previous means of distribution.” Sulaiman-Ibrahim said the NCFRMI would train persons of concern in carpentry and other vocational skills. “There are initiatives such as Project Skill Up, which is designed to train selected persons of concern across trades such as carpentry, welding and others. “The commission is committed to strengthening collaboration among all stakeholders and ensuring there is a concerted effort in providing support and assistance to persons of concern in Nigeria,” he said. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com