The national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party has said it has not made up its mind on which zone the party’s presidential candidate will come from. It, however, explained that it decided to begin the sale of nomination forms to its presidential aspirants in order to not run foul of the electoral timetable already released by the Independent National Electoral Commission. The party’s leadership said because of INEC’s timetable, it was difficult to stop any of the aspirants, including a former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, from buying the N40m form. Recall that Atiku obtained the PDP presidential form on Thursday, claiming that the form was procured for him by northern businessmen under the aegis of the North-East Business Community. The sale of forms to Atiku and the desire to sell same to other northern presidential aspirants of the party took many by surprise because of the clamour for power to shift to the southern part of the country. Apart from Atiku, other presidential aspirants from the North in the party are the Governors of Sokoto and Bauchi states, Aminu Tambuwal and Bala Mohammed, respectively. A former Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwanso, is also believed to be nursing the ambition. Governors from the southern part of the country who are members of the PDP had joined their counterparts from the All Progressives Congress that the next president should come from the South. The President, Maj. Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), who assumed office in 2015, is due to vacate office on May 29, 2023. There has been a general clamour for a southerner to succeed Buhari. Pressure groups from different parts of the country, especially from the South, had been asking the two major political parties to make sure their presidential candidates are from the South. The PDP, which ruled from 1999 till 2015 before losing power to the APC, had refused to make any commitments to the clamour. However, the spokesman for the party, Mr Debo Ologunagba, said the party had yet to decide on which zone would produce its presidential candidate. He also said the party would not stop anyone from picking its form, saying doing so would be wrong since the party was not going to deny any of its members the exercise of their inalienable rights. He also said the 37-member zoning committee set up by the party’s National Executive Committee would be reporting to the NEC at its next meeting. However, Ologunagba said the names of the zoning committee members were yet to be known, adding that each state, including the Federal Capital Territory, is expected to nominate a member. He said, “We have not decided on where our presidential candidate will come from. Yet, we are selling form because of the timetable released by INEC. We cannot wait as doing so could jeopardise our chances of taking part in the elections. “People should therefore not make up their mind that we have concluded on where the presidential candidate would come from just because we are already selling form and Atiku has bought.” Asked why the party could not wait for the zoning committee to conclude its assignment before selling the nomination form, Ologunagba said “time is not on our side.” On whether the party would refund the money used to purchase the nomination form by aspirants from any zone that the zoning committee disqualifies from vying for the position, he said “I cannot pre-empt the work of the zooming committee.” If Atiku wins the PDP ticket, it would be his sixth shot at the Presidency having contested in 1993, 2007, 2011, 2015 and 2019. Meanwhile, a three-man committee set up by the party to settle the differences between the Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, and his Rivers State counterpart, Nyesom Wike, has yet to commence work. The committee is chaired by the Governor Samuel Ortom of Benues State. Its members are the Governor of Delta State, Senator Ifenayi Okowa, and his Bauchi State counterpart, Bala Mohammed. Asked if the committee had commenced work, Ologunagba said he was not a member and therefore would not be able to give a categorical statement on it, but expressed optimism that the committee would do a thorough job. “The committee was appointed by the NEC and it would report back to NEC,” he said in response to a question on the workings of the committee. Nevertheless, he said he was not sure when the next NEC would hold and with this, he was not sure when both the zoning and the peace committees would submit their reports. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com