The mutilated corpse of a man suspected to have been killed by cultists has been recovered on Unity Street, Baruwa Estate in the Ipaja area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that residents were shocked upon sighting the body of the yet-to-be-identified man on the street on Friday. They were said to have contacted the police, who recovered the remains and deposited them in a mortuary. A source in the community said the body was filled with wounds. “From what we gathered, after the man was killed, his eyes were plucked out. Marks indicating that he was attacked with a cutlass were also seen,” the source said. A picture showing the remains of the victim lying motionless on the street was seen by our correspondent. However, there was nothing to show his eyes were removed. The victim wore a blue top and brown trousers. Confirming the incident, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundenyin, said investigation to unravel the events that led to the death was ongoing, adding that the corpse had been deposited in a mortuary. He said, “A male body was found on Unity Street on Friday around 5am. The police took statements from the person whose house is close to the place of the incident. The person, Alfa, said he woke up in the middle of the night to find the lifeless body right in front of his house. “He said it had not been there for long when the police were informed. The person has since been released because there was no link or reasonable evidence against him; but he’ll be invited for further questioning when the need arises. Investigation is still ongoing as no family has identified or claimed the corpse.” The General Manager of the Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Agency, Ifalade Oyekan, also confirmed the incident. “The cause of the death of the young man is yet to be unravelled as an investigation is ongoing,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com