The All Progressives Congress Chairman in Ekiti State, Paul Omotoso, said on Monday that the party has nominated its state Woman Leader, Mrs Monisade Afuye, as the running mate to its governorship candidate, Biodun Oyebanji, on account of her grassroots acceptability. Omotoso said that Afuye’s nomination has been formally communicated to the Independent National Electoral Commission in keeping with extant electoral guidelines, and the necessary formalities concluded. The party chairman made the disclosure in a statement by the APC State Public Relations Officer, Segun Dipe, titled, ‘Chief Monisade Afuye nominated as Ekiti Deputy Governorship candidate.’ He said, “We are pleased that the nomination of Mrs Monisade Afuye has been well received by our people, especially among grassroots stakeholders. This has affirmed the correctness of our choice in response to the yearning of the people for a deputy governorship candidate who is grounded in local realities.” Oyebanji described Afuye’s nomination as “a very strategic move to bolster the chances of the party at the polls. I am most excited to welcome her as my running mate for the upcoming elections. Madam Afuye has been a part of the political structure in the state for many years now and she is an accomplished mobiliser and voice for the masses.’’ “I know her to be a woman of immense wisdom and generosity of spirit and I am confident that she would be a great partner whose reach and connections with the grassroots would contribute to earning the mandate of the people and eventually running an inclusive and progressive government that works for all,” the APC candidate said. Afuye, who thanked APC leaders and stakeholders for the confidence reposed in her, said, “I look forward to working with our candidate, Mr Oyebanji, to build on the great development legacies of Governor Kayode Fayemi. I will not disappoint you.” The 74-year-old party chieftain, who has HND Public Administration, according to Dipe, is an accomplished entrepreneur, public servant, grassroots politician and community leader. She is a member of the Governing Council of the Bamidele Olumilua University of Science and Technology, Ikere Ekiti. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com