Andrew Nice, the prime suspect in the gruesome murder of 22-year-old Bus Rapid Transit passenger, Oluwabamise Ayanwole, would be arraigned today at the Yaba Magistrate Court, The PUNCH has learnt. Counsel for the family of the deceased, Ayo Ademiluyi, made this known in a statement on Friday, while urging interested persons to make it to court where the arraignment would commence by 12 noon. This is as another female passenger accused Andrew, the driver of the BRT vehicle arrested in connection with the brutal murder of Bamise, of raping her on the bus. The female victim, who spoke exclusively to PUNCH Metro, accused Andrew of raping her on November 25, 2021. The PUNCH had reported that the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Adekunle Ajisebutu, announced on Monday that the dead body of Bamise was found where suspected ritualists dumped the dismembered and uncompleted remains of the lady on the Carter Bridge by Ogogoro Community. Bamise got missing while returning to Ota from Ajah on February 26 when she boarded a BRT bus with number 240257 going to Oshodi at about 7pm at Chevron Bus-Stop. The victim, who worked as a fashion designer in Ajah spent her weekends in Ota, Ogun State, with her sister, had sent some voice notes to a friend when she sensed danger on the bus. The friend had escalated the matter and it attracted widespread condemnation with many Nigerians calling on security agents to fish out the perpetrators and rescue Bamise. On Monday, the Department of State Services arrested Andrew Nice, the driver of the BRT that the victim boarded. Nice was arrested in Ogun State at his hideout as a fugitive. Viral videos show that the driver when apprehended by the secret police confessed to having raped the deceased but in a follow-up video in branded government outfit, Nice recanted, sparking outrage on alleged cover-up of the criminality committed. A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, had said the Babajide Sanwo-Olu government has a lot of questions to answer and therefore urged the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, to take up the case for justice to be served. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com