A former Deputy Governor of Osun State, Mrs Grace Laoye-Tomori, has called on the federal government and other stakeholders to solve all the challenges in the country’s education sector. Laoye-Tomori said this at the  sixth Distinguished Lecture of Mountain Top University, Magboro, Ogun State, titled, ‘Education, Technology & National Development.’ Laoye-Tomori who was the guest lecturer explained that it was intriguing that the federal government and some frontline states in the educationally disadvantaged states had not realised the imperative of revamping education at all levels. She said, “I, therefore, call on all concerned to take educational investment as the one-factor elixir to our economic problems and a priority for sustainable economic growth and national development. Let us tackle the challenges in our educational system as if our lives and our national development depend on it. That is the only pathway to the greatness of our nation.” She added that the capabilities of the Nigerian graduates were exemplified by the glowing exploits of the youths in the new world of technology. The chairman of the lecture, Pro-chancellor, Lagos State University, Sir David Sumoni, applauded Laoye-Tomori’s lecture, saying it answered several questions on education and technology as a panacea to national development. He said, “She has shown us the steps we need to take for our national development to be a reality. Any nation that doesn’t give full priority to education and technology cannot be counted to have developed.” Also, the VC, MTU, Prof. Elijah Ayolabi, explained that the lecture was organised so as to create a relationship between the gown and town. “The distinguished lecture is a way of creating relationship with the gown and town. She is a seasoned politician and this will help the university to know the mindset of those outside, we will be able to appreciate one another better and share ideas.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com