NIGERIA’S rapidly declining global reputation has been highlighted again by a former Secretary-General of the Commonwealth, Emeka Anyaoku. His verdict that the country’s reputation has plunged southwards resonates. For a country that once had a weighty voice in continental and global affairs, the odium it is suffering can only be reversed by internal radical changes in all spheres of human development. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has to mobilise all available resources and segments of society to drive this process. The regime and the entire political class appear decidedly ill-suited for the task. But as Africa’s most populous country, its largest economy and the world’s largest agglomeration of Blacks, all stakeholders must unite to improve the lives of its 211 million people and repair its battered image in the comity of nations. At the maiden symposium of the Emeka Anyaoku Institute for International Studies and Diplomacy at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anyaoku, declared, “Nigeria’s standing in the world has declined!” This is saying the obvious. A recent study ranked Nigeria’s passport 98th out of 199 countries, below Malawi, Niger, Chad, Zimbabwe, Uganda and The Gambia. In many other global rankings, the country is disreputable. It became the World Poverty Capital in 2018. On the UNDP’s Human Development Index 2020, it slid three places to 161 out of 189 countries. It dropped from the top 10 bracket to No.14 in RMB’s ranking of most preferred investment destinations in Africa in 2021. In 2019, the InterNations group ranked it the third most dangerous country to live in. Nigeria’s records in terrorism and corruption are reprehensible. It has been ranked the third most terrorised country; hosts three of the world’s five deadliest terrorist groups identified by the Global Terrorism Index—Boko Haram/ISWAP, Fulani herdsmen and the so-called “bandits.” Corruption thrives on an industrial scale, as the country, once described as “fantastically corrupt” by a former British prime minister, David Cameron, slid further by five places in the Corruption Perception Index 2021 to 154 out of 180 countries. Even on the continent where its self-styled tag of ‘Giant of Africa’ was once unchallenged, the Green passport commands little respect now and Nigerians are often subjected to indignities. In June 2020, armed men stormed Nigeria’s High Commission’s premises in Accra, Ghana, demolished a block of uncompleted apartments and drove away the staff. In the days when Nigeria was respected, such an affront was unthinkable. In August 2021, a Nigerian diplomat in Indonesia was manhandled by the Asian country’s immigration officials right in front of the diplomatic mission. Such acts violate international law, especially the Vienna Convention governing diplomatic and consular relations between states. Anyaoku, 89, is a living testimony to Nigeria’s past positive global rating. He climaxed his illustrious career as a diplomat and international civil servant with his election in 1990 as the Secretary-General of the Commonwealth, having defeated a former prime minister of Australia; he was re-elected, for a second five-year term in 1995. In his words, “These were the eras when Nigeria was flying high internationally, when (the) Nigerian passport was treated with respect and dignity globally.” The story is diametrically different today. In its early days as an independent country, Nigeria joined others to drive the odious Apartheid South Africa out of the Commonwealth in 1961. It helped orchestrate that country’s isolation from high-profile global sporting events. Its audacious recognition of the MPLA liberation movement in opposition to the United States’ preferred UNITA swayed Africa’s support for Angola’s independence. In fact, Nigeria invested heavily in the liberation struggle in Southern Africa, leading to political independence for Namibia, Zimbabwe and South Africa. Through the donation of human, material and financial resources for peacekeeping operations in line with its Afrocentric foreign policy, it was a major African influencer. Earlier in the Fourth Republic, Nigeria’s interventions resulted in the restoration of democratic rule in Equatorial Guinea and in Sao Tome and Principe. Nigeria’s waning influence on the world stage coincides with a tanking economy, rapacious and incompetent leadership, and insecurity that have produced an army of extremely poor people. Foreign policy experts identify a nexus between a country’s domestic realities and its foreign policy capability. An experienced diplomat and current Chief of Staff to the President, Ibrahim Gambari, admitted, “There is a direct relationship between domestic politics and the conduct of a country’s external relations because… you can’t give abroad what you don’t have at home.” A country whose security agencies cannot protect its citizens from rampaging marauders, terrorists, kidnappers and organised killers, as experienced in recent times, cannot wield influence on the global stage. The world will not respect a country whose leaders and officials loot the treasury with impunity; who destroy the local health system and embark on medical tourism. Outsiders have no regard for a country that is unable to conduct routine censuses or credible elections. There is no shortcut. Nigeria must reform or disintegrate before a disgusted world. The way forward is to deliver good governance. The starting point is to restructure the country to empower its constituent parts for autonomy. Without running the country on its natural contours of diversity, ruin, disaster and an unfavourable image will persist. The current unitary format cannot cope with the re-emergent cleavages and centrifugal forces that guarantee poverty, insecurity, disunity and economic ruin. Immediately, the economy should be reformed in favour of liberalisation and private sector leadership. The security apparatus has to be overhauled and state policing formalised. Corruption must be tamed and drug trafficking stamped out. Above all, the electoral system has to be cleaned to facilitate the emergence of responsible leadership at all levels. The bureaucracy must be driven by merit. Professionalism has to be restored in the Foreign Service. Appointment to strategic foreign missions should be based on merit, capacity and competence. There should be clearly spelt-out foreign policy objectives, revival of robust intellectual input and effective law enforcement. The change must be led by Buhari. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com