Nigerian and Ghanaian fans have identified Nantes forward, Moses Simon, as one of Nigeria’s most important players ahead of their Qatar 2022 World Cup play-offs against Ghana on March 25 in Cape Coast and March 29 at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja. Aside from being the Super Eagles most influential player during their short-lived Africa Cup of Nations campaign, where he grabbed a goal and an assist while constantly being a threat to the opponent’s defence, the winger has continued his good form with his French club. Since returning from the AFCON, Simon has scored once and provided an assist in three league games, coupled with scoring the deciding penalty which took his side through to the semi-finals of the Coupe de France for the first time since 2000 when they (Nantes) emerged winners. Ghanaian fans reminisced on his superb performance at the AFCON and have called on their defenders to be up and doing in trying to stop him. “I watched Moses Simon for Nigeria at the AFCON and I know that he will be trouble for our defenders, we need to get a lot of films on him from Nigeria and club, so we can handle him very well,” Shariff Kwame wrote on Twitter wrote. “Simon will be trouble for us. He has been one of Nantes best players this season and for Nigeria at the AFCON he was electrifying. I hope our defenders will be up to the task,” @Parteyburner wrote. Also, Nigerian fans are happy with Simon’s current form and believe he will be one of the players to watch, heading into the game. @jeffemalaba on Instagram wrote, “Who else saw that final penalty taken by Simon? The hop and skip. He is now showing all the hard work he has been putting behind the scenes in training. Keep up the good work Simon, he is going to be dangerous for Nigeria against Ghana.” Tino Babalola tweeted, “We can’t joke with Simon at this moment. He is our best player going to the playoffs due to his form for his club. His performance against PSG was explosive and the match he didn’t play last weekend, they drew just to show that he is very important to his club and for us.” Simon has scored three goals and provided seven assists in 21 league games this season. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com