I had a lengthy telephone conversation with a former classmate yesterday morning. He’s a PhD in a business-related course and lectures at the University of Lagos, which prides itself as the university of choice for Nigerians, with many years of experience. His revelation of N142,000 as his monthly take-home pay got me depressed. His gross pay, he disclosed, hovers around N220,000. With such pay, he’s humanly disabled and economically incapacitated. It is a mystery how he will meet his existential needs in an economy like Nigeria’s held in a chokehold by inflation and dysfunctional infrastructure. When we spoke that early morning, he told me he’s already in the office having passed the night on campus. Apparently, he used his heaps of books as pillows, akin to how the treacherous Jacob used a stone for a similar purpose in Bethel, as the Bible story says, while fleeing from a furious Esau ready for a kill. He lives in Ikorodu, and commutes to Akoka. So, to save himself the attendant suffering, he spends the night most times in his office. He tells me, in lament, that his salary can’t get him a living room in the metropolis. Worse still, he tearfully tells me, when he can’t meet the many expectations of family and friends, it is like, “A whole PhD holder oo!” I could figure the anguish in his voice, from the distance. Yet, an indifferent regime sees nothing absurd about the creators of knowledge and values subjected to sub-human living realities. There are many like him in various universities and what go for higher institutions of learning across the country. The wife of an uncle of mine teaches at a private university in one of the South-East states. She told me her monthly pay was N70,000 but she could not remember the last time she was paid. She clutches a neatly wrapped PhD in Banking and Finance in her handbag. For her, life can’t be more cruel and brutish. She shuttles between her home in Owerri and the campus, miles away, sometimes, borrowing money for transport from friends, just to go and teach university students. With all the risks involved. I have another friend, a young brilliant lecturer, at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka. An old college mate and roommate in the university years later. I thought he was joking when he told me his salary last August when we met during a visit to Lagos, during a discussion. Lower than what my UNILAG pal gets. But unlike his UNILAG counterpart, he has no office space to stay on campus. His car does that function. He drives from his home in town to campus every time he has a lecture, some as early as 7am; finds a parking space under a tree, goes for classes, returns to his car to attend to official student matters and goes back home. Every day. Almost a life of destitution. Sorry, did I also tell you he has a PhD tucked away inside his car booth? My kinsman is there in that dusty town called Oye Ekiti teaching in the new university cobbled together by the Jonathan administration. His lament is worse than the “Lamentation for Sodom” and Gomorrah, if you are old enough to recall the hit song by Tera Kota. He too has a PhD. But I have a little task for you, dear reader. If you’ve time, try and go back to the university you graduated from. I am talking about public universities in Nigeria. When was the last time you did that? Try and enter the classroom or hostel room you used in your days. Don’t bother entering the museum called libraries in order not to assault your eyes and nose. Or, laboratory. What did you see? A female friend who has over a decade experience in teaching and research in a federal university in the South-East narrates her ordeal thus: “You will pity me each time I come out from a lecture session in my school. For instance, a class meant for 30 students has over 200 in attendance. All the points of entry and exit out of the classroom are filled with a multitude of students, most of them sitting on the bare floor to listen to me. Because of poor ventilation, I will be sweating like a goat and profusely drenched to my pants. It is an experience not suitable for a human, let alone in a higher institution. So, the poor salary aside, the condition of learning is sub-human.” I can relate with her narration because I had had a similar raw deal when I went as a guest speaker to the graduating students of English at UNILAG in 2018. The classroom was filled to the brim and it was an uncomfortable spectacle even with electricity. I wondered how the lecturers coped with the overflowing crowd on a daily basis without risking their sanity and health. At the Isolo campus of LASPOTECH, it was worse. The lecturer handling the course on international communication had invited me to offer my fresh perspectives to the students. I nearly went berserk, talking to an uncontrollable crowd without a public address system. That is by the way, though. Now, that’s why the Academic Staff Union of Universities is on strike. You may not like their striking strategy, pun intended, but have you bothered to find out the response of the political elite to the age-long agitations and demands? Wave the magic wand of creating new universities. Are you kidding me? The ones you have aren’t well funded, yet, you go about legislating into existence new glorified entities as universities.  The Lagos State Government joined the fray recently when it decreed the conversion of its underfunded polytechnics and colleges of education into universities. Just like that. Who does that? It does appear every politician of note in Nigeria wants a government underfunded university in their hamlet to prove ‘na dem dey run this town’. So, all we have are so many universities, so few centres, forget about citadels, of learning. A recent study said only 100,000 lecturers service over 2.1 million students in the country’s universities. A depressing needs assessment report on the lecturer deficit in Nigerian universities years ago is still gathering dust in one shelf in Aso Rock. Who wants to teach in an oven when less educated fellows in power live in luxury yet deliver nothing of note for the public good? When you pay PhD holders such insulting amounts as salaries, with no office space or library to use and no classroom for overpopulated students to learn, of course, you get monkeys to teach. And unemployable graduates as products. Industry operators will tell the story of how new recruits from our public institutions of learning lack basic life skills, knowledge and literacy. We are all snookered, as my friend Emeka Oparah will say, by our political leaders’ deliberate undoing. Obviously, the main consequence of underfunding university education, and the sector entirely, is that it does not attract the brightest and willing hands. Only the scavengers mainly populate the faculty, with perilous implications for all of us. The tale tell signs are all over us. A nation that abhors education has embraced ignorance with its deadly side effects. Above all, it leaves underdevelopment and decay in every sector because functional education is the very foundation of innovation. The way forward? As a friend suggested, we need a national summit on education like yesterday. The sector, like most aspects of our national life, requires a root-and-branch overhaul. We should empanel and emplace a multi-stakeholder engagement framework to attract required funding to our education sector. Enough of appointing political cronies and deadwoods into governing councils of universities. They add no value. The Federal Government should start by discontinuing this disingenuous and unhelpful pastime of creating new universities as if they are buying candies over the counter when existing ones are in pitiable conditions. The Nigerian education sector is, as it is now, miseducating the Nigerian child, and sadly superintended by those who enjoyed the best the country could offer. It is not equipped to deliver any good. But shouldn’t ASUU evolve in its strategy of engagement with government over university funding? Its use of strike is becoming bereft of innovativeness and should be reviewed in line with current realities. Now, did you watch the video of the minister who walked out on the students who asked him to account for his stewardship following the ongoing strike? No comment. Nwokeoma wrote in via jnwokeoma@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com