TerragonPrime, a tech solution developed by data and marketing technology company, Terragon, to help Small and Medium-scale Enterprises drive intelligent customer acquisition, has attracted over 1,000 users. This is coming barely one week after the launch of the platform. TerragonPrime, a cloud-based multi-channel marketing platform, according to the Senior Vice President, Products and Product Marketing, Oti Ukubeyinje, will help businesses deliver data-driven, intelligent and cost-effective offline (SMS) and online (WhatsApp) customer acquisition and engagement campaigns directly on their mobile devices. He also said the platform would improve advertising campaign performance and acquire customers cost-effectively, leveraging the power of data. Ukubeyinje was quoted in a statement to have said, “The platform also provides insights needed to identify the ideal customers with similar characteristics in order to target converts and acquire them. “Our platform is a reliable cloud-based platform that has a unique capacity to reach over 115 million Nigerian consumers offline and online via SMS and WhatsApp, exposing them to a lot more customers than other marketing and advertising platforms such as Instagram, which has about nine million subscribers, and Facebook with about 34 million subscribers, and are restricted to online users only.” Ukubeyinje also stated that businesses that signed up had already been given free 5,000 messaging credits to engage with new and existing customers, while those that would still sign up on the platform within the month would still get the freebie. He added, “Businesses, which sign up in the beta phase of the platform, which ends this month, will get 5,000 free messaging credits to drive customer acquisition and retention. With over 115 million potential customer profiles on the platform, businesses can target based on segmented audience buckets such as sports, fashion enthusiasts, digital-savvy customers, salary earners and lots more. “They can also build custom audiences based on criteria such as age, location, customer value, device type, interest, and lots more.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com