Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Tuesday, said Nigeria could overcome the problems of insecurity, poor economy and bad politics if the citizens could persevere and look inwards. He also expressed the belief that “the ravaging coronavirus pandemic across the world surely will fade away and become a thing of the past.” Fayemi, who is the visitor to the Ekiti State University, spoke in Ado Ekiti during the 25th and 26th combined convocation and 40th anniversary of the institution. The governor, who was represented by the Commissioner to Education, Dr Bimpe Aderiye, said, “It is important to know that no problem is insurmountable, a confirmation that the current challenges in our nation and the world at large, bothering on security, economy and politics, are challenges that we will overcome individually and collectively if we can persevere and look inwards.” Fayemi congratulated the 16,273 graduands, who bagged diplomas, first degrees, postgraduate degrees and master’s degrees, their relations and friends for the feat, advising them to put to use all they had learnt in the university to become problem solvers in society. The governor, who lauded the management for its untiring efforts and the rapid transformation being witnessed in the institution, stated, “The government, on its part, shall continue to support the good initiatives and innovation put up by the university management. “We will not renege in doing what is considered best for the university in all circumstances. Our government is not relenting and will leave no stone unturned until the wishes and aspirations of the founding fathers of our dear university are met.” The Vice-Chancellor, EKSU, Prof Edward Olanipekun, said the university had in the last three years recorded a lot of significant achievements, saying, “The 40-year-old institution is currently ranked the 14th best university nationwide and second-best state university in Nigeria, according to the latest webometric ranking.” Olanipekun advised the graduands, “As you leave this university as our valued ambassadors, please do not forget that learning continues throughout life; I can see in you a mix of new entrepreneurs, potential employers and a bundle of talents going into the labour market.” The Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council, Prof Bamitale Omole, said the university had lived up to the expectations of the founding fathers in the areas of academic excellence and contributing to the development of society. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com