Danoye Oguntola-Laguda  is a professor of African Traditional Religion and  Director, School of Part-Time Studies at the Lagos State University, Ojo. In this interview with GRACE  EDEMA, he shares his views on a bill, which seeks to stop  children of public office holders from studying abroad What is your view on the bill that seeks to  bar children of public officers from studying  abroad? Sincerely speaking, at a moral level, if public officers are constrained or restricted, they will be forced to do the right thing in the education system in Nigeria and be able to properly manage or develop education to the same enviable status of higher institutions they want to patronise in the West.  Having said that,  that kind of bill will have to face the fundamental challenge of human rights that are entrenched in our constitution; that you have a right to be educated, the education is not supposed to be limited by reason of your office, by reason of your identity, and the people you relate with. For me, and that is why such a law will be very difficult to fly. Because if you challenge the fundamental human rights, that is not only a Nigerian issue but also a global phenomenon about human existence . But then if you look at it from the moral perspective, you can say doing this, where the rich and the affluent will not be able to send their children to school aboard, then definitely, they would be forced to invest our resources in the development of our own higher education.  But I’m afraid  that will be against fundamental human rights. Is it not possible to make them have just one of their children study here? It is still the same thing just as we are trying to circumvent that particular issue of the right of the children to be educated; the right to be educated at where you can afford. The challenge in Ukraine comes to  mind. Some students are in Ukraine. Why did they  go to Ukraine? We go to other countries, where their education is  not as developed as Nigeria yet the children are schooling there because where their calendars are very sure, no strikes,  The issue of availability of schools is also there. So let’s not try to circumvent the right of the individual to education, except of course we want to change our constitution. And maybe  put create a caveat that in the event that an officer of the state or a civil servant, a certain politician, has four children, at least one of the four must school in Nigeria.  That will help us towards developing our own national education institution. What I don’t like about the way we are doing it is that we are forgetting it’s a constitutional matter. Since it’s a constitutional matter, the first thing to do is to create an amendment, and it’s that amendment that will now guarantee the cause that you are proposing. Do you think it is because the children of most of these public office holders, these politicians are abroad that’s why we have problems in the education sector in Nigeria? I don’t think so. The problem fundamentally with the education sector is that of policy. Most of our education policies, even though they are well tailored, sometimes they are not implemented. Sometimes we implement them with half-commitment, half-measures, and they come back to haunt us. That’s what we are facing now that the sector is not where it’s supposed to be.  Our education system now ought to be technology-driven.  Some private schools in Nigeria are increasingly investing in the education sector. I could decide to pay some dollars to send my children to schools  in Mauritius simply because they are investing in the education sector.  So that’s the problem we have; the problem of policy implementation. If the money you are inventing in  defence (for security purposes) is equally invested in the education sector, the sector would dramatically change. There should be adequate investing. If you are owing primary and secondary school teachers, the commitment would not be there. If you go to public primary schoold now, you will discover that the teachers are already into selling clothes, selling shoes, and they are not committed to their primary calling. From post-colonial era, Nigerians have been taking their children abroad to school, maybe at the secondary or tertiary.  When there is commitment, the work of the education sector will change. Do you think public officers taking this children abroad will strengthen the local institutions? As I said earlier, it’s a general question. They take their children abroad, they see how things are smoothly run there, but when they come back home, they refuse to do the same. They refuse to implement the same thing in the education sector. Since stopping them from going abroad is not the major issue that can bring about  development, what are your suggestions to improve the education sector? Number one is government needs to increase is investment in the sector. That investment will help government to identify common problems why some people would not school here in Nigeria. If it’s about quality, we would know how to improve it. If it’s about curriculum, we will know how to improve the curriculum. If it’s about personnel, human resources, human capital, government will know how to invest to train and retrain  individuals in the sector. So the first thing is investment. The second thing is they need to upgrade. It is the government at the local and state level who are supposed to be pivotal in the training of teachers. I don’t know if you remember  Adams Oshiomhole discovered a  teacher who could not spell some words.  The question is why? Training! The third thing is you need to improve  the facilities in  schools. And you can see that the two – training of the teachers and facilities – are crucial functions the government should invent in. Another thing is bringing young hands, young graduates, who can change the situation of the education system. If a graduate of level 7 is receiving more at the primary school, the young ones would go there and teach. If you go to a primary school, teachers   may be earning  N30,000, but if you go to a government agency, people  there may be earning N75,000. What is the attitude of the public office holders to the education sector? They don’t care. We know they are many sectors in our country that are demanding a lot of attention in terms of security, in terms of food. But the first any developmental-inclined leadership ought to invest in is education. If you don’t educate people today, then the future of your country is doomed. That’s the truth. For me,  the people (politicians) that we are talking about, some of them are educated.  Some of them are not educated.  Some of them only stopped at the secondary-school level. So why would they invest in education. So we need to change the demography of the basic minimum of requirements into public offices in the National Assembly. That’s when they can only show interest and invest in education.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com