Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, says he is fully prepared for the assignment of being the President of Nigeria, saying he has the capacity to address lingering issues of insecurity and poor national economy. Wike maintained that Nigerians can no longer resign to fate, suffer the pains of harsh economy and wanton killings under the watch of the All Progressives Congress -led Federal Government. He made those remarks when a group, the Northern Progressives Elements and Friends of Wike, in Abuja, presented the purchased Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms to him on Tuesday to contest the 2023 presidential election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party. This was contained in a statement issued by his media aide, Kelvin Ebiri, and made available to journalists. The governor said it was time to save the country from the lies of the APC-led Federal Government that is completely bereft of governance. Wike emphasised that Nigerians and the PDP do not need persons that will chicken out when intimidated by the APC in the build up to the 2023 general election. “They have tried it with me. They know that they can never succeed. They did it in Rivers State, we said ‘no, it will never work.’ And it didn’t work. If you give us the ticket, go home and sleep,” he stated. Wike pointed to how the APC has failed in addressing economy concerns of Nigerians. According to him, the Central Bank of Nigeria boasts of how much it is spending to boost agriculture without visible impact and availability of food. Senator Sulieman Nazif, who presented the forms to Wike on behalf of the Northern Progressives Elements, explained that they decided to pool their resources together to purchase the forms because of their belief in the governor’s love for the country. The governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, thanked all who contributed their resources to purchase the forms for the Rivers State governor. He maintained that Nigeria at this point needs a leader that is energetic and not people that are tired and lack the direct to salvage the country. On his part, former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose, commended the group and friends of Wike for their kind gesture and declared that, “Nigeria is at the verge of return to new Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com