The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Railway Corporation, Mr Fidet Okhiria, discusses various issues, including ticket racketeering and insecurity, affecting the nation’s rail system with ALEXANDER OKERE The NRC predates the entity called Nigeria, having existed for 112 years, according to its website. How would you assess the Nigerian rail system so far? The Nigerian railway system has gone through ups and downs. During the colonial era and after independence, it was there and it was very active. It supported the economy of Nigeria because it was the major means of moving raw materials to the ports. But as time went on I think we missed it. It was supposed to be developed just as we were building roads but the government concentrated on the roads, forgetting that roads cannot withstand the wear and tear that come with heavy usage. It got to a point that even some governments contemplated stopping anything that has to do with the rail system. Later, they brought various models, and money was spent and the thing (rail system) went down again. I think during the regime of (the late General Sani) Abacha, the Chinese were brought in to rehabilitate the railway, contracts were added and later democracy came and stopped the project. It was at the tail end of the administration of (former President Olusegun) Obasanjo that the government decided to go into rail modernisation. But there was a serious issue about whether to stop the old track and concentrate on modernisation. There were a series of meetings and I was part of them. We argued that you don’t say because you are building a new house you would demolish the old one, otherwise, you would not have a place to stay to build a new one. So, we are here managing the narrow gauge. We broke (it) down in several places, in Lagos, Kajola, Ijoko and an attempt was made to also do that in Makurdi (Benue State) for the eastern line. Eventually, nothing happened. The government of (the late President Umar) Yar’Adua came and decided there was not enough money – personally, I never believed the money would ever be enough – and decided to segment the construction, beginning from Abuja to Kaduna. It did that and (former President) Goodluck (Jonathan) came, continued the project but could not finish it. The present government came and, with the determination of the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, it delivered it within six months and operation commenced. The Lagos-Ibadan project also came; construction started and was also completed. We have started operating and I am happy to announce that we have done the signal testing. I think we would be able to deploy 16 trains per day after the final acceptance of the signal. Being over a century old, one would expect that the NRC would be best in sub-Saharan Africa and among the best in the world. What is militating against that expectation? The challenge, from what I have seen, is with continuity of policy, which has affected funding. I would say people do not understand how the rail system works all over the world. There has to be consistent funding and updating of policies. Why? If you are into transport and logistics, you would have to renew the infrastructure you use. But what happened in those days was that they would say 10 locomotives had been given without an arrangement for spare parts. The rail system is not an investment that can recoup itself. It is a service provided. In transport, generally, the idea is to make sure the benefits to the people overshadow the direct financial benefits. One does not expect me to use my office to make money but what I do in this office impacts on rail and what we do in the rail system impacts on the national economy and commerce. A few weeks ago, you were quoted as saying that the country, within the next five to 10 years, would be linked by rail. Many are wondering how you plan to achieve what could not be realised in the corporation’s 112 years of existence. If the determination of the present government is anything to go by, why can’t we do that? Contracts have been awarded. There is the Calabar-Lagos line, which is expected to take off from Calabar, Uyo, Port Harcourt, Bayelsa, Warri, Benin City and back to link up Agbor; from Agbor to Asaba, Onitsha, Awka, Enugu and Abakaliki. That contract has been awarded awaiting funds. Who says we cannot get the funds within one or two years. How much will it cost the NRC to connect the entire country by rail within the projected period? For the Calabar-Lagos project, it is about $11bn. The Port Harcourt-Maiduguri project is about $13bn and it has been awarded. The Itakpe-Abuja project that would link Warri to Abuja has also been awarded. The Ibadan-Kano project is ongoing. To link the country by rail, we are talking about over $40bn. Let’s talk about innovation. What specifically has the NRC done in the last five years? I will say the innovation here is the change of mind of the government. The present government changed its mind to make railway transportation work. It modernised it and the minister listened to the little advice we gave. The present government is passionate about making railway work. I think that is the major innovation; every other thing fell in line with that because without that will, no amount of knowledge we have would come to light. Now, we are talking about modernisation and we are going into standard gauge tracks. Before now, all we had was the narrow gauge and most parts of the world are on the standard gauge. When you want to buy rolling stock and those who manufacture it make standard gauge, you would have to pay a premium for them to manufacture for you. They also need to have a narrow gauge to test-run the rolling stock they have manufactured for you. We are also modernising our communication and signalling systems unlike before when we had mechanical signalling. We have left electronic signalling and we are going digital. We have a signaling system coming up very soon for the Lagos-Ibadan (railway) and we intend to extend that to other parts of the system. Maybe by next month, I would be able to watch a train move from here (Ebute Metta) to Ibadan and see how the passengers are boarding from my phone or monitor. When people complain about ticket racketeering, we have our video system to play back and we don’t need to shout about it and that has guided us to discipline our staff members. It has also helped us to identify those who just want to raise the alarm. We have cameras at the ticketing office and station office that we play back from time to time. If we have staff members involved, we see it, and most of them found wanting have been suspended. Many Nigerians believe that rail transportation in the country, compared to road and air transportation, is more or less non-existent and hasn’t been of benefit to the citizens. How do you respond to that? The railway transportation system has had serious impact on the lives of Nigerians. If you talk about the Lagos-Ibadan rail line and if you go to the station today, there would be people stranded because they could not board (a train). For Abuja-Kano, we started with five coaches but we are now operating with 10 trains a day. I know that many Nigerians are not able to get seats, which means that it (rail transportation) has an impact and Nigerians are embracing it. Where we have not made a serious gain is in the area of using it to move our goods off the road. The Itakpe-Warri rail line is doing that; it is building up gradually. There have been factories and the need to move goods. There is not much to move from Abuja to Kaduna. But by the time we link Lagos with Abuja, we would be able to move things to and from the ports. At Itakpe-Warri, we are supporting the AKK project. We have an offer to move coal from Benue or Kogi to the nearest railhead and to the seaport in Port Harcourt. We also have an offer to convey cassava from Edo State to Warri. When we link the ports, hopefully in March, we would be able to move some goods from Lagos to Ibadan. We are doing that on the narrow gauge but you don’t expect it to be as effective as when the standard gauge comes on. For the standard gauge, we already have nine locomotives in place waiting to be deployed for the freight movement. We have over 200 wagons, to move containers from the port. The impact of that alone on Apapa is that traffic congestion will go and our roads will last longer because these days, trailers move 60 tonnes and the roads may have been designed for 25 tonnes. So, traffic congestion, delays and accidents will be reduced. Compared to the aviation and road transport sectors, how much is the rail sector contributing to the nation’s economy? Before now, the rail sector was quite up there and we hope that by the time the rail gets to every nook and cranny, it would encourage the industry. If a company produces and is not able to move cheaply to the market and the cost of transporting the goods is higher than the cost of manufacturing, it would not be competitive. But when you have the rail and you know you could move volumes, it will encourage production and you can move the raw materials at cheaper rates to the centre of production and move the finished product to the market. That is the way rail impacts on the nation’s economy. But much does the rail sector generate in terms of internally generated revenue annually? I can say we are improving on a monthly basis now. We are hitting close to N500m a month, compared to what we had. Before, we could hardly make up to N500m in a year. But it also costs us to run the trains. We have to buy diesel, pay for security on the trains and pay more allowances to the workers. It costs more to run 10 trains than to run two. What are you doing about complaints of ticket racketeering by NRC staff members? People have different complaints but I would say we have to be patriotic and selfless. Some people call to complain about ticket racketeering but when they get their ticket, there is no ticket racketeering. When some complain about ticket racketeering it is because the ticket was sold to them at a higher rate and when I ask them to identify the NRC employee responsible, they would not tell me. I am not a magician to find out. We have had cases of people involved in ticket racketeering and most of the time, they are not our workers. It is a case of someone buying a ticket and reselling it to another person. But it is an offence to do that because a passenger is supposed to board with an identity card. We know that could be bypassed because the MD cannot be everywhere and some workers could allow people to use wrong ID cards. When we introduced e-ticketing, some people brought cameras to the stations and printed instant identity cards for people but we were able to stop that. We got special software and the provider improved on it. That way, ticket racketing has gone down. Tickets are online and we are also trying to provide a ticket dispenser at the stations so a passenger doesn’t need to interact with staff members. With an automated teller machine card, one could get their ticket. E-ticketing has opened our eyes and encouraged more people to patronise us. You can buy a ticket in the comfort of your bedroom or office instead of coming to queue at the stations. How many employees of NRC have been sanctioned for ticket racketeering? I think we have dealt with over 15 people on ticket racketeering. We don’t joke with it; even the minister caught some people. They were punished based on the gravity of their offences and the laws guiding us. Some (workers’ appointments) have been terminated. Some were demoted. One would have thought that rail transportation would be cheaper than road transportation. But travelling from Lagos to Ibadan, for example, costs between N2,500 and N6,500. Why is this so? It is not unique to Nigeria. In Europe, it costs more to travel by rail than by air because a train moves from city centre to city centre. It is more timely and convenient and one’s blood pressure would not rise when there is a storm. But we have to meet the cost of operation halfway. The government is providing a lot of funds to make it work but the user should be able to contribute to it or else it would run down again and the benefit would be lost completely. A passenger has a choice on the type of train they want to board and that is why there are three classes. There is the VIP with 24 collapsible seats in a coach, which costs between N5,000 and N6,000. There is the executive or business class that has 56 seats (two in a row). There is another class with 86 or 88 seats (five seats in a row). Depending on one’s capacity and convenience, some cost N2,500, N3,500 and N6,500, also depending on the time. Some trains take off from Abuja and only stop at Kubwa before the final stop, which means there is a shorter trip. There are some that stop at five stations. So, passengers can pick the ones they want. So, it’s cheap to go by train. But even if it is free, people would still complain. We are operating under a heavy subsidy. That ticket you say is N5,000, if you value it, you would see that it is up to N20,000. The government still provides funding. It pays our members of staff 100 per cent because what the customer pays cannot pay salaries. So, the government is subsidising our operations. But why does the corporation not have enough coaches to cater to the needs of Nigerians? They are not enough because of the interest people have shown to use the train. Two weeks ago a contract worth about $2.5bn was awarded both for the modern and narrow tracks. We are expecting 50 locomotives on the standard gauge and 50 locomotives on the narrow gauge with various rolling stocks. We lacked these before but they are being taken care of now. By the end of the month (February), the Apapa port would be fully linked and we can deploy those things. Is the rail transportation system open to private operators or investors to improve availability of services to Nigerians? We have been trying to encourage that. Private companies can use the track and pay for it. With good signaling, we would grant permission to anybody who wants to bring in rolling stock. The NRC has the power to grant people the permission to bring in rolling stock and operate. But it is not cheap. Last year, the NRC suspended services to Kaduna following an attack by terrorists. What is being done to ensure safety of passengers? Insecurity has affected the NRC just as it has affected Nigerians. One cannot isolate rail from it. It is the same police protecting Nigerians that protect the rail system, although we have police and civil defence commands and some units of the Department of State Services working with us. What we are doing now is to see how we can introduce technology. But it is painful to say that apart from the issue of insecurity, a major challenge is vandalism of our infrastructure in the eastern axis. How much have you lost to theft and vandalism in the last one year? We have not sat down to calculate it but it is enormous. Some weeks ago, we had to delay a train for about 25 minutes because we noticed that some clips were removed, so we had to fix the clips to avoid an accident. In the Abuja axis, I think we have replaced about 50,000 clips. So, I am using this opportunity to appeal to Nigerians. The system we are operating is not for anybody, it is for all of us. If infrastructure is vandalised, the money that would have been used to make progress would be deployed to fix it. So, we should try to protect it and when we see someone doing the wrong thing, we should report it, not only when railway workers misbehave. Have there been arrests and prosecution of vandals and thieves? There have been a lot of arrests and prosecution. Over 300 suspected vandals are under prosecution. We urge security agents to not only arrest but also find out where the stolen rail parts are taken to. As long as there is a market for such parts, the vandals will not stop operating. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com