A member representing Jere Federal Constituency of Borno State, Ahmed Satomi, will officially commence free registration of Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations to about 1,000 indigent students in his constituency. The 1,000 beneficiaries are mostly orphaned by Boko Haram and with no resources to buy the form. The lawmaker has, since his election into the National Assembly, kept an annual tradition of impacting the future of vulnerable ones in the society. He had last weekend donated a sum of N7 million and offered scholarships to 50 students of Al-Qudus Al-Sheriff Holy Qur’anic Memorisation Institute during the 3rd Quranic Graduation ceremony which took place in Mashamari ward of Maiduguri metropolis. Satomi while addressing journalists on Monday during his routine distribution of vehicles and cash donation to some All Progressives Congress stakeholders in the constituency, said, that he gesture was to complement efforts of Governor Babagana Zulum’s magnanimity in youths/women empowerment and resettlement of Internally Displaced Persons, IDPs back to their ancestral homes. He said, “You are aware of the over decade atrocities posed by Boko Haram insurgents, which have forced a lot of people, especially the younger ones out of school, now that peace has gradually returned, we have to offer a helping hand to the vulnerable ones in the society. “At the weekend, I donated the sum of N7 million to Al-Qudus Al-Sheriff holy Qur’anic Memorization Institute during their 3rd Quranic Graduation ceremony. Out of this amount, N5 million is for the construction/expansion of the school structures, while the N2 million is to be shared amongst the graduates and staff. This is in addition to the approval I gave to sponsor 50 pupils in the school. “Today, you (journalists) are here to witness the distribution of vehicles and cash donation to some members of the constituency, as 2023 politicking is fast approaching. “On the free JAMB registration we are set to launch this week, a total of 1,000 candidates would benefit from the exercise, even as 150 beneficiaries are drawn from a privately owned orphanage school ( Future Prowess School) based in the Maiduguri metropolis.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com