A religious organisation under the aegis of Forum of Christians and Muslims Youths on Monday threw its weight behind the Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume, as the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress. The National Publicity Secretary of the FCMY, Peter Asuquo, told journalists that Akume’s chairmanship would stem further crisis and conflicts in the party. He maintained that Akume has the required pedigree to lead the party due to his experience in public service. Asuquo described the purported endorsement of Senator Abdullahi Adamu by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd ), as a mere rumour, adding that there was no such time the President made such a claim. He said, “As a former governor, Senator, Local Government Secretary as well as outstanding career civil servant who rose through the ranks of many years, Senator Akume has excellent experience and deep knowledge of dealing with different categories of persons across various responsibilities as the Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs where he works with the tiers of government. “Akume’s political sagacity in managing different political interests stemmed from his over 24 years of partisan politics and is unarguably a formidable credential that has resulted in many victories in his personal political career and as a leader of various political interests over the years. “His political base cuts across Nigeria as and can be attested to by the various awards and recognition from both international and national reputable organisations, for instance as Patron of Forum of Christian and Muslim Youth of Nigeria, he has been indeed a great pillar of support in line with our cardinal objectives of peaceful coexistence and socio-economic development of our youth. “We recommend distinguished Senator Akume without reservations as the best candidate for the APC national chairmanship based on his competence, experience and nationalism.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com