•Eagles coach says team in high spirit Super Eagles coach, Austin Eguavoen, has expressed confidence in his team to break down the resolute defending of the Blacks Stars led by Leicester City’s Daniel Amartey, when both teams clash in the second leg of their Qatar 2022 World Cup play-off on Tuesday, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Amartey was outstanding for the Black Stars in the first leg of the tie at the Baba Yara Stadium last Friday shackling the Eagles attack line led by Napoli striker Victor Osimhen, who failed to have a clear chance at goal throughout the goalless encounter in Kumasi. Speaking ahead of the game on Tuesday, Eguavoen said the team would work on creating more chances when they clash in the second leg at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja. “The team is in high spirit ahead of the game,” Eguavoen said. “We are halfway through and the boys know this. They were resilient and worked hard in such an atmosphere in Kumasi. It was a very good result. “In Abuja, we will take the game to Ghana. We tried to do that last Friday but the Ghanaians were tough in defence led by Daniel Amartey. “He was good because we didn’t have enough players arriving into their penalty area when we attack. We will work on that before the game.” Eguavoen also allayed fears over injury concerns to his players ahead of the crunch second leg fixture. Innocent Bonke and Samuel Chukwueze were both replaced in the explosive game in Kumasi after they both suffered knocks. “Chukwueze, we are watching him and just Bonke who was very impressive in Kumasi. They suffered knocks but I’m confident that they will be fine before Tuesday’s game. They were rested for Saturday’s recovery training in Abuja.” Nigeria will be the happier of the two sides ahead of Tuesday’s second leg but with the away goals rule in place, Ghana know any score draw at the Abuja Stadium, where Nigeria have not played in over a decade, will take them to their fourth World Cup finals. Another goalless draw would see the tie stretched to extra time and if there are still no goals after 120 minutes, a penalty shoot-out will decide which of the rivals go to Qatar.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com