Titilayo, the elder sister of Miss Oluwabamise Ayanwola, who went missing after boarding a Bus Rapid Transit and was later found dead, has narrated how a Divisional Police Officer allegedly paid less attention to the alarm raised when Bamise was initially missing. Titilayo, who spoke on behalf of the family at a press conference, also regretted that her family members were not allowed into the premises of the BRT office at Ilupeju until they protested. The PUNCH had reported that Oluwabamise, who closed from work around 7pm on February 26, was on her way to visit her brother, Pelumi, when she boarded the BRT vehicle around Chevron Bus-stop, in the Lekki area of the state. The busman, Omininikoron Nice, was said to be conveying the victim to a destination in Oshodi when Oluwabamise observed that he refused to pick other passengers on the road. She reportedly contacted one of her colleagues at work, Felicia Omolara, to inform her about her suspicion and she was advised to disembark from the bus. Omolara, however, noted that when her friend no longer responded to her chats on WhatsApp, she called her phone number, adding that when she picked the call, a man was heard arguing with Oluwabamise. Operatives of the Department of State Services later arrested Nice at his hideout in Ososa, Ogun State. The driver was subsequently handed over to the police as he was paraded at the command headquarters in Ikeja on Monday. Titilayo said, “Immediately we could not find Bamise, I reported at Akinpelu police station but the DPO after viewing and listening to video and voice evidence respectively turned us down. She did not feel our immediate fear and pains. She didn’t act as if she knew what it took for a child to be killed. “Oluwabamise left her working place to help the mother of an unborn child. The boy has been delivered and now, we are going to tell the story of Oluwabamise to this boy that it was when you were coming to this world that they took her away. They used our last born for money rituals. “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, I am challenging you. My family is not wealthy, we are not influential but we have God. Please, ensure justice. “When we went to BRT office, somebody said we are mad, and the person knew what was happening. A man that has his own children, that knows what it takes says I am mad. “They initially denied us access to the premises. When we eventually entered, we met a man at the terminal. The man said he knew Nice to be a gentleman and he couldn’t have hurt Bamise, not knowing that I was recording him. He said the driver’s number was not going. The man later said he called the driver and he said he would still come to the office. “Another driver told us that Bamise went to enjoy herself; that she would come back home. But that can’t be true. Bamise is a decent lady.” Efforts to reach the BRT management and the Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Adekunle Ajisebutu, proved abortive as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com