By the simplest logic of demand and supply, a producer of goods in hot demand by the market reaps the benefit in more money from higher prices, especially where there is no extra cost attached to the production. In other words, if a cocoa farmer suddenly found that demand for cocoa has shut up along with its price, it would mean that he could sell all the cocoa he produces at a higher price than hitherto. The incentive is there for him to produce even more cocoa because the buyers are there waiting to scoop them all up. The gateway to El Dorado would have opened for the farmer, who now stands to make a killing without breaking a sweat. Now, supposing that instead of being overjoyed at the opportunity to amass wealth, he is bemoaning the price increases and begging the market makers to help bring it down to what it was previously because of the pressure higher prices is exerting on him due to his inability to adjust his production method to meet demand. Does that make sense? To any rational observer, surely, it does not. But, the cocoa farmer in this scenario is, in fact, Timipre Sylva, the Nigerian Minister for Petroleum Resources, who has been doing the rounds in the international media circuits appealing to anyone, who cares to listen, for lower oil prices. He, of all the Ministers of Petroleum Resources in the world, is “uncomfortable” with increases in price. How? Why? Instead of jumping for joy, the Minister is jittery about rising oil prices. It is counterintuitive. So, what is behind it all? What is the root of the problem? Hear this. Nigeria has no capacity to take advantage, i.e. to grab the bounty of the sudden rise in the price of crude oil with both hands, Saudi Arabia’s Aramco is reporting a doubling of profits, they and the others are laughing all the way to the bank. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Minister retreats into sulking and desperately seeks to hold back the clock. More money from crude oil has become an unwelcome distraction, prices are at 14-year highs. “We do not wish to see the price of crude hitting the $100 mark”. “We would rather have it at $70 or $80 dollars,” Sylva insisted, last week, on Bloomberg television, the TV station of world business. He has continued to hold that line even in Nigerian business circles and has been widely covered. Yet, no one has found it necessary to take him and his government to task on that admission of failure. No Senate hearings, no opposition outcry, nada! How on earth has this come to be accepted as normal for Nigerians? Even when there is a rise in demand and the price of the one commodity Nigeria produces for export, the ruling elite becomes dumbfounded and befuddled and totally paralysed by what should otherwise be a boon to the country’s balance sheet.  The oil minister throws up his hands in horror instead. He is running helter-skelter to find a way of plugging the extra riches from oil revenue and keep his country in the debt trap it has been in for the last 35 years. No one raised a finger on the minister because it is a culmination of Nigeria’s collective failure. A country whose citizens have become inured to failure of governance. As it happens, Nigeria has the capacity to produce only half of the 2.5m bpd it could produce. What is more, OPEC, the oil cartel in which Nigeria is a prominent member, has allocated an extra 400,000bpd for Nigeria to boost output, following the ongoing Russia-Ukraine crisis. Russia is the second largest exporter of crude oil outside OPEC, Saudi Arabia being the largest. In terms of export onto the global markets, Russia is number one. According to the International Energy Agency, China remains the biggest consumer of Russian oil (14%), followed by Germany, Netherlands, United States, Poland, South Korea, Belgium, Turkey, France and the United Kingdom. In 2021 alone, European nations bought a combined total of 42% of Russia’s total oil production. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has changed the calculus for everyone. Western Alliance has embarked upon a systematic strangulation of the Russian economy in opposition to its invasion of Ukraine. A myriad of economic sanctions capable of dealing a crippling blow to the Russian economy have been imposed by Europe, USA and Canada. But, they want to do more. They want to cut themselves loose from their dependence on Russian oil. To do so immediately, however, would leave them vulnerable to sudden price increases. Cutting off Russia’s oil supply would need to be met by other suppliers readily stepping in. Other oil producers would need to boost supply exponentially in order to forestall the skyrocketing of prices. This is where the chickens of Nigeria’s tragic lack of foresight and forward thinking are coming home to roost.  Before the Russian-Ukrainian crisis, the talk in the oil industry and in OPEC was about cutting oil production to help stabilise prices. Nigeria was meant to have cut production by some 100,000 bpd. What happened? Nigerian oil managers decided to cut even deeper; it cut 300,000 bpd. Why? Because, the mechanical instrument used in cutting back on production could not be adjusted well enough to stop at 100,000bpd. You heard it well:  “You cannot really cut back mathematically,” said Sylva. “Maybe we shut down about 2-300,000 bpd, so we over-complied.” It gets worse. Now that there is a bonanza to be had from increases in the price of oil, Nigeria is unable to meet up because it lacks the capacity and wherewithal to boost production. “It has not been easy to get the wells back to production,” says the minister. Nigeria has manoeuvred itself into a cul-de-sac so much that it is falling back on external borrowing to meet budget needs instead of reaping higher revenues from oil, here and now. Nigeria is once again at the mercy of foreign investors to help “ramp up” production. Why would these Good Samaritan investors willy-nilly boost Nigeria’s oil production which may result in higher prices for their home governments? Furthermore, why would the foreign investor put money into the fossil fuel industry which their home governments are committed to phasing out in the long run? Investments are increasingly being targeted at alternative energy sources in forward-thinking economies across the board. Nigeria, and Africa in general, are paying the price for a lack of unity. A united front by the producers of mineral resources was what was needed all along since the liberation of the continent from colonial rule in the 1960s. Nigeria was one of the ‘conservative’ countries implacably opposed to any idea of a United Africa. When it comes to Africa, it is “live and let live,” according to Tafawa Balewa, Nigeria’s first Prime Minister, upon independence. Sylva is now running around like a headless chicken “working with other African producers to try to rally some funding for our sector in Africa because we cannot continue to depend on funding that is not coming.” There is even talk of setting up an “African Energy Bank” but who would underwrite that? The West? They are the ones underwriting the African Development Bank at the moment. Has Nigeria considered building pipelines that could link up Europe via North Africa (Algeria, Morocco) for the export of oil and gas? An “MOU” has been signed with Algeria, while that of Morocco is still under “study,” says Sylva. There you have it, pipe dreams! Minister, Nigeria does not lack the capacity to produce, refine and export oil in large quantities; Nigeria lacks the political will to embark upon a meaningful change of direction for its economy. drtayooke@gmail.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com