FOLLOWING the successful installation of Category 3 Instrument Landing System in Lagos and Abuja airports, the Federal Government through the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, says it has concluded plans to install the modern equipment in three additional airports to improve air safety in the country. An Instrument Landing System is a radio navigation system that provides short-range guidance to aircraft to enable them to approach an airport runway at night or in bad weather. In its original form, it allows an aircraft to approach until it is 200 feet (61m) over the ground, within a half-mile (800m) of the runway. The acting Managing Director of NAMA, Mr. Lawrence Pwajok, who spoke on plan to install the equipment, listed the three airports as Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano; Port-Harcourt International Airport; and the Katsina Airport. He said the move would increase the number of airports that have Category 3 ILS in the country to five. Pwajok described an instrument landing system is a piece of navigational equipment that provides lateral guidance for an aircraft, sky guidance for the aircraft, and longitudinal guidance for the aircraft when coming into landing. He said “Navigational facility is one of the very critical requirements for access into an airport safely, efficiently, and economically. We place a very high premium on the procurement and installation of navigational equipment. “Over the last five years, we have deployed significantly a large number of navigational equipment. I can go through some of them by justifying my statement. “Currently, we have installed what we call Category 3 Instrument Landing System, in Lagos and Abuja. We are also planning to install additional ones in Kano, Port Harcourt, and Katsina,“ he said. The NAMA boss, who explained that Category 3 landing system was the highest category for landing facility anywhere in the world, said the government was set to invest heavily to ensure all the nation’s international airports have it. Pwajok said that the lighting system would complement Category 3. He said that a Category 3 approach system was required to guide the pilot using the instrument landing system. He added, “Currently, we have installed an instrument landing system of Category 2 that requires what we called low visibility operations. “In operation, where the visibility is below 800 metres and not lower than 300 metres, we use what we called a Category 2 instrument landing system “For a Category 1 instrument landing system, which is few, you need 800 metres visibility or more. That is, visibility must be about 1km (1000m) for you to be able to do a Category 1 landing system, the lowest of the three categories. “For Category 3, when the aircraft and the flight crew are adequately certified for it, with the visual lighting system available, you can basically land in zero visibility,“ he said. He said that Category 2 ILS was currently being installed in Ilorin, Ibadan, and Akure. He further added that some state airports such as Gombe, Kebbi, Bayelsa, and Anambra had already installed Category 2 ILS. The NAMA boss said the airport in Lafia, which also had Category 2 ILS, had not been opened. Pwajok said Categroy 1 ILS was very few in airports, adding that the government had planned to replace them with Category 2 ILS “We have other equipment that can bring an aircraft to the airport and we call them Very High-Frequency Omni-Directional Range (VOR), a ground-based electronic system that provides information for high and low altitude routes and airport approaches. “The VOR is like a broadcast station. It transmits information, unlike radio stations where you tune and hear music. For this navigational facility, when you tune, it gives you directional guidance. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com