OGUN State Public Works Agency says it has embarked on the next phase of road repairs in its bid to fix bad portions of road networks and improve the road infrastructure in the state. The OGPWA General Manager, Gbenga Akintola, while speaking during an inspection visit to some of the sites, said the roads had been given a major facelift. A statement from the agency said the roads include, NEPA road, Imo; Oke-Mosan road; OGTV road; Totoro junction, linking Ogbe; and Methodist Cathedral road network, all in Abeokuta. Akintola noted that the repair was strategic as well as important and that the agency took advantage of the dry spell to navigate into areas that needed attention. He added that the agency would not relent in ensuring that road repairs and rehabilitation remained a continuous exercise. He said, “In the last few months, OGPWA has completed a full re-asphalting of the Kings Court Estate Road, Oke-Mosan, the access road to the House of Assembly Legislative quarters, Opic round-about, Oke-Ilewo, Central Bank Junction-Bureau of Lands /OGSIEC access road, Oke-Ilewo-Omida-Igbore road junction, Iwe-Iroyin – GTBank- Kuto road junction, all in Abeokuta.” Akintola stated that in the Ogun-West Senatorial District, road network marked for repair with the commencement of work include Mefun road, Ota, in the Ado–Odo/Ota Local Government Area; Ibese- Igbogila road network, in the Yewa North Local Government Area; Adetona, Orita Pahayi, Sabo Junction Road, Ilaro; as well as Idiroko- Ipokia road in the Ipokia Local Government Area. He said repair works had continued on the Orile-Ifo road network. At Ogun-East Senatorial District, Akintola said the OGPWA team had moved to market road, Isara Remo; Ajegunle, Sagamu in the Sagamu Local Government Area; Erunwon-Ogidi road, Ijebu-North East Local Government Area; and Imososi street, Ago-Iwoye in the Ijebu North Local Government Area. He urged the general public to always protect the roads, and desist from habits that could damage the road.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com