Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State and Chairman, Nigerian Governors’ Forum are among the prominent Nigerians that have arrived for the coronation of Senator Lekan Balogun as the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland. Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun; former Vice President Atiku Abubakar; Ondo State Deputy Governor, Lucky Ayedatiwa and Osun State Deputy Governor, Benedict Alabi are also some of the prominent citizens in attendance. The Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi; the Deputy Chairman of Oyo State Council of traditional rulers, and the Ààrẹ Ọ̀nà Kakanfò of Yorùbáland, Otunba Gani Adams, are also present. The new Olubadan has been ushered into the venue. Security is very tight at the venue as many dignitaries are having difficulty entering the venue Indigenes of Ibadan, as well as residents and well-wishers, have started trooping in their hundreds to the Mapo Hall, venue of the installation ceremony of Oba Olalekan Balogun, as the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that other prominent Nigerians, especially sons and daughters of Ibadanland; politicians, captains of industries, and a flock of tourists and stakeholders — home and abroad, graced the occasion. Many associations, in different colorful outfits, are seen within and outside the Mapo Hall premises — venue of the event, dancing to the indigenous Yorùbá music of Ibadanland. No fewer than four popular Yorùbá musicians including an Ibadan-based Fuji maestro, have set their stages to entertain dignitaries and well-wishers at the kingly occasion. A visit to the Ali-Iwo Compound, where the new Olubadan hails from, shows that ceremonial activities are afoot, as choral groups are seen singing in praises of the Ali-Iwo Family. Traditional drummers and native praise-singers, with scores of sight-seers, are also sighted at different spots on the Oje-Beere-Oja-Oba axis. Meanwhile, there is a heavy deployment of security operatives to some strategic locations within the Metropolis, especially the roads leading to the venue of the event. Correspondents of NAN, monitoring the situation, also observe the presence of teams of Nigerian security agencies including the NSCDC, Operation Burst and Amotekun personnel, gallantly deployed to prevent a breakdown of law and order. Also, officers of the Oyo State Fire Service are on the ground at the venue to tend to any fire incident. Major roads leading to Mapo Hall have been blocked, while commuters are trekking a circuitous distance in getting to their destination and venue of the ceremony. Also observed is the presence of traditional worshipers a few metres away from the venue chanting, dancing and ecstatic about the auspicious ceremony. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com