Shame! Shame!! Shame!!! That’s about the simplest way to caption the ‘movie’ shot in the Anambra State Government House on Thursday. The cast of the movie was an unusual one; abi how many movies have you seen that one person played the role of the lead actor, director and executive producer? (Lols). That was the movie shot and released to the world by beautiful Ebelechukwu, the wife of the former governor of Anambra State, Willie Obiano, that Thursday. Interestingly, the movie has been commercially successful and it’s still trending. Don’t mind some of her detractors who said she used one stone to kill two birds; she disgraced herself and embarrassed her husband. (Laughs…). Anonymous: Eavesdropper, you shouldn’t be laughing over such a sensitive matter. Eavesdropper: You’re right, just that the way Oga Willie’s wife behaved was unbecoming of a governor’s wife. Many people don’t seem to know the moral burden of public office. They think it’s just to enjoy our money, ride the best cars and behave anyhow on top. I kuku don’t blame them. Sebi it’s because we allow them to treat us anyhow. I mean, how could she walk up to Bianca Ojukwu, the widow of the late Biafran warlord, Odumegwu Ojukwu, to taunt her like that? Haba! Apparently, she thought of no better occasion to disgrace herself than the inauguration of Prof Charles Soludo as the new governor of the state, an all-important event that was being streamed live. O wrong nau! Everybody has heard the story and seen the videos, and most people have given their verdict on Ebele’s faux pas – saying she deserved what she got, so there is not much to say. But sha, the way Bianca gave Ebele that ambassadorial (remember, Bianca used to be Nigeria’s ambassador to Spain) slap was as if she saw it coming. Mrs Ojukwu is not just a beauty queen o; she also knows how to give her ‘enemies’ bloody nose (lols). Ask Mrs Ebele, she would tell you. Clearly, the last has not been heard of the matter; but now attention has even shifted to Oga Willie’s arrest. Too much trouble for one man in one day, you would say. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission arrested him at the Lagos airport while he was travelling to the United States. He has now been moved to Abuja. But this story get as e be sha! Abdulrasheed Bawa’s EFCC had months ago placed Obiano on its watchlist. It even told the Nigeria Immigration Service to notify the commission anytime Oga Willie was travelling out. Of course, Oga Willie responded, saying he would travel to the United States after his tenure. And like they both promised, they fulfilled their promises. I love my country sha; no dull moment. Anyway! The point must be made that public office holders must learn to act with decorum. Let’s not miss the other part of the incident; exchanging fisticuffs in public is condemnable and both women could have done better. Anyway, the slap has been given and the receiver has learnt her lesson, hopefully. Buhari’s apology Like they say, ‘Better late than never.’ When I read the apology of our Presido, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday, I just chuckled. Of course, the apology seemed like an afterthought, but it’s okay. We’re used to it already. More importantly though, Eavesdropper believes Nigerians don’t need apologies. They just want good governance. Like they say; who apology help? What Nigerians ask for are creditable performance, efficient service delivery across sectors and more compassionate and purposeful leadership. If these were in place, nay, if the President had fulfilled the promises he made to Nigerians in 2015, we won’t be spending hours in fuel queues, the national grid won’t collapse twice in about 48 hours and plunge us into a familiar blackout and there won’t be a near-collapse of security, in which case people are being killed like flies every day. We have not even added the fact that our universities have remained shut for the second month running, literally. Yet, the President hosted the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, in the United Kingdom without talking about the strike publicly. We just carried on as if it’s normal. Sometimes, one does not even know how to situate the contradictions in this country. Mr Presido, welldone sir. Going forward, we don’t need apologies; we need performance and lasting solutions to these petty problems. Mugode!. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com