The former National Secretary of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, Sani Shinkafi, said he had no cause to regret his defection to the ruling All Progressives Congress. Shinkafi disclosed this to journalists on Tuesday in Gusau, Zamfara State capital. “I have no regret for joining the APC as a ruling party in the country under President Muhammadu Buhari,” he said. “Since my defection to the APC, I am comfortable with the achievements recorded by the party’s Caretaker and Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee, led by Governor Mai Mala-Buni,” Shinkafi expressed confidence, saying his reasons for leaving the APGA was predicated on his political ideology which conflated with the APC’s. “I joined the APC because of my belief in the political ideology of Gov. Bello Matawalle and President Muhammadu Buhari. “Therefore, no retreat and no surrender in our journey in APC with Gov. Bello Matawalle,’’ Shinkafi averred. In retrospect, on June 29, 2021, the former APGA National Secretary had announced his defection to the ruling APC, laying to rest his 19-years meritorious service in the APGA, and to the chagrin of former party stalwarts, who had accused him of ‘political harlotry’. In defence, Shinkafi claimed his decision was in the interest of Zamfara State under the administration of his friend, governor Bello Matawalle. “I am joining Matawalle in APC, with the APGA structure in the state and 14 local government areas of the state. “I am not joining APC for material gains. I am joining Matawalle to develop my state. “I am leaving APGA not because I don’t like the party, but I am leaving APGA in order to join Matawalle in the APC to rebuild Zamfara State. “I was invited by Governor Bello Matawalle himself to join him in the APC, and as such, I see no reason why I should not join him,” he was quoted saying. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com