A serving Army Major General, Jafaru Mohammed, of the Office of the National Security Adviser, has given a national newspaper (not PUNCH) 24-hours to retract a story ‘accusing’ him of perpetrating ‘fraud’ and corruption through the acquisition of properties to the tune of N3bn. Mohammed, through his lawyer,  Dr Onyechi Ikpeazu (SAN), said the tabloid, in a story it published on February 15, 2022, damaged his reputation and good name by wrongly misquoting a judgment of a Federal High Court in Abuja which absolved him. Justice Maha had in her judgment said the EFCC, in an ex-parte application, alleged that one General Aminu Kano (retd.), and his proxies and associates acquired some assets and properties and that the properties were proceeds of an unlawful activity. The judge, while absolving General Jafaru Mohammed, said, “I observed that the name of General Jafaru Mohammed was never mentioned in the originating ex-parte application and the respondent (EFCC) did not rebut this fact.” The judge further stated that “it is clear General Jaafaru is not on trial here and the court has not been asked to decide his guilt or innocence in this case”. In a letter to the editor-in-chief of the newspaper dated March 3, 2022, Ikpeazu, described the story, which linked the forfeited properties to Mohammed, as false and malicious. He warned that should the management of the media house fail to retract their story, they would be compelled to file a defamation suit in any appropriate court of law against the paper, and other identifiable cohorts. Part of the letter read, “The content of the publication along with the pictorial representation conveys unfounded information that late General Aminu Muade, Atlasfield Integrated Services Nigeria Limited, Marhaba Events Place, Aflac Plastics and Atlasfield Gas Plant Limited are proxies of our client, when in fact this allegation is not contained in the judgment or the media releases issued by Wilson Uwujeren, the Public Relations Officer of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. “Your publication, which is a faux pas, is a bid to tarnish our client’s image by creating a cheap media sensation linking a serving military general with corruption. It is consequent upon the foregoing that we make this clear and unequivocal demand thus: that you are hereby given a 24-hours notice from the date of receipt of this letter to categorically retract your libelous statement made against our client; that the said retraction and a letter of apology be published in at least five print media circulated nationwide and five different renowned online media outfits across the globe, including your own.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com