The Executive Director of the Lake Chad Research Institution, Dr Oluwasina Olabanji, has urged the Federal and State governments in the nation to formulate sustainable agricultural policies to enhance the local production of wheat and rice. Olabanji added that both the Federal and State governments must invest in modern technology to improve the productivity and sustainability of food farming. He disclosed this while speaking at the maiden edition of the Olatunde Abudu annual lecture organised by the Egba Science Education Foundation, held at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Abeokuta. Olabanji who spoke on the theme ‘Impact of Science and Technology on Agriculture’, said, “Cereals (wheat and rice) consumption in Nigeria is bound to increase due to growing population especially in urban cities from their present import levels of $4bn and $2bn respectively between now and year 2050. “It is, therefore, very critical for Nigeria government to formulate sustainable agricultural policies that will enhance wheat and rice production for national food and nutrition security, wealth and job creation for youth and women “It is necessary for improving the productivity and sustainability of wheat and rice farming to cope with biotic and abiotic stresses which are set to worsen with climate change.” The foundation added that science and technology have reduced drudgery in farming activities leading to improved efficiency in the use of agricultural inputs and resultant yields per unit area of farmland. It said, “Science and Technology have created equipment, tools and devices for agricultural mechanisation, greenhouse technology, drip irrigation, hydroponics. “It has revolutionised the use of Information and Communication Technology and Drones in geophysical surveys, predictions of incidences and severity of pests and diseases. It has also elevated agriculture to a commercial and business venture capable of generating incomes to stakeholders along the value chain and thus contributing directly to wealth creation and the national economy.” According to the foundation, science and technology has through crop breeding created improved and high yielding rice and wheat varieties resistant to drought, pests, and diseases. It added that technological innovation is helping in climate and weather forecasting, thereby making it possible for farmers to plan their farming activities.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com