nePipe, a fintech company, has launched a press writing challenge on finance-focused journalism. According to the firm, the competition is part of its efforts to promote and inspire educational reporting and writing with particular emphasis on enhancing the awareness and understanding of embedded finance. In a statement, the Operations Manager,  OnePipe, Yvonne-Faith Elaigwu, was quoted as saying, “We hope that the articles, stories, and news items produced by the press and media throughout this challenge will help everyone understand embedded finance and appreciate what the technology can achieve. “We are committed to supporting organisations to build integrated financial solutions that are suited to the needs of their customers, whilst promoting financial inclusion. However, in order to capitalize on the advantages of embedded finance, a thorough grasp of it is required.” The firm says it is seeking to champion a deeper understanding of the importance of embedded finance in improving customer experience and satisfaction, while emphasising the value of good coverage and narrative as a cornerstone for enhancing public awareness of financial technology. The founder and Chief Executive Officer, OnePipe, Ope Adeoye, said, “The world needs a new type of financial services ecosystem, one where everyone has a role to play and everyone has some value to capture. “This is what we embody at OnePipe; we help businesses across sectors to enjoy profitable participation in the fintech ecosystem.  With our technology, we turn complex infrastructure into simple code so that businesses can focus on building market-defining products, provide their customers with credit, loan payment plans and seamless payment for services.” The firm added that the challenge is open to all forms of media and will run for a duration of eight weeks. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com