At least eight persons have been killed and several others injured in a clash between residents of Alesi and Ochon communities in the Ikom and Obubra local government areas of Cross River State. Over 2,000 persons were also said to have been displaced from their ancestral homes by the crisis. The South-South Zonal Coordinator of the National Emergency Management Agency, Mr Godwin Tepikor, disclosed this during an on-the-spot assessment on Saturday. Tepikor was accompanied by officers from the Nigerian Army and members of the affected communities. He explained that the crisis, which occurred on March 7, 2022, resulted from a land dispute between the two neighbouring communities. “The crisis that erupted between Ochon and Alesi communities in Obubra and Ikom local government areas claimed the lives of eight persons; four were injured on both sides and over 2,008 displaced. Several buildings and household property were destroyed in the process. The affected persons were scattered amongst neighbouring communities within the local government areas of the state,” he told the News Agency of Nigeria. Meanwhile, three persons were reportedly killed and 16 others injured in an auto crash along the Bauchi-Kano Road, Bauchi State. It was learnt that the incident occurred in Kurosha village at about 6.13pm on Friday. The Bauchi Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Mr Yusuf Abdullahi, who confirmed this on Saturday, said the accident involved a Toyota Hiace bus belonging to Jigawa Sunrise Abdullahi said only a female child survived the accident unscathed. While blaming the accident on speed violation and loss of control, he said the injured and the remains of the deceased were taken to Ningi General Hospital. “About 20 people were involved in the crash, made up of 18 male adults, one female adult, and a female child. Three male adults lost their lives on the spot. Sixteen people, including 15 male adults and a female adult, sustained injuries, while the only soul unscathed was the female child,” he said. Similarly, tragedy struck when three persons were killed in an inferno at a BUA cement factory in Sokoto State. A worker was said to be repairing a stationed tank when the fire erupted on Friday. Three others were said to have sustained injuries as the fire overpowered the company’s safety officers. Valuable equipment at the factory was destroyed as a combined team of officers of the federal and state fire services battled to contain the disaster. The Fire Prevention Officer of the Sokoto State Fire Service, Mr Nuhu Lawal, confirmed the incident. NAN reported on Saturday that an interim situation report indicated that the inferno was suspected to be caused by an “uploading fuel tanker”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com