Forty-year-old Mrs Odion Faith from Edo State but resident in Port Harcourt, Rivers State tells OLIVIA DOMINIC she is distraught over her missing 17-year-old son Tell us about yourself and your son? My name is Mrs Odion Faith. I am from Edo State but I live in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. I am 40 years old. I am a businesswoman. I have six children. The name of my missing son is Emmanuel Odion. He is my second son, though he is a twin. He is 17 years old. He was a student but he dropped out of school since about two years ago; I stopped him (from continuing in school) because he was not performing well. When did he go missing? On Sunday, I left home for church service around 8am. On returning home, I didn’t meet him. My neighbours said he told them he was going to church. I sent my younger ones to go and look for him in the church. They returned to tell me they didn’t see him in church. I asked them to go back and check again but they came back, saying the same thing. So, I decided to go to the church myself to look for him. At the church, I saw the security man, who told me that my son had left. And since then, I have not set eyes on him and I have been searching for him without any result. Does he have a phone; did you try contacting him by phone? He doesn’t have a phone for now. Someone called me and said they saw him at Rumuokoro. I went there but I was told by another person that he was seen at Elele. What do you think could have made your son go out and not return? He has some health challenge, and that was why I even stopped him from going to school. But he is not misbehaving; he goes to shop by himself and comes back but before this Sunday he told me that he wanted to visit his sister who is studying at Ignatius Ajuru University. But I told him to wait, that I would take him there; only for me to come back and he was nowhere to be found. Maybe he was trying to go to his sister’s place and lost his way in the process. What kind of health challenge does he have? He has had the health challenge from birth. The doctor said he was suffering from underdevelopment. But he said it was nothing to worry about, that he would outgrow the situation. Have you been noticing any improvements in his condition over time? Yes, he is improving; looking at him physically he is okay but when talking to him he’s not that clear but at least he can speak. Was this the first time he would go away from home like this? No, at times he would go to church and not come back, so I used to send the younger ones to go and pick him.  At times, he would come back home by himself but he has never gone far like this before. Have you involved the police in the search? Yes, I have reported the case at the police station at Trans Amadi. I was told that there was a lost but found child at Eleka; they told me to go there and see if the child was my son. I went there but the child was not my son. How have you been coping with this situation? It has not been easy for me; it has not been easy at all. But I still have faith that I will see him, maybe he missed his way. It has not been easy for me, for me staying in the house without seeing my son, it has not been easy, even the house is uncomfortable for me to stay. Every day I go out after six and come back around 11pm and start searching the house, all over the places but my son is nowhere to be found. I can no longer sleep at night, with my son missing and not knowing his whereabouts. What about your husband? He is here with me; we have been looking for our son together.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com