The Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Wednesday celebrated the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, as the latter turned 80. In a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, Sanwo-Olu noted that the foremost cleric has greatly contributed to the progress of the state. Sanwo-Olu, in the birthday wish, also prayed for longer life and good health for the cleric, fondly called ‘Daddy GO’. The governor said, “Sir, you have been a blessing, not just to the Redeemed Christian Church of God, but also to us in Lagos State – your unceasing prayers for us and your wise counsel over the years have contributed in no small measure to the phenomenal progress our state has continued to witness. “We will forever be grateful. We cannot also ever forget your commitment to the Lagos State Annual Thanksgiving Service since the year 2000. “Because of your work, and of the name and legacy of the RCCG, the gospel has touched the very ends of the earth, in line with the Great Commission. “In addition, your devoted service in God’s Vineyard has helped put Nigeria in the global spotlight, as a land of spiritual exploits and greatness. “Yet, amidst all these wonderful accomplishments, you have remained as simple and humble as ever, never seeking the limelight or personal glory. “As you celebrate your 80th birthday, it is our prayer that the Almighty God will grant you more grace and strength to continue to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ, minister to the poor and the broken, and proclaim liberty to the captives. “I pray that the Almighty God will continue to crown you with good health to enable you render more service to His kingdom and you will continue to enjoy His manifold blessings and everlasting goodness. Amen. Happy Birthday, Sir.” Celebrating Adeboye’s wife, the governor said, “Let me also specially congratulate our Mummy, your adorable wife, and devoted partner, Pastor (Mrs.) Foluke Adeboye, and thank her for the great support and love she has continued to give to you. “I pray that God will continue to keep her strong and vibrant on this lifelong journey of jointly manifesting the fullness of His power and anointing.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com