The Students’ Union of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso has given lecturers in the university 72 hours to withdraw from the ongoing strike embarked on by the Academic Staff Union of Universities. The ASUU had on February 14 embarked on a four-week warning strike over the failure of the Federal Government to honour the 2009 agreements it reached with the union and the rot in universities. The union also extended the strike action by another eight weeks on March 14. But the Students’ Union of LAUTECH in a statement on Friday by the President, Anuoluwa Adeboye and Public Relations Officer, Gabriel Michael, said the students of the university had suffered too much from the past strikes. They added that the ongoing strike had also made the fresh graduates of the school miss the mobilisation for the National Youth Service Corps orientation programme in March. The students said they had requested a dialogue from the ASUU LAUTECH branch but stated that the union had refused to address them. The statement read, “In the light of this, if by now the leadership of ASUU LAUTECH can’t honour the open dialogue address from the Students’ Union between ASUU LAUTECH and LAUTECH students and they are claiming they are fighting for the Ladokites’ interest at the federal level, we are saying it is enough. “We are giving the leadership of ASUU LAUTECH 72 hours to borrow a leaf from ASUU KWASU that wrote a special letter to the national ASUU based on the peculiarity (situation) in their institution and should opt-out of this ongoing strike or else the Students’ Union will be left with no choice other than to see ASUU LAUTECH as a saboteur of the progress of LAUTECH and Ladokites due to their selfish interest. ation will not cease after 72 hours might have  lapsed and the  interest of Ladokites is not protected.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com