Reactions have continued to trail the inclusion of Ogenyi Onazi in the Super Eagles’ 32-man provisional squad to face Ghana in a Qatar 2022 World Cup play-off game later this month. Nigeria and Ghana are billed to battle for a slot at the biggest football showpiece in the world. Ahead of the mouth-watering clash, Eagles coach Austin Eguavoen named the 2013 AFCON star as one of the seven players on standby for the crucial encounter – a move which many fans have erred their disappointment. It’s been four years since the midfielder last featured for Nigeria when he played in the country’s 3-0 win over Seychelles during the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. The 29-year-old was also an unused substitute in the Eagles’ three matches during the 2018 World Cup. So far this season, Onazi has played a miserly 19 games across all competition, accumulating a total of 946 minutes and scoring just a goal. Despite being placed on the standby list, some sections of football fans in Nigeria have reacted to the list released by Eguavoen on Friday. A surprised Emmanuel Ajegunma sarcastically asked, “I thought we are playing for the World Cup and not just a friendly match? What is Onazi, who many had thought had retired doing in the squad, I hope this is not what I am thinking.” Wole Popoola, an IT technician equally expressed his dismay at the addition of the player. “Onazi needs to understand that he has passed his prime,” he told PUNCH Sports Extra. “Is it so difficult to get players who are still in the active league rather than those in the obscure league? I don’t find this list so convincing.” Alexander Ehodagbe said, “I heard the Ghanaians are saying their coach should not invite players playing in the Saudi league and here we are digging out one from there. I laugh for Nigeria my country.” “I saw on standby Ogenyi Onazi, is he still playing football? I thought he has retired,” Chinedu Eze wrote on Twitter. Also, commenting on the Super Eagles Twitter handle, Dozie Owums said, “Eguavoen, how did Onazi make the list over Lorient’s Innocent Bonke or Denmark-based Raphael Onyedika? The first leg will take place on March 25 in Ghana and the second leg will take place on March 29 in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com