Actress, Mercy Aigbe, has warned critics of her new marriage to movie marketer, Kazim Adeoti, to stop attacking her for being a second wife. In an interview with Media Room Hub Magazine, Mercy said, “Please, I just want to beg Nigerians. Please, I’m not the first person to be a second wife. It is my choice to be a second wife. And, I’m happy with it. Please, everybody should just leave me alone. Let me just be happy. “If you can be happy for me, be happy for me. If you are not happy for me, go and get busy. “On a much more serious note, it is my choice. I am happy. Just leave me to enjoy my marriage, please.” The actress also maintained that she married her husband for love, not his money. He said, “I did not marry my husband for his money but because he is my best friend, and I love him. After my bad marriage, I decided to concentrate only on my career and children. But when he came into my life, there was so much joy and peace. He is really a good man and I tell him all the time, so when he proposed to me, I decided that I didn’t want to lose that beautiful experience.” Responding to critics who accuse her of being a gold digger, she said, “I do not know how or why critics came up with the notion that I married him for his money. As a matter of fact, I am working for him because we are business partners. We complement each other, and I also bring something to the table. I am not poor. I did not just walk into the relationship (with nothing). I am adding value to our marriage and he is also adding value to me. I work hard for my money, I make a lot of money from influencing and advertising for brands, and it is sad that some people think of me as a gold digger.” Adeoti also insisted that he was not ‘snatched’ from his first wife like many were saying. He said, “It is not true that I was snatched from my first wife. There was nothing like snatching. I am an adult, and I made the decision to get married to Mercy of my own volition. Mercy and my first wife were never friends. My family is in the United States of America, and I shuttle between the US and Nigeria because my business is in Nigeria. Some people think I am separated from my (first) wife because my family is not in Nigeria, but that is not true. We are good together. Although there were issues due to what is going on, everything is under control, and we are back to normal. I am a Muslim and my religion permits me to marry more than one wife. Now, I am married to two wives. I have two beautiful women, and I’m glad. Everything is good.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com