Some youths of Isoko ethnic nationality in Delta State, under the auspices of the Isoko Development Union, on Monday, barricaded the Emevor-Iyede-Ughelli Asaba Expressway to protest against alleged marginalisation by the state government. Economic and official activities were disrupted along the axis for several hours, as travellers got stranded, just as some others were compelled to make a detour and divert to other routes, while the protesters caused gridlock on the road. The protesting youths carried placards with inscriptions such as, ‘We demand the release of the N10m Social  Security  Fund’,  ‘Isoko youths tell Okowa to respect Isoko tradition’, ‘Okowa failed to meet Isoko youths’,  among others. The president of the group, Obokpaino Fidelis, said, “The protest is as a result of the marginalisation of the IDU, youth wing, by the Delta State Government and the multinational oil companies operating in Isoko land.” He said the oil companies were denying the host communities of their corporate social responsibilities and when approached for dialogue, the companies allegedly refused to grant them an audience. Fidelis said, “Isoko Development Union, Youth Wing, was created 16 months ago and saddled with the responsibilities of handling all youth activities in Isoko nation. “But since its creation till now, the state government has resolved not to give the youth wing attention for interaction. “Even the Commissioner of Police, the Army and DSS, including the state government, they all denied us an audience, which is the major reason why we barricaded the road today (Monday) in a peaceful protest against the marginalisation of IDU youth wing by the Delta State Government and the multinational oil companies. “Isoko youths are being marginalised of the N10m social security fund which the state government is giving to other ethnic nationalities across the state. “We demand an interactive session with the state government to present our demands to the Governor of Delta State, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, and also the multinational oil companies operating in Isoko land.” The Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori, who later met the protesters on his way to Asaba, appealed to them to remain calm, saying he would present their case before the state governor for action. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com