Raphael Ede, Enugu The Enugu State Commissioner for Environment and Mineral Resources, Mr Chijioke Edeoga, has resigned from the State Executive Council. The former Chairman, House Committee on Information, The PUNCH gathered on Wednesday, resigned his position last Friday. Edeoga, who made his resignation known in his farewell remarks to the staff of the ministry on Wednesday, was reported to have also picked the governorship form of the Peoples Democratic Party to contest the governorship position in the state in the 2023 general election. The commissioner, who is believed to be the most favoured candidate of the power brokers and even the governor, is the only appointee that had resigned to contest for the top office in the state. Addressing the staff of the ministry, Edeoga said his voluntary resignation was to enable him to pursue his political aspiration and also to align himself with the provisions of the newly amended Electoral Act, 2022. He stated, “Regarding the 2023 elections, the justice of the matter is on our side. The voices of the majority of the people are properly aligned. Victory by God’s grace is assured.” He expressed gratitude to God for the period he superintended over the affairs of the ministry from 2019 to the date of his resignation. He also thanked the management and staff of the ministry for their support and cooperation while he worked with them. Edeoga also thanked Governor Ugwuanyi, for finding him worthy to serve under his administration as commissioner from 2015 till Wednesday, March 30, 2022. The permanent secretary at the ministry, Mrs Chinwe Amadi, expressed her profound gratitude to God for bringing Edeoga to the ministry. She described Edeoga as “a man of peace, loving and caring leader who understands the feelings of those under him; and can make people around him laugh even when they are not in the best of mood.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com