Actor and filmmaker, Saidi Balogun, is of the opinion that the country’s movie industry needs the government’s intervention to do better. In an interview with Sunday Scoop, he said, “Our people are doing so well. However, things would get better if the government could provide a proper structure for Nollywood, so that people who invest in the industry would be able to make a profit. When people spend so much money to produce movies and they don’t make their money back, they would lose interest in the industry. If the government provides a proper structure for Nollywood, we would be able to make money from what we produce and sell to Nigerians here in Nigeria. We have to showcase our culture to the world and we need the support of the government to achieve that. Nigerians are doing great (things) all over the world, and some of them are now coming back home to contribute their quotas to the industry. A few years before the end of (former President) Goodluck Jonathan’s administration, the government openly said that the entertainment industry had contributed so much to the country’s economy, even more than many other industries.” Balogun also noted that his focus was now on grooming young talents in the movie industry. He said, “These days, I tend to promote young talents, especially those who had never been on screen. I use my platform to encourage the youth by allowing them to showcase their talents to the world. I do this to give back to society because some people also allowed me to prove myself and showcase my talent to the world. I am glad to have got the support of the Minister for Youths and Sports, Sunday Dare; and the Lagos State government through the Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf. “Many young people are as determined or even more determined than some people in my generation. These days, young people are doing so much to achieve great things despite the increasing competition. In recent times, I have produced three movies titled, Online, Finding Ireti, and The Scourge.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com