THE Nigerian Postal Services has unveiled a new application, POSTAGY, to enable it fulfil offline and online orders with ease. According to the agency, this mobile solution platform that harnesses technological innovation will help NIPOST to transform its services. Speaking during the unveiling of the application, the Postmaster-General of the Federation, Dr Ismail Adewusi, said with this innovation, NIPOST has left its analogue operations behind and embraced a technological solution in its bid to offer quality services to Nigerians. Adewusi, who was represented by NIPOST’s Director of Operations, Mr Victor Udughele, said, “The well-crafted technology will, over time, be operational throughout the federation. “From today, operations begin in Lagos state and will further be extended to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, and then to other states of the federation.” He added the agency had partnered with Hamabreeze Limited pioneer motorbikes to help it fulfil its orders. He said, “With these bikes, we have our attention to the delivery of small packets and these beautiful new babies will do the magic. “We are also deeply concerned about cumbersome items and their deliveries. I wish to let you know that there are vehicles in that category that can move these items too. So, no existing or potential customers should have any doubt about our capacities. I am using this medium to encourage vehicle owners in various categories to sign up on the app and earn that extra cool income after rendering service.” The General Manager, E-Commerce, NIPOST, Mr Oladapo Adekunle, added that the new mobile application was developed by its partner, e-Gate Egypt. He said, “This is a very significant moment for us at the e-Commerce and Logistics Commercial Business Unit. Today’s event marks the re-jigging of our purpose to reposition as the leader in the e-Commerce & Logistics sector in Nigeria. “E-Commerce giants in the advanced world have been successful because of how they have leveraged on technology to improve the postal service systems. With these unveilings today, the Nigeria Post is poised to position its e-Commerce and Logistics sector for more exploits through its network and provision of enabling infrastructures. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com