A retired Deputy Controller of Prisons, Pastor Peter Obayuwana, has joined the Lagos State governorship race. Obayunwa declared his intention for the position on the platform of the Accord Party. While declaring his intention on Wednesday at the party’s secretariat in Lagos, Obayuwana said that he would end exploitations and mismanagement of public funds if elected in the 2023 general election. He pledged to make state agencies like the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, Task Force and others to be more public-friendly and serve the people without threat, intimidation and exploitation. “My heart aches at the failed social systems. I am disgusted with corrupt, incompetent government, stealing, exploiting the masses and abuse of human rights. “We deserve better deals and benefits of democracy. Lagos State is different from other states. We dream it bigger, we grow it bigger and we build it bigger. “In this coming election, I will not ask for your hard-earned money, but only for your vote to elect me governor of the people. “To achieve a government of the people and by the people, which will work for the people, a true democracy, I hereby plead for your vote,” Obayuwana said. He said that the tax rate in Lagos State was among the highest in Nigeria, saying if elected all forms of exploitations would cease for the market women and men, transporters, among others. Obayuwana expressed commitment to the welfare and wellbeing of residents, adequate infrastructure and a transparent government that would be accountable to voters. “To achieve a government of the people and by the people, which will work for the people, a true democracy, I hereby plead for your vote. “Let’s work together to create a peaceful, prosperous state. In this forthcoming 2023 general elections, let us take our welfare and wellbeing in our hands and together vote for a better, prosperous Lagos State. “I vow to set a considerate conscionable tax, that can foster the growth of business and ensure the increase in individual wealth of every Lagos resident, and by doing so, bring to an end poverty in Lagos,” he said. Obayuwana said that he would also give priority to better medical healthcare, free trade, safe schools, safe roads and humane estate agents. Obayuwana retired as DCP from the Nigeria Correctional Service in 2017 after the mandatory 35 years of service. He founded Prisoners Helper Foundation, Marriage and Family Care Foundation and God’s Grace Christian Ministry. NAN