Veteran Nollywood actor, Fabian Adibe, speaks to ALEXANDER OKERE about his childhood, acting career and the Nigerian movie industry Kindly introduce yourself. My name is Fabian Adibe. I am from Dim Na Nume in the Nwangele Local Government Area of Imo State. I am 79 years; I will turn 80 on December 1, 2022. Did you grow up in the city? Can you describe what your childhood was like? My childhood was spent moving from one place to another because my father was a warder. So, we moved from one town to another Which of those towns do you remember fondly? Okigwe. What made life in Okigwe interesting? It was a place where I met my best teacher, Barnabas Ejiofor. He taught me and others in Standard Six as if he was teaching secondary school pupils. Did moving from one place to another as a child make you adventurous? Not necessarily. My parents were strict and were Catholics. I lost my mother when I was about two and lived with my stepmother. When I erred, they didn’t spare the rod. Did you receive formal education early? I was young enough. Can you tell me the schools you attended? I can’t now. But I loved education and read a lot of books at libraries. Would you say your acting career began by chance or was it what you wanted as a profession? I think it was what I wanted. As I said earlier, I had a good teacher who exposed us to the book, Macbeth, in Standard Six. It was at that point that I realised I was very much interested in acting. When I grew older, I visited an elder brother in Enugu. In 1960, I was at the British Council when I was invited to attend a debate for some schools. After watching it, I was not impressed but as I was coming out, fortunately, the director of the council, who was a white man, was behind me. I told him the debate was not very interesting. When he asked me why, I told him it was because it was not a spectator show. When he asked me what I thought, I told him he would need drama and he told me to arrange for it since the council had a hall where the show could hold. That was how I formed a drama group in Enugu called Oguiyi Players. Were members of that group trained? None of us had any training in drama or theatre. I went back to the white man and told him we needed a director but he told me the council would not do that for us but advised us to put up a notice stating that we needed a director. A few weeks later, somebody walked in and it happened to be Mr John Ekwere of the Eastern Nigeria Broadcasting Corporation. He came in and said he saw the notice and wanted to be the director of the drama group and that was how we got him as a director. The group started work, more people started coming and before we knew it, it grew into a big drama group that organised shows every month until 1964 when we were informed that the Federal Government had been invited to the Commonwealth Arts Festival in 1965 and all drama groups were encouraged to participate in the competition. We worked very hard, took part in the competition and by the grace of God, we won. That is how far I have gone in theatre and film. In 1997, some South Africans brought a film production, Soweto, to Nigeria and I was the art director. It was a film they made so that blacks in South Africa could unite against apartheid. But before it could be out, South Africa had been liberated. In 1990, I also served as a director to some Hollywood productions. One does not need a formal education to become a good actor; it requires talent Can you remember the first movie you featured in as a professional actor? That would be King Jaja of Opobo and the producer was not a regular one but someone who wanted to delve into production. What role did you play? I can’t remember the name now but he (the character) was the one that crowned King Jaja of Opobo. How much did it fetch you? I got N30,000, which was a lot of money as of that time. I think it was in 1993. You probably came to the limelight in 1985 in the acclaimed Nigerian TV series, Things Fall Apart, where you played the role of Ogbuefi Uzowulu and acted alongside Pete Edochie. Did it come to you as a surprise when it became a popular TV programme? Yes, I was in Things Fall Apart in 1985 but that was a Nigerian Television Authority production sponsored by the African Continental Bank. I was also the art director. No, it didn’t come to me as a surprise that it became popular. I auditioned for the role of Ogbuefi Uzowulu and the director came and auditioned me for the role of an art director because we were together (Oguiyi Players) at the British Council. What do you think made it such a huge success? The best people were given the roles. There was an audition that lasted almost a year. When the audition ended, we were lodged in a building and rehearsed for almost a year. So, it (Things Fall Apart) had to come out well because a lot of money was spent on it. I earned about N1,500 for playing Ogbuefi Uzowulu and because I played two roles, I was paid N2,000 as an art director. Anyone who had N1,000 as of that time had a lot of money. Everybody, even Okonkwo (Pete Edochie) was content with what they earned from the movie. Did you meet your wife while on location? I met her at what used to be NTV Aba. We worked together on Child Factor, a play written by a Ghanaian in 1976. Everybody has their standards or what they look for in a spouse and when they see them, they know. We have four children – two boys and two girls – and they are all graduates. The last child studied Theatre Arts. My first son is a film director. It was reported that you said you were poorly paid by producers and that you left Nollywood 12 years ago. Can you shed light on that? I left 12 years ago not because I was poorly paid; what I was paid applied to other actors, except for a few people who got large sums of money and I don’t know how to manage to get what they got. I remember I got N5,000 for the first Nollywood movie I featured in and I didn’t leave Nollywood because of the poor pay. Why did you leave? They (producers) came with what they called ‘packing’, that they would give me three scripts but I would be paid for two. They didn’t tell us that the three scripts were an agreement they reached with whoever would show the movie. Instead of the one-hour scripts we were used to, the one they gave us lasted for three hours for the same amount we were paid for one-hour scripts. I told them I would not do that and that was why I left. Do you think the producers made enough profit to pay the actors that worked with them? Whether they did or not, it was a question of bringing the actors together and talking to them, and they would understand. If their new method worked well, they could pay us royalties later, not telling us that there was no money, therefore, we would not be paid well and could be sacked. At a point, they started sacking actors, banning them for one to two years for being high-handed. Can you tell me how you lost your sight? I lost my sight completely in 2019 through glaucoma. I was in my house in Enugu one day when something exploded in my eyes. I felt this wasn’t a good sign and went to see an eye doctor. Unfortunately, the doctor was a young man who had just graduated from school. He used an instrument to look into my eyes and said it was a cataract, that in six months, I should come for surgery. So, I left. For the next six months, my eyes were still good, so I waited for another six months and decided to visit a bigger hospital where I was told I had glaucoma that had damaged my peripheral vision because I didn’t come early. But I was given some drugs. I had a friend who had the same problem when he was younger. He went to the University College in Ibadan and underwent an operation. Today, he still makes use of his eyes. His sight is not as good as before but enough for him to move around unaided. How did you feel when you first noticed that you could not see? I have seen a lot of people who were blind from birth and many who lost their eyes in accidents. So, why not me? I am still on very good terms with my God and I know that if He didn’t want this (blindness) to happen, it wouldn’t have happened. I am grateful to God that He allowed this to happen in my old age. I wake up in the morning and say my prayers with my family. I have breakfast and listened to the news. Do you have any regrets? I have none whatsoever. I don’t blame anybody or my God for what I’m going through. I thank God for what He has done for me from birth. I have the joy of God in me. I don’t get easily offended or worried. The Bible says man has a lifespan of 70 years and 80 if we are strong. In a few months, I will be 80 and physically I am strong except that I can’t see. So, why won’t I say, “Thank you, Father, for keeping me?” I do a lot of exercise. My phone sounds an alarm at 3am, so I get up and do some exercise. I jump until I sweat. That is why you can hear me talking as if nothing happened to me. With your present condition and having left Nollywood for 12 years, do you get support from former colleagues and actors? What happened to me had only recently been made public by some bloggers, so not many people knew. Not many have visited me but I know it is because they didn’t know. But a former president of the Actors Guild of Nigeria, Ibinabo Feberesima, called from London and has done a lot for me. You saw several generations of actors in your career. How would you describe the transformation that Nollywood has gone through? Nollywood goes forward and, at times, backward. That is how it is because most of the producers are marketers and don’t have any training in filmmaking. They told us that they started making movies when they got cameras and wanted to do something. When they saw Living in Bondage, most of them decided they were going to do films. But Nollywood will continue to improve. The other day, I heard a director at a popular movie channel saying that some of the poorly-made movies were aired to encourage the producers to improve. But if they continue to produce such movies, they will never get better. Soon, Nigerians who studied Drama and Film will come in and take over the industry. It should not be a question of a producer making a movie similar to the one produced by another person. Many movies have themes centred on kings, princes and princesses. That is plagiarism in a subtle way and it takes one nowhere. There are many other themes to write or dwell on in filmmaking. Producers should think outside the box about stories that have morals. There are growing concerns over the connection between themes on money rituals in Nollywood movies and the rising cases of ritual killings in the country. What do you think? Nollywood should stop promoting money rituals in movies. There are so many other things to talk about. Do you think the influx of untrained producers limits the potential Nollywood has? Yes, I agree, but then, it is left for the producers to improve themselves. Nobody was born a filmmaker. I improved myself in everything I did and that was why I was able to have a theatre and represent Nigeria during the Commonwealth Festival of Arts. During FESTAC ’77, I was an art director with the Federal Government. So, producers should train themselves to ensure that what they do is better than what others do.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com