As part of ongoing negotiations ahead of the 2023 presidential election, former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, Monday in Abuja secured the buy-in of Taraba State governor, Darius Ishaku, who described it as a “golden initiative”. This is after Saraki noted that without an early consensus, choosing a suitable Presidential flag bearer may result in a ruckus in the party as all the aspirants are qualified. Speaking at the Taraba Governor’s Lodge in Abuja on Tuesday, the former Kwara State Governor affirmed that although the seven presidential hopefuls have their ambitions, they cannot lead the country at the same time. He said, “Yes, we all have our individual ambitions, we all are eminently qualified to lead this country but we all cannot lead the country at the same time. “What is important now is to provide leadership and unity, let’s close ranks because if we all go to the primary, you know the problems that it will create and we agreed to work together and come up with a candidate.” He referenced a previous meeting held last week, saying the aim is to “forge a consensus as a way to bring unity to our party because we see that PDP is the only alternative left for Nigerians and to say that we are committed more to Nigerians than to ourselves.” Saraki noted that the consultations are far from over as there are plans to meet former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who declared his ambition to run for president last Wednesday. “We intend to meet with Waziri Adamawa later today (Monday). We have met with the governor of Benue and we will also meet with other governors, the governors from the south early next week and some of the elders in the country,” he said. To Governor Ishaku, he said, “Why we are coming early is because we want to ensure that you are part of this process. It is not being the president that matters, it is teamwork that we want to bring to this country, to make a change from what leadership used to be, one person. “The leadership we want to provide in 2023 is a leadership of unity where we will all play a role because it is clear that the problem of Nigeria is not what one person can do and that starts now in the emergence of that candidate.” On his part, the Taraba State Governor said he supports the consensus move 100 per calling it a “golden opportunity”. Ishaku said, “This is a wonderful golden initiative. PDP is known for being a family. we have shown Nigerians how to rule and manage their affairs and I think we should still be the leaders.
“I am very happy with this visit. You have my 100 per cent support. I am sure my colleagues too will give you the same support and any right-thinking person should be able to support this mission. “We only have to produce one person. Let’s work together, hold our hands together and agree that this person should be our leader. Then we will all fall in line, salvage this country and bring it back to what it is.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com