THE National Youth Service Corps, on Wednesday, directed married prospective female corps members to report for registration at the orientation camps in their husbands’ states of residence, irrespective of the states indicated on their call-up letters. It also said such women must report to the camps with their marriage certificates, evidence of change of name in a national newspaper and other valid marriage documents that were uploaded online during registration. The Director-General, NYSC, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, according to a statement by the Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations, Emeka Mgbemena, gave the directive in a nationwide virtual address to the 2022 Batch ‘A’, Stream Two prospective corps members, adding that the information was already contained on their call-up letters. He added that the policy was initiated to enable them to have a seamless service year. Ibrahim, however, warned that anyone caught presenting fake documents, either on marital or health grounds, would be handed over to law enforcement agents for prosecution. The NYSC DG advised prospective corps members to adhere strictly to the oath of allegiance that would be administered to them, adding that it would be binding on them during and after the service year. Ibrahim warned them to obey all camp rules, stating that anyone engaged in any act of indiscipline or criminality would be decamped. While advising the intending corps members to take cognisance of all the non-pharmaceutical COVID-19 safety protocols in the camps, he urged them to get vaccinated up to the booster stage in order to be protected from the virus. Ibrahim advised the prospective corps members to embrace the skill acquisition and entrepreneurship development programme, which offers vocational training, comprising in-camp and post-camp training, which he said was a gateway to self-reliance. The DG, who said efforts were in top gear to have the NYSC Trust Fund, stated, “Once it comes through, you will be given start-up capital to establish your businesses in line with the skills you have learnt during the service year. “Let nobody discourage you from acquiring skills, because white collar jobs are not readily available. Ideas and skills are what matter now, because many of your predecessors who were serious with the SAED training are now self-reliant and wealth creators, employing other Nigerians.” The DG counselled the prospective corps members to use the service year to preach against religious intolerance, ethnic jingoism, hatred and other divisive attitudes, adding that the NYSC was established to promote national unity and integration, and would continue to do so. “Use social media wisely to promote national unity and integration”, he said. Ibrahim reiterated that all services during the NYSC service year were free and urged the graduates not to fall prey to the antics of fraudsters. He cautioned against bribery, either for posting or relocation, as anyone caught offering bribes would be sanctioned accordingly. The DG stated, “I want to urge you to take the orientation course seriously, because it is a gamut of activities that has been designed for the benefit of corps members and promotion of national unity, cohesion and understanding among yourselves, which you are expected to promote in your host communities. “Open your minds to all the training that will take place in camp on leadership skills, Man ‘O’ War activities and military drills, among others. “Let the spirit of the NYSC live in you forever. Be good ambassadors of yourselves, institutions, families and the NYSC and also ensure that you do not do anything that will tarnish the image of the NYSC. Say no to drugs, cybercrimes and other social vices.” He urged them to be security conscious and avoid acts that could endanger their lives, and use the NYSC as a platform to render selfless services to the development of their fatherland.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com