Truck drivers under the aegis of the Nigerian Association of Road Transport Owners have blamed poor financing for the prevalence of bad trucks on the nation’s roads. According to them, a lack of access to bank finance is the reason there is a high number of rickety trucks on the nation’s roads. The Executive Secretary, NARTO, Aloga Ogbogo, disclosed this to our correspondent. He added that banks were sceptical when transacting business with truckers because of the hurdles involved. He said the terrible nature of Nigerian roads and unavailability of cargo was a major reason banks refused to transact with truckers. Ogbogo said, “Of course a good truck is an asset to the owner but going beyond that, no bank wants to finance the trucking business. “Banks are sceptical because there are lots of hurdles involved. One, the state of Nigerian roads is terribly bad, then there is the issue of availability of cargo. If you venture into truck financing you need to make sales to be able to break even. There is also the issue of extortions along the corridor, and insecurity too.” According to him, the constant depreciation of the naira is making it difficult for truck drivers to afford spare parts of their trucks, further discouraging potential investment in the sector. He added, “The price of spare parts has gone up because of the foreign exchange. These things pose a lot of challenges to the sector and as a result of this, banks that have gone into financing the sector have gotten their hands burnt. And that is why some of us have always advocated for a transport development bank to be able to assist transporters in truck financing.” Ogbogo further said the removal of rickety trucks on roads would help in the race to preserve the environment. He added the problems of emission and pollution would be addressed if old trucks are replaced. He said, “When you remove all these rickety trucks, it will go a long way in solving a lot of problems. “The pollution and emission will be addressed, truck breakdowns associated with massive traffic congestion will also be addressed, issues of truck turnaround will also be addressed because the newer a truck is the faster it runs. But at least every trucker wants a new truck.” He added that the trucking sector needs an intervention fund just like other sectors. According to him, truckers shouldn’t have to get loans at normal interest rates since the business is fragile. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com