The Nasarawa State First Lady, Silifat Sule, has berated the National Assembly for rejecting the gender-related bills, which were meant to protect the interest of the female gender in the country. This was contained in a statement signed and made available to newsmen in Lafia on Tuesday by the First Lady’s Special Assistant on Media, Lamino Ishaq, to mark the 2022 International Women’s Day celebration. According to the statement, Sule said the rejection of the gender bills by members of the National Assembly was an indication that they do not value the contributions of Nigerian women to the progress of the nation. She said, “If the National Assembly had passed the gender bills, it would have ended the barriers that millions of Nigerian women face on the basis of their gender. So we are not happy that it was rejected as their action is clear discrimination against women. “We all know that there can be no development without the full and equal participation of women in all sectors of the country. Any country that chooses to undermine the advancement of women cannot make steady progress because women play a great role in the development of the society. “So I am appealing to members of the National Assembly to revisit the gender bills and do everything within their power to ensure that it is passed so that Nigerian women would have a sense of belonging.” She commended the administration of Governor Abdullahi Sule for giving opportunities to women from across the 13 Local Government Areas of the state to participate in governance. “The administration of Governor Abdullahi Sule has since inception in 2019 been working tirelessly to close the gap between male and the female gender in terms of participation in governance and this is evident in women’s appointment into various positions and sectors in government. “The Governor is aware that a gender-equal world, a world free of bias and discrimination is the best for us that is why he has been creating opportunities for women in the state and I thank him immensely for his efforts,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com