The people of Umugama community, Ukwulu, Dunukofia Local Government Area of Anambra State, on Friday protested at the state police headquarters, blocking major roads in Awka. The protesters wore black clothes and carried different placards with various inscriptions, accusing their monarch, Igwe Peter Uyanwa, of land grabbing and intimidation. Led by a youth leader in the community, Philip Dilibe, the members of the community accused their monarch of selling off their lands indiscriminately while using police operatives to arrest and lock up anyone who dared to oppose his decision. Dilibe said, “The Igwe has been taking our lands from us and be selling and pocketing the money. He has also been using police operatives to arrest and lock up members of the community who dared to oppose his decision. “We are here today to let our grievances be known by the public and we call on the authorities to intervene in this situation.” The protesters chanted derogatory songs asking their ruler to leave their lands for them with placards that read, ‘Stop violence in Umugama’, ‘Igwe Ezedike stop selling our lands’, ‘we need peace in our land not violence’, among others. The protesters also marched to the zonal police command, Ukpo and the Palace of the clan head of Dunukofia, Igwe Robert C. Eze, Okofia VI. At the state police command, representative of the Commissioner of Police and the Police Spokesman, DSP Ikenga Tochukwu, advised the protesters to get an attorney to articulate their grievances in the form of a petition, and that the commissioner will work on it to ensure peace in the community. “We are happy that you are protesting peacefully, and we want to assure you that the police will look into your petition once you write him formally and ensure that investigation is carried out, and your grievances will be addressed,” the police spokesman said. The traditional ruler, Igwe Peter Uyanwa, in his reaction, denied having anything to do with lands belonging to members of the village. He said, “That village is having their own crisis, and I am not from that village, and I have nothing to do with their land, even though I am their traditional ruler. “They even told me they wanted to protest at my palace today for me to settle the dispute they have, but I said no. I didn’t want to receive visitors. What you must know is that more than 80 per cent of the protesters are not my subjects. They were just hired for the protest. I don’t have even one plot of land in that village.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com