THE “resource curse” is haunting Nigeria. Crude oil prices have risen sharply following the Russian invasion of Ukraine, but in a marked departure from the past when higher prices temporarily cushioned Nigeria’s distorted economy, adversity looms. The International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, economists and key public functionaries have projected higher domestic prices of refined products, inflation, gas shortages and further pressure on the naira exchange rate as consequences. Failure to efficiently manage the oil wealth over the years has presented the country with a quagmire. It will require ingenuity to save the economy. The IMF issued a dire warning on the negatives from higher prices, while the state oil company warned Nigerians to brace for higher subsidy outlay. The organised private sector also fretted that harder times await businesses and feared further job losses. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), should harness expert input and contributions from critical stakeholders to handle the fallout. Economists agree that a “fifth oil windfall” is unfolding. Oil prices, rising since 2018, averaged $111 per barrel last week, the highest in seven years. The price of the benchmark Brent crude, comparable to Nigeria’s Bonny Light, hit $130-$140pb as the United States, United Kingdom, and the European Union led the world to impose sweeping economic sanctions on Russia. President Joe Biden banned the imports of Russian crude and gas to the US. EU member countries had already pivoted away from Russian gas imports and cancelled the multibillion-dollar Nord Stream transcontinental pipeline. Russia’s warmongering has triggered an economic upheaval worldwide, disrupted markets and global supply chains, sent stocks plummeting and gasoline prices to record levels everywhere. In the US, the American Automobile Association said pump prices had pushed inflation to unprecedented levels. European diesel prices have also skyrocketed. Pundits forecast that crude prices may climb to $200-$300pb. For Nigeria, higher crude prices portend mixed blessings: expected benefits include the traditional temporary improvement in public revenue that they bring. For an economy that still depends on 65 per cent of government revenues from oil and gas and over 90 per cent of export earnings, this is significant. But other factors dampen this. One is that though installed capacity is over 2.5 million barrels per day, production in January this year averaged 1.39mbpd, down from 1.19mbpd in December 2021. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, admitted that the country could not meet its OPEC-assigned quota of 1.71mbpd due to under-investment caused by the delay in implementing the Petroleum Industry Act, the exodus of oil majors, and vandalism. Over 200,000 barrels of crude are stolen per day.Losses from theft amounted to $2.77 billion in 2019, said the Nigerian Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. With debt servicing gulping 90 per cent of all revenue, succour may therefore not be forthcoming from the higher prices this time. There is another, more disastrous element. High crude oil prices cause fatal fiscal haemorrhage to Nigeria: maddeningly dependent on imports for practically 100 percent of refined petroleum needs, the country is paying more from its foreign reserves to sustain this senseless dependency. Worse is that the subsidy payment on petrol has skyrocketed. At $80pb, the Nigerian National Petroleum Company projected “under-recovery” of N3 trillion this year. At over $100pb, this could rise to over N4 trillion that will be withheld from funds shared by the federal, states and local governments. The first oil boom arose from the Arab-Israeli war of 1973; the second in 1980-82; the third after the First Gulf War 1990-91; and the fourth in 2011-2014, when prices climbed over $100pb. Apart from some major infrastructure projects funded with the first, subsequent windfalls were squandered, most embezzled. The Gulf War windfall famously vanished. The country distorted its economy by neglecting productive sectors like agriculture, mining, manufacturing, and SMEs. From self-sufficiency, the country transited to import-dependency for food and eventually practically everything else. Despite massive drops, agriculture still accounts for 24 percent of GDP and 34.66 percent of all employment. The oil and gas sector provides just 9.0 percent, and less than 2.0 percent of employment. Buhari and the 36 state governors should devise actions to weather the storm. The primary challenge is to carefully husband revenues and channel them to productive activities. Budget 2022 is anchored on oil price of $62pb and 1.88mbpd. Partnering with producers, the government should look for creative ways of raising production. Savings made from the price difference should not be squandered as done in the past. In accordance with the constitution, the National Assembly should insist that all such extra earnings must be accounted for, and should not be spent until approved via an appropriation law. The Executive should be stopped from the unlawful practice of spending revenue without legislative approval. The four loss-making refineries should be transparently sold as they are to globally recognised refiners. Between 2015 and January 2021, combined, they incurred losses of N473.3 billion, and N11.77 billion in the three months to August 2021. Rather than sell them, the NNPC sourced another $1.5 billion to “rehabilitate” the two Port Harcourt refineries. Buhari is throwing good money after bad. With refineries transferred to capable private hands and the 650,000bpd Dangote Refinery billed to commence production by year’s end, the crippling subsidies should end by next year. Reports say that the last spike in oil prices in 2018 fetched about $3.6 billion extra cash in the first four months of that year; there is nothing to show for it. Foreign reserves decreased to $39.84 billion in February from $40.15 billion in January 2022. The Debt Management Office put the debt stock at N38 trillion as of September 2021, up by N5 trillion from December 2020. In times of financial adversity, you downsize the cost of governance, dispense with luxuries, and plug all revenue leakages. The federal and state governments should take this option, slash their armies of aides, stop white elephants, and adopt business-friendly policies to attract local and foreign investors to the productive, job-creating sectors. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com