Atlanta ‘96 Olympics gold medallist Abiodun Obafemi has warned the Super Eagles against underrating their Ghanaian counterparts ahead of their crucial 2022 World Cup play-off later this month, The PUNCH reports. Nigeria and Ghana are set to battle for a slot at the world football showpiece, with the first of the two-leg clash scheduled for Cape Coast Stadium on March 25, while the return leg holds four days later at the Moshhod Abiola National Stadium, Abuja. Tipped as one of the favourites to win the 33rd edition of the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon following an impressive start where they picked up maximum nine points in the group stage, Nigeria shockingly crashed out of the tournament in the Round of 16, following a 1-0 defeat to Tunisia on January 23. On their part, the Black Stars had an underwhelming outing in Cameroon, winning none of their Group F matches and also surprisingly losing 3-2 to minnows and debutants Comoros in their last group game. Obafemi warned the Eagles against underrating the Ghanaians because of their poor AFCON outing. “We shouldn’t take the performance of the Black Stars for granted, it will be a mistake to say they didn’t perform very well at the last AFCON and want to use that to determine the forthcoming games,” the former defender told The PUNCH. “Honestly, Ghana will always be Ghana when it comes to playing Nigeria. They have always been formidable opponents and the rivalry is always high. What I will suggest the Eagles do is not to feel too much pressure but must know that this is a game that they must take seriously.” He added, “Also, Eguavoen must ensure he uses the players that are doing very well and fit because this is not the time to experiment or be sentimental. The game against Ghana is not the time to help any player or make a statement and if he wants to help a player he can advise and tell them to be a force to be reckoned with and not gamble with the national team.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com