Paul Pogba is attracting interest with his contract at Manchester United winding down this summer, with two Premier League clubs among those keen on his services. A number of European clubs – including Real Madrid, PSG and Juventus – remain in contact with the France international’s representatives about signing the midfielder on a free transfer this summer. SkySports reports that no official offers have been made yet, but two Premier League clubs have also been in touch with Pogba’s camp. The 29-year-old has not ruled out staying at Old Trafford – but there has been no new contract offer since last summer. The identity of the next manager will be one of the factors Pogba will take into consideration before making a final decision in the summer. Pogba has previously said, “Whether it’s with Manchester or another club, I want to win trophies.” Pogba has cast further doubt over his United future. Speaking to French publication Le Figaro, he said, “You have to be honest, the last five seasons have not satisfied me – really not at all. “This year it is dead, we won’t win anything. Whether it is with Manchester United or another club, I want to win trophies. “I get along very well with [France boss Didier Deschamps], he gave me a role that I know, but at Manchester United do I really have a role? I ask the question but I don’t have an answer.” Meanwhile, Pogba has opened up about experiencing depression “several times” during his career. The Manchester United midfielder believes it is difficult for footballers to speak out about their mental health struggles. He adds high salaries are no barrier and the constant scrutiny players are under creates an intense environment they have to deal with. “Completely, and several times during my career,” replied Pogba, when asked if he had experienced depression in an interview with French newspaper Le Figaro. “I have been through it, but we don’t talk about it. Sometimes you don’t even know you have depression, you just want to be isolated, to be all alone, these are the unmistakable signs. “From a personal perspective, that started when I was with Jose Mourinho at Manchester. You ask yourself if there is something wrong with you, because you have never experienced these moments in your life. “Of course we earn a lot of money and we don’t complain, really. But that does not prevent you from going through these moments in your life – like the whole world – which are more difficult than others. “In football, it is not acceptable but we are not superheroes, we are only human beings.”