Sometimes, I feel men are yet to KNOW the raw truth as regards the emotions of a woman but I will break it down for them with this message that a lady sent to me, recently. “We received a lot of party invites in the New Year and my husband and his friends attended most of those parties. They seemed to enjoy partying with ‘the boys’ only. “They would usually leave in the early evenings and come back a little before midnight. But on this particular day, my husband didn’t come home, despite repeatedly telling me that he would be on his way shortly. He came home at almost 7am the next day. He claimed that he was so drunk he slept in the car. I was just looking at him and smiling. All through that day, this man kept behaving like a sick puppy! “Shortly before midday, I received a text from him…thanking me for not being ‘such a nagging wife.’ If you know our history, then you will understand that, that’s the umpteenth time he would be sending such ‘not being a nagging wife’ messages to me.’’ How naïve can men be! She didn’t nag NOT because she is an angel but because her energy was BUSY elsewhere! The message continues… “I had just started a master’s degree programme at a university and made acquaintances with a course mate. He is a young man in his early 30s. Gainfully employed and not yet married. Our friendship blossoms by the day and it’s all due to his thoughtful nature. It’s the kind of thoughtfulness that I never knew was possible in young people of his age. And it made me grow so fond of him. I am actually very fond of him and I’ve fantasised a lot about him…including wishing I was younger and the love of his life. He’s part of the reason I occupy my mind with ‘sweeter thoughts’ than hubby’s irritating ways.’’ What I think men don’t understand is that the average wife in a marriage that is not so new will most likely be BORED with the marriage on some days. And it gets to that point when even your money or boyish looks don’t really cut it anymore for her. Yet, as BORING as the average woman may find her marriage, those with scruples STILL find reasons not to do as the head dictates. Her story continues…. “A few years back, it was my husband’s cousin (now overseas and married) that had such effect on me. I was attacked on the Third Mainland Bridge (Lagos) by hoodlums and when I called my husband, his line was not available. I called his cousin and he asked me to park at the nearest filling station and wait for him there. I did as he asked me and in less than an hour, he was there. On seeing how shaken I was, he took me into his arms and just held me there for a while. I didn’t want that hug to end. It was just what I needed at that time. And for a long time, I didn’t stop thinking about that hug and who it came from. Despite my fantasies…I didn’t let myself cross certain lines.’’ These feelings about other men are a common sentiment in women. A lot of women have these “warm feelings” towards their priests, family doctors or husband’s friends, colleagues, etc. But only some will let themselves go beyond “just fantasising about these men”. What is my point? For every woman that has chosen to stay true to her marriage vows, know that you (dear hubby) may no longer be “who” presses her fantasy buttons. But she is BEHAVING…out of RESPECT to her commitment to you!  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com