The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has commended the Ebonyi State chapter of the South-East Security Network, Ebubeagu, for securing the lives and property of residents of the state. The President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof George Obiozor, who stated this in Abakaliki, said Ebonyi State was the only state that had stopped the observance of the Monday sit-at-home in the entire South-East region. He observed that this was consequent upon the commitment and vigilance of Ebubeagu operatives in the state. Obiozor spoke on Tuesday during the ground-breaking of the Computer Village Estate by the state government in collaboration with the Association of Computer Technology Merchants of Nigeria. He commended Governor David Umahi for showing uncommon capacity in the areas of security and infrastructure in the state. Obiozor, who was represented by the organisation’s National Publicity Secretary, Alex Ogbonnia, lauded Ebubeagu, saying the outfit was a true representation of the South-East Security Network that Ohanaeze demanded for the region. He urged residents of Ebonyi State to continue to support the governor to do more in securing the state for businesses to thrive. Obiozor stated, “Ohanaeze is happy that you are driving Ebubeagu in Ebonyi State; we are very happy about it. When we say Ebubeagu, we mean it. People say security is a collective responsibility, but they fail to understand that there is what we call collective consciousness before collective responsibility. “By collective consciousness it means he has domesticated security; in fact, every community in Ebonyi has someone in Ebubeagu. That is domestication of security and that is what Umahi has done in Ebonyi.  I tell you one thing, in every federalism, there should be four or more levels of security apparatuses maintaining security. “So, there is no way one level of security apparatus can measure up to the task and responsibility assigned to them. It is important that people should realise the need to have another security architecture to complement existing ones. So, your Excellency, we are happy with Ebubeagu in Ebonyi.” Umahi, in his remarks, said his administration would continue to attract useful investments into the state. He said the Computer Village Estate, when completed, would be of immense economic and technological benefits to people of the state. The governor said Ebubeagu had done well in supporting the police and other security agencies to secure the state, stressing that the outfit would never be disbanded as it was legally and constitutionally constituted. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com