Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya has sympathised with the parents of Rahab Hassan, a student of Government Girls Science Secondary School, Kumo who died recently as result of a car accident. Rahab Hassan, along with her colleagues, had besieged the Gombe-Yola road to welcome Governor Yahaya’s visit to Kumo when a commercial bus driver allegedly knocked her down as a result of reckless driving. Yahaya, while commiserating with the bereaved family in Jalingo Baule, said he received the sudden and unfortunate death of Rahab Hassan with great shock and sadness. Represented by the Secretary to the Gombe State Government, Ibrahim Njodi, the governor described the death of Rahab as a big loss not only to her immediate family but the state at large. Yahaya said, “As a father, losing a child at such a tender age is so devastating,moreso that the child in question was doing exceptionally well to uplift the name of her family through educational pursuit.” The governor, therefore, called on the parents of the deceased to be comforted and take solace in the fact that death was an inevitable end to all mortals. He equally used the occasion to correct the notion making the rounds that it was a vehicle in the governor’s convoy that knocked down Rahab, describing the narrative as baseless and unfounded. He explained that as a responsible government, his administration would continue to stand with the people of the State in both bad and good times. The member representing Kaltungo East in the Gombe State House of Assembly, Ladan Gaule, said the administration of Governor Muhammadu Yahaya is committed towards the overall good and welfare of his people. “The Governor deemed it necessary to send a high powered delegation to commiserate with the parents of the deceased and the entire Jalingo Baule community,” Gaule added. The Commissioner for Education, Dauda Batari, said the State Government through his Ministry and Government Girls Science Secondary School Kumo did all they could to save the life of Rahab Hassan. “As soon as she was knocked, we rushed her to the hospital in Kumo and after some first aid treatment we were referred to the Federal Teaching hospital Gombe. It was at the Federal Hospital that she succumbed to the impact of the accident,” Batari said. He said the Ministry of Education and by extension the Gombe state government was deeply saddened by the sudden death of Rahab Hassan and therefore prayed God to grant her soul eternal rest. Responding on behalf of the bereaved family, Ahmadu Lasuni, lauded Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya for sharing in the pain of the immediate family of the late Rahab Hassan and the entire Jalingo Baule community. The Governor’s delegation had earlier visited Government Girls Science Secondary School Kumo to commiserate with the Principal Teachers and Students of the School. The Principal, Saratu Joda, described the death of Rahab as one too many. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com