The Inspector-General of Police’s Special Taskforce on Petroleum and Illegal Bunkering said its operatives impounded over 900,000 liters of adulterated diesel and 30,000 liters of stolen crude oil in Rivers State. The Commander of the Special Task Force at the Force Headquarters in Abuja, Usman Kanfani, disclosed the information to newsmen on Wednesday while parading some arrested suspects at the taskforce base, Port Harcourt refinery complex in Eleme, Rivers State. Kanfani said that the task force also arrested 13 suspects, 15 trucks loaded with 45,000 liters of diesel each, and two smaller trucks with 12,000 liters each of the product at different locations in the state. Kanfani who was represented by the Acting Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said the seizures and arrests were made between February and March 2022 The commander said some of the adulterated drums of diesel were concealed in two container trucks carrying food stuffs and fertilizers. He further said that the taskforce in 2021 impounded 20 trucks, arrested 29 suspects and had 21 cases ongoing in the court, while 142,900 liters of diesel, 30,000 liters of low pour fuel oil and 9,900 liters of fuel were forfeited to the government. “Sequel to the Federal Government and Rivers State Government’s unrelenting pragmatic and sustained fight against illegal bunkering, pipeline vandalism and economic sabotage, the Inspector General of Police’s Special Task Force on Petroleum and illegal Bunkering Force Headquarters Abuja has impounded about 900,00 liters of product suspected to be adulterated Automotive Gas Oil (AGO) and about 30,000 liters of product suspected to be crude oil within Rivers State from February to March, 2022. “About 15 tankers each loaded with about 45,000litres and two short tankers each loaded with about 12,000 liters of petroleum product suspected to be adulterated AGO were impounded by the IGP’s Special Task Force on Petroleum and Illegal Bunkering within the State. “Two container body trucks disguised to be loaded with foodstuff and groceries were also impounded by the Special Taskforce after a thorough stop and search discovered each truck was loaded with about 40,000 liters of petrol product tested to be adulterated AGO. “One tanker loaded with about 30,000 liters of tested crude oil was also intercepted at Oyigbo area of Rivers State,” Kanfani stated. He said samples of the products were collected and tested in laboratories and the results revealed the products do not meet the specifications of the Standards Organization of Nigeria. He warned criminal elements who engage in oil theft and illegal oil bunkering and activities to desist from such crimes, saying the taskforce would not rest on its laurels to ensure that the hoodlums are apprehended and made to face the law. “These criminals also stuff adulterated petroleum products in sacks, jerry cans; load them in saloon cars, buses and other vehicles and convey them to various buyers. “Efforts are on top gear to arrest other suspects in connection with the offence. “The Commander IGP’s Special Task Force on Petroleum and Illegal Bunkering Force Headquarters, Abuja DCP Usman Jubrin Kanfani assures the people of Rivers State and the country at large of the IGP Usman Alkali Baba’s commitment towards fighting all forms of criminality, including the protection of government and public critical assets in order to curb economic sabotage and restore a healthy environment,” he added Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com