A member of the Nigerian Senate, Sani Musa, has urged the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to personally announce his preferred candidate for the office of the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, if he has one, to prevent confusion in the party. Musa, who is an aspirant, said he would respect the choice of the President and the leadership of the APC. He, however, decried that the information emanating from the Presidency is different from those on the social media, blaming it on communication gap. The senator made this known while speaking on Channels Television’s Sunday Politics monitored by our correspondent on Sunday night. When asked if he was favoured by Buhari or the Presidency, Musa said, “The President is the leader of the APC and he is for all. Just as every individual will have preferences; you will like something and it is your choice.” On if he wished he could be the President’s preference, the lawmaker said, “I wouldn’t know; I could be his. I am not sure. I can be.” Musa stated that he was not aware of a bloc or group of people in the APC pushing for him, noting that all members of the ruling party are his constituents. “What I know is that we have the APC membership and we have stakeholders and we have those that are leading the party as of today. And all I do is to rally round all the organs of the party as it is today, to seek the support,” he said. When asked what he would do if the APC resolved for a consensus candidate and he was not picked, Musa said, “I am a very loyal party man and I believe in the leadership of Mr President. Mr President is honest, sincere and a man of integrity. Whatever the President will decide and officially I get to know about it, why not? Why will I not go with what the leadership of my party will want?” The senator added, “But there is a communication gap and until that communication gap is filled, things will be getting wrong because if you go on social media, what we will hear is completely different from what we will hear from sources that we feel are very close to Mr President.” Asked if he was willing that Buhari talks to the contenders directly, Musa said, “If the President speaks to us and tells us what he wants us to do, as abiding citizens of this country and with the respect for that office (of the President) and with the integrity of that man, I don’t think anyone of us will stop him from having what he wants.” The lawmaker, however, stated that he was ready for any of the available options of fielding candidates in the APC constitution: direct primary, indirect primary and consensus. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com