A Letter to Investors Today, like any other day, is a good day to start thinking about investing capital into the cryptocurrency markets. Whether you’re an inexperienced “rookie” venturing for the first time in the digital finance universe looking to start earning through passive side-gigs or whether you’re a crypto-veteran and think digital coins can no longer surprise and amaze you because you “know” the market, keep reading because you’d be surprised at how much there is still to learn. The market seems to be readjusting after the December 2021 crash and it is currently offering both fresh and profitable investments and of growing and harvesting old assets. Three Investments We Believe In 1. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) has been delivering great results since its start in January 2022 and therefore, it is top of our list this week; The non-volatile culture, democratic platform, and innovative work in immersive and creative technological fields make SSW a great investment opportunity. If that’s not enough, the percentage growth has been prodigious. Since January 25th (less than a month and a half), SSW has grown by 2400% and has not stopped. Since the start of the week (5th March) Seesaw Protocol has gained 10.81%. These are great numbers that we just don’t see every day. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) is in its second presale stage (there’s going to be a third and last one opening up soon) and that means that investors, new and existing, can purchase the SSW token at an exceptional price point, possibly resulting in greater results and returns. The interesting and intriguing thing about presales is that venture capitalists can be sure that the price of the token they bought, cannot plunge or fall, it can only go up before it enters the trade markets. Furthermore, SSW works on a great reward system, distributing fees across its holders for an even better cryptocurrency experience. Today one SSW is being sold (in presale) at a price of USD 0.125 – At the time of launching presale just over a month ago, the starting price was $0.005 and according to analysts, by April, the price is going to surge to anywhere between $0.50-$0.52 per token. 2. FTX Token (FTT), from MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) with love. A crypto-derivatives trading platform FTX launched in 2019 – FTT is the token used to buy and sell crypto derivatives. FTT is the native coin to FTX. CoinRanking.com states that FTX is in fourth place on its list of crypto exchanges based on the number of users, web traffic, liquidity, trading activity, a cybersecurity assessment, and more (Also, CoinGecko lists it at fourth place). FTX can be exchanged to buy and sell Ethereum and its reward and money-back system are currently one of the best in the market. FTX is currently up 3% in one week and its trading price has just hit USD 40. 3. Aave (AAVE) is up almost 5% today on a trading price of just over USD 120 per AAVE token. Aave is a DeFi (Decentralised Finance) money system that lets people lend and borrow crypto from anywhere in the world. Lenders make money by depositing digital assets into special liquidity pools. This allows investors to later get short-term loans with their crypto. Furthermore, because Aave serves as a governance token, it gives its holders a say in how the protocol runs and moves forward in the future. The company was launched in November 2017, it was called ETHLend. In September 2018, the company changed its name to the current name, Aave. News just broke that the protocol Aave is “moving” to Brazil, expanding its reach and power. The Brazilian (the biggest Country in South America) Central Bank announced that it will be testing the use of Aave protocol across the Country for the CBDC (national bank accelerated cash). Enter Presale: https://presale.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol