Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has charged the Peoples Democratic Party to treat the South-South geopolitical zone with fairness, justice, and equity. The governor noted that having consistently voted for the PDP since 1999, the party cannot at this crucial moment ignore the South-South’s constructions to its success. Wike gave the admonition during the meeting of PDP stakeholders in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State on Monday. Media aide to the governor, Kelvin Ebiri captured this in a statement made available to newsmen in Port Harcourt on Monday night. “The South-South is the pillar of the PDP. If the South-South is the pillar of the PDP, they must be treated with fairness, justice, and equity. “It is not only when it comes to working, it is only when it comes to giving votes, that we will all remember that the South-South is the pillar. When it also comes in terms of sharing, they should remember that this is the pillar of the party,”.Wike stated. Ahead of the 2023 general elections, Governor Wike charged his colleagues, National Assembly members, and other stakeholders from the South-South zone to set aside their differences in the overall interest of the PDP. He added, “We have all said that Nigerians are waiting for PDP to take over in 2023. That is true. But we cannot take over if we are not united. We can not take over if don’t work together.” The Rivers state governor stressed that the only way PDP could wrest political power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) led Federal Government in 2023 is for it to remain united. He said Nigerians are already disenchanted with the APC-led Federal Government that has through its anti-people economic policies inflicted hardship on the masses. According to the governor, APC’s poor governance is clearly manifest in widespread poverty in Nigeria, insecurity, poor electricity supply, scarcity of petroleum products. “It is for us to put our house together and make Nigerians proud. Because if we don’t take over in 2023, Nigerians will never forgive PDP. All the opportunity abound and so we must take this opportunity and make Nigerians happy,” Wike said. The governor said PDP has realized its past mistakes, and when given another opportunity will not take Nigerians for granted as the ruling APC is doing today. “Now that Nigerians have opened the door for us, we must make Nigerians happy. This (APC) government is a government of excuses. Every morning, one excuse. Every afternoon, one excuse, and in the night, one excuse. I’ve never seen a party that makes a promise without fulfilling the promise,” he added. The governor said the Federal Government’s declaration that it has deleted Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act smacks of corruption. Present at the meeting, according to the statement were Governors, Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom; Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta); Douye Diri (Bayelsa). Other dignitaries in attendance included PDP national vice-chairman (South-South), Chief Dan Orbih; Senator George Sekibo; House of Reps Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu; former Deputy Speaker House of Reps, Austin Opara; former governors of Cross River and Rivers states, Senator Liyel Imoke and Sir Celestine Omehia. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com