Senator representing Gombe Central, Muhammad Goje, on Tuesday, empowered no fewer than 1,000 youths with N30,000 each to support their businesses. The 1,000 youths drawn from Yalmatu Deba and Akko Local Government Areas of the State were trained in various skills by the National Directorate of Employment towards attaining self-reliance. Speaking shortly after the presentation of the seed money, Goje urged them to utilise the money for the sake it was provided, adding that it was in line with his vision of alleviating the sufferings of the people. Goje had initially supported the beneficiaries with food packages, as well as starter packs comprising sewing machines and power generating sets to boost their business. He was represented by his Special Assistant Barrister Saidu Kumo, who revealed that the Senator was worried over the increasing rate of youth unemployment in the state, knowing full well the consequences of such to society. Goje said, “This programme is aimed at eradicating poverty and empowering our youths in Gombe Central to have access to economic well being and the beneficiaries are 1,000 that will get N30,000 each. This has been the tradition of Senator Goje’s politics to empower people since the return of this democracy to get employment directly or indirectly. “The purpose of this money is to encourage self-reliance, to eradicate poverty and unemployment in the state, this will boost the macroeconomy.” Commenting on whether this was part of the senator’s constituency project, he added, “It is one of it, the senator has been doing so many things; building schools, mosques, hospitals, provision of buses, ambulance, rural electrification projects.” Also Speaking, the State Coordinator of NDE, Hassan Mustapha, lauded the efforts of Goje, adding that the senator was the first person to collaborate with the Directorate in the empowerment of constituents. He revealed that the beneficiaries were trained across different sectors of the economy in order to be relevant. Mustapha said, “Our presence is to witness this empowerment programme that is being organised by the distinguished Senator Muhammad Danjuma Goje. We are going to witness disbursement of cash component to 1,000 youths in Gombe State, each beneficiary will benefit N30,000 each.” The state coordinator urged the beneficiaries to use the sum to improve their businesses for the good of their families and communities. “I want to assure all of you here that the distinguished Senator is doing his best to ensure that the NDE achieves its mandate. We have a record that the distinguished Senator, over the years, has distributed materials, cash, to see that our youths are employed. “Let me put it on record that we always witness all his empowerment programmes, and out of all the senators in Gombe, Goje is the one senator that passes through NDE for his empowerment,” Mustapha said. Meanwhile, 1,200 women also received cash donations from Goje to improve and start new businesses. He said, “This is because he is a father in the state, the senator has human feeling, sympathy in his politics that is why people are gathered here due to his philanthropist attitude in life. “800 women were also empowered, and another additional 400 from both Yalmatu Deba and Akko Local Government Areas, all that he needs is just prayers.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com