PUNCH Sports Extra continues our series on Super Eagles players are faring ahead of their crucial 2022 World Cup qualifying play-off on March 25 (Accra) and 29 (Abuja). KELVIN EKERETE takes a look at the performance of the Eagles’ midfielders Joe Aribo (Glasgow Rangers) Aribo continued where he left with Glasgow Rangers after returning from the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations with Nigeria. In his first game back, he provided an assist for the opening goal in the Gers 3-3 draw against Ross County and has started in all six games Rangers have played since his return from the AFCON. He was also on target in the champions’ 1-1 draw against Dundee United, scoring the equaliser in the 76th minute. He also provided an assist for his side in their Europa League 4-2 win over Borussia Dortmund at the Signal Iduna Park. Aribo is one of the midfielders coach Austin Eguavoen can bank on in the forthcoming World Cup qualifiers. Aribo has made 42 appearances for Rangers this season scoring seven goals while providing eight assists.  Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City) Ndidi returned to back to Leicester City last month looking like a man who never left for the AFCON. He’s been in the starting line-up for the Foxes in five Premier League games, one FA Cup match and in their Europa conference League wins over Danish side FC Randers. The midfielder marked a milestone by scoring in his 200th appearance for the club against Randers. Although the results have not been impressive for the Foxes in recent games, Ndidi has always been one of the club’s standout players. The hardworking midfielder has scored two goals  and provided one assist in 28 appearances for the Foxes this term.  Frank Onyeka (Brentford) Since returning from AFCON, Frank Onyeka has only been involved in one game for Brentford. He was in action for 70 minutes during their 2-0 defeat to champions Manchester City in the EPL. The midfielder was an unused substitute in the Bees goalless draw against Crystal Palace and a 2-1 loss to Arsenal. He was also on the bench when they were humbled 4-1 by Everton in the fourth round of the English FA Cup on February 5. Onyeka has made 23 appearances for the Bees this season, 19 in the league and four in the English Football League.  Oghenekaro Etebo After over five months of being out of action due to a knee injury, Etebo has continued to step up moves to return to proper league action. He was involved in an U-23 match recently and head coach of the team, Roy Hodgson, has hinted that the Nigeria international will likely return to the fold soon as they intensify their survival push. Before his injury, he had made six league appearances for the Hornets. He was on the bench on Sunday in Watford’s 3-2 loss to Arsenal on Sunday.  Akinkumi Amoo (COPENHAGEN) Newly invited midfielder, Amoo, joined Danish giants Copenhagen from Swiss side for €4.3m in January after his impressive displays for  Swede side Hammarby. Although he’s only made one league appearance for his new side this season, playing three minutes in their 3-0 humbling of Randers FC, the player has a very exciting curriculum vitae which led to the Danish side splashing the millions on him. Amoo scored 13 goals with five assists in 36 games across all competitions in the 2020/21 season.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com