Arrangements have been concluded by Zamfara State government to host two million people for the 36th International Maulid Anniversary celebration in honour of Sheikh Ibrahim Inyass (R.A). The Maulid which is slated to hold in Gusau, the Zamfara State capital, next Saturday is expected to be participated by two million people from Africa and beyond. The viceroy (Khalifa) of Sheikh Ibrahim Inyass, Sheikh Muhammadul Mahi, and the leader of the Tijjaniyya sect in Nigeria, former Emir of Kano, Alhaji Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, are among the important personalities to grace the occasion. According to the program of the event, special prayers would be offered during the Maulid for peace and prosperity to return to the country The theme of this year’s conference is; “Al-Sheik Ibrahim Inyass, an Antidote to Insecurity for Peaceful Coexistence”. The conference has already commenced on Tuesday at J.B Yakubu Hall in Gusau where the speakers spoke extensively on the virtues of Sheikh Ibrahim Inyass (R.A). One of the speakers, Dr Aminu Yahuza Zaria of Kaduna University described Sheikh Ibrahim Inyass as a reservoir of knowledge and a true man of God who dedicated his life to the propagation of Islamic religion. He stressed that Sheikh Inyass had also preached peace during his time apart from the propagation of Islamic religion. He called on the Muslim Ummah to emulate the virtues of the late Sheikh Ibrahim Inyass for the country to move forward. The Emir of Gusau, Alhaji Ibrahim Bello, who is the Royal Father of the day, called on Muslim Ummah to embrace unity and brotherhood among themselves in order to foster peaceful coexistence. The Emir maintained that there was the need for the Muslim community to be united and embrace the culture of brotherhood among one another. He maintained that lack of unity and understanding between the Muslim Ummah has contributed significantly to the problem of insecurity in the country. He called on the Islamic scholars who were considered as role models to preach the importance of unity in society so as to achieve peace and harmony. The Emir urged the participants of the international Maulud to pray for unity and peaceful coexistence of Nigeria in general and Zamfara State in particular. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com