Ajuwon Peter is one of the evacuees from Ukraine. He shares his experience among others in this interview with SOLOMON ODENIYI How long have you been in Ukraine? I have been in Ukraine since 2016. I am in my final year of study at the University of Ternopil What informed your decision to go to school in Ukraine? I had a brother who studied there.  He invited me there having experienced the kind of education in the country and which I also enjoyed myself. Can you share your experience at the early stage of the invasion of Ukraine by Russia? The invasion of Ukraine by Russia caused panic in the country especially among foreign students. This was complicated by the news of casualties and the sound of explosion and bombings. The difficulty of leaving the country at that point in time plunged a lot of us into panic. When the option of going to neighbouring countries as means of getting back to our home countries came, it was a sort of relief. A lot of people started rushing around and that led to  long queues at the various borders. For example we had to stay for two days at the Romanian border in the very cold weather but all of that eased off when we got to Romania . There were already arrangements on the ground to receive many of us. The Romanian people were very kind to us; some non- governmental organisations in the country rallied round us, they, in conjunction with the Nigerian Ambassador, met our needs, gave us food, shelter among others. There were stories of racial discrimination at the boarders, did you experience any? Yes, there were cases of discrimination against some Nigerians and other Africans but it was the exact opposite for me. Apart from the struggle to cross the border which was as a result of the number of people trying to flee the country , I didn’t experience any racial discrimination. In Romania, I did not as well, I was treated with more love there. Can you share with us how you made it to the Romanian border? I lived in a city called Ternopil. I and some church members organised a metro bus down to the Romanian border and from there, there was a long queue like I earlier said. We got there around 6pm that day and before we could leave, it was after midday the next day.  It was very cold and the queue was moving very slow. It was a very tense situation. A lot of people were frozen due to the weather. I don’t like that extreme weather condition but I had no option. We were sent back and asked to join the queue again. It was not just Nigerian students that were there , we had people from India and other nationals. The sheer number of people trying to cross caused pandemonium. After we got to the Romanian border, it was like leaving hell for heaven. The Romanian people were extremely nice to us.  If we are to think about it , it was not their responsibility to care for us because we are not their citizens but they didn’t discriminate against us. They treated us with love. How would you describe the country? Ukraine is a very beautiful country, especially the city I stayed in. The academic standard there is superb. They have standard infrastructure , regular internet, and a stable power supply. The screen environment and most importantly the way their medical study is being structured. It was a really wonderful country. I pray the war ends soon so I can go back and continue my studies. Will you be missing the infrastructure? Smile… Let us thank God we are back home. What was running through your mind during the delay in your evacuation? The people around me were irritated with the situation. What we were first told was that we would be coming back to Nigeria on Tuesday but there was a postponement. I understand that it was as a result of the need to put a lot of things in place but now we are here. Are you excited to come back home? It is a two way thing, I am first glad to be back alive to see my people and I would be staying with them for now . If I am to be honest , I pray the situation will settle down as soon as possible so I can resume my studies. There was news that some schools were holding online classes, has academics been suspended in your school? Yes  and the  Dean of International students promised to inform us through email what the next decision of the management would be after things settle down. Right now, a lot of students are migrating but it is likely that we would be having online classes when things settle down a bit or they would be making arrangements for exchange programs in neighbouring countries. Did you notice any change in your body since you arrived? I felt the heat in the country the moment we touched down. I have stayed in Ukraine and it is quite cold there. I will adapt to it, it is just a matter of time. Have you received your $100 gift and would that be enough for you? It may look small but considering the total number of persons that would be given it is a huge amount. Honestly, I was not expecting such a gesture from the Nigerian government.   I really appreciate the government for deeming it fit to assist us with such an amount considering the urgency of the situation. Some have been beating the drum of war in the country, with your experience in Ukraine what would be your advice to such people? In general, war is not a favourable situation be it for the individual or the country. It affects all aspects of life including the economic aspect of a nation. I encourage us to embrace peace at all levels. Let us all dwell together in love, we are one people and one nation and love is what can get us to greater heights than we currently are as a nation. Your mates here in the country  are home as a result of the strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities . What would be your message to ASUU and the FG? That is a very unfortunate situation for students to get delayed due to one issue or the order. I encourage the government to try as much as possible to resolve the issue and ensure quality education for our youths. The youth are the future of Nigeria whatever happens to this current generation would be what would determine the situation of Nigeria in the next twenty years as far as the foundation is well laid, that would help Nigeria to progress to greater heights. Anuoluwakinta Olawoye, a Ukraine returnee, in this interview with SOLOMON ODENIYI, shares her experience Who are you? I am a 300 level medical student at University of Ternopil. Can you share some of your experience with us? On Thursday morning there was  bombing in Kyiv. I was in Ternopil so, I didn’t experience any of that and on Friday some parts of Lviv were bombed. Lviv is two hours journey away from Ternopil. Although there is no military base here and we were told that Putin would not attack the city.  I asked why would I want to stay in a vacant city? The city was becoming vacant. We couldn’t sleep knowing that the country was at war. We even starved at some point . There was curfew, nothing to buy, no store opened. Siren every now and then. No taxi to convey you to anywhere. Also, back home, my parents were getting worried.  I and some other Nigerians there had to trek for hours  to get to a place , there we saw buses going to Poland , Hungary and Romania. There were a lot of people going to Poland but I decided to opt for Romania. We got to the border around 4pm and we were told to wait. We waited till 8pm and they didn’t allow us (blacks) to go inside. We attempted to make a move when they called on women and children and they turned us back. They only allowed their citizens to go. It was two hours after they left that they said they would be coming back for us. We pleaded with the officers that the snow was much outside, I was shaking as a result and they did nothing . I crossed about 2am and it was out of luck , some were not that lucky. At the Romanian border everything was ok, the officials welcomed us with smiles and that had a lot of positive effect on me. The racism that I encountered at the Ukrainian border was not for the weak. They were pushing us aside just to allow their trucks to move, they shouted at us, pushed us and did all sorts. The first night outside the country, I had a flashback of everything that happened, people cried the whole day after we had crossed. No one deserves to have that kind of experience. With your experience would you like to go back to Ukraine? I would like to go back to Ukraine to continue my studies but I would have to wait till the war is over which I hope happens soon for now. For now, I would be going back to meet my parents in Akure.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com