A lecturer at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago Iwoye, Ogun State, Dr Richard Aborishade, has described the betting industry as one of the highest contributors to the Nigerian economy, stating that it contributes about $2bn daily to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product. According to the don, the betting industry has provided jobs for thousands of Nigerians while also helping in the fight against poverty and economic inequality. Aborishade spoke during a security seminar with the theme, “The Government’s Economic Policies and Insecurity Challenges As It Affects Betting Business”, organised by Betnaija. Rather than displaying unnecessary hostilities towards operators in the betting business, Aborishade, urged security agencies to always support them within the ambit of the law, adding that they are not only operating a legitimate business but also making a huge difference in the country’s economy. Some of the security agencies represented at the events include: Nigeria Police Force, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Federal Road Safety Corps, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, TRACE, Amotekun Corps, and the Directorate of State Security Services. According to Aborishade, winning the war against the insecurity affecting the country will require the resuscitation of “our long-abandoned strong family values of hard work, diligence, uprightness, hatred for sudden wealth among others.” He said the destruction of highly cherished values was at the heart of the rising security challenges confronting the country, saying the nation must go back to embrace strong family values to win the war against insecurity. The OOU don said, “While the government may not have done enough to fight against the problem of insecurity in the country, the hope of ever winning the war against all these security breaches remains forlorn. This is because of the decadence at the family level” “We now see parents encouraging their children to take to crime; parents are no longer worried that their children have suddenly become millionaires with no tangible source of livelihood. Diligence and hard work now mean nothing.” Also speaking, the leader of the betting agents from the four local governments of Remo North, Ikenne, Ijebu North and Odogbolu, Adesegun Akinbowale, said the essence of the seminar was to further deliberate on insecurity as it affects the betting business and proffers solutions. He said the annual seminar also served as an opportunity to interact with security agencies, noting that “after all, we all know that no business could thrive in an unsafe atmosphere.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com