Former Midtjylland midfielder, Sylvester Igbonu, says he quit FK Nizhny Novgorod four weeks after he signed a one-year deal with the Russian club over fear of his safety, The PUNCH reports. Igbonu became the first Nigerian footballer to leave the Russian Premier League as a result of the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine, taking advantage of a FIFA rule that allows players to suspend or terminate their contracts tied to Ukrainian and Russian clubs for the rest of the 2021/22 season. Narrating his ordeal to the PUNCH, the former FC UFA forward said it was disheartening to read that hundreds of people had been killed in Ukraine since Russia invaded the country in February. According to United Nations, more than 1.7 million people have fled Ukraine to neighbouring countries. “It was difficult for me to terminate my deal after one month, but I could not leave with the fear my family had over me playing in Russia,” Igbonu said. “People being reportedly killed every day was not pleasant news at all. On social media and on TV it’s news about the invasion. My family’s constant calls made me have a rethink about my stay in Russia. “One of my teammates’ deal was suspended while some players in other Russian clubs had their contracts suspended as well.” Russian Premier League club Krasnodar, who were rocked by the departure of their German manager Daniel Farke amid Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, also suspended the contract of some of their foreign players, with Jhon Cordoba (Colombia), Remy Cabella (France) and Grzegorz Krychowiak (Poland) among the players affected. “Nobody is happy with what is happening here and in Ukraine and we don’t know how long the war will last. Playing football in Russia is not like it used to be,” Igbonu added. “If there is life there’s hope. I believe I will get another team and continue my career. Reports about footballers leaving their clubs are gradually having a big impact on the league.” Super Eagles assistant coach, Emmanuel Amuneke, bemoaned the situation in Ukraine. “No one prays for war,” Amuneke said. Those who witnessed the civil war in Nigeria can relate to what I am saying. I hope Russia and Ukraine settle this issue for peace to reign in that region. Football won’t develop under such a fearful atmosphere. I pray it stops soon.” Former goalkeeper and Olympic gold medallist Dosu Joseph also raised fears over players security in Russia, describing footballers who played actively under the circumstances as brave. “It’s not easy for a player to concentrate and play good football under these conditions, particularly when you have a family who is worried over you daily,” the former Reggiana shot-stopper said. “Both the clubs and agents are in a delicate state at the moment because both parties will be protecting their interests, which is far from what football should gain. These issues should be resolved amicably. Nobody remembers who wins a war but the victims are the only ones remembered.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com