The Chief of Army Staff, Maj.-Gen. Farouk Yahaya, on Wednesday, paid a courtesy call to the Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, before proceeding to inaugurate some key projects along the area. Yahaya, in his remarks, said that his visit to the palace was to get royal blessings from the traditional ruler. “I came to this palace to pay my respect and homage to the king before inaugurating the project in Isale-Eko,” he said. Oba Rilwan Akiolu, in his welcome address, expressed his gratitude to the Nigerian Army for its role during the #EndSARS protest in October 2020. He said, ”I appreciate the efforts of the Nigerian Army during the #EndSARS protest. “Many people criticised them for coming out during the protest, but it was good they came out when the police could no longer handle the situation. “The army’s intervention calmed the situation, and I also thank the almighty Allah that nobody died in the palace during the incident,” he said. Akiolu appealed to the Federal Government to give Lagos a special status because of its population. “Many people trooped into Lagos on a daily basis, the Federal Government should increase Lagos allocation from the federation account and grant it special status, we need more amenities in Lagos. “The problems of Lagos should not be left in the hands of the state government alone to solve, they should be the responsibility of everybody,” he noted. He also said the army needed further improvement in the areas of training and welfare for its personnel to enable them to serve the nation more effectively. The traditional ruler said that the army must be disciplined; be close to God; be proactive and not indulge in backbiting. “If all of us should come together with good intentions – be our brothers’ keepers, all will be well. “There is a bright future for Nigeria, the best will happen during and after the coming elections,” he held. During an interview granted newsmen, the COAS said that the army was winning the war against insurgency in the country. “There are challenges in fighting insurgency, it is a gradual process, it will take time but we are recording success. “In other aspects of banditry and kidnappings, we are recording successes. “We have achieved a lot and we are applauded and recognised by the international global index on terrorism. “In the North-West, North-East, North-Central, even in the South-East, where we are confronting secessionists, we are getting good results. “With the support and commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari and with the synergy from the Nigerian Armed Forces: the Army, the Navy, the Airforce; other sister security agencies and stakeholders, we are on, and we will not let the country down,” he vowed. The COAS later inaugurated the Regimental Sergeant Major houses within Dodan Barracks in Obalende and Abalti Barracks. He also inaugurated the street lights and the ultra-modern boreholes in Isale-Eko as well as the newly constructed Warrant Officers and Sergeants’ Mess at Marda Barracks, Yaba. Yahaya also laid the foundation of the administrative block at Abalti Barracks, while inspecting other facilities. (NAN)