The Theatre Commander of Operation HADIN KAI, Major General Christopher Musa, has charged troops to be professional in their operational responsibilities in the counter insurgency war in the North-East sub region. In a statement signed by the troops’ spokesman, Nantip Zharkom, the theatre commander made the statement on Friday during an operational visit to 5 Brigade Damasak, Borno State. He said the military hierarchy through the Chief of Army Staff Lieutenant, General Faruk Yahaya, has provided all the resources needed to prosecute and end the war against terrorism and insurgency. “Being a former theater Commander himself, the COAS has provided all that is needed to end the insurgency in the North-East. With the much needed resources provided, troops must reciprocate by using the equipments professionally to end the terrorism in the region,” Musa said in the statement. According to Captain Zharkom, the TC called on the troops to remain focused, dedicated and committed in all the ongoing operations in the theatre, urging them to be professional at all times as any unprofessional conduct will attract severe sanction. “The theater Commander emphasised on the need for troops to continue to be law abiding and not to violate the fundamental human rights of law abiding citizens whom they are paid to protect,” the statement read. General Christopher Musa charged Commanders at all levels to be good managers of men and resources for the prosecution of the war against the Terrorism as anything short of that will attract the wrath of the military hierarchy. “As soldiers we are trained to face challenges and also to be able to overcome challenges. Therefore, those committed to doing their jobs will be rewarded. Your promotions in the field must be based on performance. Those soldiers putting in their best in the operation would be considered for special promotion,” Gen. Musa noted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com