The National Industrial Court sitting in Abuja has ordered the Nigerian Immigration Service to pay the sum of N10.1m to a former senior officer, Daniel Makolo, for forcefully evicting him from his official quarters. Makolo was accused of using his position as a supervisor at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Ikeja to collaborate with foreign sponsors of Boko Haram, which led to his arrest and detention. Makolo wrote to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on the need to declare a state of emergency in the Nigeria Immigration Service Board and the supervising Ministry of Interior and the President directed the Minister of Interior as the Chairman of the Board to review the letter and ensure that necessary action was taken. A former Comptroller General of Immigration, Muhammad Babandede, was said to have directed that a three-hour quit notice be served on the officer with the threat of forceful eviction by 1.35pm. Makolo dragged the NIS, Babanded; Deputy Comptroller General, Human Resources Management, Musa Dauda; Comptroller, Service Welfare, Mrs Inyang Ime; Provost Marshal/Chief Security Officer, Umoh Jerome; Superintendent, Arms Squad Unit (Rapid Response Squad), Adamu Azare; and the Deputy Superintendent, Arms Squad Unit, U. S. Obeweh, to court to seek redress. Makolo claimed that his forceful eviction from his lawful residential apartment in his absence was unlawful and that the defendants jointly and severally trespassed on his right to peaceful possession of residential premises and that the defendants’ actions were wrongful, unreasonable, arbitrary, unjust, unlawful and inhumane. Judgment in the suit marked NICN/ABJ/395/2020 was delivered on February 16, 2022, and the certified true copy was obtained by our correspondent on Wednesday. In his ruling, Justice Oyejoju Oyewumi said the NIS and other defendants resorted to self-help in evicting Makolo, who was still in service in 2017 when armed officials invaded his quarters in his absence, pulled down doors to the property and went away with his belongings. The judgment read in part, “This court will not lend its voice to the act of self-help and force used by the defendants. It is important to note that the claimant was still in the employ of the first defendant (the NIS) when he was forcefully evicted from the government quarters in 2017, way before he was dismissed by the defendants in 2018. “I find from all the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case that the defendants’ action was unreasonable, arbitrary and barbaric. “The court has reasoned herein before in this judgment that the claimant is entitled to damages for forceful entry, arbitrary and barbaric resort to self-help by the defendants in evicting the claimant from his apartment. It is in the light of this that I award the sum of N10,000,000.00 only, as damages to the claimant against the first defendant. “The claimant, having succeeded in most parts of his claim and not conducted himself improperly while conducting his case, is entitled to the cost. Therefore, it is in the exercise of my discretion that I award the sum of N100,000.00 as cost to the claimant. I so award,”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com