…as Osimhen grabs brace, Olayinka scores own goal •Odey ends goals drought, Tosin on target in Denmark
•Troost-Ekong returns to Watford bench It was a weekend loaded with goals for Nigerian strikers in Europe, but while Victor Osimhen and Sadiq Umar recorded braces, it was a Sunday to forget for Slavia Prague’s Peter Olayinka, who put the ball inside his own net, reports KELVIN EKERETE ENGLAND Dennis, Kalu, Etebo, Troost-Ekong (Watford) Emmanuel Dennis made his 27th appearance of the season in struggling Watford’s 2-0 win over Southampton in an English Premier League encounter on Sunday. The Nigeria international, who fired blanks, was on for 87 minutes before coming off for Joshua King. The forward had an impressive outing and would be disappointed not to have scored his 10th goal of the season in the rare win. Dennis has not scored in his last five league games. His compatriot, William Troost-Ekong, returned to the bench but was an unused substitute while Samuel Kalu, who made his debut against Arsenal last week, was also left on the bench. There was however no space on the bench for Oghenekaro Etebo, who just returned from injury. Alex Iwobi (Everton) Iwobi was left on the bench for the entire duration of the game for the second consecutive time as Everton suffered a 1-0 loss to Wolverhampton Wanderers at Goodison Park on Sunday. It’s been a tough season for the Toffees and Iwobi watched helplessly as the team suffered four straight league losses and are now in the relegation zone. He has managed 16 appearances for the Merseyside club, scoring once and providing one assist as well. Frank Onyeka (Brentford) It was a weekend to remember for Onyeka as he made his 20th appearance for Brentford in their 2-0 win at Burnley in a Premier League game on Saturday. The Nigerian midfielder came on for Bryan Mbeumo in the 90th minute and helped the Bees record their second consecutive win in the EPL. Onyeka has chalked up four yellow cards this season and is another from suspension. Semi Ajayi (West Brom) Defender Ajayi played his 22nd English Championship game for West Brom, who drew 2-2 at home with Huddersfield last Friday. Ajayi made an assist for Andy in the 85th minute to make it 2-2 and help Steve Bruce’s men salvage a point. ITALY Victor Osimhen (Napoli) Striker Osimhen grabbed a brace in Napoli’s 2-1 win over 10-man Hellas Verona in the Italian Serie A on Sunday to keep tabs on top of the league table. The Nigeria international scored the opening goal in the 14th minute with a header, after connecting with a well taken cross from Matteo Politano for his fifth goal of the season. The 23-year-old, a torn in Verona’s defence all day, grabbed his second in the 71st minute after a cross from Giovanni Di Lorenzo, hitting the ball with his right foot to beat the goalkeeper. The brace takes his Serie A goals tally to nine in 19 games this season and 13 in all competitions in 24 games. The Nigerian came off for Andrea Petagna in the 90th minute of the win. FRANCE Moffi, Bonke (Lorient) Terem Moffi returned to action for Lorient in their 2-0 win away to Clermont Foot after being down with flu during the better part of last week, which had him miss three training days. The 22-year-old was in action for 61 minutes before coming off for Ibrahima Kone, who scored the opening goal for the struggling Ligue 1 side. It was Moffi’s 26th game of the season, with the forward managing four goals with three assists. His compatriot, Innocent Bonke, was in the heart of Lorient’s midfield and was on for the entire duration of the game. The Nigeria international was, however, cautioned in the 54th minute. The game was Bonke’s sixth start since joining the side during the January transfer window from Swedish side Malmo. Moses Simon (Nantes) Simon was cautioned in the 62nd minute of Nantes 1-0 loss to Troyes at Stade de l’Aube on Saturday, his 22nd match in Ligue 1 this term. The fast-paced forward created two chances, made two key passes, completed one dribble and attempted two shots, which failed to trouble the Troyes goalkeeper. Canadian international of Nigerian descent Ike Ugbo was the match-winner for the hosts after an instinctive first-half strike proved to be enough to earn his side all three points at home. Simon has scored three goals and assisted seven others for Nantes in the league this season. TURKEY Olanrewaju (Sivasspor), David (Demirspor) Kayode Olanrewaju was in action for 68 minutes in Sivasspor’s 3-2 win at Adana Demirspor. The striker, who boasts four goals in 27 league games, came off for Moussa Konate. Olanrewaju has not scored in Sivasspor’s last four games. Olanrewaju’s countryman Babajide David made a cameo appearance for Adana Demirspor, coming on for Yunus Akgun in the 90th minute. Anthony Nwakaeme (Trabzonspor) Nwakaeme scored his 11th league goal of the season for Trabzonspor, who beat Goztepe 4-2 in a Turkish Super Lig game on Saturday. The 32-year-old drew his side level in the 31st minute after canceling out Halil Akbunar’s opener two minutes earlier. Nwakaeme, who was cautioned in additional time of the first half, also provided an assist for Djaniny to score Trabzonspor’s third goal in the 49th minute to make score 3-2. DENMARK Kehinde, Odey (Randers) Little-known Nigerian winger Tosin Kehinde and fringe Eagles striker Stephen Odey scored a goal each as Randers overcame hard-fighting Silkeborg 2-1 in the Danish Superliga on Sunday. Kehinde, 23, was born in Lagos, but grew up in the United Kingdom and is eligible to represent either Nigeria or England. In 2018, the Manchester United academy product announced his intention to represent Nigeria. Kehinde claimed the opener just seven minutes into the tie, before Odey, who was cautioned in the 53rd minute, ended his six-game goals drought with Randers second goal in the 62nd minute to help the help the hosts seal maximum points despite a fight back from the visitors, who scored in added time to set up a tense finish to the tie. CZECH REPUBLIC Olayinka, Sor (Slavia Prague) Peter Olayinka scored the own goal that condemned Slavia Prague to a 1-0 loss to 10-man Slovan Liberec. The striker put the ball in his own net in the 14th minute, before he was cautioned in the 59th minute. Olayinka could not make amends before being replaced by Daniel Gila in the 61st minute. His compatriot Collins Sor came on for Jakub Hromada in the 61st minute. GERMANY Awoniyi, Abdullahi, Ujah (Union Berlin) Awoniyi scored his 11th Bundesliga goal of the season from the spot as Union Berlin were held 1-1 at home by VfB Stuttgart on Saturday. It was his first ever penalty in the Bundesliga. Konstantinos Mavropanos handled the ball in the box in the 41st minute for Awoniyi to score from the spot, sending Florian Muller, in goal for Stuttgart, the wrong way to give Union a deserved lead. It’s his second goal for the Iron Ones in 2022, after scoring in a 3-1 win over Mainz on February 26. The 24-year-old played for 73 minutes before he was replaced by Sven Michel, while his compatriots Suleiman Abdullahi and Anthony Ujah were unused substitutes for Urs Fischer’s team. The draw means Union Berlin move to seventh in the Bundesliga table with 38 points after 26 matches and are three points away from a European spot. SPAIN Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal) Chukwueze played the entire duration of Villarreal’s 1-0 win over Celta Vigo on Saturday. It was the winger’s 18th league game, and he delivered an impressive shift to help his side secure a vital win. The 22-year-old was lively down the right, completing nine of his attempted 12 dribbles, and managing two shots on target. He also made two key passes and won 12 ground duels to cap off a fantastic performance. The win puts Unai Emery’s men five points behind fourth-placed Barcelona, although the Catalans have two games in hand. Sadiq Umar (Almeria) Striker Sadiq Umar scored twice for Almeria, who were held 3-3 at home by Lugo on Saturday. The tall front man struck his side’s opener in the 13th minute. He bagged his second in the 49th minute after Ricard Sanchez canceled out his earlier strike. The former Roma striker has now scored 15 goals in 26 league appearances this season, five goals away from equalling his last season’s tally. Umar was named the best player in La Liga 2 for the month of February last Friday, after he scored five goals with two assists in four league games last month. Kenneth Omeruo (Leganes) Kenneth Omeruo was missing from Leganes squad that forced UD Ibiza to a 1-1 draw at the Estadio Can Misses. The defender has missed his side’s last four league games having earlier made 12 appearances, scoring once. HOLLAND Maduka Okoye (Sparta Rotterdam) Okoye kept another clean sheet for Sparta Rotterdam, who recorded a 1-0 win over Go Ahead Eagles – their fourth league win in the Eredivisie. It was his fourth clean sheet of the campaign. The 22-year-old Nigerian keeper has conceded 29 goals in 21 games.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com