THE National Leader of the All Progressive Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Tuesday cancelled his 70th birthday colloquium to honour victims of the Abuja-Kaduna train attack. The PUNCH had reported that terrorists on Monday night bombed the Abuja-Kaduna rail tracks and attacked a train filled with passengers. Tinubu, at the event held on Tuesday on Victoria Island, announced the cancellation of his birthday celebration based on advice and suggestions by his committee members. He said, “Today is supposed to be a very joyful 70th birthday of my living on earth and this morning I gave thanks to God for sparing my life and for being able to survive to this age despite all odds and rascalities. He said, “I have just been informed since I did not have a phone to press in the morning and did not pay attention to the news. I was just informed of a very sad incident in our country that over 60 people and many more, were killed and bombed on a train between Kaduna and Abuja just last night. “That is a very serious incident about the insecurity of lives in this country and it calls for a very serious sober reflection. For me to be here, celebrating, dancing and enjoying myself does not show enough concern of a statesman as a senior citizen of this country. “I will urge the two clergies who are here present here to continue to pray and every one of you to go home and pray. This event should not be holding. I have met with the committee of democrats and their suggestion and agreement is that this event be cancelled.” Tinubu also urged Christian and Muslim clergies and others to pray for the peace of the country. “I want to implore you all to please pray to almighty God to help us rid the country of evil and send Nigeria on the right path, bless us and provide his guidance on all of us in our various ways,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com