Ebonyi State House of Assembly, on Tuesday, declared the seats of three members of the Assembly elected under the Peoples Democratic Party, vacant. This followed a letter of resignation purported to have been written by the three lawmakers, resigning from their seats. Speaker of the House, Francis Nwifuru, read the letters during an emergency sitting of the House on Tuesday. The three lawmakers are Ali Okechukwu (Ishielu North), Franca Okpo (Abakaliki North), and Victor Aleke (Ebonyi West). The three lawmakers and their other five PDP colleagues were not present at the sitting, while 15 All Progressive Party counterparts, attended the sitting. Nwifuru, had, after reading their alleged letters of resignation on the floor of the House, declared the seats of the three lawmakers vacant. He also ordered the Clerk to write to the Independent National Electoral Commission notifying the commission of the development and the need to conduct fresh elections in the affected constituencies. But the three PDP affected lawmakers maintained that they were still members of the House of Assembly. Speaking on their behalf in a telephone interview, Hon. Victor Aleke described the actions of the Speaker and the APC lawmakers as illegal. According to him, the Speaker and the other APC lawmakers, having been sacked by the Federal High Court in Abuja, had ceased to be lawmakers and should not have sat in the first place. He said, “What they have done today by purporting to sit and declare our seats vacant amounts to contempt of court and the court may declare them wanted if care is not taken. “We have no reason whatsoever to resign our seats. We are still lawmakers representing our various constituencies and we enjoin our supporters and the general public to disregard what they have done.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com