Borno State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has sworn in local government executives and state working committee members ahead of Saturday’s national convention of the party. The local government, state executives, and delegates of the state for the forthcoming convention were sworn in by the Branch Chairman, Maiduguri chapter of the Nigerian Bar Association, Muhammad Umaru Esq. The oath-taking which took place at the conference Hall of the party Secretariat in Maiduguri was attended by the chief of staff to the Borno State Governor Prof Isa Marte, the party chairman, Ali Dalori, and other members of the state executive council as well as some local government chairmen. Speaking shortly after the swearing-in ceremony, Chairman of the party Ali Dalori who doubles as the Chairman, forum of APC Chairmen said Borno State has yet to adopt any chairmanship aspirant among the three contenders. “As the Chairman of APC forum of Chairmen, I can assure you that the party is working towards a successful convention and we have all agreed as leaders of the party in our various States that whatever president Buhari says is what we shall do. If the president anoints any of the three aspirants, that is the person we will endorse. Dalori noted. He went further to state that Borno has gotten the endorsement of the other eighteen northern states to produce the deputy national chairman North of the party ahead of other contenders. “We in Borno have the mandate of all the nineteen northern states to produce the deputy national chairman North of the party although there are other aspirants from other States. Ali Dalori added. The state working committee inaugurated includes three zonal women leaders representing Borno central, north, and Borno south as well as zonal youth leaders of the three senatorial zones. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com