Study the following statements: The couple is here. The couple are here. The two couples are here. I hope you know the implication of the grammatical status of each of the clauses. We will get back to them. The word, couple, refers to a husband and wife. For instance, popular singer, Tuface Idibia and Annie are a couple. The term, in this context, has a peculiar grammatical character, in the sense that it is classified as a collective noun. A collective noun is the one that refers to a group of people or things, with examples including family, choir, panel, band, class, committee, board, pair and team. Yet, there is something potentially shocking about the meaning of ‘couple’. Did you know that it is not only married pairs that are referred to as couples? A man and a woman in a romantic or sexual relationship, but who are not married or are not even planning to do so, are also a couple. So, those who are just partners can also be called couples. As a matter of fact, in the world of unconventional sexual adventures, when two men (or two women) get married, they can also be referred to as a couple, while two men romantically befriending each other, if such exists at all, are also a couple. This is one meaning that is not too popular and can, indeed, spark ambiguity and controversy. One may not be too sure of the type of relationship being referred to whenever two unknown people are introduced as a couple. I am not trying to problematise the issue. Just note that the meaning of ‘couple’ is expansive. Married couple The implication is also that it is dangerous or may be hasty to write off the expression ‘married couple’ as a piece of tautology. If the only meaning of ‘couple’ was a husband and wife, then ‘married’ would be redundant (needless) in ‘married couple’. But now that we know marriage is not a condition for being called a couple, it means that there are married couples and there are unmarried couples. The couple has, the couple have Being a collective noun, ‘couple’ can work with a singular verb and the plural one. It may only depend on the context. When spouses are considered as a group performing the action, we go for the singular verb. But when considered as individuals acting, we opt for the plural verb. So, the sentences below are all correct: Here are other collective nouns in similar contexts: The class is silent. The class are quarelling (Individual students.) The committee is a solid one. The committee are not united. The two couples married last year Here, you need to be very careful.  The reason is that many people confuse ‘couple’ with ‘spouse’. A couple refers to two – whether married or are just in a romantic relationship, or are connected by a purpose or action. On the other hand, a spouse refers to one – either the husband or wife. So, you should not refer to an individual as a couple, meaning that when referring to a husband and wife, you should not call them couples. They are just a couple: Mr and Mrs Bello attended the party. The couple arrived early. (Correct) Can you, therefore, go back to the three clauses I opened the class with? The couple is here. (Correct. Referring to husband and wife.) The couple are here. (Also correct. Referring to husband and wife but considered individually.) The two couples are here. (Correct. But referring to four people – two husbands, two wives. Not just a husband and his wife.)  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com