In the past few months, Nigerians have had to contend with an unusual increase in fuel price. While petrol became scarce with a corresponding price increase, the price of diesel rose astronomically from about N250 to about N750. On account of this, several businesses have been severely affected, and this has been worsened by the inflation rate of about 15.7 per cent. Most businesses, including large ones and MSMEs, use generators because of the perennial power supply problem. For example, some Lagos-based radio stations that used to broadcast for 24 hours have had to reduce the number of hours they operate. Manufacturers have also lamented that impact of the cost of diesel on their business. The rise in the price of diesel has been linked to the rise in the price of crude oil in the international market, due to the Russia-Ukraine crisis, and the fall in the value of naira. Russia is an oil-producing country, while refined petroleum products come from Ukraine and other Western European countries, which has no doubt impacted the price of fuel in Nigeria. The invasion of Ukraine by Russia has distorted global financial and energy markets causing oil prices to soar above $100 per barrel, the highest since 2014. Nigeria’s receipt from oil accounts for about 90 per cent of its earnings, hence a distortion in the global oil market affects the country. Amid heightened tensions between the two countries, the international oil benchmark, Brent crude, rose to $103.43 per barrel. Brent crude, against which Nigeria’s oil is priced, hit a fresh eight-year high of $103.43 per barrel. According to the United Nations COMTRADE, Nigeria’s imports from Ukraine were $156m in 2020. Ukraine’s major exports to Nigeria were iron and steel at $125m, sugars and sugar confectionery at $8.1m, and pharmaceutical products at $7.6m. On the other hand, mutual diplomatic relations have been in existence between Russia and Nigeria since the 1960s. In September 2021, the Russian government said its trade volume with Nigeria stood at $600m because Russia is also an oil-producing nation. Last year, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria said about 30 per cent of their production cost goes into the generators. The cryptic state of power supply in Nigeria has also added to the burden of the business owners across the country. Recently, a lot of business owners, even multinationals, are bemoaning the pains that the fuel price hike is having on their business. One of them is the Chairman of Heirs Holdings and United Bank for Africa Group, Tony Elumelu, a few days ago later lamented on the sufferings and pains of Nigerians despite the natural resources available in the country. He said life had become difficult for Nigerians in recent times, concerning the issue of power supply and fuel. He said, “This morning, I am listening to my colleagues at the office bemoaning the very pressing issues that they face every day in this country, and how things have been getting worse and worse – no electricity for  five days, hike in the price of diesel, frightening food inflation, etc. “How can a country so rich in natural resources have 90 per cent of its citizens living in hardship and poverty? I have often said that access to electricity is critical to our development, alleviation of poverty and hardship. And speaking of security, our people are afraid. “Businesses are suffering. How can we be losing over 95 per cent of oil production to thieves? Look at the Bonny Terminal that should be receiving over 200,000 barrels of crude oil daily, instead it receives less than 3,000 barrels, leading the operator, Shell, to declare force majeure. “Why are we paying taxes if our security agencies can’t stop this? It is clear that the reason Nigeria is unable to meet its OPEC (Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) production quota is not because of low investment but because of theft, pure and simple!” The business mogul said while other oil-producing countries were smiling amidst the high cost of crude oil, ours was busy crumbling. He added, “Meanwhile, oil-producing countries are smiling as their foreign reserves rise. What is Nigeria’s problem? We need to hold our leaders more accountable! Elections are coming – security and resources need to be everyone’s agenda – let’s be vocal about our nation’s priority. “Evil prevails when good people are silent. We need to be vocal about 2023. Let’s focus on Nigeria. Demand and advocate for leaders that deliver. In 2023, Nigeria must be on a strong trajectory of progress and development.” Also, some media houses like Women Radio in Arepo, Ogun State, have adjusted their hours of operations due to the high cost of diesel. A statement by the organisation partly read, “Due to the high cost of diesel, we are cutting down on our hours of operation from Wednesday 23rd March, 2022. We will operate from 6:30am to 8pm Mondays to Sundays.” As a result of the increase in the prices of petroleum products especially diesel, the Manufacturing Association of Nigeria said as the cost of diesel rises, Nigerians should expect a higher inflation rate and a surge in the prices of goods and services. Experts however raised concerns on the effect that these would have on the economy. The Chairman, Infrastructure Committee, MAN, Ibrahim Usman, said the rise in inflation would be driven by a higher cost of production for manufacturers who depend largely on diesel for production. Usman said, “The rise in the price of diesel means higher production cost for manufacturers because most of us rely on diesel to produce. So when the cost of production is high, then manufactured products will be sold at a higher price; this is to enable the manufacturers to make a profit after sale and stay afloat. “So, basically it will increase the inflation in the country which is already high, further compounding the problems and plight of Nigerians.” He however said the government could prevent the expected consequences by ensuring improvement in power supply across the country and offering discounts on electricity tariffs to manufacturers. “To avoid these things from happening, the government should make sure that it creates a situation whereby the cost of electricity is reduced for manufacturers and that power supply is accessible to producers,” Usman said. Also, the president, The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture, John Udeagbala said the agency was extremely concerned about rising prices of petroleum products; particularly diesel and aviation fuel. While the Russia-Ukraine crisis was beyond Nigeria’s intervention, the impact would have been lesser in the country if there were functional refineries to meet demand. He said, “The implications of this situation for the Nigerian economy are far-reaching; the use of these petroleum products are entrenched in the production and transportation processes of both the public and private sectors. “As the private sector adjusts to the current realities, we expect that unless drastic policy actions are taken, the rising prices of petroleum products combined with the issues of the national electricity grid will bring about increasing inflation, further erosion of the purchasing power of the populace, and the redistribution of wealth that plunges more of the population below the poverty line. “As such, we use this opportunity to stress once again our call for incisive policy implementation within the energy sector to limit our economy’s exposure to global shocks and serve as a springboard for sustained economic growth.” Also, a development economist, Aliyu Ilias, said the increase in the price of diesel would contribute to inflation. Ilias said, “Diesel is used by industries and big vehicles, such as those that convey goods. With the price increase, there would be a multiplier effect on the cost of products in Nigeria. “This is a similar case in the aviation sector. When the cost of aviation fuel increased, there was an increase in the cost of air tickets.” He encouraged the government to boost the local refining of diesel. He noted, “The government needs to refine locally. There is no alternative to diesel. Many industries rely on diesel to power their generators,” he said.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com