An indigenous ride-hailing company, Univasa, has launched Verify and Pay, an innovative digital payment platform, to reshape public transportation and ease the payment system in Nigeria. The firm said through Verify and Pay, passengers hailing a cab can scan the barcode on the taxi to confirm the details of the driver and the vehicle, input their destination to check and negotiate fares, and select preferred payment options such as card payments or USSD. Speaking during the unveiling in Lagos, the Chief Executive Officer, Univasa, Dr. Ben Adeniyi, described the platform as an initiative designed to be an ‘enabler’ to service providers and users of the public transportation system. Adeniyi said, “The Verify and Pay platform initiative was born out of the need to be an ‘enabler’ to service providers and consumers. For us at Univasa, providing innovative services in the transport sector to ensure safety and reliability is at the helm of our operations and we continue to hold it as a top priority. “As a driver partners with Univasa, you get to enjoy the convenience of receiving your payments instantly with our instant withdrawal feature, so ‘Cash or Card e no matter’ as we like to say. And for the riders, we are offering you a chance to own your experience while hailing a ride. “We are a wholly-owned Nigerian company that provides a one-stop solution to fulfil the daily transportation needs of Africans via cutting-edge digital technology. “Additionally, the company has rolled out its ‘drive to own empowerment programme, which allows drivers on the ride-hailing platform to pick a Univasa car as their vehicle of choice to work, make daily remittances for a duration of 18-24 months, which will be deducted from their earnings from the app, and then the car becomes their own.” “Drivers who meet the earning mark of N200,000 in a month will automatically be beneficiaries of free insurance against the next month and others can also easily apply for comprehensive insurance on a flexible payment structure. “With this platform, not only can you make payments easily online or via USSD code, but you also get to verify the identity of the driver and share it with friends and family.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com