Oladele Oluwabamiji is the Director of Media and Publicity of the faction of the PDP backed by Senator Ademola Adeleke. In this interview with BOLA BAMIGBOLA, said Who is the authentic PDP candidate for Osun 2022 governorship election? According to the tradition of our party, the rules, guidelines and what have been guiding the selection of candidates for an office like governorship seat, Senator Nurudeen Ademola Adeleke is the authentic candidate of our party in Osun State. Are you aware that another primary was held at WOCDIF, where Omooba Dotun Babayemi was also elected as the candidate of the party too? Yes, I am aware of it. If you noticed how I responded to the first question that according to the law of our party, anybody cannot just wake up one day and claim to be candidate of a political party like the PDP. You have to follow the rules and guidelines. Our national office conducted congresses for election of a candidate at the state level and Osun State is not an exemption. So, the national office conducted the primary congress, executive organ of the party and every organ of the state party that were supposed to be there, were there. INEC, the Police, DSS and other structures of the party according to the ru les and guidelines guiding such exercise were also present. As far as our party is concerned, Senator Ademola Adeleke is the party’s candidate. But there was an allegation that a faction that you belong to which is backing Adeleke used delegates list declared by court as illegal for the primary. What is your take? Prince Babayemi is trying to cut corners by trying to use court orders. He knows within himself that such a thing will not work out because as God will have it, facilitators of our laws were wise enough to confer powers of finality in a particular court, especially, the lower court that we have here which is the state high court. I am not a lawyer but a  State High Court can’t entertain matters concerning political party as of now. What I am saying is that Prince Dotun Babayemi knows that it is difficult and not impossible for him to defeat Senator Adeleke in a primary contest as it is today. It is almost impossible because going into a primary election of a political party is not a day job. It requires a bit of long term planning, relationship, confrontation with party faithful, party leaders, party structures across board, so as to be able to convince those that will vote for you in the primary. This is what Senator Adeleke has been doing since 2018. He has been with the party, even when he was not around, he has always been in contact with the party. He is contributing to the development of the party. But since this crisis started, have there been moves by Adeleke’s faction to reach out to Babayemi’s group and seek an amicable resolution? Yes, he has been reaching out to everybody, not just Prince Babayemi alone. There are some other aspirants too that we were in contact with. That was the reason why our delegates felt that they would not just waste their time again and they all opted for Adeleke. Some people are already coming up with a peace  deal that will require Adeleke relinquishing the governorship ticket of the party to Babayemi and he will return to the Senate. Do you think that will bring this crisis to an end? This is democracy and Senator Ademola Adeleke didn’t choose himself as the candidate of our party. The eligible party delegates who were eligible to vote at the conventions and those who were also representing some electoral constituencies, voted for him at the primaries. My response to your question is that it does not lie even in the hand of Adeleke to step down for anyone because he was not the one that chose himself in the first place. Him being chosen as the candidate of the party is not a personal thing, rather it was a collective resolve of delegates of the party who are representing the larger party. It was their choice that made Adeleke our party’s candidate. Senator Ademola Adeleke cannot even compensate him or try to step down for anyone. People who are watching outside the PDP circle were already insinuating that Senator Iyorchia Ayu-led national leadership took side with Adeleke before the primary? Senator Ayu is leading the whole leadership of our party at the national level and one of his traits is that he is prudent. He is fair to all and he doing that as much as possible. I don’t know what Senator Ayu could have done to help anyone, either Senator Ademola Adeleke, Prince Dotun Babayemi or anyone else with what we have on ground in Osun state. There is nothing he could have done. Maybe because some people expected that by the time Senator Ayu was elected as the National Chairman of our party, he should start doing their bidding. Are you so comfortable with all these conflicting court decisions with few months to the governorship election? Even if there are one million court injunctions, in our own legal jurisprudence in Nigeria, we have stages of litigation. A single pronouncement from a higher court will end all these court cases because they are interwoven. Many of them were just playing around the same thing by using different styles and languages in different courts. A single pronouncement by the Court of Appeal will end all of these. I can assure you that we will come together as one family man and move ahead. What fate await your party in the July 16 governorship election? If there is any fate awaiting us, then that fate is resounding victory for our party,  by the special grace of God.  ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com