Publisher of Ovation Magazine and businessman, Dele Momodu, Friday in Abuja has stated that he relies on God, longsuffering Nigerians, and on his credentials to defeat the billionaire politicians. He also warned stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party and all Nigerians against money-bag politics, saying the presidency is not for the highest bidder. He also urged the party to align with morally upright aspirants who are keen to work for the good of Nigeria. Momodu stated this at the party’s national secretariat, Abuja, shortly after obtaining the N40m expression of interest and nomination forms to officially mark his entry into the presidential race. He said, “I am proud to stand resolutely to challenge those who feel Nigeria and Nigerians can be bought or bribed by the highest bidder. The time for the rejection of such a notion is now. Nigerians will no longer sell their soul for 20 pieces of silver, and I make bold to say that they are prepared to make this statement, and are relying on the political parties for the opportunity to demonstrate that this is the case, by giving to the worthy candidates rather than a recycling of the failed so-called political juggernauts. “I wish to appeal to all men and women of good conscience to join me in this movement to put a stop to the rascality of those who feel Nigerians are permanently helpless and hopeless and that we can be lorded upon simply because we have chosen to be silent. “We will no longer acquiesce in this state of affairs. I modestly say that through our collective efforts, the silent and voiceless majority now have a voice and representative in me.” Kicking against zoning, Momodu declared his disgust for those he called the “ethnic jingoists” who see where they come from as the only prerequisite for aspiring to lead Nigeria, no matter how ugly and inglorious their past had been. “I humbly come into this political contest with a pedigree of integrity, reputation, solid education, tolerance, business acumen, sharp vision and competence. I possess everything it takes to win the 2023 Presidential election on behalf of my party, PDP, and I will be greatly honoured to get the ticket and support of my esteemed party for this purpose.” Taking a shot at other perceived well-off aspirants, the Publisher said he would win the elections if the party provided a level-playing field. He said, “You may be wondering how I intend to defeat the billionaire and powerful politicians in the two mainstream political parties, with the reckless naira and dollar rain with which they are already flooding everywhere. “I place my faith in God almighty and the long-suffering people of Nigeria as well as in my unblemished record of excellence, integrity, youthfulness, mental capacity, tolerance, courage, wisdom, global experience and exposure. “I am therefore happy to join this race and I am expecting a level playing ground for all aspirants, as repeatedly promised by our respectable and cerebral national chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu.” Momodu who was flanked by his friends and associates expressed gratitude to Nigerians especially those who, he said, contributed various sums of money to raise a total of N40m to purchase the nomination forms. “I want to thank all the kind-hearted Nigerians who contributed every kobo raised so far for this laudable project. I am particularly grateful to the young Nigerians who donated from N500 to N20,000 after my appeal on social media. I am deeply touched by their act of uncommon generosity, especially because I know of their tough financial situations,” he said. Momodu is one of six Presidential aspirants who have obtained the party’s forms. They rest include, Atiku Abubakar, Bukola Saraki, Aminu Tambuwal, Bala Mohammed and Anyim Anyim.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com