THE Ondo State Government on Tuesday disclosed that no fewer than 80,734 residents of the state would benefit from  the Ondo State COVID Action Recovery and Economic Stimulus grant also known as ONDO-CARES. It was gathered that the grant was an intervention of the World Bank who released a sum of $750m to the country and distributed $20m each to the 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory. Speaking with journalists on the development, the state Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Mr Emmanuel Igbasan, explained that the ONDO-CARES intervention programme was an extension of the NG CARES which was an emergency programme aimed at supporting state-level efforts to respond to and recover from the COVID-19-induced socio-economic crisis. Igbasan, who is also the Chairman of ONDO-CARES Steering Committee, said the grant would assuage the effects of the pandemic on the poor and vulnerable people, stabilising micro and small enterprises affected by the global crisis He noted that the ONDO-CARES intervention programme is an extension of the NG CARES which was an emergency programme aimed at supporting state-level efforts to respond to and recover from the COVID-19-induced socio-economic crisis. He said, “There are 80,734 beneficiaries which cut across different segments of the population already captured and targeted for the programme.” Giving the breakdown, Igbasan said the beneficiaries included “2,340 poor and vulnerable persons who will get state cash transfer; 3,705 youths (male and female) who are deployed into labour intensive public work activities on social services and works.” He stated further that “4,711 micro and small enterprises; 48,000 beneficiaries of community micro projects and 21,978 small holder farmers who will get supplies of improved agricultural outputs through FADAMA.” The commissioner, however, noted that the grant was not a loan but he expressed the readiness of the state government to work with all state actors to ensure successful implementation of the project. Aside providing road infrastructure for farmers in rural areas through the Rural Access and Mobility Project, he said the state government would also help people who take Central Bank of Nigeria loan by paying 40 per cent of their debts. “The project will deliver clinically to the target beneficiaries. The beauty is that the state cannot get a dime except the project has been verified adequately. The money does not come to the purse of the state directly. This is the assurance we have on efficiency and transparency,” the commissioner stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com