The International Skating Union has, on Tuesday, suspended Russian and Belarusian skaters from participating in all international ice skating competitions until further notice, as the conflict in Ukraine intensifies. In a statement titled ‘ISU Statement on the Ukrainian crisis – Participation in international competitions of Skaters and Officials from Russia and Belarus,’ the ISU stated that the suspension was as a result of the recommendation of the International Olympics Committee, February 28, 2022, and appeals from others calling for a ban on Russian and Belarusian athletes and officials from participating in skating competitions. “The ISU Council carefully evaluated the IOC Statement of February 28, 2022 as well as appeals received from ISU Members and others calling for a ban on the participation of Skaters and Officials from Russia and Belarus in ISU Events and other International Skating competitions. “Following the IOC recommendation, in order to protect the integrity of ice skating competitions and for the safety of all the participants of international ice skating competitions, the ISU Council based on Article 17.i.q)i) of the ISU Constitution, agreed that with immediate effect and until further notice, no Skaters belonging to the ISU Members in Russia (Russian Skating Union and the Figure Skating Federation of Russia) and Belarus (Skating Union of Belarus) shall be invited or allowed to participate in International ice skating Competitions including ISU Championships and other ISU Events. “The same applies to Officials listed in the respective ISU Communications and/or Regulations under Russia and Belarus,” the statement read in part. Reiterating its solidarity with the Ukrainian population, the ISU said it would consider possibilities for humanitarian assistance to its Ukrainian members. “The ISU Council reiterates its solidarity with all those affected by the conflict in Ukraine and our thoughts are with the entire Ukrainian people and country. “The ISU Council reaffirms its full solidarity with the ISU Members in Ukraine, the Ukrainian Speed Skating Federation and the Ukrainian Figure Skating Federation. The ISU Council will evaluate possibilities for swift humanitarian assistance to its Ukrainian ISU Members,” the statement said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com