All roads in the Federal Capital City led to the Heineken Capital Bar at Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja for the Heineken® Grand Night on Wednesday 23rd February, 202, in celebration of the partnership between Heineken® and Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja. The event kicked off at 7pm with the arrival of guests who were treated to a brief tour of the various sections of the newly upgraded Heineken Capital Bar facility including the main area of the bar itself, the back bar, and the outdoor bar terrace, with guests appreciating the aesthetics and unique design of the bar floors and walls as well as the general cozy ambience.  The Heineken and Transcorp Hilton Abuja partnership on the Heineken Capital Bar is a first-of-its-kind collaboration designed to provide superior entertainment and consumer experiences for lovers of Nigeria’s premium beer brand as well as customers of Abuja’s leading hospitality organisation. In attendance were top executives from Nigerian Breweries Plc, including the MD/CEO, Hans Essaadi, the management team of the renowned Transcorp Hilton Hotel Abuja; MD/CEO, Mrs. Dupe Olusola; and others. Notable retailers of Heineken premium lager beer in Abuja were also in attendance.  Speaking at the event, National Trade Marketing Manager, NB Plc; Funso Ayeni said, “Heineken as a global, top-quality premium beer brand has an unrivalled relationship with its consumers and stakeholders. We are excited to be able to build further our relationship with Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja with the launch of the Heineken Capital Bar. We will use this platform to further connect with our consumers and deliver premium experiences”.  Speaking further, Transcorp Hilton Abuja, MD/CEO, Dupe Olusola said “Over the years, we have partnered with global brands to complement the delivery of luxurious hospitality to our guests at Transcorp Hilton Abuja. Our collaboration with Heineken for Capital Bar is one of such. With the Heineken Capital Bar, we have been able to offer a differentiated lifestyle experience as we have consistently done across our outlets. At Heineken Capital Bar, our guests will enjoy an amazing time every week, with the finest drinks, quality entertainment and great food.” Superstar Musician, MI provided thrilling entertainment to guests with back to back, spectacular live performances of his hits into the night. Attendees at the exclusive event opined that they were wowed by the Heineken branded interior decor of the Capital Bar. About Heineken® Lager Beer Heineken® premium lager beer is renowned for its matchless taste, superior quality and its penchant for advocating responsible drinking and socializing. The Heineken green bottle, red star and the smiling “e” represent excellence and the world’s most valuable international premium lager brand. Available and recognized in almost every country on the planet, whether it’s during a major game, or at a party, the fun is never complete without bottles of Heineken around the table. Heineken stands out as a true global beer brand; a beer you can enjoy in upscale bars and establishments. About Transcorp Hilton Hotel Abuja Transcorp Hilton Abuja, a multiple winner of the World Travel Awards including Africa and Nigeria’s leading Business Hotel for seven consecutive years, is owned by Transcorp Hilton a leading hospitality brand listed on the  Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX), which also owns Transcorp Hotels Calabar and aura by Transcorp Hotels, an online  booking platform for hotels, short let apartments, food and experiences.