Gombe State Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Naomi Awak, says the issues around gender and equal opportunities are not just about rights but hinged on sustainable development. Awak stated this on Tuesday while commemorating International Women’s Day with the theme “Gender Equality, today for a sustainable tomorrow”. According to her, the development of women and girls was of importance to the government, especially one that desires the improvement of citizens. She said, “In Gombe State like other parts of the country, issues of gender and equal opportunities are no longer issues of rights but rather key issues of sustainable development which must be Paramount in the agenda of any government concerned with bringing development to its people.” The Commissioner noted that gender inequality ensured societal challenges like illiteracy, high child and maternal mortality, domestic violence and rape, poverty. “Hence, the issues of gender and equal opportunities had featured prominently in the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), as well as the current Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Investing in gender equality and women’s empowerment and providing equal opportunities for persons can unlock human potential on a transformational scale,” She added. Awak lauded the governor of the state for embarking on programmes geared towards improving women, revealed that no wonder the state has witnessed a rise in women’s participation in politics. She said, “When women participate in civil society and politics, governments are more open, democratic, and responsive to citizens. When women are at the negotiating table, peace agreements are more inclusive and durable. “While Alh. Muhammadu Yahaya, governor of Gombe State is working around the clock since 29th May 2019 to date to improve and add value to our teeming population in the state, cutting across inclusive governance, improving quality education and healthcare, investing in Agriculture, and reducing poverty among others for sustainability.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com