Members of the Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees, Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria and the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria in the South-West staged a rally to demand financial autonomy for the local government, judiciary and legislative arms of government. During the rally held in Ibadan, Oyo State, on Wednesday, the workers demanded the amendment of the 1999 Constitution to give legal backing to the autonomy they were seeking. The workers took off from the Nigeria Labour Congress secretariat in the state and proceeded to the state House of Assembly, where they solicited the support of lawmakers to hasten the passage of Local Government Financial Autonomy Bill into law. They dropped their petition with the Speaker, Adebo Ogundoyin, who addressed them. The South-West NULGE Chairman, Abimbola Babalola, and the Chairman, Lagos State chapter, NLC, Funmi Sessi, said the time had come for the local government, judiciary and legislative arms of government to have financial autonomy. Babalola said, “The purpose of this rally is to ask the House of Assembly to amend the constitution to allow the autonomy we are demanding. “This, if done, will ensure electoral stability, rapid grassroots development, and protection of each arm of government in the discharge of their duties, among others.” Also speaking, the Oyo State Chairman of the NLC, Mr Kayode Martins, stated that the rally was organised to ask the lawmakers to amend the 1999 Constitution to accommodate the autonomy of the local government, judiciary and the legislative arms of government. Similarly, workers from the five South-East states under the platform of the NLC, on Wednesday, demanded state Houses of Assembly in the region to support full autonomy for state legislatures, judiciary and local governments in the country. The workers, who gathered as early as 9.30am at the Enugu State office of the NLC, marched through the major streets of the state capital to the state House of Assembly at the Independence Layout. They sang solidarity songs and carried placards and banners with various inscriptions in support of full autonomy for the local governments, state legislatures and the judiciary. The workers said they were moving to the Enugu House of Assembly to represent other state assemblies in the South-East region to ask them to do justice to the bill whenever it was brought to them. The Chairman of the NLC in the state, Virginus Nwobodo, and National Vice-President, Nigerian Union of Local Government Employees, Prince Patrick Igwe, spoke on behalf of the workers before the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Uchenna Ubosi. According to them, their demand for the state assemblies in the zone to support full autonomy for the third tier of government is for the benefit of the masses. Ubosi thanked the workers for taking action to demand support, noting that now was the best time to make such a demand. “On behalf of the five South-East state assemblies, I assure you that the lawmakers will vote in favour of financial autonomy for the state legislatures, the judiciary and local governments,” he said. Similarly, the Chairman of the Northern States Speakers’ Forum, Yusuf Zailani, said the northern states’ Houses of Assembly would back the bill for legislative, judiciary and local government autonomy. Zailani, who is the Speaker of the Kaduna State House of Assembly, stated this while receiving protesting members of the NLC from the North-West zone at the Assembly complex in Kaduna to present a position paper on the bill on Wednesday. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com