A governorship aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party platform, Senator Shehu Sani, has promised to provide a leadership that will serve as a bridge between the people of Northern and Southern Kaduna State if elected governor in 2023. Sani made the pledge on Thursday while speaking with newsmen in Kafanchan, the headquarters of Jema’a Local Government Area. According to him, Kaduna State needed a leader that would unite the people and ensure social justice and equality. He said, “The people of Kaduna State need a leader that will lead them out of Egypt. It is no fiction that our dear state has never been so divided. “What we need now is a leader that will unite and secure our people, a leader that will ensure social justice and equality. And I believe I can provide that. “I will provide a leadership that will spread prosperity to all the 23 Local Government Areas of the state,” he added He solicited the support and prayers of the people of Southern Kaduna towards his governorship bid and promised to give every citizen a sense of belonging. “I have always stood by the people of Southern Kaduna. I have spoken for and defended the people of Southern Kaduna. “I am here to urge the people of Southern Kaduna to support my gubernatorial mission and ambition to salvage, secure, unite and prosper Kaduna State. “So, I am here in need of your support; in need of your solidarity, and in need of your prayers,” he stated On the chances of PDP winning the governorship in the 2023 elections, the aspirant noted that the failure of the ruling party in the state to provide security gives the PDP an edge. “The people of Kaduna State have no viable option than to vote for the PDP because the ruling party in the state has failed to secure the lives of the people. “Our people are being killed and kidnapped every day. People in the villages pay taxes and fines to go to the farms and cultivate their crops. “Our students are no longer free to go to school without fear of abduction or being killed in the hands of terrorists. “We need a leader that will deliver Kaduna State from terrorism. We need a leader that will treat every citizen as equals and the PDP will provide that,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com