SOME concerned residents across the 114 political wards of Gombe State are seeking an order of mandamus in the high court against the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof Isa Pantami, mandating him to contest the 2023 governorship election. The order dated March 21, 2022, filed by 114 applicants has Pantami and the All Progressives Congress as defendants and would be heard by Justice A Y Abubakar of Gombe State High Court. Speaking during a briefing, Muhammad Abdullahi, the coordinator of the group said the former National Information Technology Agency boss has displayed leadership by empowering youths across the state and the country. According to Abdullahi, the group’s effort to get the attention of the minister to contest has proved abortive, adding that they were convinced that the minister is the best option for the state. He said, “To demonstrate our commitment to this course to use the law to compel Professor Isa Ali Pantami to perform his duty in Gombe State by vying in the upcoming primaries in any party of his choice, this legal action was entered by 114 persons across the 114 wards. Like-minded youths have decided to buy his nomination form. This petition is to awaken the interest of our leader (Pantami). “For the sake of the continuous prosperity of this great state, and with the evident track record and honorary achievement of one of its own, we hereby take this bold action to call on a leader and saviour who we believe is the perfect candidate. “This is Prof. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami. He is  young, learned, vibrant  who in the past has shown that  he can take our dear state to greater heights.” Commenting on the group’s decision to support Pantami despite Governor Muhammadu Yahaya’s interest in a second term, Abdullahi added, “We are not saying we are not satisfied with Governor Muhammadu Yahaya; what we are saying is that this is someone that we want; this is our right, and we know who we want. The current governor is doing his best but then Pantami is whom we want.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com