Some female artists exhibited their art works at an art event in Abuja on Thursday, March 10, 2022, as part of activities to mark the International Women’s Day. The art exhibition with the theme, ‘The Beauty of Nigeria’, was jointly organised by the South Korean Embassy, Nike Art Gallery and the Female Artists Association of Nigeria. Speaking during the event, the South Korean Ambassador to Nigeria, Kim Young-Chae, stated that the cultural ties between his country and Nigeria would be strengthened. He added, “This is a collaboration between Nigeria and (South) Korea. While we made our venue available for the exhibition, Nike Art Gallery and FEAAN contributed their works to make the collaboration complete. The purpose of this exhibition is to celebrate the International Day for Women by having partnerships with female Nigerian artists. We also want people to relax and enjoy themselves in our garden.” On her part, art enthusiast and the proprietor of Nike Art Gallery, Nike Okundaye, admonished participants and guests to always pass on their knowledge and skills to their children for sustainability of culture. Similarly, Dr Ngozi Akande, a past president of FEAAN, thanked the ambassador for the collaboration. She also urged participants to patronise the works of female artists. Also speaking, the Bayelsa State governor, Douye Diri, noted that there were many avenues for collaboration between South Korea and Nigeria. He said, “We savour this relationship and friendship, and that is why we decided to honour this invitation. “On behalf of the government and people of Bayelsa, we bring warm felicitation and greetings, and pray that the ultural relationship between Nigeria and South Korea would (continue to) wax stronger.” Another high point of the event was a traditional dance by the Gbagyi Women Group.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com