THE creation of the agent banking system by the Central Bank of Nigeria and the subsequent roll-out and deployment of the point of sale terminals by banks and other operators of mobile money have been described as a policy masterstroke in boosting and expanding financial inclusion drive in the country. This is the view of two senior officers of Wema Bank Plc, Damola Bolodeoku, Head, E-Business, and Adekunle Alarapon, Head Retail Segments, respectively. Both men spoke on an NTA Network programme, “Weekend Deal” which x-rayed the benefits and challenges of PoS since its inception. Specifically, Bolodeoku said the PoS business had witnessed 86 per cent growth in the last two years and had helped to bring a large segment of Nigeria’s informal and unbanked population into the formal financial system. According to him, financial service delivery has become easier, especially in the rural areas where physical banks are not present, through the massive deployment of POS terminals. On dispute resolution protocols arising from dispense error and fraud, Bolodeoku advised POS customers to lodge complaints with their banks immediately for proper investigation to be conducted and the disputes resolved. “The banks that appointed them in case of fraudulent reports against them can sanction such agents,” he buttressed. He recommended that network connectivity should be improved upon for efficient operations, as this will further boost the operations of the PoS in the country. In his contributions, Alarapon disclosed the CBN is pushing financial inclusion through agent banking to integrate about N2.6tn in the informal and unbanked sector. According to him, CBN’s target has been to achieve about 25 per cent financial inclusion of the adult Nigerian population within a short time.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com