A serving Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Special Duties and governorship aspirant in Plateau State, Sunday Biggs, on Wednesday, declared that he was not desperate to lead the people of the state. Biggs, who is vying for the governorship on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, stated this when he visited the party secretariat in Jos on Wednesday. He told the state APC chairman, Rufus Bature, that he was at the party secretariat to inform them of his interest to contest the governorship of the state during the forthcoming 2023 general election. Biggs said, “My lifelong ambition is to contribute to the growth and development of Plateau State. “I must confess at this point that politics was never part of the plan. And this is because people like me, who have spent a better part of their time working as technocrats, tend to avoid partisan politics and may hardly run for public offices. “However, in the course of my 24 years working in the state civil service, I have watched closely the worst and the best of leadership in our dear state. “I have seen more than enough to understand that if I want a better Plateau, then it is not enough to merely wish for it, but to get involved in politics, by offering myself to be voted for into a public office with a view to improving the socio-economic well-being of our people. “For this reason, after seeking the face of God, the Almighty, and having carried out extensive consultations with family and friends, elders of our party and other key stakeholders, I have come today to inform the state executives of our great party about my decision to secure the gubernatorial ticket of the APC with a view to running for the office of the Governor of Plateau State in 2023. “I’m not desperate for leadership of the state but we believe we are going to find favour before God and the people of Plateau State.” The Permanent Secretary said if given the opportunity, he would rebuild the trust of their people in government by raising a new generation of leaders that are competent and adequately prepared to rise up to the challenges of the 21st century. He also promised to deliver on good governance in key areas including enhanced peace and security, agricultural development, solid minerals development and mining as well as social service delivery and critical infrastructure, among others . “The idea is to establish a dynamic government of action that will pursue the growth and development of our dear state with doggedness, determination and conviction,” he added. The State Chairman of the APC, Rufus Bature, assured Biggs and other aspirants contesting on the platform of the party a level playing ground. He also advised them and their supporters to shun any act of violence as they go about their campaigns saying, “Under my watch, we will ensure that the people choose their leaders and not individuals.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com