The Federal High Court, sitting in Kano presided over by Justice Jane Iyang, on Thursday fixed March 28, 2022, to hear the application by Counsel for embattled suspended Chairman of Kano State Anti-Corruption Commission, Barr Muhuyi Magaji. Magaji is praying the court to further restrain the police from arresting or prosecuting him on the allegation of forgery laid against him. It should be recalled that on March 1, 2022, the court dismissed Magaji’s application to restrain the Inspector-General of Police from arresting him for lack of jurisdiction. Earlier in her Judgement, Justice Jane upheld that the applicant’s fundamental rights alleged violation was a mere ancillary claim, which did not fall within the purview of fundamental rights. Furthermore, she upheld that, for a court to determine fundamental rights violation, the claim of the applicant must have infringed his fundamental rights. Also, she contended that her court lacks supervisory power over the Kano State House of Assembly, stressing that Magaji ought to have reached out to the Kano State High Court, not the Federal High Court and therefore dismissed the case for lack of competence. When the Court reconvened on Thursday, Counsel for Magaji, Barrister R.O Zakariyya, filed an application, praying the court to order parties in the suit to maintain status quo, following the judgement of the court delivered on March 1, 2022, pending the hearing and determination of an appeal against the judgement. Counsel for the defendants, Barr Wada Ahmad Wada, Principal State Counsel, told the court that he had filed and served the Applicant’s counsel with claim and counterclaim applications. At the close of the day, Justice Iyang adjourned sitting to March 28, 2022, for hearing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com