Five persons, including a 70-year-old man, have been killed during an attack by suspected terrorists in Dogo Dawa, Layin Mahuta and Tabanni villages in the Birnin-Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. It was learnt that 17 other persons were kidnapped during the attacks which occurred between March 15 and March 18. The Chairman of Birnin-Gwari Vanguards for Security and Good Governance, Ibrahim Nagwari, who confirmed the attack, also disclosed that 32 out of the 46 residents abducted by the terrorists in Ungwan Bula and Ijinga three weeks ago were set free after paying the N16m ransom demanded. Nagwari, in a statement on Saturday, explained that on March 14, the terrorists struck along the Dogo Dawa-Zaria Road in the eastern part of Birnin-Gwari where one Haruna Dawa was killed while eight other persons were abducted. He said between Wednesday and Thursday, one Alhaji Abdullahi Abubakar, a schoolteacher, was killed along Layin Lasa-Tabanni, adding that while some women were abducted at Layin Mahuta Tabanni, two other persons were abducted by the bandits at old Tabanni. “In the last working days of the week, fatal security breaches were recorded mostly in the eastern part of Birnin Gwari by bandits, notably Dogo Dawa, layin Mahuta and Tabanni in which five people were killed; 17 others were abducted between Monday 15 and Friday, March 18, 2022. “On Tuesday, March 14, 2022, Haruna Dawa and two others were cruelly murdered in the eastern part of Birnin Gwari by bandits along Dogo Dawa-Zaria, eight other people were abducted on the same route. “At Layin Mahuta(Tabanni), one Alhaji Abdullahi Abubakar, a schoolteacher, was killed along Layin Lasa-Tabanni Road on Wednesday, March 16, 2022. On Thursday, March 17, 2022, a 70-year-old man was killed and seven women abducted at Layin Mahuta Tabanni; two other people were abducted by the bandits at old Tabanni.” “In Randagi general area, bandits have released 32 people out of 46 abductees from attacks at Ungwan Bula and Ijinga three weeks ago after paying N16m. Birnin Gwari-Kaduna Road remains quiet during the period under review. We urged security personnel to always respond to a distressed call around Dogo Dawa, Kuyello, Tabanni, and Kutemeshi wards in Birnin Gwari,” he added. When contacted, the spokesperson for the Kaduna State Police Command, ASP Mohammad Jalige, requested a copy of the statement from the Birnin-Gwari Vanguards for Security and Good Governance and promised to get back to our correspondent afterward. Jalige, had, however, yet to get back to our correspondent as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com