A recent encounter I had with a Nigerian man is why I pen this treatise this week. Denton (not his real name) came to the US when he was 19 years old. According to him, his intention was to get trained in aviation and return to Nigeria as a licensed pilot. He started in the program in a top US aviation school. That was where he ran into a group of irresponsible young Nigerians, whose parents were big-shot businessmen and government top brass in Nigeria. The influence on him was enormous. He wanted to live like them. But those people had back-ups in Nigeria if all else failed in America. But Denton had nobody. And the clock of life was ticking fast. Denton, like many young people around the world, did not know this life truth. He later dropped out of aviation school in pursuit of quick money so he could keep up with a lifestyle that was not for him. The medical equipment business he was introduced to was lucrative. For a long time, Denton lived recklessly in ephemeral affluence. He forgot why he came to America. He abandoned the dream to become a pilot. Business eventually dried up. Money grew wings and flew away from its tree limb. According to Denton, his wife left him and took the children with her. Denton turned 66 years old last October when I met him. He lives in a two-bedroom apartment and alone in a Southern city. He is now contemplating returning to Nigeria. Life has beaten Denton black and blue. Just because he dropped the dream he had as a young man. The word ‘greatness’ cannot be defined in a one-size-fits-all fashion. To be great simply means to be outstanding in what you do. It means to be able to change the landscape of history either in your family, community or in the nation you dwell and do business. To be great also means to be distinguished, honourable and possess a touch of excellence that spins a routinely ugly failure situation into a success. When you succeed in doing what others aren’t able to do to affect many lives and impact drowning souls in an environment that’s not necessarily friendly, with resources that aren’t necessarily sufficient and in a manner that’s not necessarily easy, you can be adjudged a great person. No one desires to be a scumbag in life. Every young man and woman I know desires to live a great life. But the ones who survive life’s many traps and eventually have their names written in the Hall of Fame of the Greats are not just those who have dreams but those who refuse to drop them. A life dream is today’s blueprint for tomorrow’s footprints. A man or woman who drops a dream cannot survive the nightmare that must surely come. A man who drops a dream will daily be woken up by the bugaboo of a long-drawn depression. One of the reasons why people drop their dreams is because they think in their human wisdom that the dreams aren’t achievable—the mountain is too high they can’t move it; the valley is too deep it cannot be exalted. Many will tell you “I have no money to start. I have no men to connect me.” Do you know those things are scare tactics of the devil who wants to destroy your dreams anyways? Later on, you’ll find out that the things that scare you are not as difficult as you think. Don’t drop the dream because you fear it. And don’t fear the people you’ll meet in the process of the dream either. Pursue it. All human minds are goldmines. But a mind without a goal in life will end up without gold and be consigned to the gallows of failure. The beginning of a journey toward a lofty dream is to draw up goals. Anyone with big dreams without goals will not hit the gold. If you have not set a goal, it means you don’t know where you are going. If you don’t know where you’re going, you’ll go everywhere and anywhere. Going everywhere and anywhere will lead you everywhere and anywhere and nowhere. After setting clear goals, focus on them. Goals are aspirations that have not yet become assignments. Your focus determines your future. If you are distracted by small things, you cannot do big things. If you are distracted by tiny things, you cannot dream titanic dreams. If you are distracted by little things, your exploits will be little. Don’t be distracted like Denton was in my story. Distractions are life’s side-attractions that lead men into fast-track destruction. Any distraction that’s moving you away from your goals is moving you away from your purpose. To focus is to hone in on a dream and desire with success in mind. Starve your distraction and feed your focus. The dove is a focused and committed bird. When at work, it focuses on one object at a time, has only one mate, dwells only in one home and spends the day kissing its mate with commitment, dedication and focus. While doing its things, the dove is not distracted even by the shattering noise of the thunderstorm or bellowing trumpet that may come even from heaven. Noise doesn’t matter to the dove. If your dream has not come to pass, don’t drop it. Keep pushing for its fulfilment. Be reminded, however, that success doesn’t come through rituals, fraud and other forms of criminality. Lasting success and riches come from the acquisition of knowledge about your chosen field; networking with those who have walked the same path; persistent hard work and breath from our Great God from whom all blessings flow. Dreams that come to fruition are those worked out in the workshop of heaven. They are the ones woven together by the fingers of God. Any dream not dreamed with the signature of God will bounce back like a bad cheque. But the ones dreamed with God in mind come to fulfilment. That house will become a dream house only if you don’t drop the dream. That family will become a dream family if you don’t drop the dream. The success of the business will beat your imagination and beat hands down naysayers only if you don’t drop the dream. A dream is more than an aspiration. It is more than a desire, hope and intention. A life dream is the harvest you see in your mind even before you sow a seed. It is the bountiful reaping that takes place in your spirit even before you plant. It is the battle you triumph over even before you fight it. And the war you win even before you wage it.  A life dream is not just the image you create about where you are going in life, it is the destination you see yourself arrive at even before the journey starts. If it’s your dream, not a copy of somebody else’s, don’t drop it. Twitter: @Folaojotweet Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com