Russia has agreed to halt its military operations within the Ukrainian territory if the Ukrainian government agrees to alter its constitution, by ceding its quest to join “any bloc” and recognise the Crimean referendum and the independence of the Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics. The Russian presidential spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, said, “They (Ukrainian authorities) should make amendments to their Constitution according to which Ukraine would reject any aims to enter any bloc. “We have also spoken about how they should recognise that Crimea is a Russian territory and that they need to recognise that Donetsk and Luhansk are independent states. “And that’s it. Then, Russia’s military operations will stop in a moment.” Here are the latest developments in Russia-Ukraine war – Russian evacuation offer rejected – Ukraine rejects a Kremlin offer to open escape routes for civilians trapped by the fighting in the cities of Kharkiv, Kyiv, Mariupol and Sumy because several of the routes lead to Russia or its ally Belarus. Moscow says the proposal was based on a request from French President Emmanuel Macron, which Macron denies, and accuses Ukraine of blocking civilians from leaving, which it calls a “war crime”. – Shelled while fleeing – Russia steps up its shelling of cities, including the town of Gostomel near Kyiv, Kharkiv in the east, Sumy in the northeast, Chernihiv in the north and Mykolayiv in the southwest. Ukraine’s President Volodymr Zelensky accuses Russian troops of the “deliberate murder” of civilians after a family with two children was killed by shelling in the street while trying to flee the town of Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv. Tens of thousands are still trapped without water or power in the besieged southern port of Mariupol after two failed evacuation attempts. “We saw bodies everywhere, Russians and Ukrainians… We saw that people had been buried in their basements,” one family that made it out tells AFP. – More talks – A third round of talks between Ukrainian and Russian delegations gets underway on the Belarus-Poland border to discuss humanitarian corridors. Turkey announces that it will host Russia’s and Ukraine’s foreign ministers for talks on Thursday. – Oil, gas prices rocket – Oil prices hit a near 14-year high and European and UK natural gas prices hit record highs after the United States proposes an embargo on Russian oil imports. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz warns against a ban, saying it could put Europe’s energy security at risk. – Debts paid in rubles – Russia says it will allow Russian companies and individuals to repay debts to creditors in “hostile” nations, including the US, EU, Britain, Canada and Japan in the battered national currency, the ruble. – Russia snubs international court – Russia snubs a hearing at the International Court of Justice in The Hague at which Ukraine seeks an immediate order to halt the conflict. – Russians need clothes: Uniqlo – Japanese casualwear giant Uniqlo defends a decision to keep Russian stores open even as rivals Zara and H&M suspend operations in the country over the invasion of Ukraine. “Clothing is a necessity of life,” Tadashi Yanai, president of Uniqlo operator Fast Retailing says. – Britain visas row – British Prime Minister Boris Johnson defends his government from accusations of being unwelcoming to Ukrainian refugees, saying it has granted only about 50 visas so far because of the need to screen all newcomers for security reasons. – 1.7 million refugees – The UN says 1.7 million people have fled Ukraine, making it the fastest-growing refugee crisis since World War II. – Kremlin arrests thousands more – Police detain more than 5,000 people protesting the war in some 60 Russian cities Sunday, bringing the numbers held to well over 11,000 since the invasion began. – Rock-solid friendship – China’s foreign minister says the friendship between Beijing and Moscow is “rock solid” despite the Russian invasion and offers to help mediate. – Iodine tablets – France is sending iodine tablets and other medical supplies to Ukraine. They are used to protect against the effects of exposure to radiation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com