The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, on Monday, announced the establishment of six Sustainable Development Goals innovation hubs by the Federal Government in each geopolitical zone in Nigeria to help boost social financing in states, among other functions. He announced this at the African Union Continental Workshop on Africa’s Voluntary National Reviews for the 2022 High-Level Political Forum hosted in Abuja by the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals. In his speech, Osinbajo told global participants at the forum that the strategic partnership embedded in the SDGs had availed Nigeria a huge implementation context due to its large population, landmass and ethnic diversity. He said, “To achieve the SDGs and their effective implementation, Nigeria has established six SDGs innovation hubs, one in each geo-political zone. “This provides an opportunity for states to leverage and dialogue with all relevant stakeholders to accelerate innovative solutions, prioritising social protection as a tool to overcome the bottlenecks and expanding financing options to accelerate the achievement of SDGs in Nigeria.” He stated that the SDGs had remained cardinal to the attainment of robust economic cooperation among governments globally, particularly in realisation of the decade of action for SDGs as defined by the United Nations. Last year, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on SDGs, Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, had revealed that the Federal Government was collaborating with the UN to set up SDGs innovation hubs in Nigeria. She explained that the hubs would serve as a mechanism to strengthen social protection, describing it as a strategic initiative hinged on the pillars of SDG-17. Orelope-Adefulire stated that through the innovation hubs, states would be tasked with piloting innovative solutions on pertinent issues within their geo-political zones by aligning them with SDGs with the greatest multiplier effects to help meet targeted needs. In her address at the forum on Monday, she noted that African leaders joined other world leaders during the 70th Session of the United Nations General Assembly in September 2015 to adopt the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. “The 2030 agenda envisions a present and a future that is economically sustainable, socially inclusive, and environmentally resilient,” Orelope-Adefulire stated. She added, “This vision is expressed through the framing of the 17 SDGs; 169 targets and 230 key performance indicators. “Taken together, the SDGs are a universal call to action to end poverty, safeguard our planet and ensure all people enjoy peace and prosperity by the year 2030.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com