Pablo Longoria, president of French giants, Olympic Marseille, is fond of Nigeria international Moses Simon and is ready to test Nantes’ resolve by tabling a bid of €9m for the winger, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. The Super Eagles winger has been in phenomenal form for the French outfit in the 2021/22 season and has become a target for top European clubs. The 26-year-old, who has grown to become one of the most menacing players in the French league, recently guided the Canaries to their first cup final in nearly three decades. The Nigerian was also at his superb best during the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon and was undoubtedly the country’s best player despite their shock elimination in the Round of 16. Since his return to France, Simon continues to shine for the French outfit and has been involved in 10 goals, scoring thrice and registering seven assists. His excellent performance has not gone unnoticed and the Eagles winger, according to French publication, sport.fr, is adored by Longoria, who is ready to offer €9m for the player. “In search of a new challenge, Moses Simon would be in particular in the sights of Olympique de Marseille,” the website wrote. “Always on the lookout for new recruits, Pablo Longoria has fallen for the Ligue 1 phenomenon, according to information from our colleagues at Goal Football Club. “The 26-year-old winger is estimated at around €9m but his club could claim almost €20m.” However, the €9m offer is way short of the player’s valuation of €20m by Nantes. Simon is under contract with the Canaries until June 2024, but he has been a subject of transfer speculations both within and outside of France. Premier League duo Leeds United and Newcastle have also been credited with interests in the Nigerian.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com