Three years after, an Ekiti State High Court sitting in Ado Ekiti discharged and acquitted 33-year-old Gbenga Aluko, who had been on trial over alleged membership of secret cult, unlawful possession of firearms and murder. According to the charge, Aluko was arraigned on three-count of membership of secret cult, unlawful possession of firearms and murder. The charge reads, “That Gbenga Aluko (29) on February 13, 2018, at Ado Ekiti, was found to be a member of a secret cult i.e Eiye confraternity and also on June 13, 2018, was found in his possession a gun as well, on the same day murdered one William Ayegboro in Ado Ekiti. “The offences run contrary to Section 4(1) of the Secret Cults (Abolition and Prohibition) (first amendment) Law No. 6, 2017 of Ekiti State, Section 3 of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provisions) Act Cap. R11, Vol.14, Laws of the Federation 2004 and Section 316 of the Criminal Code Cap. C16, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012.” One of the eyewitnesses who made a statement to the police said he and the late Ayegboro were discussing at a beer parlour at Atikankan area of Ado Ekiti, around 8pm, when somebody whose face he could not see clearly pointed a gun at the deceased and shot him in the face and left. The deceased was rushed to the hospital where he later died. During the trial, the prosecutor, Felix Awoniyi, called three witnesses and tendered the defendant’s statement, bond to produce and release mobile phone and warrant to bury the dead among others as exhibits. But in his evidence before the court, Aluko, who said he used to be a secret cult member, said he had renounced his membership before he relocated to Ado Ekiti, adding that he knew nothing about the death of the deceased as he was in Akure when he heard about the incident. Justice Adekunle Adeleye, said, “The evidence led by the defendant that he was in Akure on that fateful day was not challenged by the prosecution under cross-examination. “Consequently, the prosecution could not prove beyond reasonable doubt the presence of Aluko Gbenga at the scene of the killing of William Ayegboro on June 13, 2018, in Ado Ekiti. ‘’On the whole, count one of the charges (membership of secret cult) is hereby dismissed, while the defendant is discharged and acquitted on count two and three (unlawful possession of firearms and murder) of the charges, for failure on the part of the prosecution to establish the ingredients of the offences alleged against the defendant beyond reasonable doubt.”