Saudi Arabia’s King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Centre and the Abibakr As-Sidiq Philanthropic Home have announced plans to feed 12,600 Nigerian Muslims including Internally Displaced Persons during the forthcoming Ramadan. The philanthropic home had on the 24th of February 2022, signed an implementation agreement with KSrelief to distribute 2,300 food baskets to households in Nigeria in the month of Ramadan. The project according to the agreement signed by the representatives of KSrelieve and ASPH will feed 12,600 Nigerian Muslims who are extremely poor and will find it very difficult to afford food during the fasting period. “The beneficiaries of the project will be those people who have been affected severely by the impact of food insecurity in Nigeria,” it said. 12 Local Government Areas of Kwara and Kano states as well as the IDP camps in Abuja will benefit from the scheme. The representatives of KSrelief and the Vice President, special duties of ASPH, AbdulKarim Al-Yousef and Mohammed Saleh, who represented the President of the organisation, Mallam Abdulrazzaq Salman and the Chief Operating Officer of ASPH, were present for the signing of the agreement between both organisations. Abdulrazzaq who was represented by his vice expressed gratitude to the Saudi Arabia organisation for bringing the project to Nigeria as a lot of people in the country were facing difficulties to feed themselves and their families. He noted that Nigeria was facing unprecedented economic impact which is making it more difficult for people to have access to basic needs such as food, expressing delight that a lot of people will benefit from the project. He expressed his gratitude to the entire people of Saudi Arabia who, he noted, have always stood at the forefront of providing humanitarian aid to vulnerable people around the world. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com