The House of Representatives has expressed delight with the commencement of evacuation of Nigerians from Sumy, a city in Ukraine bordering Russia which has been under attack in the invasion of the former by the latter. Chairman, House Committee on Diaspora Affairs, Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, while speaking to journalists in Abuja on Tuesday, said she had been informed that the Nigerian Government had begun evacuation of citizens from the war zone. Akande-Sadipe said, “I am happy to tell you that as soon as I left that meeting (plenary), the Minister contacted me again to give me another update. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has been updating me every day, sometimes three times a day on the actions they are taking. “I am happy to tell you that he has sent me the video of buses…because part of the problem in Sumy was that there was no transport to get them out of Sumy and those that tried (to exit the city) were sent back. Now, buses have been provided and students are on those buses heading out of Sumy. “I am very happy and I must say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has worked round the clock, in partnership with the (Nigerians in) Diaspora Commission, to get Nigerians out of the war zone. Sumy was one of the controversial places but now, my children are coming home.” Akande-Shadipe has earlier moved a motion of urgent public importance, titled ‘Urgent Call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs to Take Diplomatic Action with Ukrainian Authorities to Extend Humanitarian Corridor for Exit of Nigerians in Sumy and Parts of War Zone.’ Adopting the motion, the House to “as a matter of utmost urgency,” call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyema, and relevant agencies to immediately take diplomatic action with Ukrainian authorities to extend humanitarian needs to Nigerians, including students trapped in the war-torn area. Moving the motion, Akande-Sadipe noted “with concern,” the recent invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces and its attendant effects and implication for Nigerians living in the area. She said considering the current war situation in Ukraine, particularly in Sumy and other parts of the war zone, “it is plausible to state that the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and relevant agencies intensify efforts on diplomatic action to ensure that humanitarian needs are extended to Nigerians, especially students who are stranded in Sumy to enable them exit the country.” According to her, there is limited availability of transportation in the affected areas to evacuate those trapped, including Nigerians. The lawmaker added that while Nigerian citizens have been fleeing Ukraine for their safety, Nigerian students, particularly those who are studying medicine in the Sumy State University, are, however, “caged, not having the opportunities of exiting Sumy, as Sumy is located close to the Russian border and the bridges and train tracks have been blown by Russian forces.” She stressed that “these Nigerians are facing very horrible conditions with diminishing food supply, electricity outages, lack of water and other basic needs.” Akande-Sadipe said, “The House is worried that the most recent harrowing experience involved where a bus carrying some students was escorted back to Sumy, when they had already travelled 50km close to a neighboring city and now the hostels, are being guarded by Ukraine soldiers who are preventing them from leaving Ukraine. “The House is further worried that the situation in Sumy is not only of concern to Nigerians, but also to so many countries. “The House is concerned that these innocent Nigerians in search of the golden fleece and greener pasture are subjected to and caught in a helpless situation, and if proactive diplomatic steps are not immediately taken to offer humanitarian support to these Nigerian students within the ceasefire which is  just for four days to exit, their situation would become very precarious.” Earlier, Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, thanked the Majority Leader, Alhassan Ado-Doguwa; and Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Yusuf Buba, for the successful evacuation of Nigerians from Ukrainian neighbours such as Poland, Hungary and Romania. Gbajabiamila said the House appreciated Ado-Doguwa and Buba “who took their time and effort and went to Romania and Poland to supervise the evacuation of our students.” The Speaker said, “They were there for a couple of days and they are back now with over a thousand students. Thank you very much for your service; thank you for your promptness and God bless you.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com