Many times we have heard the saying “Jack of all trades and master of none….” A phrase that was used to make you feel guilty and cut you down instantly anytime you begin to exhibit the Divine nature of multiplicity God originally intended for you in Isaiah 54:2. “Enlarge the place of your tent, stretch your tent curtains wide, do not hold back; lengthen your cords, strengthen your stakes” They will say “you have to focus”, “focus on one thing”. Meanwhile, the whole concept of focus is truly evident per time, as it has to do with whatever you are handling at any moment, time frame or what is the top priority in your to do list. Over the years I have resolved to researching nuances and anxiomes, to find out their true origin and what spurred them being written or said in the first place. In my findings I figured that the phrase I started this narrative with, has always been used in an incomplete form and for very wrong reasons that have kept people unduly confined in countless cases. I found out that the statement was truly written as “a jack of all trades is a master of none, but oftentimes better than a master of one.” Reading the original statement had me cringe over how we take incomplete admonishing hook, line and sinker, and live below par as regards the wills and purposes God has for our lives. Think about how an average woman can multitask and still deliver on her duties. This mentality needs to change. Yes there most definitely needs to be a mainstream (skill, job, expertise or specialty) that you are known for; but that mainstream should flow into other streams that can also display a spice and excellence that is distinct to you as an individual.  That statement was a compliment. Far from letting it deter your path, some entrepreneurs attest that being a jack of all trades brings benefits. So no longer should you be halted to one phase of your amazing many sidedness, cause someone else is not privy to your deep insights and drive as an individual. I think the breaking of this barrier is what birthed the concept of “The Serial Entrepreneur” that the world is embracing strongly. Nothing is entirely new under the face of the earth, but you owe yourself and the world newness by your distinct ways of expression of things we never thought was possible the way you made it. GO ON AND BE THE DIFFERENCE! Pastor Dr. Deborah Emmanuel Omale is the Senior Pastor of Divine Hand of God Prophetic Ministries International. She is an Entrepreneur with diverse interests and a conglomerate of businesses. CEO of Beauty Secrets Medspa @beautysecretskincare Social Media Handles: Instagram: @Deborahemmanuelomale Twitter: @DeborahOmale Facebook: @Pastor Mrs Deborah Omale YouTube: @Pastor Deborah Emmanuel Omale Tiktok: Deborah Emmanuel Omale Published by: Adeboye Sarah