Following the unabated attacks on communities in Benue State, Governor Samuel Ortom has reiterated his earlier call for the people of the state to rise up and defend themselves. A statement made available to journalists in Makurdi by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Nathaniel Ikyur, quoted Ortom as expressing grief over the sustained killing of Benue people by Fulani herdsmen. He said there were coordinated attacks on the Guma, Kwande and Gwer West local government areas of the state on Tuesday. The statement read in part, “With scores of people hacked to death in unprovoked attacks, the governor called on Benue communities to rise up and defend themselves. “Ortom, who gave the breakdown of attacks on some communities in the last 24 hours, stated that a report from the team leader of security agencies in Kasekyo, near Tse Torkula village in the Guma Local Government Area indicated that suspected Fulani herdsmen, on Tuesday, shot one Turner Ajar and an unidentified elderly man, who were both on a motorcycle going to the farm. “The team of Agro Rangers, who were on patrol in the area, ran into the attack. Unfortunately, the victims were killed. Their corpses have been deposited in a hospital in Gbajimba, Guma LG. “In Kpankeeke on the outskirts of Naka, gory images of persons killed by another set of herdsmen littered the streets. “The Agro Rangers team was alerted and moved to the location alongside the Army and the police. “The patrol team found the body of one Ahemba Apeelu, an aged man, at a saw mill from the Saav/Ukusu Council Ward, who was slaughtered and his throat slit. “Others identified to have been killed by the invaders include Tersoo Yasough and a young lady known as Martha Ukange. “Eyewitnesses alleged that the herders were dressed in military uniform, which served as a decoy. “Two yet-to-be-identified bodies were later sighted along the road. “The search for missing persons is ongoing in the affected communities.” Three persons were killed and several others declared missing when marauding herders invaded the Naka community, headquarters of the Gwer West Local Government Area of the state on Tuesday. The herdsmen, who were in military uniform, were said to have stormed the sleepy town in commando style and killed the victims, among them an octogenarian, whose tongue and other body parts were removed. The killings occurred a few hours after a pastor of the Deeper Life Bible Church, John Ajav, and three others were killed in the Guma Local Government Area of the state. The Ter Nagi of Naka, Daniel Abomtse, who expressed sadness over the continuous attacks, narrated how the herders invaded the town. He stated, “Yesterday (Tuesday),  the herders came from Nasarawa State even though there were troops of the Operation Whirl Stroke in Agagbe, whom they avoided in their movement to the south western direction and went through another part of the Nagi settlement to come out at a suburb of Naka called Goh. “They followed a bush path known as Anyim Road and parked their motorcycles within 200 metres from the town, because I went and searched for everything myself, and they opened fire on people in the part of Naka known as Gbankeke, where the local government secretariat is located. “They blocked the Adawa Road, which linked the Mbabwaande district to Naka, and immediately stopped a young man, identified as Tersoo Yasough, from conveying a lady on a motorcycle. They shot him and the bullets pierced through his body and he died. “A young girl, identified as Martha Ukange, was also killed. “Thereafter, they moved towards the road linking Naka to Agagbe, where they stopped and slaughtered an octogenarian, whose name is Ahemba Apeale, and removed his tongue and other sensitive parts of his body. “After that, they fled the area to Nasarawa State, where they came from. “So, they killed three persons; others are still missing and we are still searching.” Also confirming the attack on the community, the Chairman of the local government, Mrs Grace Igbabon, lamented the incessant killings of people by Fulani herdsmen in the council area. She stated, “Some armed Fulani men came in military uniform and were on motorcycles and attacked a suburb of Naka town. There were heavy gunshots and people were running helter-skelter to save their lives. “Three persons were killed in the process, including two elderly men and a young lady. The Police Public Relations Officer, SP Catherine Anene, confirmed the attack. “Armed men invaded the Agabge-Naka Road, Gwer-West LGA, and started shooting sporadically. In the process, two persons were confirmed dead and their corpses deposited in the Fr Mathias Morgue. An investigation is ongoing,” she said. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com