A 29-year-old Chief Executive Officer of a popular entertainment company, Prolifick Entertainment Concept, Mr Simon Oshi, has vowed to unseat the Deputy Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Hon Toby Okechukwu. Okechukwu, who is currently serving out his third term at the National Assembly is representing Awgu, Aniri, Oji-River Enugu Federal Constituency. However, he has declared his intention to re-contest the seat in 2023 general election for the fourth term. But declaring his intention to contest the position, on Wednesday, during a town hall meeting with the Peoples Democratic Party stakeholders from the Awgu Local Government Area, Oshi said he would make a difference if given the opportunity to serve. Oshi, who hails from the Aninir Local Government Area with the former deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, who has declared his intention to contest the governorship seat of Enugu State, also promise to champion legislations that would ensure greater participation of Nigerian youths in politics. Although he said that Okechukwu has represented the constituency well, he argued that it was time to allow youths to takeover Nigeria’s political space to usher in a new Nigeria where equity, justice and fairness would rule. The House of Reps hopeful said that the incumbent, Hon. Toby Okechukwu is doing well but that he would surpass his achievement and change the face of the constituency. “Okechukwu is doing perfectly well but because it is a competition, I decided to join the race and I’ll turn the constituency to London if elected, ” he said. He said that he is a youth and has the capacity to do better than Okechukwu. He promised that he would do only two tenures and give way for others. Because of his youthful disposition, Oshi said he would open to all and receive calls personally and give listening ears to his people especially the youths. He argued that since 1999 Nigeria returned to civil democracy, Aninri has never had a person in the Green Chambers, thus he wants to run. Asked how he would go to the Green Chambers whereas Senator Ike Ekweremadu, who has been representing his zone since 2003 hails from the same Aninri local government, he said he was aware but that Aninri has never been to the House of Representatives.