The Chairman of United Bank for Africa Plc, Tony Elumelu, has stated that businesses in Nigeria were suffering and citizens should hold leaders accountable. Elumelu noted that despite being a rich country, over 90% of Nigerians lived in hardship and poverty. In a long Twitter thread on Thursday, the philanthropist berated the country for allowing its citizens to suffer no electricity for days, hikes in the price of diesel, and frightening food inflation. He said, “This morning, I am listening to my colleagues at the office bemoan the very pressing issues that they face every day in this country, and how things have been getting worse and worse – no electricity for 5 days, hikes in the price of diesel, frightening food inflation, etc. “How can a country so rich in natural resources have 90% of its citizens living in hardship and poverty? I have often said that access to electricity is critical for our development, alleviation of poverty and hardship. And speaking of security, our people are afraid! “Businesses are suffering. How can we be losing over 95% of oil production to thieves? “Look at the Bonny Terminal that should be receiving over 200k barrels of crude oil daily, instead it receives less than 3,000 barrels, leading the operator @Shell to declare force majeure. “Why are we paying taxes if our security agencies can’t stop this? It is clear that the reason Nigeria is unable to meet its OPEC (Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) production quota is not because of low investment but because of theft, pure and simple! “Meanwhile, oil-producing countries are smiling as their foreign reserves rise. What is Nigeria’s problem? We need to hold our leaders more accountable! “Elections are coming – security and resources need to be everyone’s agenda – let’s be vocal for our nation’s priority. “Evil prevails when good people are silent. We need to be vocal about 2023. Let’s focus on Nigeria. Demand and advocate for leaders that deliver. “In 2023, Nigeria must be on a strong trajectory for progress and development.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com