Director General, New Media of the Imo State Peoples Democratic Party, Collins Opurozor, tells CHIDIEBUBE OKEOMA that the alleged electoral malpractices committed during the bye-election in Ngor-Okpalla indicates there was no poll How would you describe the bye-election in Imo State? The barbarity that took place in Ngor Okpala should be totally condemned by all civilized minds all over the world. It was yet another primitive, morbid and pigheaded attack on democracy by the APC and their leaders in the state. On the day of the bye-election, the process was circumvented and terror unleashed on innocent citizens in the ruling party’s pursuit of inordinate political ambition. To be clear, Ngor Okpala people were denied an opportunity to freely choose their representative. Whoever describes that very infamy as an election does not deserve a place in this century and is certainly an atavistic creature from the Stone Age. That travesty must never be allowed to stand. On that day, Imo people were dazed by a torrent of gory and sordid visuals that began to emerge from Ngor Okpala immediately the APC began to lose the bye-election. All state appointees in Imo, APC chieftains, APC lawmakers, loyalists to Governor Hope Uzodimma and his political henchmen who had earlier been stationed across Ngor Okpala were let loose. Each person within the above categories was given truckloads of policemen, soldiers and members of a strike force to invade all the polling units, abduct INEC officials with election materials and take them to a hotel along Sam Mbakwe Airport Road. Agents of our party were abducted too and some of them beaten to a pulp. Our candidate, Jeff Nwachukwu, had an armoured tank stationed at his residence after several attempts to abduct him failed. INEC officials were kidnapped in the process, and at gunpoint, they allegedly thumb-printed the ballots and wrote the results right inside of hotel rooms. The Resident Electoral Commissioner in Imo State, Professor Chukwuemeka Ezeonu, had in a press briefing at the noon of election day cried out and confirmed all of these. The most civilized, honourable and acceptable thing was for INEC to immediately do the needful and cancel that election on the strength of the relevant provisions of the Electoral Act, particularly Section 128 (a) and (b). But the APC said the exercise went well without hitch, and that the PDP was only complaining without any reason. You see, these men have no modicum of shame and regard for refined values. It is pressing to reiterate the call by my party, the PDP, that those APC chieftains who were caught on cameras in Ngor Okpala perpetrating electoral heist be immediately arrested and prosecuted. We know them and have imperishable evidences of their despicable deeds. So, what are they talking about? What were they doing in Ngor Okpala on election day? You see, this case will be a litmus test to the vitality of our extant electoral regulatory regime, and if this is allowed to stand, the implication is that all efforts made by Nigerians towards deepening democracy and sanitising our electoral system have become a mirage. Now that your candidate in Ngor Okpala was not declared the winner, are you considering going to court to seek redress? Our party is reviewing the matter. But don’t forget that under the new electoral framework which became operative days before the bye-election, INEC can overrule itself and cancel results declared under circumstances akin to the Ngor Okpala charade. So, INEC should, without any further hesitation, do the needful and save our fledgling democracy from crashing. Some say the outcome of the election is a pointer that the APC will win the 2023 general election in the state. What is your reaction to this? This is absurd. If there is anything the Ngor Okpala debacle and show of shame really points to, it is the fact that the APC cannot win a polling unit in Imo State come 2023. After spending nearly N3bn for a state constituency bye-election, after unleashing state authority, state appointees, state resources and all instruments of state power, the APC still lost even at the polling unit of their candidate at Ntu, PU 001, in Ngor Okpala. What does that tell you? The government of Hope Uzodimma is helplessly drowning and it will reach its terminus come 2023. No need to talk much about that. Do you think the signing of the reworked Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill into law will end election rigging in Nigeria? It is certainly expected to drastically curtail electoral fraud. But it must start from the Ngor Okpala bye-election. Discipline must be collective. If that anomie is not quickly annulled, the APC may have succeeded at introducing a new derailment to a reformed process. Just kidnap electoral officials with voting materials and tell them to do your bidding at gunpoint and transit same electronically. Is that not a mockery to the letter and spirit of the new Electoral Act? So, to get the 2023 elections right, Ngor Okpala bye-election must first be got right. There are insinuations that the PDP lost the bye-election to ‘overconfidence’ believing that the APC cannot win again in Imo. How do you react to that? The APC did not win Ngor Okpala and cannot win Ngor Okpala. We must resist the blackmail to lend credence to fraud. What is ‘overconfidence’? How do you measure that? In political science, we talk in terms of empirical indices and indicators which are measurable. The PDP took campaigns to Ngor Okpala people, who received the message, turned out en masse to vote our party, and in most polling units on election day, results had already been declared in our favour before truckloads of thugs, bandits and hit men, security operatives and kidnappers came and scuttled the process, whisked away election materials and INEC officials and rewrote the results in a hotel. These are the issues, and if there is anything to add, it must be that the PDP in Ngor Okpala displayed an unimaginable sense of patriotism, maturity, faith in our democracy and compliance to the globally accepted best practices in elections by not going dirty and violent in retaliation to the assaults, attacks and bestiality of the APC. In the end, countless innocent human lives would have been lost. The APC must therefore never be allowed to profit from its own wrongdoing. Never! That will be too costly for our democracy and subsequent elections in this country. How do you intend to take over power in Imo State through the ballot? Imo people will remember us by what we did. Only our work will speak for us. In 2019, the people overwhelmingly elected our candidate and leader. Emeka Ihedioha, as governor. He made Imo proud just in seven months before the anti-people forces colluded to steal the mandate of the people through a judicial coup. But today, Imo people yearn for a return to a peaceful and secure state which Ihedioha and the PDP made possible through Operation Iron Gate and other soft security initiatives which did not just combat crime and insecurity but also eliminated the factors that exposed young people to criminality. Our people yearn for a return to a functional local government system, which would create good life at the grassroots and spread democratic values. Under Ihedioha’s administration, you saw 27 stadia across the state; you saw 27 secretariats in the local government areas.  Rural roads, earthmoving equipment and various programmes aimed at accelerating rural development were vigorously pursued. The shame, however, is that the present administration cannot account for about N138bn that has accrued to the Imo local government system in two years. Uzodinma has not dropped a trip of construction sand in 24 out of the 27 local government areas in Imo in the past two years. Imo people will rise and speak with their votes next year. Through the instrumentality of the ballot, the people will demand a return to the vocational educational system which was reinvented by the Ihedioha administration, the NEWMAP projects, the RAMP projects, the low-cost housing initiatives, the agro-allied industrialisation programmes, the inflow of foreign direct investments and the restoration of confidence in governance will return. Imo people shall remember the PDP by the work we did just in seven months.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com