Dog based meme coins took the world by storm in 2021. Dogecoin (DOGE) and Shiba Inu (SHIB) in particular transformed the landscape and bought millions of new investors into the wonderful world of crypto. Thanks in no small part to meme coins, 2021 was a historically successful year. 2022 has been a slightly different story so far. The market as a whole endured a tough end to last year and an even tougher start to 2022. As top 20 ranked cryptocurrencies, DOGE and SHIB were affected by this. Even Bitcoin (BTC), the cryptocurrency with the biggest market cap, dropped from $51k to around $35k towards the end of February. As winter turns to spring, there is a definite momentum building in the crypto community. There have been several positive signs including the total market cap increasing 6% to $1.84 trillion and the trading market volume going up by 16% to $102.2 billion as of the 9th of March. DOGE and SHIB, and the new release Seesaw Protocol (SSW), will look to take full advantage. Dogecoin is actually one of the oldest existing cryptocurrencies having been founded in 2013 by Billy Markus and Jackson Palmer as a satirical shot at Bitcoin (BTC), which was itself still in its infancy. In 2021, DOGE exploded. From the beginning of the year to its peak in May, it increased by over 15000%. Its all-time high of $0.73 is one that Dogecoin currently finds itself 83% down on. The crucial question is whether it can capitalise on its current rise of 5% and attempt to reach these heights once again. Shiba Inu (SHIB) may have a slightly smaller market cap ($16.6 billion vs $13.25 billion at the time of writing) than Dogecoin, but it outperformed its canine cousin in 2021. Beginning 2021 at a price of $0.000000000119, by October it had skyrocketed by a whopping 74,000,000% to $0.00008845. This remains SHIB’s all-time high, although investors will be hoping its 6% rise on the 9th of March is a sign that SHIB is headed in an upward direction. Tesla CEO and founder Elon Musk have had a huge influence on the fortunes of both DOGE and SHIB. Musk allowed some Tesla products to be purchased with DOGE, and has repeatedly tweeted about SHIB and mentioned it in public forums. Every time Musk mentions either one of these meme coins, the price tends to react positively. There has also been a slew of cryptocurrencies dedicated to Musk; Dogelon Mars (ELON), Floki Inu (FLOKI), and Dogs of Elon (DOE). Seesaw Protocol (SSW) has increased by 2500% since the beginning of the presale. There are still more than 4 weeks left of its presale and some experts believe SSW could surpass $0.25 and even challenge the $0.4 mark. In direct contrast to Dogecoin and Shiba Inu, which favour the populist method that often defines meme coins, SSW has multiple utilities for its users. Firstly, it provides a multi-chain bridge between leading blockchains like the Binance Smart Chain (BSC), Ethereum (ETH), and Polygon (MATIC). This allows users to conduct cross-chain swaps to provide the best prices and fastest speeds for their transactions. Secondly, Seesaw Protocol has lofty ambitions to transform education by utilising the power of the Metaverse. As they say on their presale page, “The Metaverse is set to deliver immersive experiences at scale. Seesaw will harness this to enhance traditional learning techniques, with memorable experiences that engage and inspire.” Enter Presale: https://presale.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol