THE Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Zone 2 Command, Adeyinka Adeleke, has said the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, is working on the implementation of the increment in the salaries and allowances of the police in line with the approval of the Federal Government. The PUNCH gathered that a group recently threatened that police personnel would embark on a two-week strike starting from March 26, because the approved salary increment had not been implemented. Reacting to the development, Adeleke, while delivering a lecture to police officers and men of the Ogun and Lagos commands, described the strike threat as fake. He appealed to the police personnel to be calm, law-abiding, steer clear of mutinous action, be focused on their duties and maintain the integrity of the Nigeria Police Force as a disciplined organisation with laid down rules and guidelines for addressing grievances if any. Adeleke said, “The IG, Usman Baba, has put measures in place to ensure that policemen are comfortable, and he is seeing to the review of death benefits as well as welfare issues, including salary increment, pension, kits etc. “The IG has accelerated efforts to ensure the full implementation of the increment of salaries and allowances proposed by the President and approved by the Federal Executive Council, even as he continues to deliver on the provision of kits, accoutrements, body armour, the cooperative society’s housing scheme, the renovation of training schools, upgrade of police training curriculum, procurement, and deployment of technology to boost ICT-driven policing.” Baba had earlier given assurance that the welfare of the rank and file was being given attention, promising that the proposed new salary structure would be implemented soon. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com