A veterinarian and conservationist with St Marks Animal Hospital, Mark Ofua, has revealed that poachers of pangolins are disguising as wood loggers and charcoal buyers to traffic the endangered species. Ofua called for an investigation into the trend to save the declining pangolin population in Nigeria. The pangolins are scaly anteaters, which are small to medium-sized, primarily nocturnal mammals specialised in foraging on ants and termites. Different from other mammals, the pangolin is the only animal covered in armour of keratinous scales – the same type found on human nails and skin. Due to their biological attributes, they are extremely vulnerable to overexploitation by humans, have a low reproductive rate of once in 18 months and do not survive or breed readily in captivity. According to Ofua, pangolins are currently the most trafficked mammals on earth because their scales are believed, especially by Asians, to have medicinal properties to cure hypertension, high blood pressure and serve as aphrodisiac. It is also believed to have the spiritual ability to ward off evil spirits. The flesh, apart from being tasteful, is believed to have some medicinal and spiritual properties. The belief that the pangolin has medicinal properties has led to the distinctive creature being depleted in Asia and Africa, but according to Ofua, there has been no evidence that any part of the pangolin has any medicinal or spiritual properties. Added to this, pangolin is also considered a luxury food among Asians. Due to the increasing economic affluence in China and Vietnam, the demand for pangolin derivatives has put a strain on the population of the animal in Asia, making it critically scarce and turning the attention of the supply on Africa. Over the years thousands of tonnes of the animal have been intercepted by port authorities in different parts of Africa. Nigeria has become known as a transit hub for the illegal trading of animals. Posing under various trades, it has been noted that Asians are seen in numerous markets in Nigeria seeking to buy the animal in large quantities illegally, Ofua said. He told The PUNCH that the traffickers pose under a trade, especially logging and charcoal business to kill, scale and transport the animals to their home countries. Ofua stated, “From personal knowledge, we have come to know that these Asian logging companies are just a front for the trafficking of pangolin scales. “You’d see a container from a logger. The top half is full of logs, while the bottom half is full of pangolin scales and this is how they smuggle these things out of the country. For the ones exporting charcoal, the top half is charcoal, while the bottom half is pangolin scale. These guys are ingenious in how they do this smuggling.” He called for tougher laws to discourage the brazen courage of the animal traffickers. The conservationist faulted the assumption that the loss of the animal had no impact on the ecosystem, saying, “The fight for the animals of the world is a fight for humanity.” The infiltration of the African wildlife space by Asians poses a risk to the population of the pangolin, Ofua added. The President, WildAid, a wildlife conservation organisation working to reduce illegal trade in wildlife products, Peter Knights, noted that roughly 50 tonnes of illegal African pangolin scales were seized globally in four months, adding that the shipments contained both pangolins and ivory with the pangolin scales surpassing the volume of ivory. He disagreed with the belief that animals had no part to play in the ecosystem, stating, “Pangolins are a key species in nature. They feed only on ants and termites, so they help to keep the population of ants and termites very low. “If you are a farmer or woodworker, you will realise the amount of money people spend on keeping the termite population low and erasing termite damage on our woods and all that. You may think that it is very easy to use insecticide to treat it, but everything is interlinked.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com