The Akwa Ibom State chapter of the Nigeria Union of Teachers has suspended it industrial strike declared over unpaid entitlements. This was contained in a statement entitled ‘Suspension of Strike’, signed by the State Chairman and Senior State Secretary of NUT, Edet Emenyi and Victor Amirize respectively. The statement made available to newsmen on Sunday in Uyo, said that the suspension of the strike was sequel to the agreement reached between the state government and leadership of the union. The statement read, “The leadership of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) Akwa Ibom State wing hereby suspend its industrial action earlier declared against the Akwa Ibom State government from midnight of Tuesday 15th March, 2022. “This is sequel to negotiation between the government team led by His Excellency Governor Udom Emmanuel and the leadership of the NUT led by Comrade Edet Emenyi on the 17th day of March 2022. “These understanding were arrived: The immediate commencement of payments of leave grant for 2017 and 2018, immediate commencement of payments of one month minimum wage arrears to primary Schools teachers” The leadership of the Union, therefore, directed that all teachers to resume normal academic activities from Monday, March 21, 2022. The Union noted that both parties also agreed on the appointment of a Committee comprising of NUT , NLC, and government representatives to dialogue on the template for instalmental payment of 2019, 2020, and 2021 leave grants to primary school teachers. Others include payment of promotion arrears for 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2016 to primary Schools teachers, immediate commencement of 2019, 2020, 2021 promotion exercise to teachers and payment of 7.5percent contributory pension refunds to teachers as soon as records are reconciled and other issues listed in the strike bulletin. The NUT appreciated the teachers, parents and students for showing understanding throughout the period of the strike and pray that government will keep to it side of the agreement reached to avoid any other disruption of the school system. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com