The Deputy National Secretary of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, Chief Godwin Udu, has said a former Secretary to Ebonyi State Government, Benard Odoh, stood a better chance of clinching the governorship ticket of the party than those allegedly sponsored by “powerful people.” He also said that Odoh’s track records and mass follower-ship has placed him at vintage position to win the gubernatorial election in 2024. Udu stated this during a meeting with journalists, in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State capital, on Sunday. The APGA chieftain stated that the party was currently well positioned and poised to take over the reins of governance in the state come 2023. He also stated that his party was not for sale, stating, “Remember some people tried similar things currently being rumoured in Ebonyi State, in Anambra; but they didn’t succeed. They tried and spent billions of Naira to hijack APGA there, but it didn’t work for them. That is exactly what will happen here, in Ebonyi. APGA is not for sale. Udu added, “Prof. Benard Odoh stands a better chance of winning the party’s gubernatorial ticket than those allegedly being sponsored by the powers that be, in the state, in order to destroy APGA. “I’m saying so because of his track records and mass follower-ship. And we are confident he will win the governorship of the state, should he make up his mind to run. He served this current government, resigned on his own and left without a stain on his image. “And although it’s still a rumour that Anyi Chuks is working with some powerful people in Ebonyi State Government to destabilise APGA, there could be elements of truth in that rumour. “This is because I see no reason why Anyi Chuks, who comes from the same zone (Ebonyi South) with Governor David Umahi, would want to be governor again, in 2023. There is a possibility that the move is to get the APGA structure in the state and then weaken it ahead of the general elections. “Maybe it’s a plan by the people in government and Anyi Chuks to destroy our party structure; but I’m still investigating. But, however they approach it, APGA will take over Ebonyi State, come 2023.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com