Borno State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, on Wednesday, administered the oath of office to the local government executives and state working committee members of the party. This took place at the conference hall of the party’s Secretariat in Maiduguri. The branch chairman of the Maiduguri chapter of the Nigerian Bar Association and a staff of the Ministry of Justice in the Borno State civil service, Muhammad Umaru, swore in the local government and state executives, as well as delegates of the state for the forthcoming convention of 26 March. The oath-taking was attended by the Chief of Staff to the Borno State Governor, Professor Isa Marte; the party chairman, Ali Dalori; other members of the state executive council, and some local government chairmen. Speaking shortly after the swearing-in, the Chairman of the party, Ali Dalori who doubled as the Chairman, forum of APC Chairmen said Borno State was yet to adopt any chairmanship aspirant among the three contenders. “As the Chairman of APC forum of Chairmen, I can assure you that the party is working towards a successful convention and we have all agreed as leaders of the party in our various states that whatever President Buhari says is what we shall do.
If the president anoints any of the three aspirants, that is the person we will endorse,” Dalori noted. He went further to state that Borno State had gotten the endorsement of the other eighteen northern states to produce the deputy national chairman from the north of the party, ahead of other contenders. “We in Borno have the mandate of all the nineteen northern States to produce the deputy national chairman from North of the party, although there are other aspirants from other States,” Ali Dalori added. The State Working Committee inaugurated included three zonal women-leaders representing Borno central, north, and Borno South as well as zonal youth leaders of the three senatorial zones. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com