THE Co-Head of Africa, Practice, Hogan Lovells, Arun Velusami, has said a conducive business environment will encourage investors to invest in the construction of infrastructure in the nation. He added that if the government makes the economy attractive for investors to build and operate power plants, investments in the power sector will increase. He disclosed this during a press briefing in Lagos organised by the Hogan Lovells team to discuss the collaborative and growth opportunities that exist within the Nigerian space. Velusami explained that investors want certainty from both the State and Federal Government in areas pertaining to consistent and supportive policies towards their investments when building infrastructure. He said, “For instance, if they are building a power plant, investors and lenders want to be sure that the government is standing behind the obligation of the utility.” He added that the government plays a key role in attracting and maintaining infrastructural investments. Velusami said, “If the government decides that the investments are a priority and they are willing to stand behind the obligation of the utility, this would attract investments in the long-term. “Some countries have attracted more investments and installed more power plant generating capacity which will require less use of traditional power generating sets. “If the Nigerian government makes the economy attractive for investors to invest and build power plants, there is the likelihood that investments in the power sector would increase. “When an international investor is looking to develop a power plant, they look for the most stable and attractive place to invest. “To a certain extent, Nigeria is competing with other countries to access international funding, it is not a direct competition because some funds and lenders focus on Nigeria, because throughout Africa, there are a number of countries they can invest in and Nigeria needs to improve the investment climate to make itself an attractive investment destination to build and operate power plants.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com