The family of Suleiman Aremu Balogun, a passenger who boarded a bus at Alaba Rago Motor Park, Lagos, has petitioned the police against the motor park operators over the disappearance of their beloved. On March 14, the family, through its lawyer, Mr Festus Ogun, petitioned the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Command, to investigate the circumstances surrounding the alleged death of Suleiman. The petition, made available to The PUNCH was titled “Petition: Request for thorough investigation into the suspicious death/sudden disappearance of Mr Suleiman Aremu Balogun.” Suleiman, a photographer, was said to have boarded a bus going to Kano at the park on Wednesday March 2, 2022, but never arrived at his destination. When contacted by the family, the Chairman of the park, Alhaji Awalu, had told them that Suleiman was involved in a fatal auto-crash and was subsequently buried. The petition read in part, “it is our clients’ brief that on Wednesday, the 2nd of March, 2022, Mr Suleiman Aremu Balogun, a professional photographer travelled from Lagos to cover a friend’s wedding ceremony in Kano, Kano State. Mr Suleiman Aremu Balogun boarded a bus enroute Kano at Alaba Rago Motorpark in Lagos. “Few days after embarking on the journey to Kano, he became completely unreachable and incommunicado as he never arrived at his destination and his whereabouts became unknown. “Worried about this development, our clients reported to Police authorities and went to Alaba Rago Motorpark, where he was last seen, to make enquiries about his itinerary and suspicious disappearance. “Shockingly, the Chairman of the Alaba Rago Motorpark simply identified as Alhaji Awalu informed our clients that the bus boarded by Mr Suleiman Aremu Balogun was involved in a fatal auto-crash around Koton Karfe area of Kogi State which led to his alleged untimely death. “Upon further enquiry by our clients about the remains of Mr Suleiman Aremu Balogun, Alhaji Awalu declared that he was buried alongside others in what he described as a “mass burial.” The family had expressed concerns on why the next-of-kin to Suleiman was not contacted before the said burial, despite filling a passenger form at the park. As gathered from the petition, the family had a belief of foul play and implored the Commissioner of Police to investigate the matter to a logical conclusion. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com