GUNMEN suspected to be enforcing the sit-at-home, on Monday attacked a passenger bus conveying traders at the New Market area of Enugu, Enugu State. Although no one was killed in the incident, it was gathered that several persons sustained gunshot wounds. Sources told one of our correspondents that the victims left their homes early to attend to their businesses when the gunmen opened fire on the commuter bus conveying them. “The gunmen struck in the Colliery Hospital around 5.45pm and started shooting indiscriminately. They also opened fire on a bus conveying traders; I cannot state for sure if anyone was killed, but I know that many people were injured,” a source said. He said that the quick response of the police probably saved many people from dying. “I saw two persons, who sustained gunshot injuries being rushed to the State Teaching Hospital, Parklane,” the source added. The state police command confirmed the incident. The command’s spokesman, Daniel Ndukwe, said no life was lost to the incident. Ndukwe stated, “There was a shooting incident at Odegba, along Iva Valley Road, Enugu, in the early hours of this morning (Monday) by yet-to-be identified armed men, which led to the injury of two persons. “The victims are responding to treatment at the hospital, where they were promptly taken to by police operatives, who swiftly responded to a distress call on the incident. “Meanwhile, an investigation has been launched to fish out the fleeing gunmen.” In Imo State, compliance with the sit-at-home was total as residents stayed indoors for fear being attacked. Commercial vehicles were off the major roads and streets of Owerri, while markets, shops, banks, schools, filling stations and fast food centres remained shut. One of our correspondents, who monitored the situation in Owerri, reports that the usual noisy motor parks, roadsides and artisans’ centres were deserted. The situation was the same in most of the 27 local government areas in the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Michael Abattam, had earlier in a statement enjoined members of the public to shun the sit-at-home and go about their normal business without fear of molestation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com