Anambra State Governor, Prof Charles Soludo, has submitted a list of 20 commissioner-nominees to the state House of Assembly for approval. The list, which was submitted on Tuesday, had some appointees of the immediate past governor, Willie Obiano, including Mr Paul Nwosu, Information; Ifeatu Onejeme, Finance; Mr Collins Nwabunwanne, Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters; and Chief Chikodi Anara, Home Land Affairs. The list also had a Nollywood actor, Mr Don Onyenji, and Mrs Ifenyinwa Obinabo, who served as Transition Committee Chairman of the Orumba North Local Government Area. Onyenji is listed to serve for Entertainment, Culture and Tourism, while Obinabo was nominated as Commissioner for Women Affairs. Prof Chika Ifejeme was nominated as the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice. Some of the other commissioner-nominees are Mr Ifeatu Chinedu, Prof Ofonze Amucheazi, Mr Ifeanyi Okoma, Ms Chiamaka Nnake, Dr Afam Obidike, Mr Patrick Aghamba, Dr Obinna Ugonnadi, Mr Julius Chukwuemeka and Prof Ngozi Chuma-Udeh. Others are Dr Foster Ihejiofor, Mrs Patricia Igwebuike, Mr Felix Odimegwu, Prof Chika Ifemeje, Mr Collins Nwabunwanne, Mr Donatus Onyeji, Mr Anthony Ifeanya and Mr Paulinus Onyeaka. The Speaker of the House, Mr Uche Okafor, announced the submission of the list during plenary, while reading a letter from the governor. Okafor said Soludo also sent another letter requesting the confirmation of 15 special adviser-nominees. The Speaker, however, asked the House Committee on Screening to screen the commissioner-nominees. The Majority Leader moved a motion for the confirmation of the 15 special advisers-nominees and they were approved after a voice vote. Also at the plenary, the House read a resolution asking Soludo to urge the Commissioner of Police to return checkpoints and patrol teams across the state. The resolution followed a motion moved by a member, Mr Onyebuchi Offor, who represents the Ekwusigo State Constituency. According to Offor, the absence of checkpoints has increased insecurity, which is causing serious threat to lives and property in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com