The Senate has stated that there is no going back on the gender bills which members voted on and rejected in the ongoing amendments to the 1999 Constitution. The Senate spokesman, Senator Ajibola Basiru, said this during an interview with The PUNCH while reacting to the protests embarked on by women groups, which affected activities in some parts of Abuja While noting that it was the right of women to protest, like they did at the main gate to the National Assembly on Wednesday, the federal parliament stated that it could not reverse itself on the decisions taken on the affected bills. Basiru said, “They are free to protest; it is part of their democratic right to protest.” When asked if a gender bill could be revisited, he said, “It cannot! There were 68 bills, 21 of them could not pass, so why should we revisit three bills. They should continue with their lobbying and strategy ahead of another round of legislative amendments. “To protest is a right of everybody. That it was rejected at this time does not mean it has been foreclosed. Then, they need to even come up with practical and implementable propositions.” The Senate spokesman listed some bills that other categories of Nigerians would have benefited from, including traditional rulers, which failed to pass. “It is part of the democratic process that you must respect the decision of the government and it is also part of their democratic right to protest. We identify with their protests but there is nothing that we can do for now. The National Assembly has taken a position and we cannot reverse ourselves,” the senator added. The Chairman of the House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Benjamin Kalu, did not pick calls made to him, to also confirm if the lawmakers would review their decision on the bills. About four-gender related bills failed to pass at the Senate and the House of Representatives on Tuesday, which has generated condemnations both within and outside the National Assembly. The Deputy Minority Whip of the House, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, particularly expressed her disappointment over the non-passage of the bills. The rejected proposals include Bill 35 to “provide for special seat for women in the National and state Houses of Assembly;” Bill 36 to “expand the scope of citizenship by registration;” Bill 37 to “provide for affirmative action for women in political party administration;” Bill 38 to “provide criteria for qualification to become an indigene of a state in Nigeria;” and Bill 68 which to give women a quota in the federal and state executive councils or ministerial and commissionership seats. While addressing journalists on Wednesday, Onyejeocha, who sponsored the bill seeking to create special seats of women in the National Assembly and the state Houses of Assembly, expressed her grievances. The lawmaker, who is the only female member of the body of principal officers of the House, said, “Everybody saw what transpired on the floor of the House, even the Senate. To say the least, I am very disappointed; disappointed not because people shut down the bills but because the bills that were shut down have taken this country backwards.” The lawmaker disclosed that having known how bills “are killed on the floor,” she decided to let others co-sponsor the bill, including Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila. The lawmaker disclosed that having known how bills “are killed on the floor,” she decided to let others co-sponsor the bill, including Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila. “Yes, he spoke with them and yet, this bill failed with the sponsorship of one hundred-and-something male members. We are just 13. The first signatures we collected on the first day were eighty-something, and that just appeared in the first gazette. And after that, we had almost like 100 signatures again because we explained to them that your seats are secured; 360 and 60 seats,” she said. The lawmaker said it was “more worrisome” that members who signed to the bill would “come on the day of voting to say no.” Women threaten to petition UN Also, some protesting women claimed that by rejecting the bills , the lawmakers have denied citizenship to a foreign-born husband of a Nigerian woman,  the chance of being citizens through marriage and refused to create a special seat for women in the National Assembly among others. The women under the Nigerian Women Groups, a Coalition of over 100 gender Civil Society Organisations, accused men of the 9th Assembly of reinforcing the discrimination and political bias against women as enshrined in the 1999 constitution. Speaking with journalists during the protest on Wednesday, the President, Women in Politics Forum, Ebere Ifendu, vowed to petition the United Nations. She said, “What happened is a show of shame, not just because we had the wife of the Vice-President seated with them. I saw clearly that some certain percentage of men at the legislative arm was against us. “We want to assure them there will be payback time. What they do not know is that they voted against their wives, mothers, daughters and it showed they do not have their interests at heart. All those that voted against the bill should enjoy whatever is left before 2023. We would ensure we get their names and make sure they don’t return in 2023.” Also, the senator representing Ogun West Senatorial District, Tolu Odebiyi, in an interview with journalists, described as unfortunate the rejection of women-related bills by the National Assembly. Also briefing State House Correspondents after the Federal Executive Council meeting, the Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, condemned the National Assembly’s rejection of a constitutional amendment allocating special seats for women to increase their political representation. Also on Wednesday, the Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees President, Akeem Olatunj,  said the union  would resist any attempt by governors to scuttle the passage of the newly passed LG autonomy Bill at the state level. The pan Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, in a statement by its  National Publicty Secretary,  Mr Jare Ajayi, said allowing  independent candidates in elections was quite good just as the proclamation on the electronic transmission of election results as  well as  the vesting of the collection of Value Added Tax in the states.   ,,  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com