The Director, Informal Sector and Special Duties, Lagos State Inland Revenue Service, Folashade Coker, speaks with ANOZIE EGOLE on the success of the IBILE Hub initiative and how the tax revenue drives of the agency are gaining traction, among other key issues. How would you describe the informal sector? The informal sector has to do with people that are doing business in an unstructured form; they do their business and transactions without actually keeping books or records. You might not have the basic information as to how much they are investing or their expenses. So, based on that, it is difficult to actually know what their total income is. It is difficult to define what their tax might likely be. They are the people we describe as informal sector. And the World Bank has said that 70 per cent of our working adults fall into this category of informal sector. So, it is difficult to put together all their income and expenditure. Since you said it is difficult to put together all their income and expenditure, how do you then get it done? We do what is called “profiling.” By the time you look at a business, you should be able to assess and evaluate, not in specifics, but at least give an idea or an estimate of what it could likely be. In the informal sector, the government has made it easier for the operators to pay their taxes because there is a baseline tax, they call it presumptive tax. That is what we normally use in the informal sector. How would you assess the level of compliance so far? I would say that compliance is getting better daily. I realise that a lot of people know that the state government is working, and based on the infrastructure and the basic amenities that they see in place, they are encouraged to pay because those things serve as a testimonial of what taxpayers’ funds are being used for. Who are the people that fall under this category of the informal sector? Under this category, we have the market women, people that transact their business within the market space like the real marketplace. Then, you have the artisans, like the plumbers, the electricians, and so on. They operate through their associations. We also have those that operate small shops on the streets, people that run mini-stores and all that. What is the minimum tax payable under this sector? The minimum tax paid in this sector is the presumptive tax which is N8,100. The N100 is the development levy while the N8,000 is the actual tax that is paid per person in a year. So, that is the equivalent of N675 per month. I also spoke about profiling, where we give a baseline of N8,100. When we look at your shop, and we are able to find out that you bought the shop, or when we investigate the amount you pay per year in the shop, and we are able to discover that it is quite a huge amount of money; it gives us an idea of the type of income you make there.  We also do profiling by looking at the types of products that you deal in, some people might even have a warehouse. So, we do what is called an additional assessment but we always approach the people so that they can declare honestly. You know the type of trade you do, so you should be able to assess yourself and know that you do not fall under the N8,100 category, and pay honestly. When you fail to do that, we do profiling and give you an additional assessment.  There are people who pay more than N8, 100 in the market, they fall under the direct assessment. Presumptive tax is a baseline sum which is N8,100. That tax, in Lagos State, cannot be less than that amount for the informal sector. Then, direct assessment is for those people who know they don’t fall under presumptive tax and they are able to declare that, yes, we are doing well and the volumes of our transactions are higher than just the basic transaction. So, they fall under the direct assessment category.  They will be assessed-they fill out a form and declare what their sources of income are, where they live, where their children go to school, etc. So, based on all these parameters, we are able to evaluate what their income is and give them an assessment. So, they don’t fall under the basic assessment. What is the meaning of IBILE hub? “IBILE” is an acronym. ‘’I’’ stands for Ikorodu; ‘’B” stands for Badagry; “I” stands for Ikeja; “L” stands for Lagos Island; and the “E” stands for Epe. So, it is the acronym that was put together to create what we call IBILE hub.  We have 40 mini tax stations under the hub that are very close to the marketplaces. This is so because for us in Lagos, the ease of doing business is high and we try to promote that. We know that the market people do not normally want to leave their markets to come to an office to pay a tax.  So, we decided to take it closer to them. We have people that have an application that totally generates payment, take information with a view to creating receipt, and also generate a pay ID for them. So, we have people who go into the markets to do all these things. So, the IBILE hub is basically an application that simplifies tax payment for the purpose of the people in the informal sector. The hub started in full momentum last year. You said the platform started last year. One year after, how would you assess the level of growth? Well, it is a going concern and like every other application, you need to keep re-evaluating so that it will meet the current day reality. And we are learning every day by the realities of what we see on the field, we keep re-jigging so that we will be able to meet the current reality. But, it has been a success story because people are able to have their biometrics captured; they have been able to make their payments at just one visit of the IBILE hub staff. What measures does the state government have on the ground to ensure compliance? One of the measures that is in place is the IBILE hub that I have spoken about and the ability to bring the payment of tax closer to the taxpayers. The other thing is the high level of integrity; this is so because the applications have people that manage them. The staff members are mandated not to collect cash, so you either pay to the bank or you use the applications that are managed by some specific people authorised to do that. You cannot give our staff money. This system builds integrity and credibility, because you know that your money is in the government quarters, and not that a staff member has gone away with it. Are there measures in place to ensure compliance? Yes, every system has a carrot and stick mechanism in place; it is just that here in Lagos State, we try to utilise the ‘’carrot” to a high degree. We try to tell you about the benefits, and the things we have done to make it simpler and easier for you so that you don’t have any reason not to pay. And then, you have the window that runs from January 1st to March 31st for those in the informal sector and those who have their own businesses to make their payment. What are the processes of getting a tax card? The process of getting the card is easy. First, you must be a taxpayer and then there is an application you will register and put your biometrics, as you have it on your Bank Verification Number and the National Identification Number. The reason is that the ultimate is not just for us to collect money, it is also to give you something that is useful. The tax card will be useful when you are submitting a visa application, or when your child is going back to school. So, the tax card is like an end result. Therefore, when you pay, we must give you a tax card in case you want to process a visa application or anything like that. What can make a tax card defaced or spoilt? A tax card is normally for a term of 10 years, so within that time, there is wear and tear, the names might not be clear anymore, the pictures might be blurred, and all that. So, where that is the case, you have to notify us that your card is defaced or missing, and then make a request for another one. Why must a child show evidence of tax payment before he can be admitted into a school? It is so because tax is a function of everybody contributing their little quota into the purse. This will make the good things happening in Lagos State to continue. We know that many students are benefitting from the state’s free education policy. It is also because the government of Lagos State has made education free for everybody and you and I know that the government will not stop you from bringing your child to the school to enjoy the free education. So, normally, irrespective of the number of kids you have, the state government still gives every child access to free education. So, we do not think that paying this tax will be too difficult for parents who are taking advantage of the free education. We believe that paying a token of N8,100 as tax for the children should not be a problem. This is why we go to schools to demand that children should show evidence that either the father or the mother is a taxpayer because every working adult in Lagos State must contribute to the common purse. In a situation where the child fails to provide the card and it is established that the parents have not paid, we will avail them the opportunity to pay so that the child will be properly registered. How do you collect the tax from transporters like tricycle operators, bus drivers, and motorcyclists? These people are members of associations and we found out that their associations are well structured and they respect their associations more than they respect the government. So, we work with their associations. We do engagements, enlightenment, and we tell them the processes. We also ask them if it is difficult for them to come and pay, they can give us a date we should come to set up an office in a location they specify. They would have done enlightenment among their members and we will avail them the opportunity to pay within a short period of time and go back to their work. They all operate under different names and associations but the main thing is that we have that close relationship with them. We know that recently this year, the government set up the ease of doing business even in that regard so that they don’t have to pay multiple times. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com