Fear has gripped residents of Vinvir in the Katsina Ala Local Government Area of Benue State following open threats by members of the late Terwase Akwaza, aka Gana, to avenge the invasion of their camp and the killing of members by the Operation Whirl Stroke operatives on Tuesday. Source in the community told our correspondent on Wednesday that troops of the Operation Whirl Stroke invaded the camp of the dreaded gang located at Tse Geji, destroyed it and killed five bandits. The source, who did not want to be identified for fear of the bandits said, “The operation was carried out yesterday (Tuesday) at the Mbayongo council ward, the general area is Vinvir and five bandits were killed during the operation. “While the people of the area were happy over the killing and destruction of their camp, the new leader of the gang, whose name is Terna  Ahile, this morning (Wednesday) came out and threatened to avenge the killing of his members as well as destruction of their camp. “As a result of the threat, residents of the area are living in fear and many have begun to flee their communities.” Confirming the development, the Chairman of Katsina-Ala Local Government Council, Alfred Atera, said four bandits were killed by security operatives, who carried out the operation in the area. He said, “It is true that troops of the Operation Whirl Stroke carried out an operation at Tse Geya, where the camp of the bandits is located and four of the bandits were killed. “The camp was destroyed and charms were packed. Terna is threatening reprisal. As of this morning, he called and issued lots of threats that he is going to do more than what was destroyed in his camp. He called one of the volunteer guards’ phone to issue the threat.” The chairman, however, said he had reported the threat to security operatives and calmed the residents of the area. Military source confirmed the operation and said four of the bandits were killed in a gun duel with troops of the Operation Whirl Stroke. The source stated, “Yesterday (Tuesday), our troops stationed in Gbise under Kastina-Ala were doing their normal clearance tour when they came across bandits at Tse-Keji; there was an exchange of fire but our troops overpowered them. “So, the bandits fled into the bush in disarray, but our troops gave them a hot pursuit and four bandits were neutralised. A search was conducted in the general area and troops burnt down their camp. “We were able to recover the following items belonging to the bandits; nine rounds of 7.6mm special, one-barrelled Dane gun, two motorcycles, mobile phones, bags of Indian hemp and the sum of N57,390 and assorted charms. The remaining bandits are on the run, but we are on top of our game.” Bandits had about three weeks ago killed 14 persons, among them nine mourners, in separate attacks in the same area in what the bandits described as reprisal for the killing of three of their members by troops of the Operation Whirl Stroke a few days earlier.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com