The lawmaker representing Osun West Senatorial District, Senator Adelere Oriolowo, has said a former Governor of Lagos State and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is physically and mentally fit to be President of Nigeria. Oriolowo, however, dismissed the alleged presidential ambition of the Vice-President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, as a mere rumour, stating that the only presidential aspirant known in the political family of the APC in the South-West geopolitical zone is Tinubu. The lawmaker said this in Abuja on Friday while speaking to journalists. Reacting to insinuations that Tinubu is unhealthy and too old to be Nigerian president in 2023, Oriolowo argued that the APC chieftain is not only healthy but also has high mental alertness to lead the country to greatness. The lawmaker stated Tinubu would contest in the next presidential election, stressing that the clamour for Igbo presidency in certain quarters would not stop his bid. Oriolowo said, “What I know is that the presidency has been zoned to the South. By that, any part of the region could produce the candidate. “My leader is contesting; he is capable and Nigeria would have a breakthrough especially if he replicates all that he did in Lagos, in other parts of the country. What is happening now is about his capacity. “As far as I know, he is healthy. I visited him in London during his medical trip for knee surgery; even a younger person could also have such a challenge. There is no one on earth that does not have his challenges in terms of health. “However, if you are talking of age, that is no barrier at all. He has a functional brain and a healthy body to perform his functions effectively. His health has not deteriorated to the extent that he would not be able to carry out state functions effectively.” When asked if the alleged presidential ambition of Osinbajo would not frustrate that of Tinubu, the lawmaker dismissed the Vice-President’s bid as mere speculations and rumours. Oriolowo said, “I don’t act on rumours. The alleged presidential ambition of Yemi Osinbajo remained a rumour to every one of us in the South-West APC. He has not told anyone that he wanted to contest and there is nothing yet to suggest that he would contest. Let us leave it at a rumour stage.” The lawmaker assured Nigerians that the forthcoming national convention of the APC scheduled for March 26 would hold successfully despite the seeming internal crisis threatening the exercise.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com