The Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign state of Biafra on Thursday, accused the Federal Government of “clandestinely” and “surreptitiously” annihilating leading figures of pro-Biafra independence groups. It said that struggle for self determination for Biafra had reached to a point of no return, adding that the consciousness and reality of Biafra had sunk very deep in the minds and thoughts of every Igbo person irrespective of his or her political, economical, social, religious and business affiliation or services with Nigeria. MASSOB leader, Comrade Uchenna Madu, stated this in a statement on Thursday, titled ‘Nigeria has expired under President Buhari’, which was made available to our correspondent in Enugu. He alleged that the planned islamisation and ‘fulanisation’ of Nigeria has entered the last stage of its full operation on every sector of the country. Madu noted that the inability of the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) to grant referendum for Biafra autonomy had brewed more devastative and destruction for Nigeria. The statement partly read, “The pro-Biafra groups that were pushed to arms struggle because of President Muhammadu Buhari’s nonchalant and mass killings of Biafrans in Nigeria have resolved
to intentify their onslaught against Nigeria security agents. “They vowed not to relent until justice is done to the innocent people of Biafra killed in Nigeria. “MASSOB reiterated our total commitment on the actualisation and restoration of the sovereign state of Biafra. We started with non-violence methodology, and we shall continue to maintain our principles irrespective of several push from the security agents of Nigeria state against us to resort to arms struggle. “We shall not succumb to the antics of our oppressors, because we respect the sanctity of human lives. MASSOB shall maintain the principles of non-violence and civil disobedience.” It added, “MASSOB believed that the state of Biafra can be actualised through non-violence methodology because black Americans and India achieved their freedom through it. We shall remain consistent, unshaken and resolute in all our approaches towards our freedom from Nigeria. “MASSOB condemned the clandestine and surreptitious moves of Buhari’s regime to clampdown and annihilate the leading figures of pro-Biafra independence groups.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com