Project Management Institute, a non-profit professional association for the project management profession, has said educational institutions have to place emphasis on project-based skills in order to improve the employability prospects of their graduates. In a statement, the institute said the future of work has become more projectised and project-based skills are becoming essential to helping changemakers turn ideas into reality and overcome complex challenges. It added that the global economy would need 25 million new project professionals by 2030. It said, “A shortage of this critical skill could pose considerable risk to organisations as they rely on project teams to implement strategic initiatives on time and on budget. “Globally, the talent gap is being exacerbated by the post- pandemic ‘Great Resignation,’ which has seen workers quitting their jobs.” The PMI’s Business Development Leader for Africa, George Asamani, said, “The continent graduates around 11 million young people from schools and universities each year, according to Junior Achievement Africa. “This presents the continent with an opportunity to leverage this demographic dividend to address shortages of project management professionals in the developed world – while also developing the project skills to help young Africans build the conditions for much broader economic participation at home. “While some universities include these courses as part of their overall fees so that students receive project management training free at the point of delivery, others deliver the training as additional pay-as-you-go courses. Regardless of how universities choose to build these critical project management bridges into their curricula, PMI provides 60 per cent discounts on all certifications received by university students. “PMI together with Microsoft has also built the Citizen Developer courseware available to partner universities or directly to individual students. Microsoft estimates that an emerging class of citizen developers will create 450 million apps over the next five years using software development dubbed ‘low-code / no-code. “The execution of all projects today relies heavily on digital ability. 86 per cent of IT decision-makers say the biggest challenge to digitally transform their business is too few developers. That’s where the power of citizen development comes in.” According to the firm, it has partnered with universities in Sub-Saharan Africa to provide practical courses to help students while still in the university to understand how to apply project management skills for delivery in the real world. It added that through a train-the-trainer model, lecturers and professorial staff at universities are trained to teach project management skills to reach as many students as possible across all disciplines.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com