The National Youth Service Corps on Tuesday warned corps members to avoid cultism, drug abuse, and other social vices that can ruin their future. The NYSC Director-General, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, gave the warning in his address to the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Stream one corps members during the swearing-in ceremony at the NYSC FCT Orientation Camp in Kubwa, Abuja. A total of 2,500 corps members took the oath of allegiance administered by the FCT Chief Judge, Justice Husseini Baba Yusuf, represented by Justice Olukayode Adeniyi. The DG counselled them to use the orientation course, which was the first cardinal programme of the scheme, to equip themselves adequately for the tasks that lie within the service year. He said, “You must continue to distance yourself from cultism, drug abuse and other social vices. I enjoin you to avail yourselves of this once-in-a-life-time opportunity by participating actively in all camp activities. “I implore you to sustain the high level of discipline and enthusiasm you have demonstrated so far, especially by obeying the camp rules and regulations.” The Director-General also urged the corps members to adhere strictly to the COVID-19 preventive measures, such as physical distancing, wearing of facemasks and the use of hand washing facilities provided at strategic locations in the camp. He reminded them that the Federal Government’s directive on presentation of evidence of COVID-19 vaccination as a pre-requisite for gaining entry into public offices is still in force, adding that those of them that are yet to be vaccinated should do so as the rule will also apply to them in their respective places of primary assignment and other public offices. “We are sustaining our liaision with the relevant authorities with a view to ensuring that the vaccines are made available to you in the course of this programme”, the DG added. The Director-General also implored the support of all stakeholders for the success of the Scheme’s Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers, which was aimed at providing easier access to free and qualitative healthcare, especially for the rural poor. “I implore well-to-do individuals and corporate bodies to take a cue from Her Excellency, Dr (Mrs) Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, by donating well equipped ambulances for the operation of the NYSC Mobile Clinics, as well as other essential equipment and drugs that will facilitate the conduct of our medical outreaches”, he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com