More than half of some major roads in Anambra communities have been taken over by heaps of refuse, thereby making both human and vehicular movement almost difficult. Our correspondent, who went round some locations on Wednesday, observed that major drainage channels, especially in the Onitsha metropolis, have also been blocked as a result of indiscriminate dumping of refuse by residents and traders. The refuse dumps in some cases, have encroached the streets, blocking drainages, and defacing the aesthetic of the neighbourhoods. These locations, which include the Upper Iweka junction, both ends of the Oguta Road, the MCC junction, Egerton Main Market road, Okpoko, all in Onitsha; as well the UNIZIK junction, Awka, some parts of Nnewi and Nnobi. A resident of Oguta Road, Mrs Chinwe Nda, lamented the poor management of the wastes in the metropolis by the Anambra State Waste Management Authority, despite the huge monthly bills residents pay. Nda said, “For over five months now, the waste managers have not come to clear the refuse, despite the monthly bills we pay. They have started burning refuse in some of the dumpsites and thereby causing pollution, especially in this hot weather. “The method they adopt in clearing the refuse is also another cause for worry, sometimes, they pack the wastes with their bare hands and shovels into their trucks and when they eventually carry the refuse, you see them spreading the garbage on the roads and this is not good at all.” Another resident, Joseph Nwabueze, bemoaned the situation, saying that if nothing is done urgently, especially as the rainy season approaches, “it is going to be more hazardous and the health of the people within this area is at stake. The food, water and air might get contaminated.” Nobody could be reached at the Anambra State Waste Management Authority for reaction, as calls to the organisation’s official line were not returned and messages sent to their complaint line were not also responded to. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com