The 2022 Batch ‘A’ Stream 2 Corps members have been made to undergo compulsory COVID-19 test before gaining access to the Orientation Camp in the Kabba Local Government Area of Kogi State. The Kogi State Coordinator of the Corps, Mofoluwasho Williams, told journalists on Wednesday that all corps members, camp executives, officials and all visitors must comply with the COVID-19 test before gaining access to the orientation camp. She maintained that the NYSC is implementing the Federal Government’s policies, hence the need to give prime importance to COVID-19 test in the camp including for officials and visitors. In his speech, the NYSC Director-General, Maj.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, encouraged corps members to adhere strictly to the outlined preventive measures against the COVID-19 pandemic and go for the vaccines. “Let me also remind you that the Federal Government’s directive on presentation of evidence of COVID-19 vaccination as a pre-requisite for gaining entry to public offices is still in force. “Therefore, I encourage those who are yet to take the vaccine to do so without further delay as the rule will apply to you both in your Primary Assignment and other public places,” he said. He commended the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19 and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control for their continued support towards safe and efficient conduct of the Orientation Course within the context of the ‘new normal.’ He urged all stakeholders to support the scheme’s Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers, aimed at providing easier access to free and qualitative healthcare for vulnerable rural dwellers. “I implore well-to-do individuals and corporate bodies to take a cue from Her Excellency, the First Lady, Dr. Mrs Aisha Buhari, by donating well-equipped ambulances for the operation of the NYSC Mobile Clinics as well as other essential equipment and drugs that will facilitate the conduct of our medical outreach,” he said. Represented by the State Coordinator, the DG thanked the federal, state and local governments, security agencies, traditional rulers, corpr members’ employers and other stakeholders for their support, especially in the area of security and general welfare of corps members. He advised the corps members to distance themselves from cultism, drug abuse, fake news and other social vices. “I urge you to avoid using the social media for spreading fake news, fuelling hatred and other negative purposes,” he said. He also enjoined the corps members to promote national unity, integration and development which are some of the major objectives of the NYSC. He also implored them to avail themselves of the opportunities for self-employment offered through the NYSC Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development programme. The Chief Judge of Kogi State, Justice Richard Olorunfemi, represented by Justice Samuel Obayomi, administered the oath of allegiance to a total of 1,841 corps members Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com