Tension has gripped Urhuoka community of Abraka in the Ethiope East Local Government Area of Delta State as suspected Fulani herdsmen reportedly macheted one Oghenevwoke Okpako to death in the community’s farmland. The corpse of the deceased was buried in a shallow grave by his assailants. PUNCH Metro gathered that Oghenevwoke Okpako was killed when he went to his farm last Wednesday, 23rd February 2022, to fetch firewood. It was gathered that a search for him began same day when he did not return and his phone was not going through. Consequently, vigilante members and some members of Urhuoka community in Abraka were said to have resorted to an intensive search of the farmland and eventually found his remain in a shallow grave in the forest. After Okpako was found, the search team discovered that the deceased had machete cuts in several parts of his body, suggesting he must have struggled with his assailants. A source who spoke with our correspondent confirmed that the late farmer recently finalized his marriage with his wife, adding that he left behind an aged mother and children. Meanwhile, worried indigenes of the community have resolved to despatch a Save-Our-Souls (SOS) petition to the State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa with a view to wading into the security situation in the community and do something urgent to protect the lives and property of the residents. An insider who said that they may have to resort to self defence if nothing is done urgently further told journalists under condition of anonymity that one of their demands includes the possible location of an army base at the boundary of Urhuoka community. Meanwhile, the community’s President General, Deacon Stephen Avweneghagha, has continued to pacify the aggrieved youths to calm their nerves and not resort to reprisal attacks. He lamented that the porous security in the community may lead to food scarcity if not checkmated. He said, “We are predicting that in the next one year, death that will come from hunger is going to be too much; starvation is coming. “People cannot farm; no foodstuffs. When the place was peaceful, Abraka was feeding 60% of Delta State because the soil is fertile. But now, our people struggle to buy cassava. “Imagine us that before this crisis was selling cassava and farm produce, now go as far as Evboesi to buy. How are we going to make our money and feed well?” The police public relations officer for the State Command, DSP Bright Edafe could not be reached for confirmation as of the time of filing this report.