The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Gani Adams, has said that Nigeria needs to be restructured politically for her to move forward. He described the constitutional amendment by lawmakers as an exercise in futility without restructuring the nation. The Yoruba warlord stated raised the concern in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital during the 2022 Olumo Festival held at the premises of the Olumo Rock, Ikija, Abeokuta. Adams also lamented that the 1999 constitution has caused a major setback for the nation and called for review of the contrition. He said “If Nigeria is not restructured, Nigeria will not move forward. All constitutional amendment that the National Assembly is doing is an exercise in futility. “The only way to solve the problem in our nation now is to restructure the country politically, by restructuring the country politically, every other thing will fall in place. If this is done, the issue of security will be solved by zonal arrangement of the security. “The scurity architecture should go beyond the federal. The federal should have its security architecture, the zone which is the federating unit should have too. Also the state and Local Governments which are also tiers of government must have their own. “The 1999 constitution gave Nigeria the setback that we have ever witnessed in this country so we are wasting our time if Nigeria is not restructured politically.” Outside Nigeria, the Yoruba leader stressed the need for world leaders to come together to resolve the crisis between Russia and Ukraine, warning that the ongoing clash may lead to global economic crash. Adams stressed that the lingering clash between the two giant nations may degenerate into a third world war, which he said, may wreak havoc on nations of the world and their economies. Adams, who stated that the effects of the second world war are still telling on many nations of the world, appealed to the concerned nations to reach a round table agreement on time so as to prevent a repeat of history. His words “We have to learn a lot of lessons from war, especially modern war. We are not talking of war of arrow and gun, we are talking of war that has to do with aircraft attacks which are even beyond the army. The end of war is always brutal, even Russia which is ahead of Ukraine is not enjoying what is happening from the cry that is coming from the global village, I believe. “I will appeal to the two countries to drop their swords and resolve the crisis amicably because the war is affecting the world economy. If care is not taken, the war will lead to global economic crisis because when two elephants are fighting, the grass will suffer, we have to be careful to avoid another third world war. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com