A politician, Femi Martins, has said political leaders in Nigeria should be selected based on merit and not imposed by godfathers. Martins, who is vying for a seat in the Lagos State House of Assembly in Mushin Constituency II, said electioneering in a democratic dispensation should reflect the wishes of the people. He added that political leaders selected by godfathers tended not to be responsible to the masses. Martins stated, “I believe that political leaders should be selected based on merit and not by any godfather. We are at a stage where we need to be at par with global best practices on the issue of democracy. “Let the people speak, let them select who they want as it is the basis of solid governance. A man that is picked by a godfather will not be responsible to anybody. He will feel that he is only responsible to that godfather, and that is the bane of our society.” Martins, who is the Legal Officer of the All Progressives Congress in the Mushin Local Government Area, urged the people to be more demanding of their rights, adding that people usually mistook a leader’s endorsement of an aspirant to mean godfatherism. He stated, “As for me, there are three forms of godfathers, the accepted form which is the spiritual Godfather; the mafia godfather; and the political godfather, but people have misconstrued the meaning of godfather to be someone who imposes. “People always mix up a leader’s endorsement of an aspirant to mean godfatherism. More often than not, these people are often seen as someone fighting the cause of the aspirant by spending funds, which in most cases, is like an investment, and ensuring they attain the position just to get a return on their investments. For me that is wrong.” “So far you have the requirements to contest, you are of age, educated and you have no criminal record, you are not insane, you are responsible and acceptable in society, you should be able to contest. “Politics should be a matter of the choice of the people and not the choice of the minority somewhere. It shouldn’t be based on selection but election, and even in cases of a consensus as stipulated in the constitution of political parties, it is provided that the stakeholders must come together to agree on the persons of choice.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com