The Chief Executive Officer, OVH Energy Marketing, an Oando Licensee, Mr Huub Stokman, speaks on the fuel supply challenges in Nigeria and other issues in this interview with Okechukwu Nnodim at the just concluded Nigeria International Energy Summit As a licensee of the oil giant, Oando, what are your functions and are there growth plans by your firm? We’ve got two major pillars. We’ve got the ASPM, which is the midstream jetty and the second part is our marketing business under the Oando brands at the retail stations including lubricants, LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas), etc. Our growth strategy is two-fold. On the ASPM, it will be able to take multiple products. It is already capable of taking Premium Motor Spirit (petrol) and diesel but it should also be able to take aviation fuel. So it is becoming a true multi-product midstream jetty, which can only help with the efficiency of the Apapa area. We are now looking at an expansion that will create the ability to take LPG and discharge it on the midstream jetty. Again, ensuring a seamless flow of products to the Apapa region and so, that is where we are on the ASPM. If you look at our marketing business under the Oando brands, we’ve got a very clear strategy that we want to upgrade our existing sites and also add new sites in those areas where we would call white spots. These are areas where we are currently not in. We are glad to see new areas where people start to live, with developments or just areas where we don’t have a presence at the moment. So, we are truly looking at expanding our retail footprint, whilst also upgrading our existing sites. We are also growing our footprints in lubricants. We’ve actually grown our lubricants footprints quite considerably in the last couple of years and we intend to continue. This is because the lubricants are a value for money. Finally, the next area is LPG. We will continue to put skids on our retail outlets and continue to look at opportunities to bring in CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) to our sites. At the moment, we’ve got all the technical capabilities sorted and we know what equipment we need to put on and we know where to do it. But the question around this is often what comes first, the infrastructure or demand? But that will sort itself out. We are ready to commence with it and we know what to do to have a partner who can supply the products. The government has been canvassing the use of LPG in order to reduce deforestation. How is OVH helping in deepening LPG penetration in Nigeria? We’ve got some newly improved cylinders which are quite light in weight, but if you take one of these cylinders you don’t want to carry it around for 10km. So the crucial bet about LPG is getting it as close as possible to the end-user. Now, LPG is a cooking gas and in itself that will grow. And the good thing about cooking gas is that it potentially takes out the use of firewood, which leads to deforestation. It might replace kerosene, which is not great for your health, particularly when used indoors. So LPG is a clean fuel, but what you need to do because cylinders are quite difficult to handle, is that you need to get the cooking gas as close as possible to the consumer. And that is what we are trying to do with our skids. People have the cylinder and they just want to have it refilled. So that is what we are trying to do, but from an infrastructure point with the ASPM, and then from the final mile to the consumer. Nigeria is currently having challenges with the supply of petrol and there have been various reasons for this. In what way is OVH helping out? The products are becoming more and more available. But I must say we’ve had a bit of a challenge a couple of days ago. However, the product is now starting to flow into the country. So that’s good news. But we still need to get the product from where it comes into the country, which is the coastal depots, all the way to all the places in the country and that takes time. This is because, of course, what happens is that when you have supply disruption, the demands are there and it then gets compressed into a smaller time, hence you see queues. So in order to be able to restore normalcy, that takes time. So first of all, the product supply is being sorted and it is getting in order now. The next thing is now to get it into our sites. At the moment we are talking to the transporters because we all know what diesel currently costs, higher than N400/litre. And because PMS was not deregulated, they (transporters) are still working with the old tariffs. Now, it would have been fine if diesel costs may be N200/litre, but if it cost N400/litre or more, the tariff doesn’t work anymore. So they are struggling to basically make ends meet. The trucks are there, but it is not just economical to use them all. There’s a lot of engagement going on and we are supportive as individual companies with NARTO and the minister to find a solution. And we will make it work and get the fuel to the sites. It might just take a couple of days or weeks, but we will get it to all the sites. I’m convinced about that. What is your take on the new Petroleum Industry Act? The PIA has two elements. One is basically a new regulatory agency and environment, which is the Nigeria Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority. And I think they are making their transition from the old three agencies that have combined into the new one. Now, that takes a bit of time, but they are doing it right. They are engaging with all the stakeholders and that takes time but it is the right thing to do. I would rather have them engage with all the stakeholders and then get it right, than try to quickly do it and then get it wrong. So I will rather be patient, give them the time to get it right, because the law doesn’t say how you are to operate on a day-to-day basis. It gives a framework, but how you work with this framework is the responsibility of the authority. And we should give them a bit of time to get that right and they are doing the right thing by their engagements with all the stakeholders. Now, the second part of the PIA, which, of course, has to do with the deregulation of PMS, has been postponed for up to 18 months. That is a political decision and we work within the framework of political decisions. So am I complaining about it? Complaining doesn’t make sense but we deal with the reality that it is. But I think it is crucial that we do it. This industry needs investments. To get all those beautiful refineries going, we need to make sure that the value they create will trickle down the value chain, which means you need to get your depots, pipelines and jetties upgraded. We need the roads to be better. So I think it is important that we look beyond the said 18 months because the PIA is there for the next 20 to 30 years. It is going to be there for a long time, you don’t change these laws every year. So before you know it, the 18 months are over. Therefore, we will deal with the present realities but let’s not forget the long term reality and then make sure this industry gets the necessary investments to upgrade, not just its facilities, but its people, processes, etc. You’ve emphasised investments in the sector, please tell us why? The midstream infrastructure, be it pipelines, jetties, depots, getting the trucks to bring the final mile to the end-users or consumers, it needs investments. You need to run this business safely and that is the primary thing you need to do. Your pipelines should not leak, you can’t afford it because if it does it pollutes your environment, has a risk of potential explosion and other things. The jetties need to be safe to discharge vessels. We need to be able to invest in people who can handle these kinds of products safely, because these are dangerous products. And these all need money. This is why we always say that the PIA and deregulation of PMS is necessary. This is a very competitive market. The consumer doesn’t need to be afraid in my view. This is one of the most competitive markets that I’ve worked in. It is a market with so many players. So I think that will be the consumer protection. The reality is that everybody in this value chain needs to invest some Capex to upgrade their facilities to work safely, to make sure that the litre that goes in also comes out and to make sure that the end-user gets the product at the quality and volume that they deserve. And don’t forget, when we deregulate PMS, the price will go up and the consumer will not accept any more funny business. They might be willing to accept a lot now because the price is low, but once the price becomes, let’s say market related, they will not accept that anymore. They will want value for money. So as an industry we have to upgrade our infrastructure. Also, if we still depend on the trucking of products, we need to make sure that the roads are good. It is not something that this industry can do, but as a country we need to address it because that in itself will reduce the cost of operations. The time it takes now to drive a truck up North has increased by about two days. It is complex, but I think there are enough good brains in this country to make it work.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com