THE Lagos State Government has said plans have been put in place to protect and exploit groundwater as a means of tackling challenges in the water sector. The Permanent Secretary, Office of Drainage Services, Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources, Nurudeen Shodeinde, disclosed this on Tuesday at a seminar organised to commemorate the 2022 World Water Day in Lagos. Shodeinde, who was represented by the Director of Drainage Enforcement and Compliance, Mahmood Adebite, noted that the 2022 theme, ‘Groundwater: Making the invisible visible,’ highlights the importance of groundwater to human sustenance He said, “The message of this campaign is that protecting and sustainably exploiting groundwater will be central to surviving and adapting in a changing world and its environment as well as meeting the needs of a rapidly growing population. “The diverse perspectives we hear today show the multidimensional value of groundwater across sectors, especially in a state like ours with its unique blend of aquatic and human interaction. “It is in this view that the present administration led by Mr Babajide Sanwo-olu re-designated the erstwhile Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources, in recognition of the need for a firm institutional arrangement in the water sector. “Our regulation of this sector is based on inclusiveness, building technical expertise and technology to create a robust structure capable of exploiting opportunities locally and internationally as well as tackling challenges in the sector.” The Director, Water Resources Department, Omolanke Taiwo, said the ministry would partner with researchers to review policies in the water sector. “The ministry, in terms of research on groundwater management, is collaborating with Civil and Environmental Engineering and Geology Departments in the University of Lagos and also welcomes all studies and research in data gathering that can assist the state in policy making, especially in the ongoing review of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene policy,” she said. A representative of WaterAid Nigeria, Mrs Nambam Michaels, called for concerted efforts to effectively manage groundwater in an increasingly competitive environment so as not to jeopardise people’s health and means of livelihood. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com