Ahead of the March 26 convention of the All Progressives Congress, Gombe has inaugurated 35 state and Local Government executives, except the chapter chairman. Recall that earlier, Gombe State APC Chairman, Nitte Amangal, was one of the chapter bosses inaugurated in Abuja by the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee. Performing the task of inaugurating the officials, Special Adviser to the governor on legal matters, Barr. Caleb Ubale, urged them to give their best in serving the interest of the party, stressing that loyalty to the APC should be total. On his part, Governor Muhammadu Yahaya, who was represented by his deputy, Dr Manassah Jatau, commended them for making themselves available to serve the party, in the interest of the state. Yahaya urged them to give their best in ensuring the electoral success of the party in the state, and the country at large. He said, “I commend you for being elected as APC State executives and also on the administration of the oath of allegiance and oath of office on the 21st March 2022. “Much as I really commend you, I’m unable to congratulate you because I know you have a herculean and daunting task that lies ahead of you as leaders of our great party. “In the first instance, as leaders, you must know that your prestige, dignity is tied to the survival of the party APC. Implied is that you must all do everything within your positions to ensure that the party wins again and again.” Yahaya highlighted some leadership qualities which he urged them to imbibe, adding that with such they would be successful. “Leaders must create and earn respect rather than seek to instil fear in followers. “Leaders must refrain from careless, flippant and unguarded talks and statements. “When all that I have highlighted have manifested in you to the extent of our party winning, then will I say congratulations, that is when the battle has been won,” Yahaya said. Also speaking, the Gombe APC Chairman, Amangal, in his welcome address reminded the officials of the tasks awaiting them. He revealed that the work was not paper-weight, stressing that with unity, cooperation and support a lot of ground would be covered. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com