Background I am from Enugu State. I was born into the family of Emeka and Monica Aneke. I am a twin. My father was very rich but when he died, everything was taken from us, and we were left with nothing. We had to start afresh. Education I studied Mass Communication at the Institute of Management and Technology in Enugu. I observed the National Youth Service Corps scheme in Ibadan, Oyo State. I also took the basic certificate course at a Bible school. I went on to study Acting at the New York Film Academy in Los Angeles, United States of America. Acting I started acting from church where I used to take part in stage dramas. Our elder sister was in the industry before us (me and my twin sister, Chidiebere). We usually visited her, and that was how we started acting. Filmmaking I have always wanted to be a filmmaker because I like being creative. I worked as a continuity person in the first film I did, so I was behind the camera. It was from there I fell in love with whatever happens behind the camera. After finishing from the Bible school, I went into filmmaking. Creativity For one to be a good actor, one has to be a reader, and always learn. An actor should always be prepared and observant. As a filmmaker, one has to read too. If one does not read, how can one write? One has to study, do proper research and keep one’s brains active. You have to learn through the internet and other places. You can also ask questions. Challenges Being an actress and filmmaker comes with many challenges. As a filmmaker, one has to work round the clock. But, as an actor, it is only when one comes on set that one reads one’s script. However, it is fun doing it. If one loves what one does, one would not be deterred by any challenge because it is planning that makes a production. When one plans well, one would not have any issues. I usually plan well before any production. Achievements All I have achieved in my life have been by the grace of God. Me and my sister have done a number of films, and we have won many awards. We don’t talk about things like that because we don’t believe in ringing our bells. However, some people count our achievements as being many and they say we have done well. We have not arrived yet but we are working to get there. We have a YouTube channel, a film production and marketing company, film academy, and a foundation that takes care of widows, the physically challenged and orphans. We train them in different skills and empower them. We also have a clothing line. Sister Acting on the same set with my twin sister is not deliberate. Earlier in our career, we used to act as twins in the movies we produced and those of other filmmakers. However, these days, we try not to act as twins. Since we made that decision, we have produced two films, where we acted as twins. In the next film we would be producing, we would not act as twins. Bond I share a strong bond with my twin sister. Even if we were not twins, we are siblings and the love we have for each other and our upbringing has forged a strong bond. My parents taught us to always love each other. Also, we were taught to understand who we are one irrespective of what happens. We believe in unity. Influence Our desire to correct ills in society influences the kind of movies we make. I could witness an incident (and turn it into a film), (then) use it to make people change. The idea for one our movies, Back to Basics, came when we were returning from location at about 10pm. We saw some kids selling things on the road. I asked them why they were doing that at that time of the night, and they said their mother sent them. Knowing that some mothers now turn their children to bread winners (for their families) by sending them out to sell things on the road, we had to write a story that would let such mothers know that such act is very bad. Many of the films we make are influenced by society and the things around us. Elements The first element that brought me this far is God. Others are humility, patience, and endurance. Embarrassment (Laughs). I mind my business and I have never really had any embarrassing moment on set. I am usually on my own Memories I have a lot of them. I like to help people. For example, if I am in a place to shoot (a movie) and someone tells me they were part of the widows I gave things, it gladdens my heart. We all come from different backgrounds. Some people might feel that (certain) people are rude but I learn from things like that. Every time I spend with people are always memorable.  Cheerleaders There are so many of them in the industry. They include Mama Gee (Patience Ozokwor) and Liz Benson. I don’t want to mention the younger ones because if I mention one name and leave out others, it could be a problem.  Roles All the roles I have played have been challenging. I have even acted as a man before. The last three movies I featured in are on domestic violence. I had not played that kind of role before. There are no roles I cannot act. I just have to be prepared. That is why I am in the business (in the first place). Inasmuch as role would have a strong effect and impact in society, I can do it. Also, my manager has to approve any role I would play. Controversies It is just by the grace of God (that I have not been involved in controversies). Second, being able to mind my business (has helped me to avoid controversies). I do not talk about what does not concern me. I don’t talk about people or things that don’t put food on my table. I walk away from discussions about people because time is precious to me. Every day counts for me and I don’t like to waste any part of it. Style My style is ‘powerful’. I have never attended an event and people would say I looked ‘off’. I am not the outgoing type, but even when I have to go out, I know what to wear (to suit whatever occasion I’m going for). I don’t have a favourite fashion accessory though. As a matter of fact, I don’t like wearing earrings or wrist watches. Beauty I usually work out. Immediately I wake up, I pray together (with my sister). Then, I take a shower and leave for work. I believe there is a difference between working out and going to gym. I usually take brisk walks and time myself. I don’t run. Whatever that suppresses fat in my body is probably used to the work I do. I eat whatever alike. Even when I am on set or I’m walking, I don’t joke with chocolate. Hobbies My hobbies are playing football, walking, reading and watching films. In the past, I played for Coal City Queens in Enugu State (a football club), and I was a goal keeper while in school. However, I noticed that I was becoming a tomboy when I was playing football. So, I had to stop. But, I can watch films all day and night without food. Food I love efo riro (vegetables). I can eat it with rice, fufu, garri or yam, or anything. I particularly like ‘swallow’. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com