A student of  Gbagada Senior Grammar School, Destiny Edoro, has emerged winner of the Start Them Early Programme School Agri-Competition. The competition was organised by the Lagos State Government in partnership with the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture and  Innovative Youth in Agriculture (I-Youth) Project under the Youth in Agribusiness programme of IITA. David Joshua of Comprehensive Senior High School, Alapere and Asokere Misimau of  Ajara Comprehensive Senior High School, Badagry, took the second and third positions, respectively in the keenly contested quiz. The Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo, represented by the permanent secretary of the ministry, Mr Abolaji Abayomi, said the programme aimed at equipping students of public senior secondary schools in the state with requisite knowledge and skills of modern farming techniques. He said,  “The sole aim is to catch the students young to make a career or business in agricultural activities and agro-allied services even while they are still in school and consequently boosting food security, employment opportunities and diversification of the economy in the country.” On his part, Mr Kenton Dashiell of IITA said there had been a big challenge over the years to have youths moved into agriculture. Giving insight into the programme, Executive Manager, I-Youth Project, Aline Mugisho, said the programme was meant to create business and employment opportunities for the young people and expose them to technology, research and innovations in agribusiness. She said the organisation had five years’ time lag for the project with target of empowering about 9, 360 students from across 90 schools in Kano, Kaduna and Lagos States. In her own remark, the state’s Commissioner for Agriculture, Abisola Olusanya, represented by the Director of Agriculture Services, Ayoade Abiola, said the programme would certainly redirect, re-engineer and encourage many more youths to venture into agriculture. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com