Super Eagles coach Austin Eguavoen will drop two players from the 25-man squad ahead of their crucial World Cup Qatar 2022 play-off round tie against the Black Stars, PUNCH Sports Extra has learnt. The first leg is billed for March 25 at the Cape Coast stadium, with the reverse fixture scheduled for the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja four days later. Eguavoen had March 4 released a provisional list of 32 players, with 25 players on the main list and seven on standby. Our correspondent learnt the coach will announce his final squad list of 23 players for the game before the team’s departure to Accra, Ghana next Wednesday (March 23), two days after the team’s camp opens in Abuja. It was also learnt that the Eagles will depart Abuja next Wednesday aboard a chartered flight for the game. When our correspondent contacted a team official on which players may likely be dropped from the main squad for the game, he said, “He (Eguavoen) is in charge of the team so, we hope to see the changes he will make in terms of personnel for the game in the coming days. “We should not dwell much on the squad list because the important thing is that we have a crux of players that we will possibly work with. The most important thing now is for our players to stay fit for the games. Let us all support the coaches and the team to beat Ghana, which is our main objective.” Meanwhile, Eguavoen is sweating over the fitness of three of his players for the game. The players are Kenneth Omeruo, Joe Aribo and Ola Aina. Omeruo has not been listed for Leganes in their last four league games, fueling speculations that the 28-year-old could be nursing an injury. Aina on his part is yet to feature for Torino since he rejoined the Granata side after the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. The 24-year-old has been an unused substitute for his Italian side in 2022, while Aribo suffered an ankle injury in Glasgow Rangers’ 3-0 win over Red Star Belgrade in the Europa League last Thursday. The midfielder, who has been outstanding for the Gers this season, missed their Scottish Cup quarter-final win over Dundee United on Sunday. Rangers manager Giovanni van Bronckhorst stated that the Nigerian would be assessed before their second leg Europa League tie away to Red Star Belgrade on Thursday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com