A 52-year-old businessman, Okeke Anayochukwu, has been arrested with black liquid cocaine. A statement by the Director of Media and Advocacy, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, Femi Babafemi, said the suspect was arrested at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. Babafemi said, “Okeke was arrested with 20.75 kilogrammes of black liquid cocaine on Tuesday, March 15, upon his arrival at the Abuja airport onboard a Qatar Airways flight from Sao Paulo, Brazil, through Doha, Qatar, to Abuja. “The liquid was discovered upon search of his two luggage stuffed with six smaller bags containing 32 make-up mascara, which tested positive for cocaine.” Married with four children, the indigene of Oraifiti in the Akwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State reportedly claimed he was a businessman dealing in children wares before delving into the illicit drug business. He stated that he met the person who gave him the consignment to deliver in Nigeria for a fee of N2m at a drinking joint in Brazil. In the statement, the NDLEA said in other operations across the country, different quantities of drugs were recovered from suspects. “At least three persons, Tony Samson, Paul Adamu and Reuben Waziri, were arrested in Kaduna on Friday, March 18, with 18,380 tablets of tramadol, and 12,500 tablets of diazepam and exol-5 tablets. “In Anambra, NDLEA operatives on Thursday, March 17, intercepted a bus at Obosi bridge heading for Aba, Abia State, from Onitsha. “Upon a search, seven and a half jumbo sacks of cannabis weighing 362kg were recovered, while the driver, Ifeanyi Anyamele, admitted to being the owner of the drug exhibits,” the statement added. The Chairman and Chief Executive of the agency, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Marwa (retd) charged NDLEA officers to remain steps ahead of the tricks of drug traffickers and barons.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com