Members of an Igbo socio-politico group, the Alaigbo Development Foundation, have described the eight years of Mr Peter Obi’s administration as governor of Anambra State, as years of clear and pragmatic demonstration of leadership. The leader of the group, Prof. Uzodinma Nwala, stated this at the unveiling of the book entitled, ‘The Challenge of Good Governance and Leadership in Nigeria: Eight Years of Peter Obi in Anambra State,’ in Enugu, on Thursday. Nwala said the book was not essentially not about the former governor as a person, but about the exemplary and purposeful leadership he provided that had remained a beacon of good governance. He said the need to use Obi as a model was borne out of the testimony they garnered when the group undertook the industrial tour of Alaigbo, starting with Anambra State. He said that in Anambra, when they met with Chief Mbazulike Amaechi, he was full of kind, reassuring and encouraging words about Obi. He further disclosed that the owner of INNOSON Vehicle Manufacturing, Innocent Chukwuma, requested them to thank Obi for the unprecedented support he offered him, including making it possible for him to stand on sound financial footing by paying him upfront for vehicles supplied to him as well as the part he played when his consignment was seized by customs. Nwala said that the trip to Onitsha Harbour Industrial areas was eye-opening. He added, “We learnt the place was resuscitated by Peter Obi. The network of roads he built in the area were exceptional.” He also said that all the industries they visited spoke highly of Obi in terms of support and deep understanding of the requirements of the time. “This visitations convinced us to research into Obi’s era as a model for leadership.” Chairman of the Board of Trustees of ADF, Bishop Obi Onubogu, described the choice of Obi as a model of true leadership, presented for emulation, saying his leadership style had continued to reverberate among the people. Speaking on behalf of the ex-governor’s EXCO members, Prof. Stella Chinyere Okunna, who led the team, said in spite of all odds, they felt proud of the quality of services they helped Obi deliver to the people. “We may not be rich, but we have remained proud to be associated with Peter Obi whose passion for growth and development is unrivaled in this clime”, Okunna said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com