A group, Green Nigeria Movement, has vowed to mobilize, not less than 40 million votes from across the 36 states of the country to help decide who Nigeria’s President becomes in 2023. ‘’Nigeria’s next President must not only be a technocrat but must also have an economic background, coupled with the sympathy of the masses at heart.” At the inaugural rally of the movement, held at the Polo ground, Kano, the convener, Moses Siasia, emphasized that the current group of leaders have nothing more to offer towards revamping the economically battered image of the country, hence its determination to decide who Nigeria’s President becomes in 2023, through the movement’s bulk votes. ‘’We need a bright fresh head, we need a technocrat, we need people, who understand the basic needs and aspirations of the Nigerian people. We need somebody who would be there to take care of the masses, we need somebody that has identified, with the masses, we need a candidate that will identify with the common good of the common people, that is the kind of candidate that we will support in 2023.’’ ‘’You will agree with me that Nigeria of today needs help, you will agree with me today that our mothers are going through hard times.’’ ‘’I have visited prisons all over Nigeria, 95 per cent of the inmates are young people, so, the stock-in-trade of the politician is to imprison us, a greater percentage of our generation, including our brothers and sisters are in the prisons because of the crimes they committed, some of them are looking for something to eat, is it not? Today, there is no future for them because there are no jobs for our young people. There are over 90 per cent of young Nigerians, roaming the streets aimlessly because there are no jobs for them.” ‘’We need to create jobs for the youths, as today marks the beginning of a new Nigeria, we want to restart and build a new Nigeria, on behalf of my team, we would not let you down in the struggle to build a new Nigeria, we will continue to live in this project, called Nigeria, and all those with their flags lifted it up, stressing that this is how we will lift Nigeria up.’’ ‘’In no distant time, we will unveil the candidate of our choice.’’ ‘’We will mobilize woman and youths across the 36 states of the federation, including Abuja, with 40 million votes and with the ongoing voters registration, we are mobilizing across all the 744 local government areas across the country, young professionals, women and youths to say that enough is enough and as we are walking into 2023, with our 40 million dedicated votes, we will collectively decide, who becomes President, Governor, Senator, House of Representatives members, LG Chairmen and Councilors,”she said Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com