The League Management Company has fined Kano Pillars the sum of N2.5m and banished them to play their home games at the Muhammadu Dikko Stadium in Katsina over their failure to provide adequate security during their matchday 16 fixture at the Ahmadu Bello stadium in Kaduna on Wednesday. The four-time league champions were found to have breached the league’s framework for failing to provide adequate security during their last home league game in Kaduna. Pillars had been playing away from home in Kaduna but will now have to move further away due to the punishment. The club who were given 48 hours to appeal the LMC judgement in a statement signed by their media officer Idris Malikawa says the club have received the judgement in good faith. The Sai Masu Gida breached B13.52, B13.18, B8.21 and C1.1 of the Frameworks and Rules of the NPFL. The LMC in a letter dated March 4, and signed by the Chief Operating Officer of the body, Salihu Abubakar, have informed the Katsina State Football Association of Pillar’s punishment. “As part of corrective measures taken by the LMC on Kano Pillars following the unfortunate incident of last Wednesday, Kano Pillars matches have been moved to the Ahmadu Dikko Stadium Katsina.” In the same vein, the LMC has warned Enyimba head coach George Finidi against making disparaging comments to the media which could bring disrepute to the league. He’s been asked to desist from such comments in the future. The Enyimba gaffer who was displeased with the performance of the centre referee in their 1-0 loss to Heartland FC in the Oriental Derby on February 26. A furious Finidi when asked of the take after the match said, “Did you watch the game? I’ll be quiet because if I talk, definitely, I’m leaving this league. You cannot play football this way and expect us to get another result, that’s what we’re having nationwide.” The LMC also requested the review of the performance of Lagos-based referee Adebimpe Quadri in the Oriental derby between Heartland FC and Enyimba after unsatisfactory comments from the Enyimba dugout about his performance. Aside Adebimpe, the performance of the match commissioner for the encounter between Kano Pillars and Rivers United have been called to question for his failure to strictly enforce proactive closed-door directive at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium in Kaduna.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com