Nigeria midfielder, Wilfred Ndidi, has cautioned Super Eagles to be careful ahead of this month’s 2022 World Cup playoffs against Ghana. He gave the warning in an interview with ESPN. Nigeria take on Ghana in the 20,000 –capacity Cape Coast Sports Stadium from 7.30 pm on Friday 25th March, with the reverse leg set for the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja on Tuesday, 29th March from 6 pm. The winner over two legs will earn one of Africa’s five tickets to the 22nd FIFA World Cup finals, scheduled for 14th November – 18th December this year in Qatar. He said, “It will mean a lot for us to go back to the World Cup. “But Ghana will not be easy. To be honest, we have to be careful about their whole team and not just any specific players. It will be two tough games.” Meanwhile, Technical Adviser Augustine Eguavoen has called up Captain Ahmed Musa, deputy captain William Ekong, midfielder Ndidi, and forwards Moses Simon and Kelechi Iheanacho in a Super Eagles’ provisional list of 32 for the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 play-off round against the Black Stars of Ghana. Also called up are goalkeepers Maduka Okoye and Daniel Akpeyi, defenders Kenneth Omeruo, Oluwasemilogo Ajayi and Abdullahi Shehu, midfielders Oghenekaro Etebo and Joseph Ayodele-Aribo, and forwards Victor Osimhen, Odion Ighalo, and Samuel Chukwueze. Leicester City FC of England forward Ademola Lookman, recently cleared by FIFA to switch international allegiance and former U17 World Cup star Akinkunmi Amoo are officially called for the first time, while defender Calvin Bassey and forward Emmanuel Dennis return to the fold of the three–time African champions. 2021 AFCON forwards Taiwo Awoniyi and Peter Olayinka, defender Chidozie Awaziem and long-time absentee Ogenyi Onazi are on a seven-man standby list. The camp opens in Abuja on 21st March, with a 24 –man final list for the two big games to be released at a later date. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com