The Women in Management, Business and Public Service have said they would encourage and guide more Nigerian girls to be interested in politics. According to them, it would help to break the biases that are evident in the political space. They made this known at the International Women’s Day celebration on Saturday, with the theme, ‘Break the Bias’, which was held at the Ebony Life Place, Victoria Island, Lagos. The hybrid event which drew participants from Port Harcourt, Lagos and Abuja, saw storytellers share their stories of how they have constantly broken the different biases against women in their various spheres. Speaking in one of the storytelling sessions, the Publisher, Clever Clogg Books, Dr Olubunmi Aboderin-Talabi, said for women to break the biases in their world they have to think and be open-minded. She also encouraged women to always show up for themselves when they needed to. “If they say this degree is necessary to get to that position, please, do go get that degree. Don’t let anyone look down on you or let you down because you are a woman. You have a lot of hidden potential inside of you. “I have constantly broken biases which I face on a daily basis and I urge more women to join me to make sure we are making this world a better place for our children,” she said. Also speaking, the Executive Director, WIMBIZ, Mrs Hansatu Adegbite, said, “We at WIMBIZ have been breaking the bias for over 20 years. We would keep doing so. “We are a standing legacy. We support fully the gender bills because they matter. We need our country to recognise that. We all need to break the bias.” Other storytellers include the Managing Director, ARM Investment Managers, Kai Orga; President, Kingsarch Global Leadership Consulting, Leticia Bertrand; Chief Executive Officer, Boxes and Baskets Limited, Sheffy Kolade; and, CEO, JACMARVIS, amongst others. In Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, WhimBiz gathered about 40 young women on Saturday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com