In commemoration of International Women’s Day, HUMANx—a socially-conscious fashion brand—has organised an outreach to Takushara community in Abuja to enlighten the women on menstrual hygiene management while also donating sanitary kits. A statement quoted the Founder and Creative Director, HUMANx, Gbemi Elekula, noted that the programme was in keeping with the vision and mission of the brand, which is to bring about an end to period poverty in Nigeria. It is also in line with this year’s IWD campaign theme #BreaktheBias, which spotlights the individual and collective biases against women that fuel gender inequality. She said, “Though a naturally-occurring physiological phenomenon, menstruation and associated activities are still shrouded in secrecy and taboos here in Nigeria. In some communities, particularly in the rural areas, social restrictions are placed on menstruating females preventing them from participating in normal activities and making it difficult for them to move ahead.” She added, “There is no equity when half the population bear the physical, emotional, mental and financial distress as a consequence of the natural reproductive cycle needed to ensure human survival. This is why HUMANx is focused on period poverty—to generate open and honest conversations about menstruation and the problems around it, as well as to find ways to lessen the burden on the most affected females.” The Programme Manager, Slay Dot Com Aid Initiative (ThriftySlayer), Chinelo Njemanze, was quoted as reechoing the need to challenge stereotypes, biases and discriminatory practices that impede women’s contributions to building a sustainable future for all. “For many low-income women, these practices are as basic as not having access to needed menstrual hygiene products or information that can help to improve their productivity during menstruation. That is why we have partnered with HUMANx on this outreach.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com