In this report by DAUD OLATUNJI, experts argue that punishing people for attempted suicide will compound the dangerous trend in the coutry Many years ago, attempted suicide was criminalised  in Nigeria. Unfortunately,  the available records have  revealed that criminalisation of attempted suicide   has neither discouraged  the victims of the sickness from attempting  it nor  stopped  the  eventual commission of the act. Recently, the Association of Psychiatrists in Nigeria  raised the alarm over the effects of criminalisation of suicide attempts  as a way  of  solving the challenges. It said criminalization of suicide attempts has worsened the problem rather than solved it. In  2021, a  non-governmental organisation, Suicide Research Prevention Initiative,  raised the alarm on the increase in suicide rate in the country. The organisation  lamented  that predominantly, suicide cases had been coming  from young adults, averagely aged 30 ,while  the youngest victim was12 years old and the oldest, 71. And just last week, on  March 8,  a  300-level student of the University of Jos was reported to have committed suicide over the ongoing strike embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) nationwide. Both the Criminal Code Act in the South and the Penal Code in the North regard those who attempt to end their own lives as offenders in the misdemeanour category. The Criminal Code Section  327 states that: “Any person who attempts to kill himself is guilty of a misdemeanour, and is liable to imprisonment for one year” while section 231 of the Penal Code states that: “Whoever attempts to commit suicide and does any act towards the commission of such offence, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine or with both”. The  President of the APN, Prof. Taiwo  Obindo in his  recent  article  protested  the continued criminalisation of attempted suicide  . Obindo in the statement titled “Not in need of punishment but, of treatment : attempted suicide cases in Nigeria “ concluded that  “attempted suicide ought to be completely removed from Nigerian law as a crime and treated as a psychosocial problem requiring a humane solution. Obindo  said the proponents of the law were of the opinion that it was better to  criminalise the act while they were afraid that doing otherwise might shoot the case up. The proponents also cited religious beliefs that discourage the commission of the act. But, in his view, Obindo faulted the proponents on the grounds that  there was no evidence that decriminalisation increased the risk of suicide. According to him, since the offender is aware that the attempt at suicide is a crime if unsuccessful, strenuous effort will be made to ensure absolute success in the attempt thereby further worsening the profile of suicidality in the country. Apparently worried over the  legal approach of the issue,  the  House of Representatives on February 15,2022 , made a  strong  move to  replace  one-year jail term with community service and counselling as punishment for attempted suicide. The bill seeking to amend the Criminal Code Act, Cap. C38, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, sponsored by a member of the House , Francis Waive, has  passed the second reading . The legislation is titled ‘A Bill for an Act to Amend the Criminal Code Act Cap C38 LFN 2004, to Provide for a More Rational Punishment for the Offence of Attempted Suicide, and For Related Matters.’ The explanatory memorandum on the legislation read, ‘This bill seeks to amend the Criminal Code Act Cap C38 LFN 2004 to provide for a more rational punishment for the offence of attempted suicide. The punishment proposed by this bill will be curative and punitive, thereby making it possible for victims to be able to reintegrate into society. “Section 327 of the Criminal Code Act is to be amended by expunging the term ‘imprisonment for one year’ and replacing the same with the term ‘compulsory counseling and community service for a period not less than six months.” The new Section 327 would now read, ‘Any person who attempts to kill himself is guilty of a misdemeanour, and is liable to compulsory counseling  and community service for a period not less than six months.’ Leading the debate on the Criminal Code Act (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Waive partly said, “Suicides and attempts have been on the increase in Nigeria. This could be due to several reasons but primarily due to harsh economic conditions of the average Nigerian. “Research has also shown a strong link between suicide and mental illness/disorder. However, it continues to be treated as a crime in Nigeria. This means that a person who survives a suicide attempt will be harassed, arrested, and punished by the state with an imprisonment term of up to one year. “It is therefore imperative to substitute section 327 of the Principal Act which provides for a rash treatment for anyone who attempts suicide with a proposed amendment.” Globally, data from India  suggests that between 1996 and 2006, suicide rates went up by 33.9 per cent despite legal sanctions in place. It was also gathered that , prior to the abolition of suicide as a crime in the UK, roughly 5000 suicides were occurring yearly. Coming down to Nigeria, the  recent suicide estimates  suggest that slightly over 7000 persons (6.9 per 100,000) took their own lives in Nigeria in 2019 alone despite criminal sanctions being in place for over a century. The association submitted that while the law waits for the “attempt” to occur, mental health professionals are able to intervene even at the level of intention or preparation. He said “in conclusion, it is the view of the Association of Psychiatrists in Nigeria  that it is imperative for the Nigerian parliament to decriminalise suicide attempts as a matter of urgency in order to provide untainted access to care and support for those who have engaged in suicide attempts which are frequently veiled cries for help from a decent and responsible society. A consultant psychiatrist at the Federal Medical Centre, Abeokuta ,Dr. Ibrahim Opeewe threw his weight behind the call  for the scrapping of the existing law that criminalises attempted suicide . Opeewe said,  “My perspective on this is that they should not be punished. This is not about those that want to commit,  people that just want to call attention. But, for the people that actually want to commit suicide. They should not be punished, rather, find out why, which illness and those whose lives  would be affected and treat them appropriately. “So, I don’t agree to punishing suicide attempted persons in whatever form. Punishing them does not solve the problem. It does not add any value nor force somebody else to stop to commit suicide.It  will even make someone that wants to attempt suicide perfect the plan because the person knows that it is punishable.” The Secretary- General of the Association of Psychiatrists in Nigeria, Dr Abayomi Olajide, on his part, said t attempted suicide was still a form of mental disorder; and people who attempted suicide usually, most often had some psychological background, mental health issues. According to Olajide ,some of them have serious psychosocial problems that have affected them , some of them are depressed, they have severe depression. So, what this person needs is nothing but psychosocial support, exploration of the causes and treatment by mental health specialists. Olajide joined others that  the section of  the constitution  be expunged and be replaced  with  psychosocial support. This, according to him, the support would give  them access to free, qualitative mental health support treatment. On the efforts of the association, Olajide said the body had  reached out to the sponsor of the bill and was  planning to appear during the public hearing. He said, “ The  association of Psychiatrists in Nigeria will be providing our own memorandum for the public hearing which will be coming up very soon  and we will be duly invited to give our own opinion on this issue of what to do for people who attempted suicide. “And I want to believe that the honourable House will also agree with us, the  specialists on  this issue.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com