STERLING Bank Plc has launched a revolutionary digital platform, named Omni X to improve banking experience for non-bank and other financial institutions. The bank said in a statement that Omni X, an integrated investment and liquidity management platform, presents it wide range of digital products and service offerings to users. It said the solutions are configured to enable businesses invest and raise seamlessly and also complements Sterling’s existing corporate Internet banking platform. The Executive Director, Corporate and Investment Banking, Sterling Bank, Mr Yemi Odubiyi, said, “Omni X is deliberately designed to offer a simple, easy and effective platform to manage the daily liquidity needs of corporates.” The statement said at a recently event for captains of industries, the Group Head, Client Coverage and Financial Institutions, Kashetolulope Lawal, said that Omni X would provide convenience to corporate clients by expediting financing decisions, speeding up transaction processing times and automating investment processes. Lawal said it would minimise the incidence of human errors associated with manual processing to improve customers’ experience and drive business productivity; dovetailing into profitability for users. He said, “Omni X becomes an imperative solution for corporates across various sectors to invest and raise financing simultaneously where possible due to the nature of their businesses, the time sensitivity attached to these activities and the culminating desire for an improved solution that does the most in the shortest time possible.” Omni X, he explained, also incorporates corporate account opening and other services for seamless on-boarding and transaction processing as well as solutions for investments, liquidity management and access to advisory services. He  also said that the platform was designed to simplify the major banking needs of businesses, investments and financing in the financial and other allied services sectors, adding that the innovation was by far more than what any financial institution had done in Nigeria.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com