The Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives has expressed shock over the attack of the Kaduna International Airport by terrorists on Saturday. The caucus said “this horrific development is another frightening commentary on the apparent collapse of our national security and intelligence gathering coordination under the incompetent All Progressives Congress administration.” Terrorists, numbering over 200, had on Saturday invaded the Kaduna International Airport located in Igabi Local Government Area in Kaduna State, disrupting operation and killing one security personnel of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency. The attack caused panic at the airport and reportedly grounded a Lagos-bound AZMAN aircraft scheduled to take off at 12:30pm. The Minority Leader of the House, Ndudi Elumelu, in a statement issued on Sunday night and titled ‘Kaduna Airport Attack: Reps Minority Caucus Expresses Shock, Demands Investigation,’ said the opposition lawmakers are “deeply concerned and alarmed by the manifest lack of capacity by the APC administration to secure our nation to the extent that a strategic international airport in our country could be invaded and taken over by terrorists.” The statement read in part, “Airports, especially international airports across the world, are usually highly secured areas. Therefore, the circumstances that allowed for the invasion of the Kaduna International Airport speak volume about the failure of the APC administration. “The attack on the airport at the time when our roads, railways and communities are being overrun by bandits, kidnappers and invaders has heightened fear across the country as well as sent a very worrisome signal to the International Community regarding the safety of our airports and the worsening insecurity in Nigeria. “The Minority Caucus, therefore, calls for an urgent comprehensive investigation into the remote and immediate circumstances leading to the apparent compromising of security at the airport to pave way for the eventual invasion by the terrorists. Our caucus urges the Federal Government to immediately beef up security in all our airports and other public convergence facilities in our country so as to forestall a re-occurrence of such terrifying attack.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com