A good number of people are constantly disturbed by severe back pain or Joint pains. In many cases, patients are given high doses of analgesics with no major relieve. Some will proceed to spinal surgery to alleviate pain from the intervertebral disc. Unknown to them the real cause of the pain is Lyme infection attacking the joints or the spinal vertebral disc. The same is true of infertility due to Lyme infection that affects both male and female infertility. In most cases it is undiagnosed. In the last four years treating a patient with infertility, menopausal issues, as well as other general health problems, have brought to the forefront of our practice a disease called Lyme disease. Everyone needs to beware of this disease as it presents in various forms of illness. Lyme disease was the most commonly reported vector-borne disease of 2013 in the United States, according to the CDC (Center for Disease Control). In Africa, we have all heard about mosquitoes biting us and giving us malaria. But what if we tell you there are other insects out there biting us and giving us even more deadly diseases than malaria? There are many different insects biting us and giving us illnesses which have been classified as Lyme disease. The difficulty is that unlike mosquitoes that shows signs and symptoms like fever, and headache within a few days of the bite, the Lyme is a more intelligent pathogen showing no signs until later stages when fully developed inside the body, in places like the Joints or the Spinal cord or the Reproductive system. What is Lyme disease? Lyme disease is an infection caused by bacteria that we can get from the bite of infected ticks, lice, bed bugs, sand flies and many other visible and invisible insects. The main bacteria are called Borrelia burgdorferi. Lyme disease is called “The Great Imitator” because its symptoms mimic many other diseases. It can affect any organ of the body, including the brain and nervous system, muscles and joints, the heart and the brain. How do people get Lyme disease? People usually get Lyme disease from ticks infected with Lyme bacteria.  Most human cases are caused by immature ticks which are about the size of a poppy seed. Because their bite is painless, many people do not realize they have been bitten. Ticks may remain attached for several days while they feed. The longer they remain attached, the greater the risk that they will pass the Lyme bacteria into your bloodstream, where they will start spreading throughout your body. If pregnant women are infected, they sometimes pass Lyme disease to their unborn children. Some doctors believe other types of human-to-human transmission are possible but little is known for certain. Where is Lyme disease found? Lyme disease has been found on every continent except Antarctica. Lyme is the fastest growing vector-borne disease, 85% of people do not remember being bitten by a tick. Less than 70% of people develop a rash. The disease is difficult to diagnose because Lab tests may be negative in the first 4-6 weeks. Early symptoms of the disease include Flu-like illness (fever, chills, sweats, muscles aches, fatigue, nausea and joint pain) Rash: (Less than 10% have classic bull’s eye rash) Bell’s palsy Later Symptoms may include headache, stiff neck, light or sound sensitivity, Cognitive impairment, sleep disturbance , depression,  anxiety, or mood swings,  Arthritis,  fatigue , abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhea, chest pain, palpitations ,  shortness of breath, tingling, burning or shooting pain memory and hearing loss,  and other sensory loss, high blood pressure, spinal or radicular pain. Your child may be infected with Lyme disease too!  In fact 25 percent of Lyme patients are children. 50 percent don’t have any history of being bitten by a tick.  And less than 70 percent of them even have a rash which would sensitize the parents that the child has been bitten.  Most lab tests are negative in the first 4 to 6 weeks which make diagnoses and treatment difficult. Early symptoms include flu-like symptoms such as fever, muscle aches, fatigue, which may soon clear up without treatment. Nausea and joint pains and bells palsy. Later the child may have headaches, stiff neck, light or sound sensitivity, learning difficulties, uncharacteristic behaviors, inability to sustain attention, outbursts and mood swings, arthritis, fatigue, abdominal pains, nausea, diarrhea, chest pains,  palpitations, shortness of breath, tingling, burning or shooting pains After a tick bite, rash around the site of the tick bite may develop. Most of the time the rash is an ordinary red area, however, if it is a bulls-eye shape with a darker edge, it is a definite sign of Lyme disease and needs immediate treatment. To be continued… Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com