S. 84 of the 2022 EA is very important as it details procedures for the nomination of candidates. It has a total of 15 subsections which are too numerous to highlight here. Suffice to say that, unlike previously when there were two modes of party primaries available to choose from, in this new Act, ‘consensus’ has been added as a third means of nominating candidates. However, there are stringent conditions attached. As stated in subsection (9) “A political party that adopts a consensus candidate shall secure the written consent of all cleared aspirants for the position, indicating their voluntary withdrawal from the race and their endorsement of the consensus candidate.” When the president signed the Electoral Act 2022 into law on Friday, February 25, 2022, he raised serious objection about the provision of S. 84(12) which says: “No political appointee at any level shall be a voting delegate or be voted for at the convention or congress of any political party for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election.” The president said it is against the provisions of sections 40 and 42 of the 1999 CFRN and asked that the National Assembly should delete it. The Nigerian Senate has voted to reject this request while the opposition Peoples Democratic Party has dragged the National Assembly to court over this. In S. 85(a), the penalty for political parties holding or possessing any fund outside Nigeria has been increased from N500,000 to N5m. Likewise, in subsection (b) penalty for retaining any fund or other asset remitted to it from outside Nigeria in contravention of section 225 (3) (a) of the constitution has increased from N500,000 to N5m.  Section 86(1) says “Every political party shall submit to the Commission a detailed annual statement of assets and liabilities and analysis of its sources of funds and other assets, together with a statement of its expenditure including hard and soft copy of its list of members or in such a form as the Commission may require.” Here again, the law is demanding submission of parties’ membership lists.  Subsection (4) says  “The Commission shall publish the report on such examinations and audit in two national newspapers and the Commission’s website within 30 days of receipt of the results.” It used to be three newspapers. Section 88 of the new Act which places limitation of election expenses on candidates is very important to note:  Sub (2) says The maximum election expenses to be incurred by a candidate at a presidential election shall not exceed N5,000,000,000. (Used to be N1bn); (3) The maximum amount of election expenses to be incurred by a candidate in respect of governorship election shall not exceed N1,000,000,000. (Used to be N200m); (4) The maximum amount of election expenses to be incurred by a candidate in respect of Senatorial and House of Representatives seats shall not exceed N100,000,000 and N70,000,000 respectively. (It used to be N40m and N20m respectively.; (5) In the case of a State Assembly election, the maximum amount of election expenses to be incurred by a candidate shall not exceed N30,000,000. (Used to be N10m) Furthermore, subsection (6) says “In the case of a chairmanship election to an Area Council, the maximum amount of election expenses to be incurred by a candidate shall not exceed N30,000,000. (Used to be N10m) sub. (7) says  In the case of Councillorship election to an Area Council, the maximum amount of election expenses to be incurred by a candidate shall not exceed N5,000,000. (Used to be N1m) and subsection (8) says No individual or other entity shall donate to a candidate more than N50,000,000. (Formerly N1m) Section 90(3) says “A political party shall not accept any monetary or other contribution which is more than N50,000,000 unless it can identify the source of the money or other contribution to the Commission.” This is from N100,000 prescribed in section 93(3) of EA 2010. The implication of this is that a lot of monies from anonymous sources could be mobilised to fund political parties in Nigeria. Prohibition of certain conducts at political campaigns has been expanded to include political parties, candidates and even aspirants who were previously not included. Thus, section 92(5) says “A political party, aspirant or candidate of a political party shall not retain, organise, train or equip any person or group of persons for the purpose of enabling them to be employed for the use or display of physical force or coercion in promoting any political objective or interests, or in such manner as to arouse reasonable apprehension that they are organised, trained or equipped for that purpose.” Another salient provision of the new Act can be found in section 94(1) which says “For the purpose of this Act, the period of campaigning in public by every political party shall commence 150 days before polling day and end 24 hours prior to that day.” Previously, the period of campaign in public was for 90 days. It is instructive to note that section 95(2) says “State apparatus including the media shall not be employed to the advantage or disadvantage of any political party or candidate at any election” Although Part V of the Act copiously deals with issues of political parties, it is important to highlight some of the key provisions that are germane to Political Parties but outside of that chapter. S. 29. (1) says “Every political party shall, not later than 180 days (it used to be 60 days) before the date appointed for a general election under this Act, submit to the Commission, in the prescribed Forms, the list of the candidates the party proposes to sponsor at the elections, who must have emerged from valid primaries conducted by the political party.”  It is noteworthy that this section, which is section 31(1) in the 2010 Act has removed a sentence which says “provided that the Commission shall not reject or disqualify candidate(s) for any reason whatsoever”. This means political parties cannot just submit names of anybody as candidates. Rather, the person must meet constitutional qualification provisions and emerge through valid party primary. There is an important caveat added to the decision of Returning Officer which is worth mentioning. It says in S. 65(1) that: “Provided that the Commission shall have the power within seven days to review the declaration and return where the Commission determines that the said declaration and return was not made voluntarily or was made contrary to the provisions of the law, regulations and guidelines, and manual for the election.” Political parties and contestants need to internalise what constitutes electoral offences as contained in Part VII (S. 114 – 128) of the 2022 Electoral Act. Other electoral offences are contained in S. 22. Offences of buying and selling voters’ cards and S. 23. Offences relating to register of voters. Particular attention should be paid to Sections 121 (Bribery and Conspiracy) and S. 127 (Undue influence) both of which criminalise vote-trading. In summary, the 2022 Electoral Act has widely reviewed timelines, penalties and fines and imposes on political parties the imperative of having a credible membership register. Tweet at me @jideojong Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com