The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Friday in Abuja cautioned the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to avoid being used for partisan politics, or get dragged into personal disputes, urging them to focus on serving the nation and entrenching good governance. Buhari who spoke at the unveiling of the EFCC Standard Operating Procedures, Policies and Manuals, at the State House, counselled EFCC leaders and operatives to resist the temptation of being influenced by political actors for personal gains or to score political points. He also lauded the commission for securing 2,220 convictions within one year and recovering over N152bn and $385m. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, Buhari said, “I must advise the leadership and operatives of this commission to resist the temptation of being used for partisan politics or be dragged into personal disputes. Your job is to serve the nation in its efforts to entrench good governance.” The statement is titled ‘President Buhari cautions EFCC on political interference, commends recovery of looted funds.’ He said, “I am glad to note that the war against corruption, which is one of the cardinal objectives of this administration, is being strengthened through the institutionalisation of operational procedures particularly as they form the building blocks of transparency and accountability in administration and public expenditure.” He also commended the EFCC Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, for efforts to further institutionalise the commission by developing 26 Standard Operating Procedures, and 25 Policies and Manuals for the Departments, Units and Staff of the Commission while appreciating the support of the Board, Management and Staff. He said, “These outstanding feats achieved are being unveiled today and I would like to use this opportunity to encourage other Ministries, Departments and Agencies of Government, especially Law Enforcement Agencies to also ensure the standardisation of their processes within the extant laws and regulations, as provided in our statutes.” “I need not underscore the importance of today’s occasion but let me remind you that the stakes are high but national expectations are higher. Therefore, we must continue to strive and deal decisively with matters in accordance with the rule of law. “On the part of the Government, we shall continue to accord all necessary support to MDAs in order to ensure the sustainability of the initiatives already commenced in actualizing our vision of a corrupt-free society,”  he said. In his remarks, the Chairman of EFCC noted that the institution was undergoing various phases of reforms to reposition it to fight financial crimes in the country, with the production of policies and manuals. Bawa thanked the President and the National Assembly for the confidence reposed in his “ability and competence’’ to take over the leadership of the organisation in 2021.  Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com