Barring last-minute changes, the presidential candidate of opposition Peoples Democratic Party will be announced on May 29, 2022, The PUNCH has learnt. This was contained in the ‘Schedule of Activities and Timetable for the Year 2022/2023 Elections’ released by the party on Wednesday and obtained by The PUNCH. The timetable was signed by the National Organising Secretary of the party, Umar Bature. According to Bature, the PDP candidate would emerge on May 29 at the end of the Special National Convention (Presidential Primary) that would start on May 28. The party, however, did not state whether it has agreed on a consensus candidate or whether it has zoned the ticket to any geopolitical zone. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the PDP, at its 95th National Executive Council meeting on Wednesday, pegged its nomination and expression of interest forms for presidential aspirants at N40m. This was as it approved the establishment of a 37-member Zoning Committee to make recommendations for the zoning of various elective positions for the 2023 general elections. The PDP was in power for 16 straight years from 1999 to 2015 before Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) of the All Progressives Congress trounced then-President Goodluck Jonathan of the PDP at the 2015 presidential polls. The party has since tried to return to power. Northern politicians who have shown interest in getting the PDP’s 2023 presidential ticket include former Vice President Atiku Abubakar; former Senate President, Bukola Saraki; Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal; Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed; and ex-governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso. Aside from northern politicians, some southern stalwarts including former Senate President and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Pius Anyim; former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose; ex-governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi; media personality, Dele Momodu, amongst others have also expressed interest in clinching the party’s 2023 presidential ticket in the primary which is expected to hold later this year. Other presidential hopefuls include APC leader, Bola Tinubu; Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi; ex-Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha; former Governor of Abia State and Majority Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Kalu; former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Kingsley Moghalu, among others. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has also been rumoured to nurse an ambition to succeed his boss through the 2023 election but the professor of law has not officially made his intention known. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com