The Niger Delta Youth Movement has announced the removal of its national President, ComradeJoe Jackson from office over alleged abuse of office. This is coming even as the national President, boasted that he was still in charge of the affairs of the movement. The news of his removal was contained in a statement titled “Notice of removal from office as the national” issued on Sunday in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State by the national Public Relations Officer of the movement, Comrade Boboye Peretu, The statement stated that the deputy National President Amutadi Uba Tega has been nominated to take over the position in acting capacity in accordance with section 14 sub 2 (a) of the constitution of the body. Jackson was removed by the National Executive council meeting after invoking section 11(a) of the constitution during a meeting held in Owerri, the Imo State on Sunday, March 13, 2022. The statement reads in part” Whereas Comrade Joe Jackson National President of Niger Delta Youth Movement has consistently abused the constitution of and desecrated the high office of the President. “Whereas Comrade Joe Jackson has been mildly reprimanded and warned on several occasions. Whereas Comrade Joe Jackson is bent on observing the constitution in the breach. “Concerned members of the National Executive Council had no alternative than to invoke section 11 (a) of the Movement’s Constitution at Owerri the Imo State Capital and subsequently removed him from office as the National President of the Niger Delta Youth Movement NDYM” Some of his many sins include his alleged refusal and to call for NEC meeting for more than one year in spite of appeals from National Officers to do, and his refusal to hand over the official vehicle for more than two years He was also alleged to have forged and authored a letter to total E & P Nigeria Limited Trans Amadi Industrial Layout, Port Harcourt, Rivers State purporting that it was the NEC that approved of the composition of Egi Ward/Clan Executive when he knew that it was/is the duty of the State and Local Government Executive to oversee the activities of a Ward/Clan and others “Premised on the above the Deputy National President Comrade Amutadi Uba Tega shall serve in acting capacity as the National President”the statement. added Reacting, Comrade Joe Jackson described the NEC meeting as illegal adding that they cannot substantiate the allegations leveled against him. He said “I am just hearing that some people went and had an illegal meeting. The constitution provides that I am supposed to call for the meeting. They went and had a meeting, and came out with allegations. They cannot substantiate the allegation, that I confiscated the official bus “I had told them many times that we had meeting that the association bus is accidented and it is at the mechanic. But none of them has ever said come and show us since you said the bus had an accident. It is still at the mechanic at Deeper Life Road, off Idoro Road.,Uyo, I can even send the picture of the vehicle to you. “Then they said I wrote a letter to the NDDC. I have demanded proof, but I have not seen that done. They said I have not been calling for meetings, I have called for meetings several times and they refused to attend. “They should have attached the proofs of their allegations; I have not seen any. So it is an illegal arrangement, and I am still the National President of the organization, until when all these allegations are proven. “Of course, the constitution says once there is an allegation, a committee must be set up to investigate it and if it is proven, two-thirds of the members must have to sit and pass my removal, they didn’t do that, I learnt they met in Owerri on Sunday and decided to come up with those allegations without attaching any proof. So I am still the National President” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com