Justice Usman Na’aba, sitting at a Kano High Court, on Wednesday overruled allegations of threat to life, confession under-duress and torture, raised by the prime suspect, Abdulmaliq Tanko, in the ongoing murder trial of a five-year-old pupil of Noble Kiddies Academy, Hanifa Abubakar. At the resumed criminal trial on Wednesday in Kano, Justice Na’aba declared that there was no substantive evidence brought before the court to prove that the suspects were not responsible for their earlier statements. In his ruling on the trial within a trial, Justice Na’aba declared that Abdulmaliq failed to clearly prove the identity of the device, which he claimed was used to penetrate his body parts, thereby dismissing the suspects’ argument. Both Abdulmaliq (first defendant) and Fatima Musa (third defendant), at the last sitting, denied signing the confessional statement brought against them by the police. Furthermore, the prime suspect disclosed that he was not only electrocuted with the unknown device but allegedly threatened with dangerous weapons by the security operatives while making a statement, which he claimed he refused to sign. Similarly, the third defendant told the court that she was also threatened and offered N250,000 inducement if she accepts to cooperate with the security operatives while documenting her confession. The revelation unfolded when the defence counsel, Barr. Muktar L. Usman, objected to the submission of the first security witness, Sergeant Rilwan Ibrahim, over what he described, as inconsistency in the evidence of the first and third suspects’ statements. Usman, who also doubles as Deputy Director at the Legal Aid Council, Kano office, opposed the method applied by the police in obtaining the suspects’ statement, insisting that the security operatives failed to comply with the provisions of the Criminal Administration of Justice Act. Subsequently, Usman sought the court’s permission to order for a trial within a trial, to clear the claim and counterclaim, whereby the first defendant (Tanko) and third defendant (Fatima) made contrary claims. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com