A former governor of Kaduna State and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, has condemned terrorists attack on the Agban Kagoro community in the Kaura Local Government Area of the state, which claimed no fewer than 37 lives on Sunday. Scores of residents were injured, while over 200 houses were razed during the attack, which sparked off protests by irate youths on Monday, a development that forced the state government to impose a 24-hour curfew on the Jema’a and Kaura local government areas of the state. Makarfi said the continued violence and killings in Southern Kaduna were unacceptable and must stop. The former governor said the news of the resurgent wave of attacks and violence leading to the loss of lives of innocent people in Jema’a, Kaura, and Zangon Kataf was “horrible, obnoxious, and unacceptable.” He appealed to the affected communities and the people of the state to remain calm, peaceful and refrain from taking the law into their own hands. Makarfi stated, “These callous acts must be condemned by all people of decency as we must all come together, irrespective of whatever differences, to do whatever it takes to put a stop to this wanton descent into animalism.
“I am appalled at the descent into the gutter by some elements to whom human life has become so worthless that they waste it at the slightest provocation. “I condemn these callous and cowardly acts and appeal to the people of the communities and indeed all people of the state to remain calm, peaceful, and law-abiding, as well as resist the temptation of taking the law into their own hands. “This is even as I urge the government and security agencies to ensure that no stone is left unturned in fishing out and bringing the perpetrators of these dastardly acts to justice. “I convey my most heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased, other victims of this violence and all other violence across the state as well as the government and people of Kaduna State, and earnestly pray for the quick return of peace and normalcy to the affected areas, and also pray for an enduring peace in the state and the entire country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com