I still remember the first time I saw a corpse. It was about 54 years ago during the height of the Nigerian civil war. The sight was so unsettling that I still remember it vividly. On one hand, I wish I don’t. On the other hand, it is a good thing I do. It keeps me sensitised to the reality of war and violence, wherever they may be occurring. I certainly credit it to some extent for my pacifist inclination. During much of the war, I was living with most of my family members in our island village in Bonny. On one sunny afternoon, I went fishing by foot. I did that quite often, partly to help my family at a time of food scarcity and partly to give vent to a youngster’s restlessness. The tide had fully ebbed and just began to flow back again. So, it was a long trudge through the calf-deep mud to the water. I could sense immediately that it wasn’t going to be a good fishing day. It was easy to tell, especially for those of us who started fishing as toddlers. Still, I started casting my net wherever fish seemed to be “playing,” as we put it. And, as I already sensed, the yield was meagre. So, I stared farther at other areas that were reachable without a canoe. Sure enough, I could see fish “playing” across an elevated muddy land. So, I trudged over there. I was immediately struck by the pattern of “playing”: the fish were splashing in an oblong formation. Undeterred, I readied my net and started approaching stealthily — to the extent that was possible in a wide open space. But before I was close enough to cast the net, I noticed that the object that was exciting the fish was a floating corpse. I was struck with horror, and I immediately stopped fishing and returned home, still shaken. In my culture, children got to see coffins, but never the body in them. It was deemed too unsettling. So, nothing prepared me for the shock of that day. Well, actually, a few months earlier, I was in the presence of my immediate younger sister when she died. She had been struck during an air raid. Though the wound was at the back of her ankle and might have been successfully treated, there was no medical facility. I suspect she contracted tetanus, which may have accounted for her agonising death. The moment of death, though, seemed so peaceful, like deep sleep. I was too young to be sure. So, I summoned my mother to go to take a look. Even for a stoic woman, her facial expression on return from the room said it all, as she left to notify the village notables. I never saw my sister again. So, though I was there at the moment of her death, the image that remains with me is that of a beautiful girl sleeping peacefully at last. So, my experience while fishing remains, in my mind, the first time I saw a corpse. And the memory is still jarring. In any case, the two images — the floating corpse and my dying sister — still provide the prism through which I see deadly conflicts. Mercifully, the coverage of such conflicts generally dwells on the casualties as numbers and statistics. Mercifully? I am not so sure. There’s a good reason to so characterise it though. Numbers are abstract, scientific, objective. That makes it possible for people to deal with distant deaths without necessarily being unsettled, without having nightmares. That is, without experiencing the sting of death. Whether those deaths are from atrocities by jihadists and bandits in Nigeria, wars in Ukraine, Syria and Yemen, or even neighborhood gun violence in the US, it is relatively easy to shrug off the news — perhaps shudder — and go on with one’s life. As sensitive as I am to such matters, I still find myself embarrassingly subject to the numbing effect. I cannot believe how often I have seen headlines of casualties from atrocities and war and simply skipped the story to read something else. It is either the numbing effect or a coping mechanism. I am not sure. I have wondered how I would react today if I am out fishing and see a floating body. Would it have the same jarring effect? Probably not exactly. The passing of the years gently steels one to the harsh realities of life. Even then, such an image would still unsettle me much more than casualty statistics. And that leads me to the reason I appreciate retaining the image of a floating corpse after more than half a century. That is, the reason I am not sure that palatable coverage of casualties is unquestionably a good thing. I wonder what would happen if instead of numbers and statistics people get to experience distant wars the way I experienced the sight of a floating body. There probably won’t be enough psychiatric wards to handle the secondary casualties. There are hardly enough as it is. So, let’s disregard that idea. How about having political and military leaders go through that experience for each casualty of war? They too would have to be committed to psychiatric wards, probably built as annexes to their opulent offices. That advantage aside, the experience should deter wars or bring ongoing ones to quick ends. It would be best, of course, if they could be subjected to the experience before the fact. Talking of which, on March 5, 2014, the Washington Post carried a presciently headlined op-ed piece: “Henry Kissinger: To settle the Ukraine crisis, start at the end.” It was written by Henry Kissinger — America’s most celebrated diplomat — when the current war began to brew. As US Secretary of State from 1973 to 1977, the German-born diplomat pursued the policies of détente and real politik. As such, he helped to keep the Cold War between the Capitalist West and the Communist East from becoming the hot war it is today in Ukraine. “Far too often the Ukrainian issue is posed as a showdown: whether Ukraine joins the East or the West,” Kissinger wrote. “But if Ukraine is to survive and thrive, it must not be either side’s outpost against the other — it should function as a bridge between them.” From all indications, Russia and Ukraine are inching toward a ceasefire, even a peace accord. And the blueprint appears to be what Kissinger sketched eight years ago. If, as one hopes, they reach an accord, the question has to be asked, why couldn’t they have made the compromises before hundreds of lives are wasted, millions of people displaced, and an untold number of homes and facilities destroyed? Why couldn’t they have made the compromises before thousands of children become scarred by images of floating bodies and dying siblings? Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com