The Nigerian Navy has confirmed the arrest of a naval rating for stabbing and shooting a doctor, Owen Edo-Ojo, on Gbamgbala Street, Elegushi, in Lekki area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro had reported that the victim’s mother while lamenting that her son was battling for his life in a hospital, demanded justice and prosecution of the personnel involved in the incident. Narrating how the incident happened, the aggrieved mother said her son, who wanted to attend a spa session, parked his vehicle at the front of a building when the rating accosted him. An argument bordering on where Edo-Ojo parked his vehicle ensued and in the process, the naval personnel allegedly brutalised him. Edo-Ojo’s mother said the rating stabbed her son’s neck and shot his thigh and pelvis, adding that a thorough investigation should be carried out to identify the assailants. Reacting to the development, the Nigerian Navy, in a statement by its spokesperson, Adedotun Ayo-Vaughan, on Friday, said the errant rating responsible for the attack had been apprehended. The statement read, “The attention of the Nigerian Navy has been drawn to trending media reports on the alleged shooting and stabbing of a medical doctor, Dr Owen Edo-Ojo, by a drunk naval rating. The alleged incident was said to have occurred at Gbamgbala Street, Elegushi, in Lekki, Lagos, on March 19, 2022. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Nigerian Navy wishes to inform the general public that the rating in question has been apprehended and detained while due investigation is ongoing to unravel the circumstances that led to the alleged shooting and stabbing of Dr Owen by the naval rating. “Furthermore, the Commander, Nigerian Navy Ship WEY at Navy Town, Ojo, Lagos, under whose jurisdiction the incident occurred, paid a visit to the Edo-Ojo family on March 24, 2022, to empathise and confirm the condition of their son, Dr Owen. “Equally to state, as directed by the Chief of the Naval Staff that the rating if found culpable will be appropriately punished in line with extant provisions of the Armed Forces Act. “The Nigerian Navy assures the general public that the service is not unmindful of the place of discipline, professionalism, and respect of the civil populace by naval personnel in the discharge of their duties. Accordingly, the general public is assured of the navy’s commitment to the respect and protection of law-abiding citizens while ensuring that appropriate punishment is meted out to any of its personnel that violates extant regulations and Standard Operating Procedure.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com