An Adamawa businessman has been defrauded of N1.3m by a spiritualist promising to double the sum to N500 million. Salisu Adamu, the victim of the fraud, who hails from Shelleng Local Government Area, in the state was duped by a spiritualist, identified as one Alhaji Bala, according to court records. PUNCH Metro gathered that Bala had been introduced to his victim by one Ado Mohammed of Sabon Layi, Gombi Local government area of the state. Bala had promised to print the whopping sum of N500 million fake currency for Salisu and eventually collected N1.3million from him to facilitate the money doubling ritual, which included the purchase of animals for sacrifice as well as consulting demons. But after some time passed, Salisu who became suspicious that the spiritualist had yet to make good on his promise reached out to Ado who introduced him to the spiritualist and both headed to the home of the spiritualist only to discover he had disappeared from his residence located along Army Barracks road in Jimeta. Salisu later reported the matter to the police State intelligence Bureau attached to the Adamawa State Police Command, who immediately apprehended Ado for questioning. Ado, who is now facing charges following his arraignment before a Yola Magistrate court, for criminal conspiracy and fraud contrary to sections 60 and 317 of the penal code law, while pleading guilty to the charges, said he only wanted to help Salisu who approached him for help. During Ado’s arraignment on Friday, at Magistrate Court I, presided over by Muhammad Digil, the judge ordered that Ado be remanded in prison custody and subsequently adjourned the matter to the 30th March, 2022 for corroboration and summary trial as prayed by the prosecutor, Inspector Nurudeen Abubakar. Speaking to PUNCH Metro, Ado recounted how he first gave the spiritualist N300,000 to print N40 million for him to boost his business, adding that though the spiritualist never printed the money, the explanation given for the setback was that he Ado had black demons who had made it impossible for the spiritualist to print the monies for him. He said, ” I took Alhaji Salisu to the herbalist in good fate so that he will try his luck, perhaps Alhaji Salisu’s demons will give permission to the herbalist so as to print the money he demanded.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com