No fewer than 23 Super Eagles players have arrived at the Super Eagles of Nigeria camp in Abuja as they prepare for a crucial 2022 FIFA World Cup play-off against the Black Stars of Ghana. Ademola Lookman, who is newly invited to join the team, arrive at camp on Friday. There was doubt over the Leicester City forward’s availability earlier after he was absent in Leicester’s weekend victory against Brentford. The players in camp include: Goalkeepers: Francis Uzoho (AC Omonia, Cyprus); Daniel Akpeyi (Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa) Defenders: Semi Ajayi (West Bromwich Albion, England); Kenneth Omeruo (CD Leganes, Spain); Leon Balogun (Glasgow Rangers, Scotland); William Ekong (Watford FC, England); Ola Aina (Torino FC, Italy); Calvin Bassey (Glasgow Rangers, Scotland); Abdullahi Shehu (AC Omonia, Cyprus); Zaidu Sanusi (FC Porto, Portugal) Midfielders: Frank Onyeka (Brentford FC, England); Joseph Aribo (Glasgow Rangers, Scotland); Oghenekaro Etebo (Watford FC, England), Innocent Bonke (FC Lorient, France), Akinkunmi Amoo (FC Copenhagen, Denmark). Forwards: Ahmed Musa (Fatih Karagumruk, Turkey); Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal FC, Spain); Moses Simon (FC Nantes, France); Odion Ighalo (Al-Hilal FC, Saudi Arabia); Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City, England); Emmanuel Dennis (Watford FC, England) and Victor Osimeh (Napoli, Italy), Ademola Lookman (Leicester City, England) Super Eagles first choice goalie Maduka Okoye (Sparta Rotterdam, Netherlands) was on Tuesday replaced by John Noble (Enyimba Nigeria) due to illness. Nigeria host Ghana at the country’s premium sports facility on Tuesday next week, in what is the final leg of a playoff to determine one of Africa’s tickets to the 22nd FIFA World Cup finals in Qatar, holding 14th November – 18th December this year. The winners over the two legs will advance to the World Cup billed for Qatar from November 21 to December 18. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com