The United State Consulate General, Lagos has announced partnerships with Venture Garden Foundation and Ascend Studios Foundation to support the implementation of the 2022 Academy for Women Entrepreneurs. According to the consulate, AWE is a US government programme that advances women’s economic empowerment and entrepreneurship in Nigeria. It added that at the American Corner in Ikeja on Monday, the US Consulate Deputy Public Affairs Officer, Jennifer Foltz; the Group Head of Venture Garden Foundation, Tesilimi Yusuf; and the President of Ascend Studios Foundation, Inya Lawal, signed a Statement of Intended Cooperation to equip 250 Nigerian women with the practical skills they need to create sustainable businesses through the AWE programme. In a statement, Foltz said, “The Venture Garden Foundation team will bring a wealth of expertise and knowledge to the Academy for Women Entrepreneurs programme in Nigeria. “We are confident that their contributions to and engagement with the AWE participants will result in improved leadership, public speaking, time management, self-confidence, and financing options.” Yusuf added, “Technology makes business growth possible. As a technology company, our support for the Academy for Women Entrepreneurs will ensure that we help prospective and emerging women entrepreneurs and business owners compete more effectively with a whole array of cutting-edge technological solutions.” According to Lawal, the AWE programme has graduated over 520 participants. She described the programme as an opportunity for Nigerian women entrepreneurs to gain university-level business and management training, strengthen their networks, and grow sustainable businesses. We warmly welcome Venture Garden Foundation to the AWE family,” Lawal said. “AWE is a transformative initiative that is helping women in Nigeria build and sustain their businesses; the opportunities that come from this program are immense,” she added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com