The Deputy Governor of Akwa Ibom state Moses Ekpo, has charged the National Boundary Commission to be firm and resolute in its decisions, especially as they concern delicate boundary matters. He charged the commission not only to “bark” but also to “bite” if necessary, to enforce boundary resolutions in the country. Ekpo who stated this during the Transborder Corporation Sensitisation Tour by NBC officials to Ini and Ika Local Government Areas of the state on Friday. He said it was frustrating that demarcation activities planned and executed, have been sabotaged and abandoned, leading to another round of agitations, crises and indiscriminate killings at such border flashpoints. Represented by Nkopuruk Ekaiko, the Permanent Secretary in his office, the deputy governor said the move has become imperative in order to checkmate persons and communities who are in the habit of flouting the directives and resolutions of the Commission. “The NBC should not only bark like a toothless bulldog. NBC should be prepared to bark and bite if it becomes necessary,” Ekpo said. He added, “There should be a penalty for individuals, communities and states who have taken the NBC for granted by refusing to co-operate with the Commission, especially, in the area of completing most of its abandoned field-tracing exercise and other demarcation activities”. He, therefore, urged the commission to re-assess the situation and take very strong steps to redeem the process from being derailed by people whose stock-in-trade is to profit from crises. On the Ikot Udo Ika/Akrika Obu conflicts, the Ekpo noted that the case was not a boundary matter, rather, a unique misunderstanding by Akwa Ibom people of the same parenthood who were constantly disagreeing over which state they should owe their allegiance to. He said what the situation required was a simple pronouncement based on agreed parameters in order to put to rest, years of anxiety and conflict in the community. In his remarks, the Director-General of the National Boundary Commission, Surveyor Adamu Adaji who was represented by the Assistant Director, Mrs. Yahanasu Aliyu noted that the NBC’s visit was aimed at promoting transborder co-operation to ensure that peace returns to the border communities through confidence building activities such as the provision of shared amenities along the borders. He disclosed that under this road-map, the Akwa Ibom/Abia borders have been designated as a priority boundary. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com