The Federal Character Commission on Tuesday called on state governors to ensure implementation of even distribution of social amenities to Nigerians, saying it would go a long way to promote national unity. The FCC Chair, Dr Muheeba Dankaka, made the call during a one-day sensitisation programme for stakeholders from the North-Central zone, with the theme ‘Promoting peace and national development through equitable distribution of socio-economic amenities and infrastructural facilities nationwide’. Dankaka said the purpose of the workshop was to create an opportunity to engage stakeholders from the Northern region and to interact and exchange ideas to enable the commission to execute its mandates effectively. “The workshop gives us the rare privilege to interact with accomplished bureaucrats, seasoned public administrators and other stakeholders. “This is for the purpose of exchanging ideas and adopting common strategies in the implementation of the commission’s mandate, particularly, the mandate of ensuring fair, equitable distribution of social services, economic amenities and infrastructural facilities in the country,“ she said. The FCC’s boss, who used the opportunity to task all governors and relevant stakeholders across the country, stressed enhancing national unity through the strict and even distribution of national resources across the board. “The commission is one of the 14 constitutional federal executive bodies, suitably positioned to ensure the effective utilisation of public investment for sustainable development. “And therefore, it is imperative for the commission to interact closely with the stakeholders to achieve its aim, being the custodian of the public,” she said. Also, Gov. Abubakar Bello of Niger, represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Ahmed Matane, commended the FCC management for the initiative. Bello said the actual purpose of leadership was to ensure the provision of the needs of the people, hence the need to brainstorm and exchange ideas to achieve the aim of governance. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha, who declared the event open, said it was essential for socio-economic and infrastructural facilities in the country to be fairly and equitably distributed among the various geo-political zones. Represented by Mr Emmanuel Ogunmefun, Director Planning and Statistics, Office of the SGF, Mustapha said the nation’s unity and peaceful coexistence of the people were based on the assurance of equitable and fair development. “Our unity as a country and peaceful coexistence as a people are based on the assurance that every part of the country is fairly and equitably developed,” he said. (NAN)