Hundreds of youths on Friday marched in Owerri, the Imo state capital, calling for an end to insecurity in the state. The youths said that the killings, kidnapping, banditry, and all forms of insecurity affecting the state were against the dreams of the state’s founding fathers. The youths who marched from control post roundabout to government house roundabout down to Wetheral, Douglas Road, MCC Road, Bank Road, Okigwe Road, World bank Road, Orlu Road and Teltlow Road, said that the economy of the state was shrinking. The youths who operated on the platform of the Imo Youths Peace Movement, called on politicians in the state to de-escalate tension in the state by playing politics with principles. Chairman and founder of the Group, Chidubem Ogbenna, said that they had also carried out the same march in Orlu and Okigwe zones of the state. Ogbenna said that the essence of the rally was to sensitise the people of the state that there was no alternative to peace. The peace advocate said, “This is the grand finale of this rally. We had in the past two days carried out this same rally in Orlu zone and also in the Okigwe zone of the state. This is a serious campaign. We are fading up with the level of insecurity in Imo state. The kidnaping, armed robberies, killing of policemen, bombing of security formations and all forms of banditry in this state are unacceptable. “We have no place to call our state except Imo. We are not politically partisan. We are self funded. We are only interested in the security and well-being of the state. We have written to the governor of Imo state, informing him that we are committed to the peace and well-being of the state and the people of Imo state. We have also visited the commissioner for information and strategy and his counterpart in the ministry of justice. The publicity secretary of the group, Gideon Chinagorom, said that the group was seriously engaging youths in the hinterlands in its efforts to restore peace in the state. The group’s spokesperson said, “We are not limiting our consultations. We also know that a lazy mind is the devil’s workshop. That is why we are rehabilitating those who are victims of drug abusers like mkpuru miri. We are trying our best to reintegrate them into society. The Provost of the group, Johnson Eric said, “This is a major campaign for us. We have no sponsors. We are concerned citizens of Imo state who are embittered about the level of insecurity in the state. We are losing a lot. Our youths are dying, companies are folding, people are skeptical to come to do business in Owerri any more. Our security formations are being destroyed. This is why we are calling on everybody to be genuinely concerned about the restoration of peace and security in Imo state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com