The Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, has pleaded with commuters to show understanding over the planned re-opening of Lekki-Ikoyi toll gate. According to a statement on Wednesday, Omotoso disclosed this during the Arise News Morning Show, about the plan by Lekki Concession Company to open the Lekki-Ikoyi tolling facility and run it free of charge for two weeks. He explained that the toll plaza had to be re-opened because LCC staff members have been out of work and the company had huge debts to pay. He said, “The re-opening will go ahead as recently announced by the LCC and toll will not be collected for the first two weeks to test run the new technology being installed there. This is to ensure people have a better way of paying at the toll gate. “It is also economically unrealistic and investment unfriendly for the toll plaza to remain shut forever as the company has financial obligations to discharge to its creditors while its staff members, about 500 in number, have been out of work for 18 months, also need to get back to work and earn their livelihood. LCC is owing local lenders N61.1 million and foreign lenders $31.1 million. “The restoration of operations by LCC follows extensive engagement with stakeholders, such as the residents association, traditional rulers, transport union and others, all of whom the state truly appreciates. “LCC is a major partner in the development of infrastructure on the Victoria Island-Lekki-Ikoyi-Ajah corridor and this has been variously expressed in the reconfiguration of the first, second and Ajah roundabouts to ease traffic as well as responding to security challenges to foster a safe and secure atmosphere for living and doing business.” The commissioner also noted that the state government is on top of the situation regarding the face-off between the National Secretariat and the Lagos State chapter of the National Union of Road Transport Workers.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com