THE House of Representatives, on Wednesday, resolved to set up an ad hoc committee to “investigate duplication of duties, overlapping functions and counter-productivity of established agencies, departments, boards, parastatals and corporations in the country.” The committee is to conduct a “root-cause analysis” of the regular bickering among some established bodies under the Federal Government. Also, the committee is to establish “areas of mergers, synergies and justification of the existence of some established agencies, departments, boards, parastatals and corporations, which are no longer needed in the country,” and report back to the House within six weeks for further legislative action. The move is based on a motion moved by the Majority Whip, Mohammed Monguno, titled ‘Need to Investigate the Duplication of Functions of Agencies of the Federal Government.’ PUNCH had exclusively reported on October 24, 2021, that the Federal Government could save over N241bn if the Stephen Oronsaye report on public sector reforms was implemented. The Oronsaye report, which was submitted in 2011, stated that there were 541 Federal Government parastatals, commissions and agencies (statutory and non-statutory). The report added that 263 of the statutory agencies should be reduced to 161,38 agencies should be abolished while 52 agencies should be merged. It further recommended that 14 agencies should revert to departments in ministries. Monguno, while moving the motion, noted that Section 153(1) of the Constitution established certain federal executive bodies, while Section 4(2) of the 1999 Constitution empowers the National Assembly to repeal obsolete laws and enact new ones for the good governance of the Federation; The lawmaker also noted that Nigeria has been gaining on the world index of Ease of Doing Business, rising from the 145th position in 2019 to 131st in 2020, “hence there is a need to consolidate on this improvement.” He said, “The House is worried that with the existence of about 1,484 agencies, departments, boards, parastatals and corporations in the country, with the attendant duplication of functions and clash of interests, there is a likelihood of the latest World Bank annual ratings to slide considerably; “The House believes in the need for stock-taking and reviewing the functions of all government agencies.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com