The Osun State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Prof. Abdulganiyu Raji, on Monday, said 400,000 intending voters were yet to complete the registration process for their Permanent Voter Card. He called on those that had commenced the process online to complete it and get their PVCs before the poll. Raji said as at March 18, 2022, out of about 650,000 people that registered on the Independent National Electoral Commission’s portal during the Continuous Voter Registration exercise, only 250,000 had completed their registration by going for the physical capturing. Announcing the devolution of CVR centres to 332 wards in the state at a stakeholders’ meeting held with political parties, royal fathers and religious leaders at the INEC state office in Osogbo, Raji stated that the exercise would commence from March 24 to March 30, between the hours of 9.00 am and 3.00 pm every day. He said, “Unfortunately, if you look at this graph, since we started this registration, just a little over 250,000 have completed their registration, whereas we have over 650,000 that have done online registration. So by implication in Osun State, about 400,000 people have disenfranchised themselves. “This decision (devolution) of the Commission is aimed at ensuring that all eligible voters who have not, or could not perform their civic duty of registering as voters due to distance, were provided with the opportunity to do so with ease. “It is in the light of this that I am urging and appealing to this gathering to assist the Commission by further sensitising and mobilising members of the public to take this advantage to either register or transfer their voting rights to Polling Units, especially the newly created PUs close to their residence.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com