The Kebbi Area Command of the Nigeria Customs Service has said it intercepted 723 parcels of 1kg each of cannabis Sativa with a Duty Paid Value of N28.92m and other contrabands worth N32m in three weeks. This was disclosed by the Area Controller in charge of the command, Joseph Attah, while handing over the contrabands to the commander of the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency, Kebbi State Command, Mr Peter Odaudu. In a statement signed by the Public Relations Officer of the command, Nasiru Manga, the area controller was quoted as saying, “You may recall that shortly after I took over barely three weeks ago, I specifically mentioned fuel and foreign parboiled rice as products my men should keep watchful eyes on. “Already our efforts and determination have started paying off. In addition to the 723 parcels of cannabis, we also intercepted and seized 8,850 litres of Premium Motor Spirit, 16 bales of second-hand clothing, and other items with a Duty Paid Value of N32.53m.” According to him, the success of the operation can be attributed to an ongoing reorientation and robust stakeholder engagement in the command. Attah added, “The patrol teams are being re-orientated with an anti-bunkering team and rapid response squad created. According to him, the new teams have a mandate to ensure that fuel smugglers do not have breathing space in the Command’s area of jurisdiction. He said, “Nothing that can negatively affect security and the economy should be allowed entry or exit.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com