The National Universities Commission has given the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso the approval to run 13 new courses in full-time mode. This was contained in a statement on Monday by the Public Relations Officer of the university, Mr Lekan Fadeyi. He said the approval was contained in a letter written to the Oyo State-owned institution by the NUC. The statement read, “A letter from the NUC dated March 14, 2022, addressed to the Vice-Chancellor and signed by Dr. Noel Biodun Salihu, Director of Academic Planning on behalf of the Executive Secretary of NUC, conveyed the approval. “The NUC explained that the letter followed the resource verification visit that was carried out recently by panels of experts to some proposed academic programmes in the university. The effective date for the commencement of the programmes is the 2021/2022 academic session. “The letter listed the new undergraduate courses to include B. Tech Fisheries and Aquaculture, BLIS Library and Information Science, B. Sc Sociology, B. A. English Language and Literary Studies, B. Sc. Hospitality and Tourism Management, and B.A. Philosophy. The approval also included B. A. History; as well as B. Tech. Forest Resource Management and B. Tech Wildlife and Ecotourism Management. “Other courses whose establishment also got the nod of NUC included: B. Tech Consumer and Home Economics; B. Tech. Estate Management; B. Tech. Survey and Geoinformatics as well as B. Tech. Building.” Commenting on the development, the Acting Vice-Chancellor, LAUTECH, Prof. Mojeed Liasu, said it was a welcome development and one calling for encomium to be showered on the owner state under the able leadership of Governor Seyi Makinde and the Governing Council under Prof. Ayodeji Omole. He said, “we do not intend to take this confidence for granted and we shall continue to play according to the laid down rules.” Recall that there are moves by the state government to turn the university into a conventional one and to change its name from LAUTECH to LAU which means Ladoke Akintola University. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com