There was heavy security presence at the National Secretariat of the All Progressives Congress in Abuja on Monday morning. Our Correspondent observed that all access roads directly leading to the secretariat on Blantyre Street, Wuse 2, have remained cordoned off, grounding vehicular movement. Also, party members as well as secretariat staff members were not being allowed free access to the premises. One of the security operatives, who spoke to our correspondent, revealed that their presence there was to forestall any breakdown of law and order; not to effect any takeover as many feared. This development followed reports that the Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello, has taken over the APC as ‘sole administrator’ following the sack of Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, as chairman of the caretaker committee. The reports also asserted that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), approved Buni’s sack and Bello’s appointment shortly before leaving the country to London Sunday afternoon. But reacting on Monday, the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressive Congress denied reports that the president has sacked its chairman. A statement signed by the National Secretary of the CECPC, John Akpanudoedehe, titled ‘Fake news: No leadership change in APC CECPC,’ revealed that leadership changes are not announced by ‘sources’ through name-dropping in the media. The statement read, “Our attention has been drawn to sponsored media reports on an imaginary leadership change in the All Progressives Congress Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee. “The media report is fake news and should be disregarded. “The APC is a progressive political party guided by rules. Leadership changes are not announced by ‘sources’ through name-dropping in the media. “We urge our teeming supporters, members and indeed the general public to remain calm and support the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC CECPC to conduct a rancour-free and credible National Convention.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com