The Ebonyi State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, on Wednesday, described the demand for Certificate of Return by the Peoples Democratic Party from the Independent National Electoral Commission as illegal. The APC said that the demand for the Certificate of Return for the PDP’s purported candidates was childish and a sheer act of foolishness. The Ebonyi State APC Chairman, Honourable Stanley Okoro Emegha, who stated this in Abakaliki during a press briefing, also accused the PDP of being behind the crisis and insecurity in the state. Emegha also warned the PDP to desist from deceiving herself and the general public, adding that the APC had appealed on the sack of Umahi and a stay of execution served on the PDP. He said, “APC Ebonyi State has described as the foolishness of the highest order by Ebonyi PDP in demanding for certificate of return from INEC for their purported candidates for an election their said candidates never participated. “The constitution of Nigeria section 285 (13) and the amended electoral laws both 2010 and 2022 including all known cases of both Appeal and Supreme court decisions, already made it clear that you cannot benefit or sue or be used for an election you did not participate. “It is therefore very funny and childish for PDP to be requesting for certificate of Return from INEC, even without regards to the Abakaliki court order which is a judgement in REM on the seat of the Governor and Deputy Governor of Ebonyi State. “Ebonyi PDP is warned to desist from deceiving herself and the general public knowing very well that the said judgement has since been appealed and notice of appeal and stay of execution served on PDP. Emegha also said that the APC was now aware of those behind crisis and insecurity in the state and vouched to deal decisively with them. “We are now aware of who and who are behind the crisis and cases against Ebonyi State Government including all the insecurity in the state since the Governor defected from PDP to APC. “APC Ebonyi State will deal decisively with anyone who leaves his Facebook foolishness in the name of being nominated as a candidate and steps Ebonyi State into further crisis and insecurity. “Ebonyi State Government is stable and all projects and programmes are ongoing and will never stop. Ebonyi people are requested to be calm and vigilant and assured that justice is already at hand,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com