DAUD OLATUNJI writes on the plights of travellers and residents of Ayetoro road in Ogun State, many of whom have fallen victims of kidnappers, who demand millions of  naira ransom from them Rounder-Ayetoro Road in Ogun State is a trunk A  road that connects traders and travellers  to the Lafenwa  market, a popular market in Abeokuta, the  state capital. It also  connects  about  three local government areas: Abeokuta-North,  Yewa-North and Imeko-Afon.  The road is  crucial to farmers, who have their farms in some parts of the Ogun West Senatorial District  and transport  their  produce  to the  market through the road. Sadly, recent kidnap cases  have  created  fears in  travellers and traders who ply the road.  Many of them have either been  kidnapped or robbed and maimed in the area . Many  kidnap cases have been recorded in the state, but  the ones that occurred on the road and its environs are almost half of the total kidnap cases  in the state. Many people are of the view that with  35 Artillery Brigade Barracks of  the Nigerian Army  situated at Alamala, a community along the road, kidnapping should not have been rampant in the area. But a lot of travellers have been kidnapped on the road and almost all of them  regained their freedom after the paying  ransom running into millions of naira. Between January 2021 and February 2022, more than 50 people  including a doctor and a nurse,  two students of the Yewa Campus of the Olabisi Onabanjo University,  a female Inspector of police and some passengers were abducted on the road. On August 27, 2021,  15 persons, who  left Lagos for Ayetoro for a social engagement, were robbed,  maimed and kidnapped on the road. On September 22, 2021, three persons, including  a pregnant woman, were kidnapped and  their kidnappers demanded  N30m after  negotiations. On September  9, 2021,  a retired lecturer from the Federal Polytechnic , Ofa , Fasasi Olanigan, was abducted on the  Abeokuta-Ayetoro-Imasai  road . A sum of N25m  was demanded as ransom, but, luckily for him  he escaped from his abductors. On November 15,2021, four persons were abducted on that road and a sum of N15m was allegedly paid by them. On December 21,2021, two clerics gained their freedom after they were abducted in front of their house.  A sum of N2.2m was reportedly paid. On January16, 2022 , the state security outfit , So-Safe, arrested a kidnap kingpin, Bature Ibrahim, on the Olohunda-Ayetoro-Imala road in the Abeokuta-North and the Yewa-North local government areas. On February 17,2022  a nursing mother, Salimot Ajibola,  was abducted along the road in the presence of her husband. It was observed that the problem of kidnapping had become a statewide  issue as almost all the local government areas of  the state havd their share of the menace. There are some  reported   cases on the Igbo-Ora-Sokoto road which is a stone’s throw  from the Rounder-Ayetoro road . It has  also spread to Obada-Oko, where residents  have adopted traditional  means of curbing the menace. . The Odeda Local Government which shares  boundaries with the state capital was not spared. An eye witness, who preferred to be identified as Baba Saheed, said travellers feared  Rounder  Olohunda, Imala to Ayetoro and Imeko-Afon areas of the state. Baba Saheed  said the incessant kidnap cases had  forced him and many others to relocate from Ayetoro to Abeokuta. Making reference to the incident where 15 travellers were kidnapped, he  said, “The one I witnessed happened around September  12 when 15 persons, who  were travelling from Lagos to Ogun State for a burial were abducted. “They were in two buses. Unfortunately, by the time they got to Rounder, along Ayetoro road, it was around 11pm. “Also,  there was case of a woman that sold goods around Kara area. She also left her shop for home  around 10pm  in Ayetoro. She was abducted and killed after the kidnappers  knew that the woman identified them. They woman was a popular  in that area.  She was called Iya Kazeem.” Speaking on the efforts made to curb the menace, the state Commander, So-Safe Corps,   Soji Ganzallo, claimed that most of the arrests made along that road were by the command. He said the command had resolved to send its  officers  as undercover  agents  on the road. He said,  “ If you go there, you still see the presence of our officers on that road , you will see them in uniform. You will see them by the side of the road.That is what we are doing to make sure that those that ply  the road nurse no fear.” The Special Adviser to governor on Security Matters, Sol Subair, said the newly inaugurated OP-MESA would tackle the menace. Subair stated,  “Recall that of recent there was the launch of OP-MESA ; so,  it’s a combination of all our security agencies:  the Army, police, DSS, Civil defense and  our own Amotekun. So  we are all working towards   ensuring all the issues of kidnapping are  curbed. While assuring the users of the road, Subair said, “It’s is safe, we just have some  isolated cases. It’s not that the area is not safe, but,  you know that  our people are always apprehensive when we have  just one reported case.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi  disagreed that the road had become dreadful   for the users. Oyeyemi said  the command recognised the fact that kidnap cases had been taking place there ,hence, it deployed its men there. He said,  “We  have the presence of our policemen along that road and we have been doing everything possible to carry out  joint raids in that axis and we are working in collaboration with  other security agencies. “ Don’t forget that in Alamala, there is a   military base. We are working  with other security agencies to sanitise that area and we have been having collaborating with the Fulani settlers, especially their leaders.” On why  payment of ransom is rampant,  Oyeyemi said the police should not be blamed for that action. He said many families of victims would not tell the police in confidence what the kidnappers told them. “Do you know how many of these kidnappers in that axis that have been arrested by our men ? Some have  even lost their  lives in gun battles with our men on that same road you are talking about. We are doing everything possible to make sure that  that place is free of all these hoodlums.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com