The Nigeria Football Federation and ex-internationals have mourned late former Super Eagles midfielder, Justice Christopher, The PUNCH reports. Christopher slumped and died in his hotel in Gwolshe, off Tudunwada Ring Road, Jos, Plateau State, on Wednesday morning. He was part of the Eagles squad at the 2002 World Cup co-hosted by Japan and Korea, and featured in the final group game against England at the Osaka Nagai Stadium. Reacting to his sudden death, the NFF stated, “This is devastating. Justice Christopher was young and full of life. His death is a thing of deep sorrow here at the NFF and the entire Nigerian football ambience. There was no report that he was ill. We are stunned to hear of his death. We pray that God will grant him eternal rest and comfort the family that he has left behind.” Speaking with The PUNCH, Christopher’s former teammate Mutiu Adepoju said he was shocked to learn about the death of his former teammate. “I felt so bad when I learnt about his death; it’s unfortunate. I’m in deep shock, I wondered what could have happened.” Another Christopher’s  teammate Garba Lawal added, “He was a gentleman, we talked a lot because he called me several times. He was a fantastic player, we were together at the 2002 World Cup and after the tournament he always kept in touch.” A devastated Ike Shorunmu said, “The news is so shocking because he was a young guy whose presence brought life to anywhere he was.” Christopher represented Nigeria at youth and senior levels, playing 11 times for the Eagles between 2001 and 2002. At club level, he featured for Katsina United, Sharks and Insurance on the domestic front before travelling abroad, where he played for Antwerp, Levski Sofia, Trelleborgs FF; Alania Vladikavkaz and Herfølge BK. In October 2012, he joined Nasarawa United before his retirement.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com