***set to donate N2bn A pro-All Progressives Congress group under the auspices of the Bridge Builders Initiative for Green Nigeria, Wednesday in Abuja, gave the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Ameachi, a 21-day ultimatum to officially declare for the presidency. BBIGN disclosed this during a solidarity march in support of APC and Ameachi at the Buhari House, national secretariat of the APC. Speaking on the group’s behalf, its National President, Emmanuel Orgwu, expressed displeasure over Amaechi’s delay to declare for the top office saying whoever convinces the former Rivers State Governor to run for the 2023 Presidency will be rewarded with N10m. He said, “It is based on the qualities which Chibuike Amaechi has that we, Nigerians, are calling on the Ubima-born leader and politician to declare his interest to run for the 2023 Presidency to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. “We Nigerians have saved the sum of N2 billion to give to Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi for his election activities once he declares his interest to contest for the 2023 Presidency. “So, Mr Minister, money is not going to be a problem or cause any hindrance. Therefore, we are giving you a 21-day ultimatum to declare, otherwise, we shall force you to do so. As Nigerians, we have both legal and moral rights to choose our King, and we have chosen Chibuike Amaechi.” BBIGN described the Minister as the “only one capable of succeeding the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.)” saying his capacity, commitment to good governance and citizens’ welfare, development and sacrifices for the APC qualifies him for the top office. While congratulating the newly-elected National Working Committee, Orgwu appealed to the leadership to ensure the party remains in power beyond 2023. “We believe in our great party, APC and her leaders. We appeal to the new leadership to do everything possible to ensure that APC retains power come 2023. “As a Pro APC group, we are doing our best. We have recruited over 10 million Nigerians into the party, APC, and have registered over six million members with INEC. “We must do everything possible as a support group to hold and mobilise more grassroots to ensure APC wins elections come 2023,” he said. BBIGN, therefore, asked the party to adopt and support the Minister of Transport to fly the party’s flag. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com