The Kano State Police Command has arrested an 18-year-old man, Abdulsamad Suleiman, of Dorayi Chiranchi Quarters, Gwale, Kano, alongside an accomplice, Mu’azzam Lawan, 17, over the alleged murder of a housewife. The spokesman for the state police command, SP Abdullahi Haruna, in a statement on Thursday, said, ‘’On February 12, 2022, around 8.30pm, a report was received from a resident of Danbare Quarters, Kumbotso LGA, Kano State, that on the same date around 8pm when he returned from his place of work to his house, he met his wife, Rukayya Jamilu, 21, in a pool of blood. She was motionless on her bed alongside her children, Anwar Jamilu, three, Amina Jamilu, one, with grievous injuries.” According to the statement, on receipt of the report, the state Commissioner of Police, Sama’ila Dikko, mobilised and instructed a team of detectives, led by the Divisional Police Officer, SP Ibrahim Hamma, to visit the scene. ‘’On arrival, the team rushed the victims to the Murtala Muhammed Specialist Hospital, Kano, where the housewife was examined and confirmed dead by a medical doctor, while the two other victims were admitted. ‘’Investigations conducted by the command’s criminal investigation department and the DSS led to the arrest of the principal suspect, Abdulsamad Suleiman, 18, of Dorayi Chiranchi Quarters, Gwale LGA, Kano State, alongside his accomplice, Mu’azzam Lawan, 17, of the same address,” the statement added. The police spokesperson disclosed that at the end of discreet investigation, the principal suspect confessed that on February 12, 2022, around 4pm, he went to the house of the deceased and met her on the bed. Haruna said, ‘’After the suspect greeted her, he saw three mobile phones and took them. Having realised that the housewife would recognise him, he used a wooden pestle to repeatedly hit her on her head, as well as hit her two children and disappeared with the mobile phones.’ “Furthermore, the suspect confessed that he gave one of the mobile phones to his friend and sold the other two for N12,000, just as his accomplice also confessed to selling the mobile phone given to him at N2,000.” On completion of investigation, the statement noted that the case would be charged to court. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com