The House of Representatives has blamed the failure of gender- related bills to pass during the ongoing amendment to the constitution on late lobbying by the sponsors, civil society organisations and women groups. According to the House, religious and cultural factors also influenced votes against the bills by the lawmakers. The Chairman of the House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Benjamin Kalu, made this known while addressing journalists in Abuja on Thursday. Lawmakers in the two chambers had on Tuesday voted on 68 recommendations by the Joint Senate and House of Representatives Special Ad Hoc Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution. Kalu said, “A great call, I must say! A wonderful call, I must say! But as you know, a journey of a thousand miles starts with a step. Will the thousand miles be done? Yes. When? It might take longer. But has a step been taken? Yes. Was it the right step? Yes. How long is it going to take? We may not know. “But a right step has been put forward. And I want to tell you that the lobbying that was done was not done in vain. That is why I have commended all these people who even visited the National Assembly. That is the beauty of democracy, because if it was not, the wife of the President and the wife of the Vice-President would have no business coming to the House. “They knew that it was only through lobbying, not as you have described us before as a rubber stamp, that they would just give us instructions, maybe by their husbands, and we will get it done. It will be through lobbying and they participated in that lobbying with all humility.” The House’s spokesman, however, stated that the lobbying and sensitisation should have begun earlier. He said, “But I must say this lobbying was done a bit late. Yes, I want to say that. The lobbying – the advocacy for this – was supposed to have started longer than now. I say that without mincing words. You don’t lobby two days to vote on a very important issue like this. “It goes beyond lobbying at the last minute. It takes a lot of orientation. It takes a lot of advocacy. It takes a lot of sensitisation to enable people buy into this all-important agenda. You know why? (It is) because you cannot play down on our current issues with regard to emerging democracy, one of which is our religious and cultural dispositions. These things play roles; they are part of the society. “Our religion and our culture are part of the society. It needs a lot of advocacy by the civil society organisations and the women groups to push this agenda forward. It is a wonderful agenda but for people to buy into it, even from the constituents, not even the representatives; because Nigerians are shifting their focus to the representatives and the senators only.” According to him, the House would not have passed the bills up to the voting stage if it was not interested in them from the onset. Meanwhile, the wives of the President and Vice-President, Aisha Buhari and Dolapo Osinbajo, on Thursday called on the National Assembly to review its decision on women-related bills. Aisha said, “The recent decision by the National Assembly to ignore the long-standing clamour for affirmative action for Nigerian women was contrary to the very high expectations of forward-looking Nigerian men and women.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com