Plateau United coach, Fidelis Ilechukwu, says he is wary of the threat from Enyimba when both sides clash in their matchday 18 Nigeria Professional Football League encounter in Aba on Saturday (today), Saturday Punch reports. The Jos-based club who are currently second on the league table will be hoping to leapfrog Rivers United who play against Gombe United on Sunday. Plateau are currently the most in-form side in the league having gone nine games without a loss but their strength will be tested when they file out against a not so consistent Enyimba in Aba. A win for the Jos-based side will mean they have remained unbeaten in five straight away games but Ilechukwu has conceded that the tie will be tough. “The game against Enyimba will be very tough because they are a very good side and one of the best teams in the country with the kind of quality they possess,” Ilechukwu told Saturday PUNCH. “They are currently going through a phase now but we should never forget that they are a top team with quality players and can come back to score many goals and hurt you when you least expect them. “The game will be tougher for us because we have some of our key players who are out injured. Some of them didn’t train with the team. “I’ll like for us to be unbeaten in 10 games but we’ll do our best to see that we get a good result,” Ilechukwu added. Enyimba have recorded wins in their last four meetings with Plateau United in their last four meetings at home, a result Ilechukwu will be hoping to change. However, Enyimba captain Austin Oladapo says they are ready to put an end to Plateau’s impressive form. “Playing Plateau United is going to be a very big game,” Oladapo told enyimbafc.net. “They have been in very good form. We can’t deny that fact. They have been doing well away from home. “But this is Enyimba, we have to give it all, give it our best, because we know, at this time, it has been very difficult for us. But Enyimba know how to play the big games. “I think we are prepared for this particular game. We are going to make ourselves proud, we’re going to make the fans proud, because ahead of this game, we have done a lot. “Plateau United are a good team but I don’t think they are favourites. We are favourites to win this match. It is our home, and we must do everything to get the maximum points.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com