The Bayelsa State Government has directed the chairmen of local government councils to constitute sub-committees to work with the state’s Anti-Open Grazing Law Implementation Committee to tackle the activities of errant herdsmen in the state. The Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ehwrudjakpo, explained that the directive was occasioned by recent cases of herdsmen violation of the law at Otuasega in the Ogbia Local Government Area and other parts of the state. He urged the various councils to set up the sub-committees within one week as part of steps to check the encroachment of farmlands and destruction of crops by cattle herders. Ehwrudjakpo said the sub-committees would work under the close supervision of the state implementation committee headed by the Commissioner for Agriculture and Natural Resources, David Alagoa. He gave the directive during a meeting with a delegation of women from the Otuasega community, top security officers and other stakeholders at the Government House, Yenagoa. The Otuasega women, led by Amiena Agiobu, had blocked the major road on Monday to protest against the unrestrained destruction of their farms and crops by herdsmen. Ewhrudjakpo, in a statement, stressed the need for the state police command and the 16th Brigade of the Nigerian Army to set up a swift response team to work closely with the committee. He said the government was resolute in its resolve to enforce the anti-open grazing law to the letter, warning that flouters of the law would be arrested and prosecuted. In their contributions, Alagoa and the Security Adviser to the state government, former Commissioner of Police Akpoebi Agberebi, noted that security operatives have had shootouts with errant herdsmen in the state, resulting in the seizure of 150 cattle and the arrest of some suspected violators. They also said that some of the culprits were in confinement at the Okaka Correctional Centre. The commissioner and Agberebi added that Okarki, a neighbouring Rivers State community, was the major route through which the herdsmen were entering Bayelsa State and promised to beef up security in the area. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com