Former reality TV star, Khloe Abiri, has narrated how she escaped an experience similar to the controversial circumstances surrounding the death of Oluwabamise Ayanwole, whose corpse was recovered by the police after she went missing on a government-approved Bus Rapid Transit vehicle in Lagos State. Bamise’s death had been sparking outrage and a call for justice as the state police command confirmed the arrest of the fleeing busman, Nice Omininikoron, who denied involvement in her death and claimed the bus was hijacked by three armed men who perpetrated the crime. Reacting to the tragic incident, Khloe said she almost had a similar experience with an Uber driver, whose vehicle was smelling of blood, and had a knife as he was conveying her to the airport in Ikeja. The reality star said the strange observation got her scared, adding that the driver angrily dropped her off when she faked a call to her younger sister to inform her about her movement. She said, “So, my kid sis ordered the ride cos the driver that was supposed to take me to the airport was taking too long and I don’t want to miss my flight. I was on a call till we got to Lekki Express about to link to Ikoyi Bridge, then I was about to ask him to play radio then I realised there is none and no AC. “He was listening to music on his phone with earpiece. I was talking to him and asking why all these things are not in the car, he ignored me and I taped the dash to get his attention then he said do I want to go or it’s AC or radio I want to eat. “He had a knife under his leg, his car was smelling like menstrual blood and weed, the whole radio part was removed and stuffed with cloths and he locked the car from his side as we were approaching farm city. “I told him to remove the child lock and he started acting weird. I sent my sister a message and started forming calls like my sister was driving behind us, was talking about his car and how he’s acting, then he made a U-Turn, parked, unlock the car and asked me to get out. “Oh, I forgot, is car colour and plate isn’t the same as the app cos over 10mins my sister was under the sun looking for his car as it’s said to arrive. As I was about to get out of the car, I begged a man walking by to pls help me open the door and hold my box so as I’m coming down he won’t drive off with my box. Guess what? He pushed me and my box out.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com