Adora Nwodo, 25, is a tech content creator and an award-winning software engineer with Microsoft. She tells NOAH BANJO about her career and other issues T ell us about your background? I am a software engineer and tech content creator currently living in Nigeria. I got exposed to computers at a very early age and since then, I have been a tech enthusiast. This led me to study Computer Science and now, I am building a career in Software Engineering. I also have a YouTube channel, where I talk about software engineering, productivity and career growth. My first interaction with a computer was when I was seven years old. I started by making movie screenplays and business cards with Microsoft Powerpoint and CorelDraw respectively. At some point, I got introduced to the Internet and I discovered that technology was very exciting. I literally spent a lot of my childhood in front of a desktop computer. This was how I got into tech. Because I found it exciting, I started reading about computers and I discovered programming. I was also taking my ICT classes seriously at school. Writing code at a young age made me realise I could create a programme for almost anything I thought about if I had the skills, and I found that exciting. Can you take us through your career journey so far? I had my first internship in 2016 as a software developer in an advertising agency. After six months of internship, I stayed there as a part-time employee throughout my final year of university. Immediately I graduated, I spent 18 months there and got an offer to work at Microsoft. What was the process that led to your employment with Microsoft? I got a LinkedIn message from a Microsoft recruiter in January 2019, telling me about the role and it sounded exciting. When the job application became public, I applied, went for all the interviews and got an offer. Five months before that, I had tried interviewing with Google Dublin and I got rejected (this was my first job interview). So, I had learnt about interviewing and worked on the mistakes I made during my Google interview. When I had the Microsoft interview, I was very intentional and made sure I did not repeat those mistakes again. What memorable moments have you had in your career? Aside from promotions at work, in 2021, I won my first professional award. I won the Young CISO Network Excellence in Disruptive Technology, Cloud and Embedded Device Security Award. You are an expert in cloud engineering. What does that entail? I am excited about the ‘cloud’ and all the technology built on top of it. Cloud engineering is the process of applying engineering principles on the cloud. And the ‘cloud’ is a set of servers that can be accessed over the Internet. We can use these servers to do any form of computing, such as store data, do heavy processing or run applications. You recently published a book titled ‘Cloud Engineering for Beginners’. What inspired it? It is a book for people trying to start their cloud engineering careers. It introduces the reader to the concept of the cloud, the roles of a cloud engineer, how to pick a cloud engineering career path and how to succeed in that career. What kind of reception has the book enjoyed so far? It has been great. People have bought several copies for people in their communities that want to start their careers. What significant projects have you worked on since you joined Microsoft? I work in ‘mixed reality’, so I was part of the team that worked on the ‘Azure Object Anchors’ project initially. Today, I work on Microsoft Mesh our Mixed Reality Collaboration platform. There seems to be a push for more women to be in tech. How do you think that would benefit the industry? Women are customers for tech products too and I believe the teams that build these tech products should be some sort of reflection of the population that use the products. More women in tech would create a balance, and having more female tech leaders can help us build more inclusive products. The tech industry is largely male-dominated. What measures can be taken to ensure a balance in the near future? More female role models and communities are a good place to start. I know some women driving these things. One way to ensure that they reach more women with their programmes is by giving them financial support. As a woman in tech, what challenges do you face and how are you dealing with them? I have been lucky to only have the regular challenges that all software engineers face, regardless of their gender. However, I see a lot of cyber bullying and stereotyping that happens on social media to women in tech. I fight against it and I am always vocal about it because I believe that women should support one another. The study and usage of technology are creating opportunities for young Nigerians. What are your thoughts on how to best utilise those opportunities? Technology is creating opportunities for the youth in multiple areas. From a corporate perspective, there are a lot of tech start-ups hiring engineers. From a business perspective, people are now creating businesses enabled by technology, and they are actually solving some of challenges we face as Nigerians. From a creative perspective, people that are not able to get corporate jobs for different reasons but have access to the Internet can start digital jobs such as freelancing and content creation. I believe that young people all over the world with Internet access are very powerful. We can create whatever we want and share it with the world. What awards or recognition have you got in your career? I have got quite a number of recognitions. I won three Hackernoon awards this year. I was nominated as the Young CISO of the Year 2022. I was also nominated for ‘Tech Woman of the Year’ category in the Herconomy Awards 2022, and I won Tech Woman of the Year in Business Executive 2022. I am grateful and I do not take those recognitions and support for granted. What do you do to take a break from work? I am a very busy person because that is how I go on about life. I always love being active. When I take a break from work, I could watch movies, be in a restaurant, or in a lounge disc jockeying. I love to DJ for fun. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com