The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar have congratulated Nollywood veteran actor, Pete Edochie, on the occasion of his 75th birthday. The President joined entertainers in the music and movie industry, particularly Nollywood, in celebrating with the veteran actor, scriptwriter, and movie producer on the milestone on Monday. Buhari, who singled out Edochue for commendation, urged him to continue nurturing several talents for the country’s entertainment sector with his vast experience. This was contained in a statement by the president’s Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, titled, ‘President Buhari greets veteran actor, Pete Edochie at 75’. The statement read, “President Buhari congratulates the renowned actor for the many pioneering and motivating roles in the entertainment industry, hitting the limelight in the 80s as Okonkwo in the screen adaptation of Chinua Achebe’s “Things Fall Apart”, where his superlative performance brought the spotlight to Nigeria and Africa. “The President notes that Edochie’s background of living and working extensively in various parts of the country and the world, after serving the government as staff of the Nigeria Railway Corporation and Nigeria Broadcasting Corporation, greatly shaped his global outlook and influenced his interpretation of roles as a thespian. ‘Congratulating Edochie, the usually stereotyped actor as king and father in movies, President Buhari affirms that his role in the founding and growing of Nollywood as one of biggest entertainment industries in the world deserves commendation, especially in incubating younger professionals and nurturing talents like his son, Yul Edochie. “The President prays that the Almighty God will crown the award-winning actor, who has many international recognitions, with good health and strength to keep serving the nation.” On his part, Atiku, through a tweet on his Twitter handle on Monday, wished the actor good health and vitality to continue his leading role in the industry. He tweeted, “Ebube Dike. Ebube Dike. Ebube Dike. Ekele dịrị gị, Chief Pete Edochie, on the occasion of your 75th birthday celebration. I wish you more years in good health and vitality.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com