Following the recent death of Rahab Hassan, who was hit by yet to be identified vehicle, during Governor Muhammadu Yahaya’s visit to Kumo for the signing of Public Private Partnership on the University of Science Akko Local Government, Association of Non Governmental Organisations, on Tuesday ordered Gombe State Government to ensure the removal of political stands. According to a press statement by the Chairman of ANGO, Ibrahim Yusuf, the government should discontinue the involvement of schoolchildren, who were used for welcoming during such governor’s visits. The statement tagged,’The Increasing endangering of the precious Lives of innocent Pupils and Students in the State’, urged security agencies to within 48 hours effect the relocation of such stands to remove the wards from harm’s way. The statement partly read, “We are on this press conference this morning to condemn in strong terms the continuous reckless endangering of safety and lives of pupils and students in the state. “We observe that the activities of political actors and supporters of especially the ruling Party in the state have continued to make some school environment so unsafe, dangerous, and life threatening in the state. The group revealed that the political stands served as harbinger for thugs and would endanger the lives of children during political crises. The statement added, “We are concerned like every other right-thinking person over the conspicuous siting of a political thugs hub right at the front of the Central Primary School at the heart of the metropolis by supporters of one APC ‘Mai Katifa’. “This is a gross careless, callous, and insensitive act that has continued to put the lives of over 2,500 Primary School Pupils, 2,000 and 1,500 Junior and Senior Secondary School Students respectively who go into the school for their educational pursuit every school day at risk.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com