Greenwood House School, Lagos, has reiterated its stance against bullying by inaugurating  an anti-bullying campaign. The weeklong zero-tolerance for bullying campaign engaged students, parents and teachers to change the attitude, behaviour and culture of bullying by building skills and confidence to address different situations. The campaign, which began on March 7, 2022, climaxed with a walk on Friday round the school premises at Parkview Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos. The co-Founder of the school, Dr Ekua Abudu, said, “The awareness of the effects of bullying is not an inherent attitude we are born with, but an attitude we develop through the observation and actions of those that influence others, especially those who are young. “The actions and reactions of others are what fuel or douse the flames of bullying. At Greenwood House School, we believe that awareness and knowledge of bullying are crucial among the students and teachers. “Parents and guardians also need to know what to look out for to identify signs of bullying, whether their children are being bullied or are the bullies, and whether they are inadvertently encouraging their children to be bullies. Beyond identifying bullying, we also need to equip these stakeholders on how to prevent bullying and what appropriate action to take if they encounter it.” A childhood consultant, Chidinma Abiakalam, while speaking at the parent’s forum, noted that children who bully others might have an underlying problem that needed attention. Abiakalam stated, “When you see a child bully another child, take a closer look at that child; (s)he must be going through something deep down. It may be from the home or a struggle on the inside or a reflex from his/her environment. But almost all the time, that is the case.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com