A former House of Representatives member (2003-2007), Yemi Arokodare, on Friday drummed support for Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State ahead of the 2023 general election, saying he would bring a positive paradigm shift in the leadership crisis that has dogged the country. He also expressed optimism that Tambuwal would bring his experience to bear in ensuring a united Northern and Southern Nigeria. Arokodare, a former chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Communications, said if given the opportunity to serve the country, Tambuwal would “ignite a paradigm shift for a better Nigeria.” He said these in a statement distributed to journalists in Abuja, saying the governor “has the leadership courage, reach and resilience to reshape, redirect, reform and salvage the country.” According to him, as Nigerians ponder on a successor to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), the Peoples Democratic Party should give Tambuwal a fair chance to be the candidate of the party in the 2023 Presidency. Arokodare said, “Governor Tambuwal led the House of Representatives with a distinction; he demonstrated fairness, equality and inclusive leadership; we should give him an opportunity to repair the broken trust between the North and the South. “If we can give Tambuwal a great opportunity to serve and lead this great but poorly governed country, our country should be assured that this man will assemble the best of the North and South to reform and transform Nigeria. “He once led a vibrant crop of lawmakers from every part of the country, and he showed a high degree of responsible and uncommon leadership, which had put him in good stead as someone who can govern Nigeria based on justice, fairness, and inclusion. “Nigeria needs a paradigm shift with a new set of tested and trusted leaders who can give the country a new direction for growth and prosperity, and Tambuwal is a man we can trust to do it. “Tamnuwal has led the PDP Governors’ Forum meritoriously; he has related with party leaders and members with profound respect; he is the kind of leader who can unite this country and break barriers. “His leadership can provide the healing balm to unite Nigerians, ensure social justice for all and bring a new and workable order to governance. “Tambuwal is a democrat per excellence who has served meritoriously in the three arms of government as a member of the body of benchers, a parliamentarian, and currently as a great manager of human and resources. He is well rounded to deliver good governance.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com