The All Progressives Congress in Anambra State has called for the timely investigation and trial of the former governor of the state, Willie Obiano. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission had arrested Obiano at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, on Thursday, a few hours after he handed over to the new governor, Chukwuma Soludo. In a statement in Awka on Sunday, the state APC Publicity Secretary, Okelo Madukaife, said the party urged the anti-graft agency not to detain him for longer than necessary. Madukaife said that although, neither Obiano nor his successor, Soludo, had said anything about the financial transactions of Anambra State, the people eere watching with an open mind. He also berated the stated assembly on their failure to provide the checks and balances in the last administration, which he said led to many loopholes in the system. The APC added that Obiano’s attempt to flee the country the same day his successor took over, without addressing issues that needed to be addressed can be faulted. It urged the people of the state to note that, until Anambra State can boast of legislative checks, irrespective of political affiliation, EFCC and ancilliary agencies hold the ace of curbing, if not stopping the financial hemorrhage bedeveling the state. The statement read in part, “Following the shocking interception, arrest and subsequent detention of Obiano while traveling to United States of America on the same day he handed over power, we urge the EFCC not to detain him for longer than necessary. “We had expressed shock, because, although Obiano spent nearly half of his tenure in his private home in this offshore location, he had prior knowledge that there were issues to clear with EFCC, having had a prior information on the matter for months. “Considered alongside the fact that neither the former governor nor his new successor, has said anything about what is being handed over and what has been taken over, financially, we are keeping an open mind on events of the last few days. “However, since the financial crime agency set off the alarm late last year, it means there has been enough time to put facts, figures and the law together. “We, therefore, without any interferences with the statutory duties of the commission, appeal to EFCC to conduct a timely investigation on the questioned areas of financial dealings, recover monies for Anambra State, where applicable and/or prosecute offenders where they exist, without any delay, which may fuel speculation and detract from concrete issues of Anambra State financial leakages. “It is our considered advice that Anambra State citizens and institutions, should at this point rely only on official information from EFCC.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com