Kwara State Police Command said on Sunday that all the 13 victims of Saturday auto crash which occurred at Lasoju in Asa Local Government Area of the state have been given mass burial. The 13 passengers were burnt beyond recognition on Saturday in the crash that involved a commercial Toyota Hummer bus with 18 passengers and a cement-laden truck. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Ajayi Okasanmi, said, “Preliminary investigation revealed that the Hummer bus coming from Lagos was driving against traffic at the above mentioned point, and in the process, it had a head-on coalition with the on-coming truck. “Thirteen passengers of the commercial bus were burnt beyond recognition; six others that were seriously injured are presently receiving treatment at the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital, Ilorin. “Consequent upon the condition of the dead bodies, public health officials and the families of the victims requested from the police command that the victims be released to them for mass burial, the process of which was ongoing as at the time of this press release.” Okasanmi, in a telephone interview with The PUNCH on Sunday said that the dead passengers were given mass burial in Ilorin. “Following the condition of the dead bodies which were burnt beyond recognition, government officials and the relatives of the victims gave the victims mass burial at a site around the scene of the accident,” he said. Okasanmi said the state Commissioner of Police, Tuesday Assayomo, while condoling with the bereaved  families, advised road users to always obey road traffic signs and avoid over speeding at all times. He also confirmed that investigation into the accident had commenced, the result of which would be made public as soon as investigation was concluded.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com