The President, Maj.-Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Wednesday, met behind closed doors with governors of the All Progressives Congress over the forthcoming national convention of the party, slated for March 26. The governors were led to the meeting by the Chairman of the Interim Committee of the party and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni. Speaking to State House correspondents at the end of the meeting, the Chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum and Kebbi State Governor, Atiku Bagudu, said the governors had resolved to throw their weight behind the president’s choice of candidacy at the convention. “Today, we all briefed Mr President on that, and our support for Mr President’s endorsement of the candidate for the National Chairman of the party,” the governor stated. Whilst commending the combined efforts of the caretaker committee of the party in ensuring a hitch-free convention, Bagudu equally disclosed that the forum had agreed to support any process that would lead to a consensus at the altar of the sacrosanct March 26 convention. “The governors are unanimous in the support of the Caretaker Committee; we thank the caretaker committee for what they have been doing. “Naturally, there will be hiccups one day, but we have overcome them, and we are a human organization, which is bound sometimes to generate emotions and anxiety, but we are united and unanimous and by God’s grace, we’ll have a very successful and peaceful national convention,” Bagudu affirmed. He further noted that the president had been duly briefed on the issue of distribution of political party offices to the respective zones, adding that zonal executive committees were liaising with each of the zones in bringing about a consensus list. He said, “Most of the zones have been allocated National Working Committee positions that are fewer than the number of states, however, there are zonal executive committees from which the zones are working to produce a consensus list”. NAN Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com