The National Consultative Front has dismissed reports making the rounds that the third force party initiated by the group is the same as the New Nigerian Peoples Party. In a statement signed by Bilikis Bello on Wednesday, the NCFront dissociated its intending party from the NNPP which was recently adopted by a former Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwakwanso, and his associates in The National Movement. The statement read, “As a matter of clarification, our third force alternative mega party is not built around a single individual or leader or one group but around different political parties, major civil society and labour platforms as well as a consortium of leaders of conscience and fresh breed political change champions in Nigeria, including key leaders of the #EndSARS movement of the Nigerian youths, who are currently implementing all agreements jointly reached last week in Abuja ahead of the formal unveiling of the third force mega alliance at the end of March 2022. “To this end and against the backdrop of erroneous reports in the press and social media, we wish to clarify that the New Nigerian Peoples Party, recently adopted by former Governor Rabiu Kwakwanso and his associates in The National Movement, is not the same as our much-awaited third force mega party floated by our leaders of conscience, especially in the Nigerian civil society and labour movements under the broad umbrella of the NCFront otherwise known as the 2023 Rescue Movement.” The group added that its adopted party will be unveiled at the end of this month and would receive defections of like-minded politicians. It added, “For the avoidance of doubt, our fusion and alliance talks towards the unveiling of the third force alternative party, to rescue and save Nigeria from misrule and leadership failure come 2023.” was finally consummated last week following the adoption of one of the nine allied political parties in our longstanding process for merger, fusion and lately alliance, and the adopted third force coalition party will be unveiled at end of this month to receive mass defection of like-minded politicians, including sitting and former lawmakers, governors, ministers and other political office holders tired of the current self-serving and insecure politics of the failed ruling parties in Nigeria. “Some of the key leaders of various coalescing groups and platforms in the fusion and alliance process of the third force are Prof Pat Utomi; Prof Attahiru Jega; Hon Dr Usman Bugaje; Senator Saidu Dansadau; Prof Kingsley Moghalu; Mallam Falalu Bello; Chief Raph Nwosu; Dr Tanko Yunusa; Comrade Promise Adewusi, Prof Remi Sonaiya, and other eminent leaders within the country and in the Diaspora.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com