Cryptocurrency – How The “Newby” is Surpassing the “Household Names” The cryptocurrency’s “Household Names” are doing great this March 2022. However, they are still being surpassed by “newcomers” in the crypto-scene like Seesaw Protocol (SSW) which is up almost +32% in one week alone. This month is looking bright for investments with chances of earning substantial capital in spring to maybe fund that holiday you’ve always been dreaming of in summer? Let us tell you about the three trending cryptos right now. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) News: The news is that SSW is a big trend at the moment. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) never left the “high ranks” – Despite other cryptocurrencies suffering and swinging since the start of the year, SSW has constantly remained in an upward trajectory. The value of crypto-wallets can only rise during presale phases so stage 2 of presale shouldn’t worry investors that didn’t manage to get in stage 1. Investors could have significant profits awaiting as specialists anticipate that price will rise to $0.45 before official market-trading begins. Just over a month ago, one SSW was worth just $0.005 now it’s selling for $0.11. Seesaw Protocol is up 2000% since its inaugural presale on January 25th, and up almost 32% in the last 7 days alone. New investors will be enticed by the low fees on this democratic platform and by the referral and rewards system in place. We see Seesaw Protocol as a great value to add to any crypto portfolio. Ethereum (ETH) News: Ethereum has bounced back from the November 2021 crash and it is on a very positive trajectory. ETH, which is currently trading at USD 2969.75 per token, is up this week again by +10.31%. Ethereum was born in Switzerland (Zug to be exact) in 2014 with one of the founders being Russian-Canadian Vitalik Buterin. With its native coin ETH, Ethereum is a decentralised open-source blockchain technology. ETH is a platform for several other cryptocurrencies (like Seesaw Protocol too) and decentralised smart contracts. Solana (SOL) News: Solana (SOL), one of the most talked-about public blockchains on the market, has had a good February. In contrast to Bitcoin and other well-known cryptocurrencies that fluctuated last month (making a comeback in March 2022) SOL has managed to stay afloat throughout and increase in value by +14.15% in the last week alone. SOL is trading now at USD 102.19. In addition to serving the entire world (the company’s headquarters are located in Switzerland), Solana offers DeFi (decentralised finance) solutions on what the foundation claims to be the “fastest blockchain and the fastest-growing ecosystem in crypto,”. Solana’s Platform is low-cost (with a price-lock of USD 0.01 per transaction), and is involved in a plethora of projects in the DeFi, NFTs, and Web.3 platforms. SOL, which is a subsidiary of the Solana Foundation, can be a sound investment. The company has a strong history and a clear mission: it ensures that transactions will never be halted in the future because it is censorship-resistant. For Seesaw Protocol (SSW): Enter Presale: https://presale.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol