THE First Technical University, Ibadan, is in search of a new Vice-Chancellor, to succeed the pioneer VC, Prof. Ayobami Salami. Salami’s tenure will end on May 8, 2022. Meanwhile, the institution is holding its first convocation on March 5. Ten prominent professors are said to be in the VC race. They are Profs Abubakre Kamardeen, Adebiyi Adekunle, Ajayi Adesola, Akinyemi Dewunmi, Amu Olugbenga Oludolapo,  Jekayinfa Olatayo and Tunde Ogunkunle. Others are Profs Gbenro Oguntunde, Oladipo Ekundayo and Michael Oni. Speaking at Tech-U’s pre-convocation press conference on Thursday, Salami noted that scholar and administrator, Emeritus Professor Julius Okojie, will deliver the convocation lecture. “Five accomplished Nigerians – Chief Tunde  Afolabi MFR, Chief Adebayo Akande, Chief Ammal Pepple, Professor Toyin Falola and Mr Segun Agbaje, who is the Managing Director of GTBank – will be awarded honorary doctoral degrees. “The Convocation Play, titled, Love’s Unlike Lading, is by iconic Prof. Femi Osofisan, and directed by Tunji Azeez.” Salami, who, alongside the management team, conducted the media round the university’s facilities, said the last five years had witnessed tremendous growth. He noted that from the two buildings the university started with, it now boasts over 16, while it had also renovated its Ajoda campus facilities. He said, “In terms of facilities, the First Technical University is steadily growing. Here is a University that started with two buildings, to the extent that some people used to mockingly describe us so. “The two buildings – the Academic and Admin Buildings – were even donated by the Central Bank of Nigeria. The fact is that the founding Government, led by late Senator Abiola Ajimobi, wanted us to start at the temporary site in Ajoda. But I had personally resolutely suggested we start on the permanent site, based on my experience in the sector. “I have observed that when universities start on temporary sites, it takes too long for them to move to the permanent site because the owners, especially governments, are hardly able to give the project compelling priority attention because there are other projects or expenses to contend with.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com