Has there been a more successful presale than Seesaw Protocol (SSW) in recent times? While Ethereum (ETH) and Terra (LUNA) have solidified their positions as a top-two and top eight cryptocurrencies, respectively, Seesaw Protocol has massively impressed since the launch of its presale in January. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) continues to impress in the crypto market A growth of over 2300% since the launch of its presale is an unbelievable achievement for the project whose value continues to rise as it enters phase three of its presale on March 25th. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) is a fully decentralised multi-chain DeFi platform with plans to invest in the metaverse. The ongoing success of SSW is mainly down to the objectives of the project with one being the aim of becoming a multi-chain platform where its users will be able to transfer tokens between the likes of Polygon (MATIC), Binance Smart Chain (BSC) and Ethereum (ETH). Users will be able to choose the blockchain they want their transaction to travel along considering which one would be the fastest and cheapest, effectively getting rid of the issue that users would have to pay mass amounts of gas fees for a transaction. The price of SSW has risen from $0.1064 to $0.1556 from the start of phase two, demonstrating a 38% rise but with SSW projected to rise to between $0.20 and $0.25, that would mark a total growth of over 3000% for the project since the launch of its presale. This past week has seen a growth of 11% as somebody investing now could still witness a return of 35% on their investment. Having held the spot of the second-biggest cryptocurrency in the world, according to data from CoinMarketCap, Ethereum’s (ETH) impending upgrade to Ethereum 2.0 will surely only increase its dominance and influence in the crypto space. The upgrade to Ethereum 2.0 will see the crypto finally move to a proof-of-stake protocol, leaving behind the energy-sucking proof-of-work consensus mechanism.  Ethereum’s network will then rival the likes of Solana (SOL) and Avalanche (AVAX) in terms of security, sustainability, and scalability. Despite its current proof-of-work protocol, ETH has been rising of late, once again reaching over $3000 and is up 20.7% in the past 30 days, at this time of writing. Ranked as the eighth biggest cryptocurrency in the world, Terra (LUNA) has amassed a market cap of over $34 billion since its launch in 2019. Terra is a blockchain e-commerce platform for algorithmic stablecoins. The Terra blockchain allows users to spend, trade and even exchange Terra stablecoins. With LUNA acting as the native token of the Terra blockchain, its performance over the last 30 days has been exceptional, to say the least. After rising over 87% in the past 30 days, LUNA reached an all-time high of $103.88 on March 9th, 2022, with the token trading at $94.30, at this time of writing. Enter Presale: https://presale.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol Keywords: Seesaw Protocol, SSW, Cryptocurrency, Blockchain, Presale, Ethereum, ETH, Terra, LUNA