The Chairman, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Committee of the All Progressives Congress, Governor Mai Mala Buni, on Thursday, affirmed that all actions that were taken in his absence by the CECPC acting Chairman, Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State remain valid. Buni made the clarification after several reports (not The PUNCH) claimed that he dumped the national convention sub-committee list earlier adopted by Bello in an apparent move to assert his leadership after the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari’s (retd.) endorsement. The PUNCH had earlier reported that Buhari put his foot down on Wednesday, insisting that Buni should be allowed to continue as the chairman of the party following a botched attempt by APC governors to remove him as the Chairman after he (Buni) left the country for medical attention. However, Buni, in refutal on Thursday shared by Buhari’s aide, Bashir Ahmad, faulted the reports that all action taken by Bello in his absence had been reversed. In the refutal statement, he personally signed, Buni, who is also the Yobe State Governor, affirmed that “all activities that were done in my absence remain valid and binding”. Read the full statement below: Refutal This is to bring to the notice of all stakeholders and members of the party that purported suspension of some activities initiated and executed by the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee under the acting Chairman and Niger State Governor, H.E Muhammed Sanni Bello, is NOT TRUE. Therefore, all activities that were done in my absence remain valid and binding. All party stakeholders and members are hereby advised to disregard the previous statement discarding the activities of the committee under the leadership of the Acting Chairman. It could be recalled that I duly transmitted power to His Excellency, the Niger State Governor, H.E Muhammadu Sanni Bello to enable me undergo medical attention. Therefore, all actions and measures taken by the committee under his leadership as Acting Chairman, remain effective. The party calls for support and understanding to move the party forward to a successful convention slated for March 26th, 2022.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com