The Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar III, warned traders to be fearful of the day of judgement and not increase prices of foodstuff and other commodities and services as Ramadan (Muslims fasting month) approaches. He also called on the government to devise a way of deliberately reducing the prices of foodstuff to cushion the hardship being faced by Nigerians. Abubakar, who is also the President-General, National Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs, spoke at the closing ceremony of the 2022 National Qur’anic recitation competition hosted by Bauchi State Government in collaboration with Usman Dan Fodio University, Sokoto. He said, “Ramadan is coming and the cost of living in this country is going higher. I will like to use this medium to call on all market people who sell things to be fearful of what the Almighty Allah would do to them when they get to him on the day of judgement. Instead of increasing the prices of foodstuff and other necessary things, please try to reduce them to get the blessings of the Almighty Allah. “The cost of foodstuff is high and it’s going up and up, governments have to do something to have this very serious challenge tackled. “I was in Abuja yesterday (Friday) with President Muhammadu Buhari at the commissioning of a Masjid before coming here and the Imam made the same comment. And with the President sitting in the Masjid with us, I think it is left to all of us in authority to see how we can work together and bring this rise in the cost of foodstuff to a minimum level and an affordable level where all of us can have a successful Ramadan with ease. I believe it’s not too much to ask our government, after all, we elected you into the office to serve us and not for us to serve you.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com