Security operatives have killed over 200 bandits across Niger State, while two security personnel lost their lives in gun battles that occurred between Sunday and Wednesday. This was revealed on Wednesday by the Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy Affairs and Internal Security, Emmanuel Umar, who said the joint security forces had a successful encounter with bandits in the state. “Yesterday (Tuesday), a joint task force of security operatives had a successful encounter with a group of terrorists that had been terrorising us for the past four years,” he stated. The commissioner said most of the terrorist commanders were killed in the gun battle that occurred between the joint task force and the bandits. Umar said, “Most of their commanders were neutralised and over 200 of them were killed. These groups belong to the groups of some dangerous terrorists, which include Ali Kawajo, Yellow Jan Bros, Kachalla Halilu and Bello Tuji. “Unfortunately, we also lost two security personnel in the battle and irrespective of how minimal this number seems compared to how many bandits were killed, the life of one security personnel means so much to us. “In the encounter, some of our men were injured and some killed. We appreciate their sacrifice and console the families of those who lost their lives to protect us and restore peace in our land.” Umar noted that success was recorded by the security operatives as a result of the new strategy adopted by the government to involve communities in the fight. “It is the new strategy of involving communities in this fight against banditry that we adopted that is yielding results. Community members stood their ground, gave information, provided an enabling environment and some served as guides to the hideouts of some of these bandits,” he stated. The commissioner also said many of the bandits escaped with gunshot injuries, adding, “We appeal to transporters and people around to report suspicious people with injuries.” Umar said the encounters between the security operatives and the bandits occurred in different parts of the state, adding that sophisticated weapons and motorcycles were recovered after the battle. The commissioner stated, “The encounters occurred at Kundu, a boundary between the Rafi and Wushishi local government areas, and Baban Lamba in the Mariga Local Government Area of the state. “A lot of arms were recovered and are with the security operatives at the moment, while over 100 motorcycles were recovered and cows in the possession of the bandits were returned to their owners.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com