HUMAN rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), has written the Attorney-General of Osun State, Femi Akande, seeking fiat to prosecute the owner of Hilton Hotels in Ile-Ife, Dr Ramon Adedoyin, and six others for their alleged involvement in the murder of Timothy Adegoke, a postgraduate student of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife. The PUNCH had reported that the murder trial, which was first instituted in an Abuja court by the police, was eventually transferred to an Osun State High Court following Falana’s intervention. Adedoyin and other suspects, including Magdalene Chiefuna, Adeniyi Aderogba, Oluwole Florence, Oyetunde Kazeem, Adebayo Kunle and Adedeji Adesola, were subsequently arraigned on March 3 on 11 counts bordering on conspiracy, murder, attempted felony, unlawful interference with a dead body, altering and intent to destroy evidence. Falana is seeking fiat to prosecute the case on behalf of the state government. The human rights lawyer argued that except he is given the powers of prosecution by the state government, he would not be able to pursue the case since murder is a crime against the state. When contacted on the telephone, the Osun AG, Akande, said he was awaiting the approval of Governor Gboyega Oyetola before responding to Falana’s request. “The governor will take a decision on it,” he said in a text message when asked if the matter would be handed over to Falana. All the defendants standing trial before Justice Adepele Ojo last week entered a no-case submission in their defence. This followed the close of the prosecution case by the counsel, Mr O. Omosun, after calling eight witnesses. Adedoyin’s counsel, Yusuf Alli (SAN), as well as the six other defendants, Mr Muritala Abdulrasheed (SAN), Roland Otaru (SAN), and Okon Ita all entered a no-case submission on behalf of the defendants in the matter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com