In a bid to boost the nation’s transport sector, a firm says it has launched ArcromRide, an innovative ride/cab service app in Lagos. Speaking during the launch of the app, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, AcromRide, Mr. One Oriaku, said that the firm was committed to giving unparalleled service to cab users in the country. He spoke during a virtual press conference in Lagos. According to him, the ride service is coming with a plan to delight its customers and use modern technology to boost economic growth by creating employment opportunities. Stressing further, Oriaku, assured that with AcromRide, the public stands to enjoy better benefits, support, and value for their money. He said, “We are aware of the current frustrations being experienced by both drivers and customers who currently use existing rider apps, hence, we aim to operate a model that bridges the gaps in the market and stays innovative by listening to the voice of drivers and riders, implementing necessary change in a manner that remains adaptive to their current and future needs” “This is the only app that creates space to listen to what Nigerians need and then provide that for them. Competition is a good thing because it strengthens the market and also provides more job opportunities” He added that the app which aims at delivering benefits that have never been seen before to both drivers and customers. According to him, the app contains safety features such by prioritising driver and customer safety with National Identification Number, verification embedded into the app registration process. He disclosed other features to include the ability for clients and drivers to see photos of each other as well as high-quality customer service support for both drivers and customers, resolving queries in real-time. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com