FORMER President Olusegun Obasanjo has said Nigerians have not built a nation yet. Obasanjo, who was the special guest of honour at the prize/award presentation to winners of the 2021 schools’ debate organised by Vision Africa Radio, Umuahia, in conjunction with the Abia State Ministry of Education, on Wednesday, stated, “One of the things I believe we need in this country is nation building. We have not built a nation. We have a country, but we need to weave and integrate the country into a nation. “We will not get that unless we have justice, fairness, equality and everybody having a stake in that project called Nigeria. “If that is the situation that we need at the national and continental levels, it means you have to have it at other levels down to the family level. “Any family where there is no justice, fair play and equity will not be stable. This applies to any country, community and state. “If Nigeria needs these attributes, then any state in Nigeria needs them as much as Nigeria.” The country, he said, must strive to enthrone justice, equity and fair play in order to build a strong, united nation. The former President also congratulated the three schools that emerged winners and the President of the radio station, Bishop Sunday Onuoha, for organising the programme. Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Chris Ezem, thanked Obasanjo for his love for the state, the South-East and Nigeria in general. He described Obasanjo as a nationalist, true Nigerian leader and bridge builder. In his welcome address, Onuoha said the competition with the theme, ‘The development of a nation’s sound education system ensures security more than military actions’, was organised as part of the activities to mark the station’s 25th anniversary. “It is also to empower the schools with awards and educate and enlighten our teeming audience,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com