Nigerians who misplaced their Voter cards three months before an election day are not eligible to vote, according to Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2022. The bill was recently passed into law by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), after an initial rejection over provisions relating to primary elections of political parties. Part III of the Act, obtained by The PUNCH, stipulates that only those who misplaced their cards and applied to the Independent National Electoral Commission will have them replaced after 90 days. Earlier, Nigerians were requested to apply at least 30 days before an election. The Act read in part:
(1) Whenever a Voter’s card is lost, destroyed, defaced, torn or otherwise damaged, the owner of such card shall, not less than 90 days before polling day, apply in person to the electoral officer or any other officer duly authorised for that purpose by the Resident Electoral Commissioner, stating the circumstances of the loss, destruction, defacement or damage. (2) Where the electoral officer or any other officer is satisfied as to the circumstances of loss, destruction, defacement or damage of the voter’s card, he or she shall issue to the voter a replacement permanent voter’s card. (3) No person shall issue a replacement permanent voter’s card to any voter less than 90 days before polling day. (4) Where the electoral officer or any other officer is satisfied as to the circumstances of the loss, destruction, defacement or damage of the voter’s card, he or she shall issue to the voter another copy of the voter’s original voter’s card with the word “REPLACEMENT” clearly marked or printed on it, showing the date of issue. (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (3) of this section commits an offence and is liable on conviction, to a fine not more than ₦200,000 or imprisonment for a term not more than two years or both. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com