No fewer than four persons, including a property owner, have been arrested by the Nigeria Police for allegedly attacking officials of the Lagos State Government in the Ajao Estate area of the state. It was learnt that officials from the Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority and the Lagos State Building Control Agency were on an enforcement operation for the removal of illegal constructions and shanties in the area when they were attacked. They were said to have gone to remove an illegal construction at 1, Robinson Gbagi Street, Ajao Estate when the hoodlums swooped on them with various weapons. The General Manager of LASPPPA, Kehinde Osinaike, who confirmed the incident, said one of the LASBCA officials received machete cuts on the head and shoulder and was rushed to a hospital while others who sustained other forms of injuries received medical care. Osinaike, in a statement titled, ‘LASG condemns attack on officials,’ on Friday, added that the thugs stormed the area, started shooting at officials, and caused mayhem. He explained that before the removal, a stop-work order had been served on the site, adding that rather than comply with government directives, the property owner broke the seal and continued work. He, however, warned that the state government would take decisive actions against individuals and groups who attack its officials on lawful duties. “Developers and owners of properties should take heed and do the right thing by getting the necessary permits before starting building construction, failure to do this will attract the full wrath of the law as government will continue to maintain zero tolerance for illegal, unauthorised, and haphazard building construction in the state,” Osinaike added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com