Nigeria international Asisat Oshoala has claimed her third Spanish league title with Barcelona following the Blaugrana’s 5-0 thumping of Real Madrid on Sunday in front of a passionate crowd at the Estadi Johan Cruyff. Barca women won the Clasico convincingly without Oshoala, who leads the league scorers charts with 19 goals, but her goals played a major role in ensuring Barca were crowned Liga champions for the third time in a row and seventh in total. The victory against Madrid means the Blaugrana’s 72 points cannot be surpassed, even with six games to go in the season. A brace from Alexia Putellas and goals from Patri Guijarro, Jenni Hermoso and Babett Peter ensured the Blaugranes clinched the 2021/22 Primera Division title in a convincing fashion. Sweden international Fridolina Rolfo set up Putellas for the first goal in the 41st minute before she doubled the advantage two minutes later after she was teed up by Guijarro. Guijarro made it 3-0 for Jonatan Giraldez’s women on the hour mark. Five minutes later, Peter turned the ball past her own goalkeeper. The damage was complete with eight minutes left on the clock through Hermoso thanks to an assist from Putellas. Barcelona have now won the domestic title in Spain three years in succession — winning all 24 of their games in the ongoing season. Although Oshoala, who recently extended her contract with the Spanish champions until 2024, was not in action at the Estadi Johan Cruyff, she played a crucial role en route to her side’s success. She is currently the league’s top scorer with 19 goals. The Super Falcons captain took to social media to celebrate her side’s title. “Beautiful Day to win the league at home,” Oshoala tweeted. The 27-year-old is in a race to be fit for the Blaugrana’s Copa de la Reina clash against Real on Wednesday, but she is expected to be fit for the UEFA Women’s Champions League quarter-final first leg against Real Madrid again on March 22 at the Alfredo Di Stefano.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com