RAPHAEL EDE  writes on the fear that there may be an outbreak of diseases as a result of stinking waste on the streets of Enugu The Enugu State Government through its State Waste Management Authority may have stepped up efforts in ridding the capital of stinking refuse dumps in streets and major roads but these efforts are not adequate as residents and experts lament imminent outbreak of diseases as the rainy season approaches. Preceding the devoted efforts of the waste management authority, some parts of the city like Garriki, Coal Camp, Holy Ghost; to Obiagu and Abakpa, had heaps of refuse. In some cases encroaching the streets, blocking drainages, and defacing the aesthetic of these neighbourhoods. Our correspondent who monitored development in some locations on Saturday reported that though waste management contractors had stepped up evacuation of waste, burning of dumped solid waste at dumpsites were the hallmark. Also major canals in the state, especially in Abapka, Enugu East local government may have been blocked by some unscrupulous residents carelessly dumping refuse. For example in the Enugu South LGA, the drainage at Nise bus stop, running through the main road, has heaps of refuse that affected the road while the one at Amokwe bus stop has remained an eyesore. It is also disheartening to note too that part of the road leading to Uwani Secondary School from Robinson Street has been intermittently affected by waste, despite being behind Methodist Cathedral, Uwani, and the Enugu South Council headquarters, Enugu. For the residents, the coming of the rainy season heralded fear because apart from the flooding, there is a major concern of outbreak of diseases. Some people who spoke to The PUNCH lamented that if the growing heaps of refuse on the streets, canals and gutters were not urgently cleaned and properly disposed then the residents should brace up for whatever challenges that might come out of it. Mrs Okarie Ndukwe, a resident of Achara Layout, who spoke to The PUNCH lamented the poor management of wastes in the metropolis. “Since December, the waste managers have started burning refuse in dumpsters virtually in every dumpsite. Most of the vehicles the contractors use in evacuating waste are so aged that it keeps breaking down on the roads. When they carry refuse you see them spreading the garbage on the roads and this is disappointing.” Another resident, who identified himself as Anselm Okafor, bemoaned the situation, particularly in Abakpa. “So Abakpa is more hazardous and the health of the people within this area is at stake. Most of the residents’ source water from the river for their domestic use. Okafor, decried the indiscriminate dumping of refuse along waterways and drainages, describing it as condemnable and appealed to authorities concerned to live to call and stem the tide. Another resident in one of the streets, said that the garbage, which some residents dumped indiscriminately, blocked the flow of water in some gutters when it rained, lamenting that it has become norm for unmindful persons who strangely take delight in disobeying the law to dump refuse with careless abandonment. “Why should the residents be indiscriminately dumping refuse without first tying them up in bags? Why should they be making things almost impossible to handle? People must play their part before blaming ENSWAMA.” Visits to some other areas in the metropolis, including the popular Enugu correctional facility junction at the Old Park—Chris Chemist roundabout and the Coal Camp dumpsite, show ever-growing mountainous heaps of refuse, posing potential hazards to residents as pointed out by environmentalist, Dr. Gerald Eze. “When the rain carries these dirts to deposit in the body water, it’s a direct cause of diarrhoea diseases, dysentery and typhoid, this can easily be traceable to inappropriate disposal of wastes. “Again these wastes invite things like rats and these rats and the diseases that they transmit like Lasser fever and other serious diseases can equally be transferred to innocent citizens,” he lamented and called on the government to step-up action and enforce proper waste disposal. A Climatologist, Professor Emmanuel Olukayode Oladipo, however, warned that open dumps and burning of municipal solid waste create serious negative impacts on the environment. Accordingly, when dumps of solid waste are burnt it generates dust and filthy dirt causing air pollution, odour among others health and sanitation, toxic gases, leachate, rats and other vermin. Oladipo stated that open dumps of solid waste in our urban centres provide attractive habitat to rats and other vermin that are capable of spreading diseases such as Lassa fever. “With indiscriminate burning of waste, it creates toxic gases emitting from dumps that are continuously exposed to the atmosphere. Percolating rainwater through the open dump contaminates groundwater resources. Open dumps of solid waste are a serious threat to human health and sanitation. “In general, an inefficient municipal solid waste management system may create serious negative environmental impacts like infectious diseases, land and water pollution, obstruction of drains and loss of biodiversity.” A consultant public health physician, Dr Chikezie Obasi, said that all hands must be on deck noting “that a healthy nation is a wealthy nation. One of the most important areas that actually affect the way we actually live a healthy life is the environment. “Now the difference between a neat environment and a poor environment is the way we manage our waste,” Obasi said, warning that indiscriminate management of waste poses a lot of challenges to our health. He however, advocates for proper packaging of waste from the point of generation, explaining that plastics and nylon waste should always be segregated from kitchen waste when disposing of them. “You don’t package plastic waste with waste from the kitchen, they are not the same thing. So a lot of issues emanate from poorly managed wastes and in our own environment the government hadn’t actually enforced the use of proper waste segregation at the point of generation. “As a public health consultant, we usually advocate one – if there is no need to generate waste, don’t generate. One of the commonest things that deface our environment today is plastic disused order – go to any place when there is rainfall, take a look at all the riverbanks, take a look at all the gutters, on the road you see all these plastics littered everywhere and the degradation of plastic take hundreds of years. So if you don’t have any reason why you should generate it please don’t go looking for it. “Government needs to educate people to segregate these waste at the point of generation so that if you come to the disposal point you will see those wastes from the kitchen and those for recycling. I was moving around the city yesterday Friday), I saw a lot of refuse on the road and I was like what is happening here,” though acknowledged that management of waste in municipal areas and large areas has never been an easy thing. “Everybody should understand that one thing is clear: every waste you generate knows that you have a responsibility to ensure that it is properly discarded.” “In Enugu I have seen people actually pay contractors, people even pay the government to evacuate their wastes and all have proven to be difficult but I think the way they were handling it is wrong. The big trucks these guys are using will not fly, there are areas that these big trucks will not go to, many of the areas the road is not properly constructed, big trucks cannot get into the streets. It required breaking down these contractors into sub-areas. There should be a better management of engaging these contractors.” However, efforts to speak with the Managing Director, Enugu State Waste Management Authority (ESWAMA) Mrs. Amaka Anajemba, was unsuccessful as she didn’t pick her calls. However, a staff of the authority, who pleaded anonymity, told our correspondent that the management of refuse disposal was no longer under ESWAMA rather with a private firm contracted by the state government. Also, efforts to reach the said contractors were not successful as nobody was willing to speak without the authorisation of their master in quote. When contacted on telephone the Special Adviser to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi on Information, who also oversees the Ministry of Information, Mr Steve Oruruo, said “This government since inception takes very seriously all issues of waste management.” “There is an inviolable nexus between good sanitary conditions and the health of the people. Enugu government therefore places premium on the cleanliness of the environment and will not tolerate anything to the contrary. “The sanctity of human life takes preeminence over all prevailing issues and must be tenaciously guarded. Therefore, what you have witnessed within the last week or thereabout is an isolated example of human error and that has been drastically addressed by the Government. The concerns of the companies responsible for the evacuation of waste have been effectively addressed to foreclose a reoccurrence. “You can see that within the last few days, a lot of milestones have been achieved. Essentially, the government is focused on developing a good waste management system that would be so fundamentally entrenched to be easily eviscerated by a minor shakeup. We do not want any act or omission that will obliterate the legacies already achieved in the health sector especially now that the world is recovering from Covid-19. “Let me reiterate the unwavering commitment of this regime towards fostering the welfare and good health of Ndi-Enugu. For nearly 7 years, the Waste Management body has been effective and diligently focused on improving this very sector. I see this as a wake-up call as the Government of Enugu State maintains zero tolerance to things inimical to the wellbeing of the populace. “I plead with our people to maintain the simple obligation of tying the waste bags before dumping to enable easy evacuation. We need to help the Government serve us better,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com