Ghanaians have expressed delight with the recent performance of some of their star players ahead of their Qatar 2022 World Cup play-offs against Nigeria on March 25 (Cape Coast) and 29 (Abuja). Captain Andre Ayew and assistant captain Thomas Partey have been in superb form for their clubs in the last couple of weeks, while striker Caleb Ekuban grabbed a goal last weekend and St Pauli midfielder Kyereh Daniel-Kofi scored a superb free-kick — in their 2-1 loss to Union Berlin in the German DFB-Pokal on Tuesday—for the second consecutive game. Ayew, who plays for Qatari side Al Sadd, scored his 15th league goal of the season in their 4-2 win against Al Khor on Tuesday, while Partey anchored Arsenal’s midfield superbly on his return from the 2021 African Cup of Nations in Cameroon. Ghana had one of their worst AFCON performances in Cameroon, where they crashed from the group phase without a win, and losing 3-2 to debutants Comoros. The players new-found form has given several Ghanaian fans hope ahead of the play-off against Nigeria. Reacting on Twitter, Kwame Homeda wrote, “The form of our players is really good going by the performance of the boys in recent games for their clubs. Ayew, Partey and co are doing very well. This is also coming at the right time for the Black Stars.” Anderson Qwesi tweeted, “Their performance gives hope and I’m sure Nigerians are looking and scared already.” Others have asked for Daniel-Kofi to be on free-kick duties after the one he scored against Union Berlin. @UnrulyB05870667 wrote, “Only if he will not be left out on the bench, he is a threat, not only on set pieces but his ability to give the final pass, run through spaces and create chances.” @DanielAwukuAdd1 added, “He was our best player in the recent AFCON.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com