The Middle Belt Progressive Forum has pledged to buy presidential nomination form in any party of his choice for former President Goodluck Jonathan as soon as he breaks his prolonged silence to declare for the 2023 Presidential race. This was contained in a press statement issued by the convener of the forum, Dr. Paul T Agada, in Abuja on Monday. In his statement, the convener highlighted that Jonathan had demonstrated the right temperament and disposition to lead Nigeria at the present time. “Dr. Goodluck Jonathan is a man of peace who has demonstrated in times past that he does not place his personal ambition over the peace and stability of the country. This rare quality has seen him gain recognition as a peacemaker and key negotiator in conflicts across the African continent. “Jonathan is fondly remembered for the establishment of much needed Federal Universities in Lokoja and Lafia in Kogi and Nasarawa States respectively. Also, he  approved the release of N30 billion from the Subsidy Reinvestment Programme fund to finance the Loko-Oweto Bridge project to link Benue and Nasarawa States, a project that has now been completed by the current administration.” “Other key programmes of the Jonathan administration like the Agricultural Transformation Agenda and YouWin helped to improve agriculture and create jobs for youths in the region. “The Middle Belt Progressive Forum has a robust membership spread across the states of the Middle Belt and the country at large and we have agreed that former President Goodluck Jonathan stands heads and shoulders in terms of experience and capacity above all the numerous aspirants jostling for the tickets of various parties hence our resolve to purchase the nomination form of whichever party he chooses.” He urged the ex-President to declare his intention without further delay. “We hereby urge him to heed the call of the Middle Belt Progressive Forum and teeming millions of Nigerians across the country and in the diaspora without further delay,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com