The Edo State Police Command on Friday said it had arrested a gang of kidnappers who shot two of their victims and left them to die. In a statement by the state Command’s spokesman, Bello Kontongs, four of the gang members, which included their native doctor, were arrested at different locations. The statement read, “The operatives of the Edo State Police Command have on 20/02/2022 arrested Matthew Adams ‘M’ (38) in Lagos Island involved in the kidnapping/attempted murder of Mr. Chukwudi Christian ‘M’ and Mr. Nasiru George on the 07/01/2022 at Uzuala Quarters in Ekperi village, under Fugar, in Etsako Central Local Government Area of Edo State along with his gang members. “The suspects after kidnapping their victims, blind folded them and took them to the forest. One of the victims, while in the forest, identified the kidnappers and immediately the kidnappers noticed that they were been identified, they shot the two victims and abandoned them, thinking they were dead. The victim crawled out to safety; one of them with his intestine out of his stomach, and reported to the Anti-Kidnapping and Cyber Crime Unit of the command. “On receipt of the report the operatives immediately swung into action and arrested Matthew Adams ‘M’ (38) who made useful confession that led to the arrest of Alex Ogbonna on the 06/03/2022 at Auchi park after being lured from Abuja for another kidnapping operation. “Ugheoke Omokhoi Thomas arrested in Ekperi Village, the arm supplier was arrested in Fugar and he is also alleged to be a coordinator of Aiye Cult Group in Ekperi/Anegbete and environs. “Abubakar Abdulaheem, who is the gang’s native doctor, was arrested on the 07/03/2022. He was equally lured to a spot around Imiagba Community by the gang leader to come and fortify him for another kidnapping operation. In a related development, two fraudsters were arrested over fake bank alert in the Upper Sakponba area of Benin. “Items recovered from them are; Iphone 12promax valued at N450,000.00 and an Iphone XS valued at N250,000.00 was recovered from the suspects which was bought with a fake bank alert,” the police statement added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com