Not minding the number of years in existence, the Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike, MOUAU is faced with challenges that include funding. The Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Maduebibisi Ofo Iwe, disclosed this while addressing newsmen on the occasion of his 365 days in office. He said, “There is a dire need for a significant infusion of funds for the upgrade of our physical environment, especially when considering that this university is among those universities that started without a take-off grant from the government. “This University experienced a significant slowing down in the past year due to adjustment of staff and students following a devastating COVID-19 pandemic from which the whole world is still recovering. “The University also experienced a lot of slowing down due to paucity of funds which is a major brick wall to the university’s desire to change the state of her infrastructure and physical facilities.” According to him, the university pays dearly for fuel and diesel and has lost two students due to the poor condition of the federal road there. In spite of these and more, the VC described his one year in office as “a year of experience and impact on the hard and soft components” of the achievements of his administration, adding, “the past 12 months have been tough but we are making headway”. He highlighted the soft components to include digitalisation of university processes, information dissemination, students and staff welfare, alumni welfare, partnerships and Memoranda of Understanding, conflict resolution, and research and innovation. The hard components, he said include multiple infrastructure development, commercialisation of the university through bread, biscuit factory, filing station, commercial fish ponds, and agricultural land equipment. He noted that under his administration, inaugural and other public lectures have been sustained, while students of the University had excelled in public debates and quiz competitions. “It has been a bittersweet one year, one that accommodated the good, the bad and the ugly. While we relish the good, we must find ways to confront the bad and the ugly head-on by working hard and diligently,” the VC said. He also reiterated that the efforts of his administration would be hinged on “prudent management, fairness, friendship and partnership, physical development, research and innovation, staff and student’s welfare and information and communication”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com