The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) has disclosed that to end all forms of insecurity across the country, his regime and security agencies would need Nigerians’ support and patriotism. Buhari made the call during the National Security Seminar organised by Alumni Association of the National Defence College (AANDEC) on Tuesday in Abuja. This was contained in a statement by his spokesman, Femi Adesina, titled, ‘President Buhari urges Nigerians to get more involved in security, hails security agencies, service chiefs for courage’, on Tuesday. The president urged Nigerians to get more interested in working with security agencies to tackle myriad challenges facing the country. This is as he also extolled the courage and bravery displayed by security agencies and service chiefs in promoting peace and order. The president said more could be achieved in bringing law and order to various parts of the country with the full cooperation of citizens. “Security is not just a military concern but a challenge for all Nigerians. No matter the amount of money invested in military operations, without the support of the people, display of patriotism and preparedness for everyone to be ready to take ownership of securing our environment, success will be limited. “Consequently, we must look beyond the military and the security agencies for enduring solutions to the security challenges we are facing,’’ he said. Buhari said his regime had put in place measures to adequately support the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies in terms of modern equipment, boosting the manpower of all security agencies and financing their operations in Nigeria and other international assignments. “We have equally, recently, put in place a National Development Plan (2021 – 2025) covering medium- and long-term plans, with a vision to make Nigeria a country that has unlocked its potentials in all sectors of the economy for sustainable, holistic, and inclusive national development. “We will in this regard be building a thriving and sustainable economy while improving access to quality education, enhance social inclusion as well as expand infrastructure among several others. All of these desirables can only be achieved in a peaceful and secure environment,’’ he added. The President said security outfits in the country deserved commendation for their efforts in tackling issues of banditry, kidnapping, and terrorism. “I am proud of the achievements of the security agencies in dealing with issues of terrorism, insurgency, banditry, and the so-called unknown gunmen in the North West and other parts of the country. “These issues and challenges are being professionally handled by the Armed Forces and other security agencies with improved intelligence operations and effective collaboration in the Armed Forces and other agencies. “For this, I commend the Chief of Defence Staff, the Service Chiefs, Inspector General of Police, and all other agencies that have been toiling day and night to ensure the safety of lives and property,’’ he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com