The Peoples Democratic Party in Osun State has petitioned the Nigerian Judicial Council, demanding a probe of Justice A. Aderibigbe, over handling of matters concerning the party. The petition was co-signed by the party’s secretary, Bola Ajao, and the party’s legal adviser, Taofeeq Tewogbade, as well as the acting chairman of the faction loyal to Senator Ademola Adeleke, Mr Sunday Bisi. Expressing concern over alleged bias and lack of fair hearing by Aderibigbe, the petitioners further accused the judge of sitting on appeal over the decision of the Court of Appeal and those of the Supreme Court. The petition copy of which was also sent to Osun Command of Department of State Security, partly read, “We the undersigned of this petition are respectively the State Acting Chairman, State Secretary and Legal Adviser of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Osun State Chapter and we lodge this petition on behalf of the party and its teeming members against Honourable Justice A. A. Aderibigbe of the Osun State High Court 2, sitting at lle-Ife for his judicial misconduct, impertinence and abuse of his judicial duties as an arbiter expected to act impartially in the discharge of his judicial duties, but chose to act in such a manner that breach our right to fair hearing in his handling of SUIT NO: HIF/36/2021 and Suit No. HIJ/6/2022. “We are concerned about the competence, conduct and disposition of Hon. Justice A. A. Aderibigbe to continue to adjudicate over any matter before the High Court of Osun State, haven contravened RULE 3.1 of the REVISED CODE OF CONDUCT FOR JUDICIAL OFFICERS OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA and THE CONSTITUTION OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA, 1999 (AS AMENDED) to which he swore to uphold. “Premised on the above, we pray the National Judicial Council, under your Chairmanship to investigate our petition with respect to the following cases. Disrespect for the Judgment /Decision of the Court of Appeal in Appeal No. CA/AK/349/2021, which was delivered on 5 March, 2021.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com