The Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, on Wednesday, assures residents across the state that his administration will spare no efforts in flushing out bandits and their informants from the state. This as he also warned marauders and their collaborators to stay clear of the state or face the full wrath of the law once apprehended. Tambuwal gave the assurance after cutting short an official trip midnight Tuesday to address the reported influx of suspected bandits and their informants into the village of Sabon Garin Liman in Wurno local government area of the state. A statement by his spokesman, Muhammad Bello, quoted the governor as saying that his administration, with the assistance of security agencies and the Federal Government, will not allow criminals to roll back the gains being made to stem the tide of their nefarious activities. He said the state government was not unaware “of what is happening in this village, where bandits, both from within and outside the country are taking refuge.” “I was out of the state. I left Sokoto yesterday. I had to come back by 1 am last night because of certain information that I received that are very worrisome and of concern, that has to do with happenings around here and Gundumi forest (in Zamfara state). “We know that there are informants in this village and they collaborate with bandits. We are going to flush them out and make sure that the law takes its course on them,” he assured. He appealed to the law-abiding people in the community to collaborate with the village head, other leaders, and security agencies in the state; “particularly those deployed around this area so that we can nip this in the bud and reestablish peace here and in the state in general.” He commiserated with the people of the community “on what has been happening around here, especially the recent attacks.” Referring to what happened in Kebbi state where bandits killed over 60 vigilante men on Sunday evening, the governor pointed out that “We don’t want such happenings. We must all work together to ensure that the progress being recorded so far is not retarded. “We pray that God Almighty shall continue to forgive the souls of those who lost their lives; and grant complete healings to those who sustained injuries and wounds, and all of these,” he prayed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com