The Super Eagles will stay at the 3-Star Noda Hotel in Kumasi when they play Ghana in their first leg final qualifier for the 2022 World Cup. The Eagles depart Abuja on Wednesday March 23 for the crucial clash in Kumasi, scheduled for Friday March 25. The reverse fixture holds in Abuja four days later. Aisha Falode, Executive Committee member, Nigeria Football Federation, who led the federation’s inspection team to Kumasi on Friday, said Ghana Football Association officials recommended the hotel after other major hotels in the city were fully booked. Falode told PUNCH Sports Extra, “The Kumasi venue was a last minute decision after the Cape Coast Stadium was not approved by CAF to host the game. “There were so many government and corporate activities already lined up during the week of the match in Kumasi. I’m told the president of the country (Ghana) is also hosting some kind of political events there. So, all the hotels are booked and filled.” On if the Noda Hotel was befitting of the Eagles, Falode added, “It’s not the kind of hotel you expect the Eagles are used to, but it’s also a hotel you can’t say isn’t befitting of the Eagles. The hotel won’t be as important as the pitch where they’ll play.” The three-time African champions battle perennial rivals Black Stars at the dreaded Baba Yara Stadium in Kumasi, just nine kilometres from Noda Hotel. Our findings showed that the hotel has multilingual staff and boasts 79 air-conditioned guestrooms, which are all fitted with flat-screen TVs with satellite channels. The hotel also features free WiFi throughout the property. It also offers an outdoor pool and fitness centre/gym, an on-site restaurant with free continental breakfast, a bar/lounge and free private parking space.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com