As the Crypto community continues to expand, it cannot be denied that Decentralised Finance (DeFi) is slowly taking over the world. As a whole, the Crypto metaverse provides a platform for individuals to gain more freedom and to enhance their online experience with the benefit of gaining potential millions – so what’s not to love? Although it’s clear that leading coins like Ethereum (ETH) are worthy investments, Crypto enthusiasts should also acknowledge the rising coins which are bound to explode, e.g. Pacman Frog (PAC). Recently, large banking institutions and technology corporations, such as Intel and Barclays have invested time and money in the promise of Cryptocurrencies like ETH. This has resulted in countries with deteriorating currencies to start using digital currency to replace depreciating paper currency – examples include: Brazil, Colombia, Turkey and Venezuela. So far, ETH has built its way up to the top of the Crypto market. In 2017, its value had increased significantly by 13,000%. Fast forward to this year, Elon Musk recently announced on Twitter that he encourages people to own physical items when inflation is high, however he made the exception to never sell his Crypto-investments, which included Ethereum (ETH). Thus, illustrating how much confidence he has in this leading Cryptocurrency.  Moving on to a rising coin, it is believed that Pacman Frog (PAC) has the potential to be the ‘next’ Ethereum – since it is predicted to revolutionise the metaverse with its unique qualities. Pacman Frog (PAC) is a blockchain-based game that allows players to receive real financial rewards that was built on Solana’s (SOL) network. To summarise, this Crypto leverages the SOL ecosystem to provide users with a fast, cheap, and intuitive trading experience – all while being completely decentralised due to an infrastructure built on top of multiple smart contracts and blockchain oracles. In relation to efficiency, Solana (SOL) is exceptional when it comes to speed. It has 65,000 transactions per second (TPS), which displays a stark contrast to Ethеrеum‘s (ETH) 30 TPS. Therefore, Crypto experts predict that it will offer a реrfесt ѕоlutiоn for new gеnеrаtiоn trading. Furthermore, PAC is on a mission to create a decentralised community by providing a wide range of services in an ever-changing ecosystem. It is designed to develop a community-run enterprise centred on NFTs and Finance Gaming (GameFi). The aim of its ecosystem is to educate individuals all around the world about all the kinds of issues that blockchain and cryptocurrencies address. One of its features includes a multichain launchpad. Initial Game Offerings (IGO), Initial Mеtаvеrse Offеring (IMO), and Initial NFT Offеring will all be hosted on the platform (INO). Overall, these will help with the funding of high-quality blockchain games. When looking back, it’s common for one to regret and wish to have invested earlier in current established Cryptos. However, there’s no need to panic as now is the perfect time to invest early in the presale of Pacman Frog (PAC)! Lastly, Pacman Frog caters to a gap in the Crypto-market as it is the оnlу marketplace that will allow gamers to discover, purchase, and sell GameFi NFTs while also facilitating the primary market. The PAC’s team’s motto states: Fuelled by community, tailored for everyone This reassures us that not only have they designed a revolutionary coin with a strategic roadmap in store, but they also aim to contribute to the happiness of people too. Watch this space as this new project is predicted to outshine its predecessors. People will be able to purchase PAC tokens for just $0.10. Hence, it’s an affordable Crypto that is likely to turn early investors into millionaires over time (from just small initial investments). Join presale and watch the results unfold for yourself. https://presale.pacmanfrog.io/ https://pacmanfrog.io https://www.instagram.com/pacmanfrogsocial/ https://t.me/PACMANFROGOFFICIAL https://twitter.com/PacmanfrogToken Keywords: Ethereum, ETH, Pacman Frog, PAC, Solana, SOL, market, blockchain, Crypto