There was uncertainty on Sunday over zonal congresses of the All Progressives Congress scheduled for Saturday as the party had yet to begin preparations. It was gathered that state chapters of the party had yet to receive any directive from the national leadership less than a week to the congresses. This came to the fore on Sunday as indications emerged that state chairmen of the party would meet in Abuja on Monday. The Chairman of the Plateau State chapter of the party, Rufus Bature, and the Publicity Secretary in  Gombe State,  Moses Kyari, disclosed this in separate telephone interviews with our correspondents on Sunday. It was gathered that the state chairmen would be sworn in by the national leadership  after their meeting on Monday. Bature said,  “ I’m on my way to Abuja for a meeting of state party chairmen holding on Monday.” Asked whether the state chapter had got the green light on the zonal congresses,  Bature said “It’s after the meeting that I will be able to give you answers to the questions.” In Benue State, The PUNCH learnt that less than seven days to the congresses,  the party had yet to start selling forms. It was reliably gathered that zonal congresses were not initially in the party constitution. It was learnt that the party had yet to come out with clear statements on the zonal congresses. The APC Organising secretary of the party in Benue State, James Orgunga, said that the North- Central headquarters was in Nasarawa State. When asked about the possibility of holding the zonal congress next Saturday, Orgunga said that in the  amended party constitution there  was room for the congress and expressed optimism that the party leadership might decide to zone positions and adopt candidates at its national convention. The Enugu State chapter of the APC said it had yet to receive circulars and modalities on the  zonal congresses. The state Secretary of party, Charles Akor, who disclosed this to one of our correspondents on the telephone,  stated, “I haven’t received any circular on the zonal congress of the party for the South- East zone. Maybe, the circular will come few days to the zonal congress but we don’t even know which day the congress will actually hold.” Also, reliably sources in Kwara State disclosed that the APC  Zoning Committee headed by the state Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, might submit its report to the National Caretaker Committee Chairman, Alhaji Mai Mala Buni on Monday. One of the source said, “The zoning of the party posts in the zones will depend on the recommendation of the zoning committee headed by Governor Abdulrazaq and not until the report is submitted that we will know which zone will have this post or the other. As of now, there is no picture of the post which any state in the zone will hold. “ However, APC Publicity Secretary in the state, Alhaji Folaranmi Aro said if the party decided to hold zonal congresses,  the North Central’s would take place  in Nasarawa State. The Publicity Secretary of the APC in Gombe State, Kyari,  said Monday’s meeting of chairmen would be for swearing-in of the state officials. Kyari “We are going to adopt consensus option in North East, Tomorrow’s meeting at the national secretariat is swearing-in of state chairmen.” The Kano  State Commissioner of information, Muhammad Garba, said the North-West zonal congress of the APC might hold in Kaduna. “I think the zonal Congress for the zone is going to hold in Kaduna. That is what I know for now,’ Garba said. However, effort to speak with the State Deputy chairman of the APC, Alhaji Shehu Maigari failed as refused to take the several phone calls from our reporter. The APC Akwa Ibom State said the venue for the zonal convention  had not being announced. The state Publicity secretary of party Mr Solomon Jonny, who stated this, also said there was no clue as to who would emerge the zonal chairman of the party. He said, “We don’t have any information about the venue yet.” The All Progressives Congress Acting Southwest Zonal Publicity Secretary, Karounwi Oladapo, said on Sunday that consultations were ongoing among the party leadership on the zonal congress. Oladapo said, “No information as of  today, but consultations are ongoing among the leadership to resolve the matter.” On his part, Mr Kola Olabisi, the media aide to Osun APC chairman, Prince Gboyega Famoodun, said venues for the zonal congresses would made known by the higher authorities in the party. The Adamawa  State chapter is still waiting for circular onn venues for zonal congresses of the party. The state Secretary the party, Dr. Raymond Chidama said the party in the state was still awaiting the circular on the zonal congress of the party. He said there was no circular yet to that effect, adding the development had kept members waiting. When contacted for comments on the uncertainty over zonal congresses, the Secretary of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the APC, John Akpanudoedehe, neither responded to a text message sent to him nor answered the question posed to him via a call. Meanwhile,  an APC  chieftain, Yekini Nabena, Sunday in Abuja, advised the Niger State Governor,  Abubakar Bello, to call off his plans to convene a National Executive Committee meeting of the party without the approval of Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State. In a statement he signed late Sunday, the former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the now-defunct National Working Committee of the party described  Bello as an ordinary member of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee and not the Chairman or Secretary.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com