The Olubadan-in-Council has resolved to review of honourary chieftaincy titles conferred on some persons in the past. The council said this on Monday after its meeting following the presentation of staff of office to the Olubadan, Oba Lekan Balogun. According to a statement, the Otun Balogun of Ibadanland, Chief Tajudeen Ajibola, said, after the meeting held at the Alarere  residence of the Olubadan and presided over by Oba Balogun, that the review would be done after Ramadan. He also said the Osi Olubadan of Ibadan, Senator Rashidi Ladoja, would be promoted to the position of  Otun Olubadan after getting the approval of Governor Seyi Makinde. He added that the same governor’s approval is needed for other High Chiefs behind Ladoja to be promoted to their new offices. He said, “The Olubadan-In-Council during the meeting rejoiced with Oba Balogun for the successful coronation programme. The meeting also reviewed the ceremony and applauded Governor Seyi Makinde as well as the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters. “The  Olubadan-in-Council will, in earnest, fill the existing vacancies occasioned by the elevation of Dr Lekan Balogun from Otun to the  Olubadan of Ibadanland and the elevation of Senator Rashidi Ladoja from Osi Olubadan to Otun Olubadan. “Also, High Chiefs Eddy Oyewole, Abiodun Kola-Daisi and Hamidu Ajibade who currently hold the positions of Ashipa Olubadan, Ekerin Olubadan, and Ekarun Olubadan, respectively, would become Osi Olubadan, Ashipa Olubadan and Ekerin Olubadan in that order. “The consent of the governor, which is needed for the promotion, is already being processed. “Other promotions down the line to Jagun, which do not need the governor’s consent would begin on Friday, all things being equal. “Appointment of mogajis and baales would follow after the completion of all the promotion exercises which would end with the Iyalode line.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com