The leadership of ‘The Osun Progressives’, a caucus of the All Progressives Congress in Osun State, backed by the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, on Monday, cautioned the party against supporting the ambition of Senator Iyiola Omisore, who is contesting for the post of APC National Secretary. The group in a statement signed by its chairman, ‘Lowo Adebiyi, and obtained in Osogbo, rejected what it termed ‘imposition clothed in consensus for Omisore to become the National Secretary of the party.’ TOP said leaders of APC, who ratified Omsiore were only interested in protecting their selfish interests at the expense of the wellbeing and progress of the ruling party. “We note that the sole decision of Governor Oyetola to sponsor a candidate for the position of the National Secretary zoned to Osun is an affront on the well stated and accepted opinion of the President and capable of painting APC in bad light in the eyes of right-thinking members of the society. “We call on all men of goodwill to prevail on Governor Oyetola not to rubbish the President’s good intentions, and abuse the democratic value of APC on the altar of his rabid ambition for second term by single-handedly determining who Osun will push forward as it’s representative in the APC National executive. “We condemned and reject in its entirety, the selfish imposition clothed in consensus for Omisore to become the National Secretary of the party. It is crystal clear that the leaders who ratified Omsiore are only interested in protecting their selfish interests at the expense of the wellbeing and progress of APC,” the statement read in part. Reacting, Osun state Commissioner for Political Affairs and Intergovernmental Relations, Taiwo Akeju, said South-West governors drafted Omisore into the race and not Oyetola as claimed by TOP. He also said Omisore being a foundation member of the Alliance for Democracy, has been part of the progressives over the years, adding that the decision of the governors on the issue must be respected. “Omisore was not imposed by Oyetola or anyone. South-West governors drafted him into the race because of his pedigree. No one should blackmail the governor. We should all respect the party leadership and work collectively for the good of APC,” Akeju said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com