Two traders lost their lives, while eight others sustained varying degrees of injury in a crash that happened at the Mile 12 Market, Ogere, on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The accident, which involved a diesel truck with number plate BR 446 XE, occurred on Saturday. The Ogun State Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps confirmed the crash on Sunday. The Sector Commander, Ahmed Umar, said the truck was on top speed when it hit the median and fell on its side around 7.18pm. He explained that the truck was conveying bags of sugar, which some of the victims were sitting on. The FRSC boss stated that 15 people were involved in the accident, comprising 14 men and one woman. He explained that the eight persons injured were all men, adding that two persons lost their lives in the crash. “One vehicle, a MAN diesel truck with number plate BR 446 XE was involved in the crash,” Umar stated. He said the corpses of the victims had been deposited at the FOS morgue, Ipara, while the injured victims were taken to Victory Hospital, Ogere, for treatment. The sector commander warned motorists against excessive speed and dangerous driving. Also, one person died and three others injured in an auto crash which occurred at the Nawfia area by Awka-Enugu Expressway, Anambra State on Sunday According to an eyewitness, the crash involved 20 people compromising 12 male adults, and eight female adults. The state Sector Commander, Adeoye Irelewuyi, while sympathising with the families of the dead victim, wished the injured victims quick recovery. He urged drivers to watch and ensure the road is clear before overtaking.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com