Primary and secondary teachers in Akwa Ibom State have commenced an indefinite strike to press for better welfare. A statement by the Senior State Secretary, Nigeria Union of Teachers, Victor Amirize, on Wednesday, explained that the strike became necessary following the failure of the state government to meet their demands. The statement read in part, “The NUT hereby orders teachers in all public primary and secondary schools in the state to proceed on an indefinite strike. “One of our demands is that the Akwa Ibom State Government Teachers’ Amnesty Programme should be re-opened to cover the teachers, who were cut-off during the last amnesty programme. “The teachers are also demanding the appointment of teachers as Permanent Secretaries, as well as the promotion results of teachers, who attended the exercise as of 2020 should be released without recourse to a pass in the administrative professional officers compulsory examination, because this was not demanded at the point of the interview. “Other demands include the refund of seven per cent contributory pension to primary school teachers; payment of gratuity/harmonisation of pension to retired teachers; and payment of 2013, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 leave grants to primary school teachers.” The union is also demanding the payment of promotion arrears from 2011 to 2016 to primary schools teachers; and the release of the 2017 and 2018 promotion conducted by the State Universal Basic Education Board, as well as the immediate commencement of the 2019 to 2021 promotion. Justifying the strike, the NUT claimed that the state government could not address the demands of the teachers after 21 days and a subsequent seven-day ultimatum given by the union to it. The union expressed dismay that the government’s promise of payment of one-year leave on compassionate grounds and the completion of the payment of one month minimum wage arrears to primary school teachers had not been actualised. The union appealed to parents and pupils for understanding as the government’s insensitivity to teachers’ plight had pushed it to call out the teachers for the strike.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com