As part of its plans to drive the smart city initiative, the Lagos State Residents Registration Agency which recently introduced a new Lagos resident card, has embarked on awareness campaign to inform residents of the registration procedure and benefits of the new Identification Card. The agency said the disbursement of the new ID cards was geared towards enabling efficient planning and distribution of infrastructure and social amenities in the state. The General Manager of LASRRA, Ibilola Kasunmu, said that bearers of the new cards would automatically have a Sterling Bank account which could be used for e-payment transactions across the country. Kasunmu added, “We have registration points at all local government secretariats and LCDAs in the state. To make the process easier, our plan is to have registration points in communities closer to the people. “We are ready to work with community representatives to get suitable locations for our officials in various communities. “Riverine areas are also part of our plans. We are currently working on sending our officials and agents to riverine communities to ensure residents are captured for this registration. We appeal to you that when you see these people, please, welcome them and take advantage of the registration,” she said. Meanwhile, local government authorities and traditional rulers in the Lagos Central Senatorial District have pledged full support for the ongoing registration of the new card. The leaders made this commitment during a town hall meeting organised by LASRRA with stakeholders in Lagos-Island Division. Speaking on behalf of Tijani Olusi, the Chairman, Lagos Island Local Government Area, Chief Abu Martins, said it had provided 27 halls as registration points to ensure a seamless registration for residents in the local government.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com