The Nigerian Communications Commission has said fifth-generation network will bridge the nation’s fibre connectivity gap and enhance Internet penetration with its wireless broadband connectivity across the nation. According to the World Bank, Nigeria needs three times more fibre infrastructure than it currently has to attain about 90 per cent broadband penetration among others by 2025. It added that the nation needs between 120,000 to 167,000 kms of fibre infrastructure — in addition to the existing 55,000 kms. However, the NCC believes that the rollout of 5G in the nation will help it attain record broadband penetration without having to rely on fibre infrastructure. The NCC disclosed this at the AfricaNXT Conference 2022 during a session tagged, ‘Moving Forward Steadily: Socio-Economic Significance of Development of 5G Services.’ This session was moderated by NCC’s Head of Online Media, Dr Omoniyi Ibietan. It had in attendance the Team Lead, Nigeria Office for Developing the Indigenous Telecoms Sector, Babagana Digima; Head, Space Services, Usman Aliyu; Head, Fixed Networks and Converged Services, Anthony Ikemefuna; and a Senior Manager in the Legal and Regulatory Services Department of the NCC, Dr Mohammed Suleh-Yusuf. During the conversation, the NCC team said, “With 5G, there is something for everyone. Nigeria is kick-starting these massive benefits with enhanced broadband. “5G will bridge the fibre connectivity gap and with wireless broadband connectivity, Nigerians will enjoy the enhanced broadband.” According to them, 5G will power a host of applications and innovations including, smart cities, telemedicine, Internet of Things, smart agriculture, driverless cars, bolstering of the security governance sector, among others. They said, “With 5G, there is something for everyone. Nigeria is kick-starting these massive benefits with enhanced broadband. 5G will bridge the fibre connectivity gap and with wireless broadband connectivity, Nigerians will enjoy the enhanced broadband.” They added that telecom operators would enjoy huge benefits from 5G in many ways, through network slicing, new revenue streams from IoT, industrial applications, gaming, entertainment as well as live broadcast features supported by 5G, among others. The panel said, “The latency of 5G, which measures its response time, is one millisecond, while that of 4G is measured at 10 milliseconds. “While 4G can accommodate 100,000 device connections in one square kilometre, 5G can connect a million devices within the same space, and thus, power IoT. Also, 5G peak data rate is 20 gigabits per second for download, and 10GB for upload, which is higher than 100 megabytes per second download and 50MB upload offered by 4G network.” They added that the prices of 5G devices and associated equipment would soon go down as the number of 5G devices is expected to reach more than one billion in the next two years. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com