The Nigerian Army has said troops of Operation Desert Sanity have found the wreckage of a crashed Alpha Jet aircraft in Sambisa Forest, Borno State. In a terse statement, the Army said the aircraft (NAF 475), which had two crew members, had gone off the radar on March 31, 2021. The statement read, “Troops of Operation Desert Sanity on clearance patrol in Sambisa Forest, Borno State, have uncovered the wreckage of crashed Alpha Jet aircraft (NAF475) that went off the radar with two crew members on 31 March 2021. Further exploitation ongoing.” No update was issued on the two pilots that were on board the aircraft, Flight Lieutenant John Abolarinwa and Flight Lieutenant Ebiakpo Chapele. The spokesperson for the Nigerian Air Force, Edward Gabkwet, had in a statement in April 2021 expressed fears that the aircraft might have crashed. “Intelligence report gathered by the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) indicates that the Alpha Jet aircraft (NAF475) that went off the radar with two crew members on board on 31 March 2021 might have crashed,” he said. He added, “Extensive search and rescue efforts are still ongoing by NAF surveillance aircraft as well as NAF Special Forces and Nigerian Army troops on the ground. “At this point, the NAF is not ruling out anything regarding the incident. It, however, remains hopeful that the crew would soon be found and rescued.” The army spokesperson, in a statement, also rubbished claims that the missing aircraft was downed by Boko Haram terrorists as seen in a video circulated on social media. The statement read, “The attention of the Nigerian Air Force has been drawn to some videos being circulated on social media, as well as media reports drawn therefrom, alleging that the NAF Alpha Jet aircraft, which was reported missing in Borno State on March 31, 2021 after losing radar contact, was shot down by terrorists. One of such videos, in particular, began with sporadic shooting by several terrorists, including underage children on motorcycles and vehicles. It later skipped abruptly to a scene depicting an aircraft exploding mid-air, supposedly as a result of enemy action. “Another part of the video showed a terrorist, who, while standing by the wreckage, claimed that they had shot down the NAF aircraft. Although the video is still being thoroughly analysed, it is evident that most parts of the video were deliberately doctored to give false impression that the aircraft was shot down. “It is obvious that the Boko Haram sect, in its characteristic manner of employing false propaganda, is seeking to claim credit for what was obviously an air accident that could have been caused by several other reasons; particularly at a time when the capability of the group to inflict mayhem has been significantly degraded by the Armed Forces of Nigeria. “Consequently, Nigerians are, please, advised to ignore the contents of the videos making the rounds until all investigations as to how the aircraft crashed are completed. The NAF, on its part, remains resolute and will continue to work assiduously, in synergy with sister services and other security agencies, to rid the North-East of all terrorist elements.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com