Automotive technology company, Autochek, says it is moving to provide more access to financing for automobile vehicles in Nigeria and across Africa. The Chief Executive Officer at Autochek, Etop Ikpe, spoke at the maiden auto finance summit held in Lagos, according to a company statement. He said various stakeholders had been working in silos in the past and that the automotive sector needed a multi-layered approach to financing in order to reach its full potential in Nigeria and across the continent. The statement quoted Ikpe as stating that financing was critical for the auto ecosystem as it plays a critical role in alleviating transportation poverty and impacting the whole value chain including dealers, workshops, SMEs and ultimately the consumer. He also stressed the need for consumer education on how to responsibly access credit and make the most of the financing solutions available to them, as well as other related services. The SVP, West Africa, Autochek, Mayokun Fadeyibi, said the company was building the infrastructure to make car ownership more accessible and affordable to more Africans and the event had brought together key stakeholders to engage in the necessary conversations to drive growth and opportunities across Africa’s automotive sector. Notable guests at the summit were Director General, National Automotive Design And Development Council, Jelani Aliyu, National Chairman, Association of Motor Dealers of Nigeria, Prince Ajibola Adedoyin, Omobola Johnson, Former Minister of Communications and Senior Partner TLcom Capital, Adebola Akindele Group Managing Director Courteville Solutions, Bisi Oni, Executive Director, FundQuest Financial Services Limited, among others. Key discussions addressed at the summit included ‘Unlocking constraints to boost growth and job creation in the automotive industry’, ‘Future of automotive financing and opportunities for the continent’ and ‘The ripple effect of embedded finance to support digital and financial inclusion in Africa’.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com