The Director, National Directorate of Politics and Governance of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, Pastor Femi Emmanuel, has backed the Redeemed Christian Church of God over their newly-created politics directorate. He termed the move by RCCG as an answered prayer and not support for any political candidate. In a statement on Saturday sent to Sunday PUNCH, Emmanuel, who doubles as the Lead Pastor of Livingspring Chapel International, said, “This appointment of the RCCG is not in support of any Political candidate at all. We asked for it. I trust other fathers and leaders of the faith would soon follow suit. “Let no one read any negative or ulterior motives to the memo from RCCG. This is at our request and it is an answered prayer for us in DPG. This is what we have been asking our GOs to do since.  Many more will do so soon as we are in consultation with them. “PFN/DPG is still at the level of building a grassroots base. We are still far from presenting candidates. Anyone talking of presenting candidates at this point does not know politics. Politics is at the grassroots. You can’t present candidates when you are not at the grassroots. You are at the back of the fence politically speaking. “Where would you get candidates (Ward Officers) to vote for you at the primaries and party conventions? Is it angels that will vote for you? “I appeal to All our GOs especially those with national spread and others to do what RCCG just did for us and connect their appointed officers to join us in this great effort as RCCG had done. We are eagerly waiting for others to do the same. “I do long write ups like this because I seek every opportunity to educate the Christian community. You can’t have candidates or vie for Political office if you are not active at the Ward level to elect Ward officers. “Please, join us to build the grassroot. Stop making comments in error. Ask from DPG  first.  Kudos to Redeem. The RCCG deserves our collective commendations,” part of the statement read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com