The Lagos State Government on Tuesday suspended the operations of the Bus Rapid Transit due to protests against the tragic death of a female passenger, Oluwabamise Ayanwole. PUNCH Metro had reported that the police recovered Oluwabamise’s corpse around the Ebute Ero area of the state. The 22-year-old was last seen on a BRT bus driven by one Andrew Nice, who fled after voice notes and a video clip of the victim recorded on the bus indicated that she was unsafe. Operatives of the Department of State Services later arrested Nice at his hideout in Ososa, Ogun State. The driver was subsequently handed over to the police as he was paraded at the command headquarters in Ikeja on Monday. Nice, during the parade, denied involvement in Oluwabamise’s death, saying his bus was hijacked by three gunmen who posed as passengers. However, in a video clip that emerged on Monday night, the 47-year-old admitted to committing “dirty acts.” The confession was said to have preceded his parade by the police. “I am telling you the truth, she forced herself out of that bus; she was crying for help and everything was recorded. And because of the dirty acts I had done and how stupid I am, I am afraid,” he said in the clip posted on Twitter. The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Tuesday, said investigation into the case was ongoing. The governor, who spoke during an event to commemorate the International Women’s Day at Onikan, cautioned those he said were twisting the story with unfounded insinuations. He said, “I have read some narratives and write-ups on social media in the last few hours. Some people are deliberately and extremely being sensational, posting that the Lagos State Government wanted to cover something; even my person. “These people trivialise life, which appears to me like they just want to score a cheap point. These people are of low minds and have no conscience. “Our government will certainly not be deterred by such wicked narratives. What we are about is to ensure that we transparently get to the roots of the matter. That is why the police and the Department of State Services picked up the driver, who ran to another state, where he was arrested. “The full wrath of the law will be applied on whoever is found wanting in this matter. And we will ensure the incident does not repeat itself.” He also warned the public against boarding BRT buses after the close of bus services in the evening, saying vehicles that had closed for the day would indicate by switching off their inner lights. In an apparent step to forestall attacks on BRT vehicles by residents protesting Oluwabamise’s death, the state government suspended the operations of the vehicles on Tuesday. At terminals in Ikorodu, Mile 12, Ketu, Ojota, none of the branded buses was seen on the road. When PUNCH Metro visited the BRT terminal at Ojodu Berger, stranded commuters were seen lamenting the situation. It was gathered that commercial buses took advantage of the scarcity to jack up transport fares. Some of the routes witnessed hikes to the tune of 40 per cent, while others went as high as 50 per cent. Our correspondents learnt that heavily-armed security operatives were deployed in the Freedom Park, Ojota, to stop protesters from converging on the spot. During a press briefing on Tuesday, Oluwabamise’s elder sister said she went through hell before she died. While shedding tears, she said, “I went to Akinpelu (Police Station) to report on Sunday; I reported to a policewoman and after seeing all the video evidence, she turned it down as if she never had a child before. It wasn’t as if the girl (Oluwabamise) was wise; it was the Holy Spirit that led her to get the evidence. “Oluwabamise left her working place to help the mother of an unborn child. The boy has been delivered and now, we are going to tell the story of Oluwabamise to this boy that it was when you were coming to this world that they took her away. They used our last born for money rituals. “The driver said some people attacked him, but after they left, you drove the bus to the BRT office comfortably. You never felt the pains of that girl when they were cutting her private parts. They did not kill her before cutting her private parts; my sister went through hell before her last breath on earth. “You drove down and went home to meet your family, but never knew that the girl had taken all the details of you. She captured the number of the bus, the video, and the voice. When he got to their terminal, why didn’t he report to the police? He didn’t report to his bosses; he resumed work on Monday. President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Sanwo-Olu, we want justice!” PUNCH Metro gathered that after the conference, the family alongside some sympathisers staged a protest in front of the state House of Assembly. The Speaker of the House, Mudashiru Obasa, who addressed the group, promised that the legislative arm would ensure justice in the matter. He said, “The erroneous belief that it would be swept under the carpet is unnecessary. The driver has been arrested and is in custody. We are watching and must ensure justice is done in the case.” The governor’s wife, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, while also condemning the killing of Oluwabamise, described her death as sad, shocking, and devastating. “As mothers, we are devastated; we are in shock; we are not happy. Lagos State is not known for ritual killings and we will not tolerate such. “Investigations are going on and I am sure there will be justice. Mr Governor is not sleeping. There will certainly be justice,” she added. The Head, Corporate Communications, Primero Transport Services Limited, Mutiu Yekeen, while sympathizing with the family of the victim, said the government directed the suspension of BRT services. “It is a directive from the Lagos State Government that we should not operate BRT buses today (Tuesday) due to the protest planned for the girl that was missing and later found dead. The directive came from LAMATA specifically,” he said. The state Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Adekunle Ajisebutu, said the deployment of policemen in Ojota was to forestall a breakdown of law and order. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com