THE Transmission Company of Nigeria has called for prompt contributions by member states of the West African Power Pool in order to ensure the financial sustenance of electricity projects in the region through the activities of WAPP. It made the call at WAPP member utilities’ directors of finance third meeting in Abuja, where the acting Managing Director, TCN, Sule Abdulaziz, urged members of the body to uphold agreements as regards the contributions. Abdulaziz, who was represented by the Executive Director, Transmission Service Provider, Victor Adewunmi, noted that finance was a critical aspect of running any organisation or pool such as the WAPP. “And as such all member states must play their roles diligently even as the project financiers continue to finance the projects,” he stated. The TCN boss added, “As you all settle down to the business of appraising strides made in the development of the electricity market especially as it relates to finance, critical on the list is the essential place of payment of contributions on time. “This is to ensure that the nucleus (the secretariat) that helps coordinate the pool is sustained and that it is properly empowered to carry out activities on time. This can only be achieved when our contributions as member utilities are brought in to fund the secretariat’s activities.” Abdulaziz explained that the efficient financing of the secretariat of WAPP was essential to the entire process of advancing the building of a robust power pool for the West African region. “Without adequately financing the secretariat, we cannot ensure the proper supervision of ongoing projects in the pool, funding is fundamental in this regard for the sustenance of qualified and knowledgeable hands needed to run the system,” he stated. He added that without sustained human capital, the issue of who would effectively supervise and coordinate the implementation and monitoring of projects on behalf of all the member utilities to having an effective pool would not be achieved. A member of the Board of Directors, WAPP, Joseph Makanju, identified illiquidity and the Internally Generated Revenue of power distribution companies as factors that should be addressed in the sector. “The power business is perceived as a charity business. This is the greatest challenge that we face and its survival is based on its financial strength. “The illiquidity in the business is our greatest challenge which ought to be addressed by the Discos. “In terms of WAPP’s survival, the role you play is key, this is where we need to continue the battle as it relates to the IGR.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com