A coalition of 165 Nobel laureates, including Wole Soyinka, has openly condemned the Russian Federation, led by Vladimir Putin, for its “unprovoked military aggression” towards Ukraine. This was stated in an open letter jointly signed by the Nobel laureates, who stated that there were other peaceful ways to solve disputes. The scholars also noted that the invasion will “stain” the international reputation of the Russian state for decades to come. A copy of the letter made available on Vox Ukraine partly read, “In a move that recalls the infamous attack of Nazi Germany on Poland in 1939 (using similar tricks of feigned provocation) and on the Soviet Union in 1941, the government of the Russian Federation, led by President Putin, has launched an unprovoked military aggression — nothing else but a war — against its neighbor, Ukraine. “We choose our words carefully here, for we do not believe the Russian people have a role in this aggression. “We join in condemning these military actions and President Putin’s essential denial of the legitimacy of Ukraine’s existence. “There is always a peaceful way to resolve disputes. The Russian invasion blatantly violates the United Nations Charter, which says “All members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state.” “It ignores the Budapest Memorandum of 1994, which obligated Russia and others to respect the sovereignty, independence, and existing borders of Ukraine. “The Russian invasion will stain the international reputation of the Russian state for decades to come. It will pose barriers to its economy and inflict hardships on its population. The sanctions imposed will restrict the ease of movement of its talented and hardworking people in the world. Why raise this fence between Russia and the world now? “Hundreds of Ukrainian soldiers, Russian soldiers, and Ukrainian civilians, including children, have died already. It’s so sad, so unnecessary. We gather in this appeal to call upon the Russian government to stop its invasion of Ukraine and withdraw its military forces from Ukraine.” Reinstating their support for Ukraine, the scholars said, “We respect the calm and the strength of the Ukrainian people. We are with you. “Our hearts go out to the families and friends of all, Ukrainians and Russians, who have died and been injured already. May peace come to this piece of our beautiful world.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com