23-year-old undergraduate of Adeseun Ogundoyin Polytechnic, Eruwa in Oyo State, Samuel Akinsuyi, was shot by a policeman at a checkpoint in Eruwa on Friday March 11. He tells OLUFEMI OLANIYI how the incident happened What do you do for a living and where were you coming from when you were shot by a policeman? I am an ND II student of the Department of Business Administration, Adeseun Ogundoyin Polytechnic, Eruwa in Oyo State. On that Friday, it was around 11am and I left the school and I was going to Ibadan where my mum lives when the incident happened. You were shot in a car. How many of you were in the car and who is the owner of the car? My mum is the owner of the car. I sat at the front passenger seat and my friend was the one driving the car. Two other students joined us from school, they were also going to Ibadan and we gave them a lift. Was any other person injured? I was the only one hit by the bullet. At what point did the incident happen? We were still in Eruwa. We just left the military checkpoint on the road and some metres after that, the policemen just came out without stopping the car and one of them opened fire on the car. I was sitting in the front and he shot the car from that side. The bullet penetrated the car and hit the back of my ankle. They did not even dress like policemen; some of them were standing by the side of the road and the one that shot just ran out of the bush and shot the car. The car was in motion, they did not stop us and he just shot at us like that. Immediately he fired the shot, I started shouting, “Bullet has hit my leg!” because I knew I had been hit. I saw my leg, the injury and the blood and I started crying. My leg was shattered and anytime I remember what happened, I will start crying. I can’t walk up till now. My people carry me to do everything, including  to use the toilet. I have become a burden to them and I am just praying I will walk again. Was the bone of your leg affected? The bullet hit the bone and that is why the pain is this much. It fractured the bone. We did an X-ray and saw everything. Did the doctors assure you that you will walk again? I believe in God but the pain is just too much. I hope I will be able to walk again but the wound will have to heal first.  I also pray I will be able to use the leg to drum. I beat drum set and play other musical instruments. Do you play for a band or in a church? I play in church and I also play for a band. Who is responsible for the hospital bill? My family has been doing that. Somebody from NANS (National Association of Nigerian Students) came and gave me N50,000 but before that we had spent over N200,000. We are asked to buy drugs, injections and drips often. Has your family contacted the police on the matter? My mum did that. The Area Commander in charge of the place gave us N25,000. He said it was from his personal pocket. The car is still at the police station where it was taken to after the incident and they have not realesed it. What about the policeman who shot you? I heard that he and other members of his team have been arrested by the police. My mum went there and he was brought out for her to see. There are reports that students of your school protested the shooting that day. Are you aware? It’s only God that knows what would have happened to me if the soldiers at the checkpoint were not there when I was shot. After shooting me and we turned back, I was being driven to hospital but surprisingly, the policemen still blocked us with a commercial vehicle and prevented us from going to the hospital. The soldiers were used by God to save me from bleeding to death. Blood was gushing  out and I was weak and I was crying but the policemen did not allow my friends to take me to hospital for treatment. The soldiers came and shouted at them, demanding why they stopped us from going to hospital after shooting us. What reason did the policemen give for blocking you from being taken to hospital? They did not give any reason; they just blocked the car until the soldiers shouted at them. The soldiers asked my friend to drive me to the hospital to first save my life before anything else. Did the hospital request police report before treating you? They did but my friend asked them to treat me first and went to the police station for the report. But before he came back they had started treating me. A senior police officer also came back to the hospital with my friend but the doctors had started treating me before they arrived. Are you still in the hospital now? No. Many people came to visit me at the hospital, a private hospital  and the number was just too much, so we requested that I should be discharged and taken somewhere where people wouldn’t know. We requested that the doctor be coming to the place to treat me. Did you hear the rumour of your death just last week? Yes, I heard that. I had to go to my school WhatsApp platform to dispel the rumour. I told them that, ‘I am alive.’ Maybe those who started the rumour thought I had died when they did not see me in the hospital again. What do you want to be done to the policeman who shot you? I thank God that I am alive to tell the story. If the bullet had hit me on the head or chest, I would not have been around to seek revenge. I don’t want any case, my family and I are not interested in any case against them. I just want to hand over the policeman who shot me to God. God should judge him if I deserve that. But they should release my mum’s car because it is not a stolen vehicle. The police did not even ask us to stop, I just saw the man running out of the bush and the next thing he did was to shoot at me. I don’t know if that is the way to do police job but I know I did not deserve the shooting. I am not a criminal.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com