A lady, identified simply as Dj Ada, has said men should always give ladies transport fare whenever they hang out with them. Ada, while justifying her claim, said ladies usually expend a lot of time, energy and money during preparation for outings with men, adding that their efforts should be compensated with a generous offer she described as transport fare. Ada made the statement during a live broadcast involving some presenters. A video clip about the program was reposted by Instablog9ja. Commenting on the topic, Ada was heard saying, “They are like let us hangout now and you are like ok no problem. So, you call a make up artist for N30,000, you will test different outfits, wear a wig and I will go out to meet you. I always expect, oh, it was nice meeting you, just take.” Corroborating Ada’s point, another presenter, in the same video clip, said, “It is not about making money, do you know the cost of being a fine girl in Lagos? It is very expensive.” Recall that Nigerians, including rapper, Oludemilade Alejo, aka Ycee, tackled Ada, who said she usually refused hanging out with young guys because they don’t give transport fare after an outing. In another video clip, Ada was seen berating young guys as she lamented that they always refused to give transport fare after dressing up to hang out with them. She added that the reason discouraged her from hanging out with them. In the post which went viral, Ada said, “So, this is one reason why I don’t like to hang out with young guys and now it sounds funny but it is the truth. You get to hang out with a young dude, you get your makeup done and your hair done and see that person and once you see the person, he is like ok, I am done, it was nice seeing you, it is time to go home, they always don’t give you transport fare home. “There is no thanks, I appreciate the fact that you took your time out and you got dressed to come out. There is no take, send me your account number, let me send you money. It is always ‘oh alright, no problem, see you another time,’ how do you think I am going to come out another time, I am not coming out for nobody.” Ycee described Ada’s comment as a “Dead mentality.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com