The suspected terrorists have killed 50 residents and abducted over 100 in a fresh attack on the Giwa Local Government Area of Kaduna State. They invaded nine villages in the local government, burning vehicles and buildings, including a church. Some residents said they sighted the attackers on Friday. And by the early hours of Friday, the terrorists have stormed the affected villages, killed no fewer than 50 people and razed houses including, a church as well as rustled cows and burnt close to 30 vehicles. The villages are Unguwar Kaya Fatika, Barebare, Dillalai, Zango Tama, Unguwar Bakko, Gidan Alhajin Kadi, Kadanya and Duromi. Former Governor of Kaduna State and Chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, Ahmed Makarfi, has condemned bandits’ raid on nine villages across Giwa LGA. Makarfi, who was particularly disturbed that the killing in Giwa LG was coming so shortly after bandits’ attack on Agban Kagoro in Kaura Local Government Area in the Southern part of the state, described the latest attack as “unfortunate”. The former lawmaker, who represented the Northern Kaduna Senatorial District twice at the National Assembly, counselled the government at all levels and all relevant agencies to re-strategise and up the ante of the fight against these criminalities. The former governor said, “It is rather unfortunate that just a few days apart, we are having to, once again mourn the loss of innocent lives and destruction of properties in Kaduna State. “The attacks and subsequent loss of about 50 lives as reported and properties in Giwa Local Government, coming so shortly on the heels of the ones in the southern parts of the state earlier in the week are a stark reminder of the perilous times we seem to be in. “They are as abhorrent as they are condemnable. No group or individual should be allowed the latitude to reduce human life to this or any other level of insignificance. ‘We must all come together to fight this menace that threatens to overrun us all if we fold our arms and merely wish it will just go away. It requires the concerted efforts of all of us, joining hands with relevant authorities to forge a united front against this existential threat. “Also governments at all levels and all relevant agencies must restrategise and up the ante of the fight against these criminalities and the perpetrators, by among others, fundamentally overhauling and Improving the intelligence gathering of the security agencies as well as the capacity of the personnel to analyse and deploy it more appropriately. “I once again convey my deepest condolences and sympathy to families of the deceased and victims of the violence as well as to the government and people of Kaduna State over this unfortunate and unacceptable situation. “It is my earnest prayer that we don’t witness this again in the state and every part of the country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com