Embattled actor, Olanrewaju James, aka Baba Ijesha, on Friday, March 4, 2022, told an Ikeja Special Offences Court that comedienne, Damilola Adekoya, popularly known as Princess, is his former lover. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the actor testified as the second defence witness at his trial for alleged defilement of a 14-year-old foster daughter of Princess. Led in evidence by the defence counsel, Dada Awosika, SAN, Baba Ijesha  described the nature of the relationship he allegedly had with Princess. He said, “We were dating, my lord. She always slept in my room. We slept together. We both touched and kissed ourselves.” Earlier, the defendant told the court how he allegedly met the comedienne. According to him, he received a phone call from Princess while he was an on-air personality on Radio Lagos and LTV 8. He added, “She said she was my number one fan and asked me to promote her on my programme. That was how we started.” The defendant added that in the course of the relationship, he met Princess’ mother and she advised him to take care of her daughter, and that though her daughter was stubborn, he could handle her. Narrating what transpired in 2014, the day he allegedly sexually molested Princess’s foster daughter with a car key, he stated that the comedienne informed him that she was battling ill-health and needed some fruits. According to him, he then took some fruits to her home. “Immediately I opened the door to her house and saw her half naked. I then told her the fruits were inside the car. “Few minutes after, the young girl (Princess’s foster daughter) came to pick the fruits from the car.” Under cross-examination by the Lagos State Director of the Directorate of Public Prosecutions, Dr Jide Martins, the defendant denied defiling the minor. He, however, admitted knowing the child since she was seven years old. “Princess is not my benefactor. She is the one who benefitted from me,” he said. Baba Ijesha, who at a point broke down in tears during the cross-examination, said the evidence he gave in court in his defence was not an afterthought. Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo adjourned the case until March 11 for continuation of defence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com