The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has said that the officer who leaked the video of a former governor of Anambra State, Willie Obiano, in the anti-graft agency’s custody have been apprehended. The commission made this known in a statement by its spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren, on Monday. The EFCC said following the incident, a discreet investigation was ordered which revealed the errant officer behind the act. The statement read, “The attention of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has been drawn to a trending video showing the former Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano, in the custody of the commission. “The commission wishes to distance itself from the said video which is completely at variance with the established Standard Operating Procedure of the EFCC. “A discreet investigation ordered upon discovery of the leak has revealed the errant officer behind the odious act and he is currently being subjected to appropriate disciplinary action.” The PUNCH had reported that a short video of former Anambra Governor Willie Obiano in the EFFC’s detention  surfaced online on Sunday. In the video which lasted 12 seconds, Obiano was seen sipping water from a bottle. He was also discussing with an unidentified person in the video. EFCC had Obiano is being quizzed over the alleged misappropriation of N42 billion belonging to the state. The agency had last year placed the former governor on its watch list and also asked the Nigeria Immigration Service to stop him from leaving the country in a letter to the Comptroller-General of Immigration dated November 15, 2021. The PUNCH had reported that Obiano was arrested by EFCC on Thursday night, hours after handing over to the new Anambra Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com