***urges party to maintain zoning principle A presidential aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, has said he would remain in the party even if he fails to clinch the presidential ticket ahead of the 2023 elections. The outspoken governor affirmed this on Tuesday night in Abuja during a meeting with the National Assembly Caucus of the PDP, where he fronted himself as the best candidate to run the country’s affairs, referencing his age and performance in Rivers State for the past seven years. While noting that the party must win the nation’s top seat in the forthcoming elections, Wike called on the lawmakers to support his aspirations. Wike stated, “I want to appeal to all of you, for the interest of our party, I have made myself available. Age is on my side, too much energy to run around and solve the problems of this country. So, I am making myself available, removing sentiments. “But if we don’t win in 2023, it will be a problem for us. I will bring my state’s votes, with my leaders here. Even if you don’t give me the ticket, I will still produce the highest votes. It is our nature from 1999 till now. Ask. Nobody has beaten Rivers State in terms of giving votes to the party. “Even if you don’t give me the ticket, I will never go to any party, I will not sabotage it. I will carry it upon my head and make sure the party wins the election. I am not going to do any conspiracy to go and see APC at night. That is the problem of people; because you didn’t get it, you begin to go in the night to frustrate the party.” Throwing a slight shade at the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), Wike said he would be present and “not travel” to deliver leadership to the country. “I am coming not just to contest but to win the election. And I will be in front, I am not going to travel, I will be here because you must show leadership. I will be at the front, if they fire a bullet, let it reach me first. That is what they call leadership. “To manage Rivers State is not an easy thing. (Senator Gabriel) Suswam has come to commission projects, the Minority Leader has come to commission projects, so many people. I have transformed Rivers State. Allow me this opportunity and see the way I will transform Nigeria. It will be unprecedented,” he appealed. The Rivers State Governor also knocked other PDP presidential aspirants who are kicking against zoning and scheming for a consensus. He noted that “Our founding fathers never made a mistake, they know the complexity of this country, it is not because they don’t want merit, no, but they said for Nigeria to move forward, this is the way we are going to do it for fairness, equity and justice. “But don’t scatter what the founding fathers have laid down because of your selfish interest. No. Agree. After all, even in 1999 when it was said that it would go to the south, Rimi contested. People have said this is where it is going. Rimi because it is his constitutional right, you can’t stop him, he ran. “But if we deviate from that now, simple Suswam Wants to run and Suswam believes that if he doesn’t run now, he may not run again, Suswan now says no, that is selfishness, that is not for the interest of the party and we must not allow that.” He also declared that he has convened a legal team of over 20 Senior Advocates of Nigeria to address the cases of any political aspirant that supports his ambition. “So many things are going wrong. People will not tell the truth. To tell you I am serious, yesterday we set up our legal team, twenty-something SANS. I am fully prepared for this and everybody who is working with me, will not have any legal challenge because you will be taken from the pool.” “Nobody supporting me here will go to court on their own. Our team will take care of it. If I say I am working with you, your problems are my problems and my problems are your problems. So, we must share it equally,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com