The governorship candidate of the Action Democratic Party for the June 18 election in Ekiti State, Kemi Elebute-Halle, has said her victory at the poll would show people of the state and Nigerians that women could be elected as governors. Elebute-Halle expressed confidence that she would defeat the ruling All Progressives Party and the major opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party, to win the election going by “the fact that Ekiti people are desirous of having a woman as governor this time round and the massive support for my candidature”. The ADP candidate, who spoke in Ado Ekiti on Friday while officially presenting her certificate of return as the flagbearer in the election to the leadership of the party, said, “ADP has come to stay in Ekiti State and we are here to give the people a new lease of life”. While ruling out the idea of supporting another governorship candidate, Elebute-Halle said, “I’m not looking at having an alliance with other political parties. I’m looking at having a dialogue with them for them to realise that I can lead them this time because this is what Ekiti State wants. “Ekiti people want women to lead them this time round. They are clamouring for it. We are ready for it and we want to see Ekiti State come out with something good. We are out to reclaim and rebuild Ekiti,” she said. The ADP candidate, who dismissed insinuations that a third force could not win elections in Ekiti State, said, “A lot of Nigerians have been brainwashed into believing that the only two existing parties in Nigeria are APC and PDP. That is not true. We have started with sensitisation to disprove that. “In neighbouring Ondo State, Dr Olusegun Mimiko, won the governorship election not on the platform of PDP or APC, but the Labour Party. ADP has come to stay in Ekiti State and we are going to take over from them.” “Under ADP, Ekiti State people will experience pure democracy for the first time, enjoy the dividends of democracy, and be carried along as a democratic people. We are out for exploits. “One of the things I want to do is to ensure that there is peaceful co-existence in Ekiti State, I want to ensure that there our security is taken care of, I want to see that education sector is taken care of, I want to see that that there is the inclusion of women in politics, I want to see there is the inclusion of the youth in politics,” she added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com