The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday, met with service chiefs and heads of security agencies following the terror attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train that left many dead and several injured. During the meeting, Buhari received briefs from the Service Chiefs led by the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor, with the Chief of Army Staff, Lt-General Faruk Yahaya, and the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amao. Others who attended the meeting at the State House include the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, as well as Major General Samuel Adebayo, the Chief of Defence Intelligence, and the Director-General of the Department of State Services, Yusuf Magaji Bichi. Following the briefs, Buhari directed the immediate conclusion of all the processes for the implementation of the integrated security surveillance and monitoring solution. The solution, he said, would be for the Abuja to Kaduna railway line, and also to be extended to cover the Lagos-Ibadan railway line. Buhari also directed the Nigerian Railway Corporation management to speedily repair the damaged lines and resume normal service without delay, according to a statement on Tuesday by Buhari spokesman, Garba Shehu, which contained outcomes of the meeting. According to the statement, Buhari reiterated his earlier directive that the military should deal ruthlessly with terrorists. He asked them to be more decisive and not spare anyone unlawfully wielding the AK 47 weapon. “No one should be allowed to hold the country to ransom,” said the President. Buhari strongly condemned the bombing of the passenger train, describing it as a “matter of grave concern.” “like most Nigerians, I am deeply pained by its occurrence, the second of its type, which has resulted in the death of a yet to be determined number of passengers and others who suffered injuries. “The attack on the train, a safe means of transport to many, is callous; and our thoughts are with the families of the deceased and prayers for the injured,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com