The Federal Government has expressed its disapproval of the ongoing registration of Nigerian citizens volunteering to join the Ukrainian Army to resist the invasion of the country by Russia. Over 150 Nigerians have volunteered to be recruited after Ukrainian President, Volodymyr Zelensky, urged people around the world to join the fight. But reacting in a statement on Monday, the Spokesperson for the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Francisca Omayuli, said the Federal Government would not tolerate the recruitment. She stressed that the Federal Government would engage with the Embassy of Ukraine in Nigeria and other relevant authorities to prevent this. The statement read, “The attention of the Federal Government of Nigeria has been drawn to an alleged ongoing registration of Nigerian volunteers into the fighting force of Ukraine at the Ukrainian Embassy in Abuja. “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs contacted the Embassy to verify the speculation. The Ukrainian Embassy refuted the allegation but confirmed that a number of Nigerians had approached the Embassy indicating their willingness to fight on the side of Ukraine in its ongoing conflict with Russia. “Furthermore, the Embassy clarified that the Ukrainian government is not admitting foreign volunteer fighters and as such dissociated itself from the claim that it is requesting $1,000 from each Nigerian volunteer for air ticket and visa. “As a responsible member of the international community and consistent with our obligations under international law, Nigeria discourages the use of mercenaries anywhere in the world and will not tolerate the recruitment, in Nigeria, of Nigerians as mercenaries to fight in Ukraine or anywhere else in the world. The Federal Government will continue to engage with the Embassy of Ukraine in Nigeria and other relevant authorities to prevent this possibility.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com