Victor Osimhen has described the rivalry between Nigeria and Ghana more than football-related, adding that he was confident the Super Eagles will overcome the Black Stars to pick the FIFA World Cup ticket, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Both teams will lock horns again in the second leg of the Qatar 2022 World Cup playoff at the Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abuja after the first leg ended in a stalemate at the Baba Yara Stadium in Kumasi last Friday. Osimhen who led the Eagles attack in the first leg is aiming to make his debut appearance at the World Cup in Qatar. In an interview with CAFOnline.com, the 23-year-old striker said, “Ghana is a great team and we will never underrate the team just as we’ve been doing, we saw the upset the Central African Republic gave to us. “For me, I would do my best, but it’s not just about me, we have some inspirational players in the team like Ahmed Musa, Odion Ighalo, Kenneth Omeruo and other great players. With the help of their experience, we’ll be able to actualize this dream. “We know the importance of the game to us, our families, careers and the entire nation. This game is more than just football and we will give our best and also try to make sure we have the upper hand.” The CAF 2015 Youth Player of the Year also expressed his regrets of not playing at the recent Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon where the Eagles crashed out in the Round of 16. The former Lille striker missed the 2021 AFCON due to a facial injury and COVID-19 issues. “To be called up to represent is a dream come true. I will always seize the opportunity to represent the Super Eagles if I’m fit and very much okay,” he disclosed. “To be back to this team is a blessing and I look forward to the matches. I miss the squad so much, I’ve been with the team since 2017, it’s always a great atmosphere with the team. “That I was not at the AFCON was a big blow to me, but I give thanks to God for whatever situation I find myself in. Now I am back with the team and I want to give my all for the common good of the team.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com