The World Meteorological Organisation on Wednesday said weather forecast is no longer enough to mitigate the impact of climate change on the environment. It, therefore, called for impact-based forecast, describing it as more vital, but noted that there was still a dearth of information on early warning signals. The Representative of WMO for North, Central and West Africa, Bernard Gomez, disclosed this while speaking at the commemoration of the 2022 World Meteorological Day in Abuja. He said, “Weather, climate, and weather extremes are becoming more frequent in many parts of the world as a result of climate change. “Sub-saharan Africa including Nigeria is more exposed to the hazard as a result of growth, urbanisation and environmental degradation. “So forecasts of what the weather will be are no longer enough. (Rather) impact-based forecasts of informing the public of what the weather will be are vital to save lives and livelihoods.” Gomez added, “However, a significant number of people are not adequately covered by climate-related annual warning systems.” The Director-General, Nigerian Meteorological Agency, Prof. Mansur Matazu, noted that to reduce risks associated with weather-related disasters, both NiMET, Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency and disaster managers must work in synergy. He said this would assist in better national prevention, preparedness and response strategies. “An example of best practice is the adoption of co-production techniques in the Seasonal Climate Prediction of NiMET which has over the years served as a multi-stakeholder early warning tool,” Matazu stated. The NiMet boss stated that in recognition of the importance of the Seasonal Climate Predictions and other early warning products and services, his agency had gone into partnerships with various ministries, departments and agencies of the Federal Government.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com