A group, the Niger Delta Budget Monitoring Group, has charged oil-producing communities in the Niger Delta to use the Petroleum Industry Act to empower women economically. This was contained in a communiqué issued in Port Harcourt at the end of a supplementary capacity building for mobilisation of marginalised groups, particularly, women, and other stakeholders for budget tracking and formation of shadow budget group supported by Oxfam in Nigeria. The group said 30 per cent of the three per cent captured in the PIA should be allocated to women. The communiqué was signed by Dr. George-Hill Anthony, Chief Executive Officer- Niger Delta Budget Monitoring Group and Pius Dukor, President, Pius Dukor Foundation, and made available to newsmen in Port Harcourt. The group said women should be encouraged to participate in governance through gender and fiscal equity. It further said cultures, traditions, policies, and practices limiting women participation in governance at all levels should be eliminated or be expunged. The communiqué reads, “Government should bridge inequality gaps through poverty reduction policies. A situation where the poor get poorer and the rich getting richer could be a reason why many Nigerians are struggling for daily survival without time to pay attention to fiscal situations around them such as attending budget defence sessions and tracking of public expenditure. “Therefore, economic opportunities that could empower the citizens, especially, the women through fiscal architecture with a gender equity mirror should be promoted by government. “Extractive host communities should use the recently enacted Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) to empower women economically by allocating 30 per cent of the three per cent captured in the PIA to women.” “Equally, appointment of Board of Trustees across “the trust” encapsulated in the Act, should consider 30 per cent composition for women. Appointment into Host Communities Management Committees should consider 30% composition for women. Capital funds for host communities should be equitably distributed. “Whilst matrix for distribution of ‘Trust Funds’ should be technically structured to equitably benefit men and women. Fund managers, executive members, and advisory committees to be appointed through the PIA should be made up with 30% consideration for women.” According to the communiqué, participants were drawn from communities, civil society organisations, the media, the group affiliates and other stakeholders from Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Imo, Delta, and Rivers states.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com