The Delta State Government has charged Adventium Global Delta Consortium Limited, a subsidiary of Adventium Global Incorporation, United States of America, to keep to the term of agreement it (Delta government) signed with the company. The Secretary to the State Government, Patrick Ukah, stated this while signing a shareholders’ agreement with Adventium Consortium in Asaba for the transformation of Songhai Delta Farm at Amukpe in the Sapele Local Government Area into an Agro-Industrial Processing, Tourism and Training Park as part of efforts in consolidating on its stronger Delta Agenda. Ukah, who signed on behalf of the state government, stated that the signing of the agreement between the government and the consortium was a testament to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s vision for creating jobs for the teaming youths in the state and diversifying the state’s revenue base from over-reliance on crude oil revenue. He said, “I commend members of the committee set up to drive the process as they were able to deliver on the set goals within the stipulated time. “The management team of the consortium should ensure that they keep to the terms of the shareholders’ agreement to achieve the goals of the Public Private Partnership arrangement with the state government.” Earlier, the Chief Operating Officer of the Firm, Mr. Simeon Asaboro, on behalf of the Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Adventium Global Delta Consortium Limited, Mr. Isaac Oghogho, said their investment in Songhai Delta was under a Public Private Partnership agreement where the consortium will inject US$40m into the project, bring technical partners and manage the transformation of the farm. He equally stated that the project will have socio-economic and developmental impact on the state such as creating jobs for the teeming unemployed and under-employed youths and women in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com