We are already in the year of campaigns for the 2023 elections and expecting parties’ catchphrases for the elections. Having seen where the catchphrase, Next level,” has led us to, we must be wary of any such phrases. There is no doubt that presently the country has been led to the next level of hardship, poverty, debt, corruption, lies and anything but positive. Yet, they would not want us to talk about it. Who else is supposed to tell the government that we are suffering? Even when we know that those who live in affluence at our expense do not care about the majority that lives in poverty and will not do anything about the suffering, people should not be deprived of speaking out. That is the beauty of democracy and nobody should attempt to take that away from us. The other day, Femi Adesina was reproaching the public for blaming the president for petroleum or electricity problems or both. Who else should be blamed? If there is a free flow of petroleum with the domestic refineries working properly or the electricity is stable for just 72 hours and the president is praised, would Adesina ask us to praise the minister in charge? The buck stops on the president’s table or is Adesina telling us not to complain to the president? Please, help us tell the president that there is stress in the land and we need a break from this. For three weeks or more, we are not told the truth about the state of both energy sources—petrol and electricity. It has been one unfulfilled promise of better days or another. There is no power to power another power or no power to power another source of power! No petrol or gas to power main electricity turbines or even to power generators for home use. By extension, there is no power (petrol or electricity) to power water pumping machines, leading to water shortage. In other climes, where there is self-respect and respect for public service, one minister or another would have resigned, been forced to resign or be removed by the president for inefficiency or ineffectiveness. That cannot happen in Nigeria where people are taken for granted. The foregoing brings us to the issue of poverty in the land. Poverty has always been in our land. In the 1970s, Ebenezer Obey sang Najiria yi si ma dun, o da mi loju,  which literally translates to “Nigeria will be okay or sweet, I am sure,” and which was followed up some 30 years ago by Chief Stephen Osita Osadebe’s Nigeria go better and echoed again in 2018 by Fuji music idol, Saheed Osupa. Those songs were songs of hope for impoverished Nigerians and Nigerians are ever hopeful for better days. Saheed Osupa’s song came around the time Nigeria was declared internationally as the poverty capital of the world.  That was when the country entered poverty, plus-plus (opposite Yahoo, plus-plus) or many Nigerians entered what we can call the poverty trap! That was when banditry, kidnapping of adults and children, herdsmen clash with farmers and ritual killings took new dimension for the worst. What are the elements of poverty trap? Theoretically, we seem to know what poverty is and define it within that context but, in practical terms, it is only those who have experienced it recently (not long before) or who are currently enmeshed in poverty that can give you details which otherwise you may not be able to comprehend. In a well-endowed nation like Nigeria with natural and human resources, the prevalence of poverty has its root cause in corruption. As I stated elsewhere in the PUNCH some time ago, corruption undermines development goals, promotes economic loss and inefficiency, promotes poverty and inequality, public and private sectors dysfunctional, failure of infrastructure, rigged economic and political systems, impunity and partial justice, among others. What kind of honesty can you find in published official statements that the Federal Government school feeding scheme will cost N1 billion daily or N20 billion in 20 school days a month? Or that government approved dirty fuel imported into the country and fuel imports in 2021 cost $1.04 billion! That was why corruption is part of the package of assistance to be rendered to us by a British government agency. We must accept that without tackling corruption, the country cannot move forward politically and economically. A number of researchers opine that corruption puts ‘sand’ in the wheels of development thus making economic and political transition difficult with the resultant effects of generating  poverty traps. Basically, poverty is a state or condition in which a person, a group of persons or a community lacks the financial resources and essentials for a minimum standard of living. A situation in which income level from employment is too low to meet the acquisition of human basic needs such as proper housing, clean water, healthy food, basic medical care and basic education. Poverty trap is a more precarious situation as it is a spiralling mechanism which forces people to remain poor or a situation in which the poor people find it difficult to escape being poor. People get stuck in a cyclical pattern of poverty, which cannot be broken unless there are interventions from outside the family, community or the country. Literature indicates causes of poverty trap to include wages too low to meet basic needs, poor work opportunities: difficult situation for people to find jobs, let alone get jobs that pay well; inability to pay for education and inflation or expensive basic goods and services with the high cost of living preventing people from meeting basic needs. Others are poor sanitation, which can cause rapid spread of diseases that are difficult to control (as with cholera in some states now) with poor medical care as people cannot get the medical care they need due to lack of money and with attendant starvation, malnutrition and low life expectancy. These situations arose from lack of growth in the industry due to corruption in government; high price of power and lack of skilled labour culminating in lack of growth of businesses and industries, particularly manufacturing. Poorly funded and irregular education system as well as violence engendered environment. The current Nigerian environment is aptly described by the foregoing. No wonder the number of people moving into the poverty trap is increasing rapidly. The number of children out of school is reported to have moved from around 10 million towards 15 million and the unemployment/underemployment rate rising while domestic prices continue to respond to depreciating naira and high cost of electricity. Solution to poverty traps would involve social mobilisation in which states and communities have to raise awareness teams to get volunteers to be involved in helping those in need because they cannot help themselves. Multi-pronged solutions like human development, agriculture and small-scale businesses have to be improved upon. The introduction of inclusive growth where people are helped to create jobs and financial inclusion where attempts are made to empower everyone financially and generate income is imperative. But, all that people caught in poverty trap think about is money. How to get money to meet basic needs. They have lost all sense of reasoning. When they are pregnant, they see the unborn child as money that will give them succour and sell that child to obtain the money after birth. When you give them things in kind, they prefer to sell them to get money to meet what they consider their own needs. So when politicians want to empower such people you have to organise lectures or workshops for human capital development to first change their orientation and provide some seed money to meet the immediate needs of each person or, else, they will sell that sewing machine, motorbike, grinding machine. Is there an affluence trap? Yes, but it refers to an economy that uses up its natural resources to meet the basic needs of its population. However, within the context of this essay, the affluence trap is a situation in which the affluent in the society does not recognise the existence of the poor and, thus, live as if there is no poverty in the land. That is the nature of Nigeria and Nigerian leaders today. Hopefully, when politicians come up with their slogan such as “Next Level,” we should force them to complete the phase: Next level of what?  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com