The Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel’s cabinet has been depleted as two commissioners resigned their appointments the same day, Monday, March, 14,2022 The two commissioners are Mr. Akan Okon, who was commissioner of Economic Development and Ibom Deep Sea Port and Pastor Sunny Ibuot for Labour and Manpower Development. Akan Okon in his resignation letter thanked Emmanuel for the honour and great privilege to serve the state, adding that he would remain grateful to God almighty and the governor for giving him the opportunity to serve. He explained that his decision to quit the state Exco was necessitated by the need to focus on his governorship aspiration. He added that he was looking forward to serving the state as governor in 2023, stressing that there was time for every season as the scripture admonishes “It is my deep conviction that this is the best time to take a leave in order to focus on my aspiration for the 2023 Governorship election,” he stated. The former commissioner, however, thanked the people of the state for their support and encouragement which he noted had motivated him in the discharge of all the tasks and assignments given to him. The support, he said, was evidenced especially with regards to the envisioned three gateways (Land, Air and Sea) for the rapid development of Akwa Ibom as well as creation of job opportunities for teeming unemployed youths. In the same vein, Pastor Sunny Ibuot thanked Emmanuel for giving him the opportunity to serve in various capacities He said ” It has been a tremendous honour to have been appointed. First as Secretary, Technical Committee on Agriculture and Food Sufficiency. Later Hon. Special Adviser, Political/ Legislative Affairs and Water Resources and finally Hon Commissioner in Akwa Ibom State Executive Council of your administration. While this duration lasted, I have endeavoured and actively served with the best of my ability and potential, with milestones on the sands of time” Our correspondent gathered that the two former commissioners took the decisions in conformity with the provisions of the Electoral Act 2022 as amended. The Act stipulated that political appointees interested in elective offices in 2023 will not be able to participate in party primaries expected to begin in May unless they resign due to the new provision. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com