The Pension Funds Operators Association of Nigeria has warned that a parliamentary bill seeking 75 per cent lump sum for retirees under the Contributory Pension Scheme will have a negative effect on pensioners. It said this in reaction to a bill currently before the House of Representatives seeking to increase the lump sum payable to retirees to at least 75 per cent of the amount in their Retirement Savings Account. PenOp said in a presentation, “The proposal to increase lump-sum payments to 75 per cent, while it may seem popular and laudable, it actually negatively affects both the retiree and the active contributors.” According to the operators, studies have shown that when people who are not used to receiving huge sums are given a large amount of money, they usually spend it on consumptive rather than productive activities. “What would happen when large payouts are given to retirees is that they would not have any other fall back and ultimately, they may become a liability on the society,” PenOp said. While explaining that it is what the worker saves plus investment returns that form the pension balance, it said, “If we are advocating for a larger lump sum payment of at least 75 per cent as is proposed under this bill, then we need to ask if the 25 per cent remaining is enough to sustain you on a periodic basis for the rest of your time on earth. The answer is a resounding no.” Explaining the need for workers to join the CPS early, it said if the employer and employee contribute consistently over a long period of time, the funds in the individual’s RSA account will be sufficient to have a decent lump sum with enough funds remaining to earn a decent pension for life. PenOp said, “As a matter of fact, what we need to promote, is to encourage more workers to add to their statutory deductions while working, as this would enable them to shore up their balances over time. “What we need to advocate more is the consistency and discipline in the contributions that will even remove the need for any large lump sum payout when retired.” PenOp said it was pertinent to note that the CPS in its current state had in no small way fostered a savings culture in Nigeria. Prior to the enactment of the Act, it said Nigeria did not have large pools of domestic savings. The operators said, “Many Nigerians do not have any other form of savings, except through this contributory pension scheme. “What we should be doing as a nation is to encourage more of these savings rather than looking to dismantle the system. This is probably the only form of savings most Nigerian workers are able to put aside for their retirement years.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com