Some members of staff of the Citizenship and Leadership Training Centre (C & LTC), an agency under the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, have accused the Federal Government of withholding their November 2020 salary. PUNCH Metro gathered the government, through the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System, paid the salary for that month to the workers’ bank for onward transfer to their account numbers. However, the payment was reportedly reversed to the government’s portal due to an ongoing upgrade of the bank’s system. Our correspondent learnt that while other salaries had been paid, the November 2020 salary was withheld. A worker, who spoke on condition of anonymity, described the government’s refusal to pay the salary as unfair. He said, “Our bank was upgrading their system at the end of the month, so our salary was reversed to the Federal Government’s portal. “Since that time, we have yet to receive our salary for November 2020. I heard that some people lobbied through the backdoor and got theirs. “This is unfair, as some of us are still in debt and most of us are afraid to speak out in order not to lose our job.” Another worker urged the government to address the issue urgently. “The Director-General and Chief Executive of C & LTC, Adesoji Eniade, has written letters to the Federal Government on our behalf and we have also engaged our union and several others to get our money, all to no avail,” he added. Speaking with our correspondent on Sunday, the Director of Finance and Administration, C&LTC, Remi Philip, said it was a national issue. He, however, assured the workers that the money would be paid. Philip said, “The issue is about bank procedures and it’s only those banking with Stanbic IBTC that were affected. The good thing is that the distribution officer, who is the deputy director of audit, is affected as well. “The union has even stepped into the matter and written several letters to the accountant general of the IPPS office and he said that they were working on it. Our organisation is not private, so the government will surely pay.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com