The Olu of Warri, His Majesty, Ogiame Atuwase III, on Friday reiterated his support for the Nigerian Army with the formal handing over of 52 hectares of land to the 90 Amphibious Battalion of the Nigerian Army. The land is for the construction of befitting barracks accommodation for the officers and men of the battalion in Koko, Warri North Local Government Area of Delta State as part of efforts to contribute to the security architecture of the Warri Kingdom and Nigeria in general. While noting that security is everybody’s business, the traditional ruler also enjoined his subjects to rally support for security agencies to ensure peace and prosperity in the kingdom as well as eliminate criminal activities and enhance socio-economic development. Saturday PUNCH gathered that the Olu of Warri, who was received by the Commanding Officer, Major J. O. Ajongbo, had earlier contracted some engineers and bulldozers to clear the site as a show of support for the army. Speaking during a visit to the site, the monarch expressed satisfaction with the level of work done, noting that his visit to the site symbolised his consent and formal reassertion of the issuance of land to the Nigerian Army in the kingdom. He maintained that the security of every society was paramount because there is no development without peace. Also speaking, the Commanding Officer of the 90 Amphibious Battalion of the Nigerian Army, Koko, Major Ajongbo expressed his profound gratitude to the monarch for the visit noting that “the gesture is timely and significant as it has kickstarted the process of construction of barracks accommodation that would ensure personnel of the Battalion are well motivated to professionally carry out their duties”. The Olu of Warri and his entourage later visited the Ureju community as part of his tour to the communities in the kingdom. Our correspondent gathered that the 90 Amphibious Battalion of the Nigeria Army had earlier solicited for land for barracks construction in Koko community, which the Olare-Aja of Koko, Pa. Richmond Atsenuwa, promised to facilitate and ensure that the military command was given suitable land in the community.  Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com