Ahead of next season, Italian Serie A side Napoli are in the market for a new striker as they prepare for life without their record signing Victor Osimhen, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. The Nigeria international has been a subject of transfer speculations since joining the Parthenopeans in the summer of 2020. Osimhen boasts a decent track record in Italy since signing for the Naples-based side in a mammoth £67.5m deal from Lille. In his 22 games for the club this season, Osimhen has netted 11 times. That adds to the 10 goals he scored last season for Gli Azzurri, taking his total to 21 strikes in 52 appearances. A host of several European clubs have been linked with the Super Eagles striker, with Manchester United, Real Madrid and Newcastle the leading suitors. Barcelona, Arsenal and Liverpool have also been credited with interests in the 23-year-old striker. However, according to Italian journalist Alfredo Pedulla, the race for the signing of the Nigerian is heating up with Newcastle in pole position to sign the striker. He also claimed that the Italian club are preparing for life without the 23-year-old as they expect to receive a number of big-money offers for the striker. “It’s true. Napoli have enquired about Gianluca Scamacca, and according to our reconstructions, it would be an attempt linked to a possible paranoiac proposal for Victor Osimhen next summer. The proposal could be that of Manchester United,” Pedulla told Teamtalk. “The voices of recent days are coupled with what his brother declared some time ago when he outlined a courtship from the Red Devils. Their offer fell short because there was another Nigerian there at the time (Odion Ighalo). Osimhen didn’t want to compete.” Newcastle’s bottomless pit of cash makes them the favourites are in a position of strength to land the explosive striker in what would be a club-record £84m deal.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com