Former Anambra State Governor Peter Obi has described Nigeria as a country in a crisis situation, urging Nigerians to ensure that they scrutinise politicians before supporting their ambition. “The issues facing this country at the moment are enormous, is it the insecurity, fuel scarcity? We must ensure to support a President who is not only after the title but a productive Nigerian,” Obi said. Obi, who made this call in Minna when he came to seek support for his Presidential ambition, on Sunday, said Nigeria is in a dilemma and cannot be bequeathed to the next generation in such a deplorable state. “Everybody is suffering in Nigeria irrespective of whether you are a big man or not. We are in a crisis situation because you can’t even travel by road to some parts of the country. The cost of diesel, food, everything is going up and we can’t bequeath Nigeria to our children the way it is like this,” he said. “Nigeria is more important than all of us, we must build a better Nigeria for our children and we can’t build that when majority of the people are poor. “Nigerians should begin to ask politicians fundamental questions to avoid failures recorded in the past. “If people come around you to tell you they want a particular political position, ask them what they want to do for the country. Ask them some fundamental questions,” he stated. He added that the reason politicians do not take promises made during campaigns seriously is because they are not held accountable for failing to keep previous promises made before they are given another opportunity by the people. “This time around, we must know the people we are voting for, not those who make promises and fail. Always check where people have passed through, if they have kept promises they made, before giving them another opportunity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com