A former governor of the Nasarawa State, Tanko Al-Makura, on Friday in Abuja led a boisterous procession into the Buhari House at Blantyre Street, Abuja. The All Progressives Congress chairmanship hopeful arrived at the premises around 4:45pm and was thronged by supporters and musical instrumentalists. Also present were a throng of People Living with Disabilities. Our correspondent, who was on the ground, observed that the delegation included those on wheelchairs, the visually and auditorily impaired, as well as other groups. Al-Makura, among other things, was at the party secretariat to officially submit his nomination form against Friday deadline. Speaking to journalists in Abuja earlier on Wednesday, the serving Senator had said he would work closely with People Living with Disabilities if he emerges successful in the March 26 national convention. Al-Makura described PLWDs as part of his primary constituency, saying that he played a significant role in the establishment of the Disability Commission. According to him, “I know how much input I have put in to ensure the realisation of the enactment of the law establishing the disability commission. I’ve had to participate in the one-million-march walk and participated in various advocacies for the enactment. “In fact, I invited the President, (Major General) Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to Nasarawa on the last day of his campaign in 2015, to assure People Living with Disabilities, because I consider them as my constituents. And he came and promised that the legislative procedure that was going on in the parliament, by the time he becomes the president, he will fast track it. And true to time, he has done it. “Not only has he signed the law, he has also created a commission for People Living with Disability, which is really giving hope to them. So these are constituencies that I think can be brought to bear to enrich the kind of leadership I’m going to give the party and, by extension, whoever becomes president of this country, and has a chairman and has this pedigree, it would add one or two value in shaping the affairs of his administration.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com