Four of the top female filmmakers in the country — Tope Oshin, Biodun Stephen, Mildred Okwo and Patience Oghre — talk to BLESSING ENENAITE about their careers and other issues What influenced your decision to veer into movie production and directing? From childhood, I had always been an artist. I did a lot of drawing and painting. I also designed birthday cards and dresses for dolls. Creativity has always been part of my life. I constantly had the desire to recreate and imagine but I was not sure exactly what art form I wanted to explore, or even if one could explore the arts as a career or means of livelihood. While studying Theatre Arts in the university, I got into acting both in and outside school. As time went on, my love for storytelling got the better of me. Gradually, I started steering myself towards working behind the scenes to put things together; and not just to be one piece in the puzzle. I was helped along the way by a couple of people I shared my desire with, such as Femi Odugbemi, Faruk Lasaki, Amaka Igwe and Austin Awulonu. They all mentored, guided and helped me, giving the much needed ‘chance’ to practicalise my private learning, and also to get my hands dirty actually directing and doing the work. My earliest hands-on directing experiences include One Thing at a Time, The Apprentice Africa, and Tinsel. What are the sacrifices you have made to be successful in this field? I am grateful for the beginning and the entire journey that has led to where I am today as a filmmaker. I am also optimistic about the things ahead of me. I always say that every single thing that happens to us in the journey of our lives, hard or easy, all come together to land us on the path of our destinies. I regret nothing. I am grateful for every step of the journey. Starting out as an actor gave me an edge as a director to be able to direct actors with better empathy and understanding of the craft, as well as their methods and idiosyncrasies, because I have walked in their shoes. Is there any basis of comparison between being an actor and a producer/director? As an actor, one is one piece of the puzzle. Without one playing one’s part, the film would not be complete. As a producer, one acquires the puzzle box itself and ensures one gets all the right pieces of the puzzle one is trying to put together. As a director, one is handed the puzzle box with all the pieces in there, and it’s up to one to put everything in place and make a perfect picture. What is your biggest challenge in film production? I always say my next production will always be the most challenging I have ever done. As of 2019, my last film was Up North, and I described it as the most challenging film I had ever done because of the sheer scale and the cross-cultural story. Today, my most challenging task is my latest film, Here Love Lies, which us currently in the post-production stage. The story cuts across two different continents. It has a limited budget and I am wearing the multiple hats of actor, director, producer, and production designer. I love to challenge myself, and do something harder than I did before. I always love to have new milestones, and a new mountain to surmount. That is my life, my drive and my joy as a filmmaker. That being said, making films in Nigeria should be considered a ‘super power’ because there are always challenges, the biggest of which is ‘resources’. What are your thoughts on the quality of Nigerian movies and what areas should the movie industry improve on? The Nigerian film industry has come a long way, and should be the pride of every Nigerian, not just the filmmaking industry. It has formed a large part of what is today known and recognised across the world as ‘Nigerian culture’. Our pidgin, slangs, and fashion have become our identifiers in cultures across the world. That is thanks to the production and worldwide consumption of our films. The quality has grown in leaps and bounds, and today we are at a point where visual and technical quality is not even an issue when it comes to our films; save for storytelling. Storytelling, not necessarily in terms of stories. We have stories but we need to work on and hone our storytelling skills. We need more expertise on how to craft and tell a story effectively from beginning to the end. With this as the icing on the cake, we are set for continued greatness. The music industry seems to be gaining more international appeal than the movie industry. What do you think is responsible for that? Making good films cost way more than making good music. Music is short form. It is much easier for music to travel than for a film. There are just so many factors that make these two creative forms incomparable in terms of production, distribution, audience reception and impact. Fifty and Wedding Party 2 are some of your most notable works. What was your experience when making those films? I produced for Ebonylife Media on both Fifty and Wedding Party 2. It was exciting, huge and tasking. Unlike Wedding Party 2; on Fifty, I was the sole producer, so a lot rested solely on my shoulders— to initiate, plan, execute and ensure the entire project was a success. It was definitely not a walk in the park, but exciting pulling together resources from within Nigeria as well as across the world in making the film. The cast and crew, including the director, came from far and wide to be a part of making the film, and I am glad it became a huge and resounding success. The Wedding Party 2 was a sequel to the first installment and inherited a lot of the cast and crew from that. I did not work on the first part. Nevertheless, that did not impact my work on the project in any way. I worked alongside two other producers on TWP2, and we reported directly to the executive producers of the project. What are the specific things you do to produce quality films? Pre-production planning is key to running a successful production. A good script, a realistic budget, and detailed and competent execution (by cast and crew) is of dire importance to coming out with a good and successful film. If any of the above is compromised on, or falls short, the overall quality of the movie would definitely suffer for it. What do you consider to be the most challenging aspect of being a producer? The most challenging aspect of being a producer is the knowledge and reality that the success of the film rests on one’s shoulder. If one has hired the best and most creative director on the planet, and one, as a producer, fails to initiate, plan or execute one’s film project properly, it is all headed for the rocks, and one would be taking the entire cast and crew with one into the trenches. It takes good production to budget effectively, hire the right crew to execute the project, good management of the resources, both human and financial, and most importantly, to complete it as scheduled. So, many things could go wrong to make the project fail before it starts, or even get stuck in the middle. The responsibility of carrying the project on one’s shoulders, and the success or failure of it, is the most challenging aspect of being a producer. How do you unwind? I love to spend time with my teenage children, gisting and playing games. Also, I catch up on movies and series, and read as well. Basically, I am a home buddy when I’m not out on set filming. I love the sanctity, privacy and warmth of my home. How do you like to dress? In dressing, comfort is my watchword. Whatever doesn’t feel comfortable to me will definitely affect my confidence and carriage during the day.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com