The re-election bid of Senator Seriake Dickson, who represents Bayelsa-West at the National Assembly, has received a boost with the voluntary contribution of N15m by some political leaders and stakeholders of the Ekeremor Local Government Area for his senatorial form. The politicians, under the aegis of Ekeremor LGA PDP Stakeholders for Ofurumapepe 2023 Project, made the donations for the former governor during their meeting in Yenagoa. They were led by the Deputy Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Michael Ogbere, and the chairman of the Ekeremor council, Bertola Perekeme. Bayelsa-West senatorial district is made up of Ekeremor and Sagbama Local Government Areas and Dickson hails from the latter. In a communique, the stakeholders acknowledged the various developmental projects carried out in the area by Dickson while he was governor of the state. They were unanimous in their position that Dickson had done so much in the two years he had spent in the Senate as a voice of the people, Bayelsa and the Ijaw nation. They insisted that the purported zoning agreement between the two council areas for the district’s Senate and House of Representatives seats had not been respected. According to them, the former governor has the capacity to attract more national support to the state and the district to augment the productive efforts of the incumbent Governor Douye Diri. The communique read, “That we hereby unequivocally reiterate our earlier position that the informal zoning arrangement in the Bayelsa-West Senatorial District, pushed and advocated by several political stakeholders of the district, has never been embraced and respected. “Our position is justified with particular reference to the 2015 and 2020 senatorial district elections where sons of Ekeremor Local Government Area severally and fragrantly undermined that noble arrangement, driving their disrespect for the arrangement up to the Supreme Court. “That, judging from the above premise, we hereby agree and resolve to elect any candidate of our choice irrespective of a particular local government area until such a time when we shall agree across party lines to formally zone the two National Assembly seats and respect same. “That, we irreversibly and irrevocably resolve to embrace preference for competence and effective representation as against primordial sentiments.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com