The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, has called on his men to work in collaboration with other security agencies in the country to tame insecurity. He added that all agencies are servicing the same purpose which was to ensure the safety of Nigerians. Alkali spoke during an official visit to the FCT Command on Tuesday. He said, “All agencies of government whether NSCDC, FRSC, the Military, Customs, Immigrations are serving the same government. We are all doing things that will make citizens sleep with their two eyes closed. “So once you don’t cooperate and work in the interest of the nation, you are working on cross purposes. I urge you to cooperate with the military and other agencies. Do not abuse your authority. “Corruption, abuse of office and misuse of firearms have been the order of the day in some areas. I am not saying it is happening in the FCT but we must guard against such things.” He also urged officers of the FCT Police Command not to convert security measures put in place to tackle criminal elements into money-making ventures or avenues for fleecing citizens. Speaking, the FCT Commissioner of Police, Sunday Babaji, said that as part of its achievements, the Command arrested 57 kidnappers including 18 of them that were fatally injured during the exchange of fire while some are still being investigated. Others include the arrest of 3 Boko Haram suspects, who are facing prosecution, the arrest of 32 armed bandits, while 11 died during raids on their camp, and the arrest of 22 armed robbery suspects popularly called ‘One Chance’, as well as the arrest of another 162 armed robbery suspects, bandits and terrorists. Others are the rescue of 53 victims of kidnapping and arrest of 2,089 suspects from 1,638 reported cases of theft and stealing. He said challenges facing the Command include inadequate manpower, inadequate barracks accommodation for officers and men and inadequate patrol vehicles, trackers, drones, APC’s, Tear Gas Smoke, arms and ammunition. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com