Oluwabamise Ayanwole, a 22-year-old fashion designer who was declared missing on Saturday, February  26, 2022, after boarding a Bus Rapid Transit vehicle from Lekki to the Oshodi area of the state around 7 pm, was found dead some days after. This incident points to the fact that nowhere is safe in this country; not even in a public transportation promoted and maintained by the government. It is sad that a mode of transportation which was thought to be safe has turned out to become another death trap in a country where death is cheap. While on the bus, Bamise felt uncomfortable as she sensed that something was amiss due to the conduct of the driver. Commendably, she had the presence of mind to send messages to her friend, including the details of the vehicle in case anything happened to her. Unfortunately, despite those measures she took to guarantee her safety, her life was snuffed out like a candle in the wind. Perhaps, if Bamise did not make those videos, nobody would have known which particular bus she boarded and the alleged randy driver, Andrew Omininikoron, may have got away with it after all. Though the deed has been done and Bamise cannot be returned to her family members and loved ones, the Lagos State government must leave no stone unturned in ensuring that her killer (and possible accomplices) are dealt with in accordance to the law. This will go a long way in restoring the hope of Lagosians in the public transportation system. Shortly after the dastardly event, Governor Sanwo-Olu had said, “There are some citizens of Lagos State who abuse the kind gesture of the government in providing mass transit for the people.” Beyond rhetoric, the governor, who is the chief security officer of the state, should make sure that those who abuse the ‘kind gesture’ of the government are brought to book. In this case, justice should be done and should be seen to have been done. No doubt, it is the sole responsibility of the government to provide basic amenities to the people they govern. It is also their duty to make sure that those amenities don’t lead to the needless deaths of citizens. Certain safety measures should have been put in place in order to forestall this kind of occurrence. Chapter II, Fundamental Objective and Directive Principles of State Policy, section 14 (2)(b) states that, ‘The security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of the government’. Thus, the buck stops at the government’s table, and they cannot afford to shift blames to someone else. The Lagos State government should be held accountable if justice is not served in this pathetic case. The people of Lagos deserve better. For no reason should this matter be swept under the carpet. The world is watching!  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com