Sociopolitical activist, Deji Adeyanju, speaks to ABIODUN SANUSI about his newly-acquired law degree and related issues It was in the news that you just bagged a law degree and made first class honours. How do you react to the fact that the news came to many as a surprise, given that you are known more for your activism? Yes, I am known for my activism. However, I realised at some point that having a sound understanding of the law is a necessary tool for social engineering. As you may know, I am the convener of Concerned Nigerians, a pan-African platform for the protection of human rights and the rule of law. The knowledge of the law has aided me greatly in running the organisation in fighting for the oppressed. Not many people knew I was studying law. I kept it that way to avoid distractions. Would this be your first degree? I had got admission to study Mass Communication in the year 2000, which I started at Bayero University, Kano, and I was in my final year when I was politically persecuted and prosecuted for my activism as a students’ union leader, wherein I was later charged with an offence I knew nothing about. However, the court saw through the trumped-up charge and acquitted me. But I have now also commenced the process of completing my outstanding semester in the Department of Mass Communication, Bayero University, Kano. I have also undergone several certificate courses from the United Kingdom. When did you begin the law programme and how were you able to combine it so well with activism to the extent that you finished with first class? I was initially scheduled to begin the programme in early 2018. However, due to several arrests and persecution by the government, I missed many classes and I had to delay my full resumption till 2019. Baze University runs a trimester system. There is hardly any break. My priority was finishing with a first class. I had to put other things aside. Even the running of my businesses and Concerned Nigerians was temporarily delegated to others. Did you stay on or off-campus? I stayed off campus mostly. I went to school from my house or office daily, as classes were between 9am to 6pm daily. What informed your choice of law as a course to study? I have been a victim of several trumped-up criminal charges and civil lawsuits. In the course of going in and out of court, it occurred to me that I need a basic understanding of the law to better appreciate the issues and put up my defence. This was my initial motivation to study law. My numerous sojourns in prison exposed me to several persecutions suffered by Nigerians. This was further motivation to study law and fight these atrocities. In recent years, I have witnessed people living below the poverty line and state actors using instruments of the state to oppress innocent citizens. I, therefore, made a decision to study law to enable me to defend these innocent citizens and fight for the rule of law. Baze University appears to be popular among political figures in Nigeria. Among so many others, Senator Dino Melaye also graduated from the university and it was in fact erroneously reported that he was the best graduating law student in his set. Is there any particular attraction in the school for political figures? Baze University runs two semesters a year with an optional choice of the summer one for interested students. So if you want to do an extra semester in a year, the option is available. This means when other students are on break in most universities in the country, some students are still actively running the optional semester in Baze. For this reason, students are able to graduate faster than other students in Nigeria. This is akin to the system obtainable in the United Kingdom where an undergraduate degree is mainly three years. This may be the reason notable figures are attracted to the school. Secondly, Baze University has a very strong academic background. For example, in the Faculty of Law, we have renowned lecturers like Prof. Ernest Ojukwu. Other lecturers like Prof. Chris Ohorougu and Prof. Alubo have taught at the faculty at one point in time. I can assure you that you will not graduate from the Faculty of Law, Baze University if you are a lazy student. There is nothing like a waiver. You will sit all your carryovers, irrespective of whether you are the president or governor. Did you have other well-known figures in your class? Yes. We had a serving member of the House Representatives and one of the deputy chairmen of the All Progressives Congress. How will you describe your experience studying law at Baze University? I had a great experience. It was humbling. Wearing a regulation dress (i.e. black and white) for about four years was not easy. I had students as young as 17 in my class. It was not exactly easy being in the same class with them. As an older and popular person, they were always looking up to me. I had a duty not to fail them. Thank God I did not. However, it is ironic that most of the younger students were not serious, as many of them failed in their academic work. This was very sad, considering the millions of naira their parents paid as school fees. For me, studying was not just about academic alone. For every lecturer and student I met, my goal was to leave an everlasting impact on them. When do you plan to go to the Nigerian Law School to be called to bar? Baze University is a relatively new tertiary institution. Our quota for law school is still low. We still have some backlog. As soon as it gets to our set, I will pack my bag and head to law school. Do you actually plan to practise as a lawyer? Of course. I plan to practise law and change the face of human rights in Nigeria. I intend to make more impact than the like of Chief Gani Fawehinmi, and my mentors, Chief Femi Falana, Chief Ozekome and Chief Paul Ogbole. You said on your Facebook account that you’d do your MSc in legal studies and then proceed for PhD. Are you really an academic person? I am already pursuing an LLM in law at the prestigious Baze University. I plan to pursue a PhD after my LLM. I am an academic person. I love to read, but my quest for knowledge is not only for the classroom. It is primarily geared towards improving the country’s legal jurisprudence, as well as the protection of human rights and the rule of law. Can you give us an insight into your family and academic background? My uncle, Prof. Adeyanju, is a renowned retired professor. I grew up hoping to be like him. He influenced me a lot. In the course of your activism, you’ve been a victim of police brutality on many occasions, do you think that the fact that you now have a law degree will make a difference in the way the police and other security agencies treat you? I sincerely do not expect any exceptional treatment. My goal is to ensure that Nigerians are treated well by security agencies, with their rights respected. This is what I intend to dedicate my entire life to. Do you think being a lawyer in Nigeria is worth it, considering the rate of lawlessness and the government’s disregard for the law? This is a difficult question. In an ideal situation, I will say we do not even have enough lawyers. Do you know that we presently have less than 150,000 lawyers for over 200 million citizens? However, in recent times, it will appear that the profession is not doing enough to challenge the ills in society. Those who should ensure that laws are obeyed are the first to disregard the laws. I hope to change all these through my organisation, Concerned Nigerians. Are you still a member of the Peoples Democratic Party? I am not a member of any political party. Is it true that you own a petrol station? Yes, it is true that I inherited a petrol station from my late father. I am an entrepreneur. That is my day job. I invest in a lot of businesses. Dividends and profits from these businesses have been keeping me afloat. How do you react to those who say you live on politics money? I did not make my money from politics. I have never held any public office, either elected or appointed by any government in Nigeria. So, how could I have made my money from politics? I challenge anyone with such a claim to provide proof. I have a chain of businesses that I own and other businesses that I have invested in. I manage these businesses and follow up on my investments. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com