The Benue State Deputy Governor, Benson Abounu, has said that in the past seven years in office, he had no squabble with his principal, Governor Samuel Ortom. Abounu disclosed this to journalists on Friday at the Peoples Democratic Party’s National Secretariat in Abuja when he obtained his nomination and expression of interest forms for the 2023 governorship elections in the state. The PDP began the sale of nomination forms on Thursday, a day after it concluded its 95th National Executive Council. H e said, “Between me and my governor, In nearly seven years, we have not had one single quarrel. My Governor understands me and I understand him. We are together in virtually everything that we do. He trusts me so much to the extent that he sends me to the governors’ forum meetings, the National Economic Council meeting, to even the Council of States that is presided over by the president himself, I represent him there. “The other governors hardly even recognize their own deputy governors and therefore put them forward to carry out those assignments. As I talk to you, we have no problems with each other at all and therefore I believe, since he knows that I believe in all the things that he believes in. I think I will not have any problem at all for him to cede power to me.” Abounu said he was at the secretariat to collect the nomination form for the 2023 Benue State governorship election. He said, “As a matter of fact, I’ve just collected the form. I have served in various states, three different administrations and today I am the sitting deputy governor who has been in office two times. “I think I’ve garnered enough experience to be able to lead the state. I’ve been a special advisor in the state in one administration, commissioner for two times in another administration and now deputy governor for two times in the current administration. “With the experience behind me, with my level of education and with my level of social interaction in the state, and knowing precisely what it takes to take our state to the next level, I think I am very vast in terms of experience and knowledge to be able to govern Benue state and this is why I brought myself and I’m presenting myself to the people of Benue state to accept me and allow me to serve them come May 29, 2023.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com