Dr. Olabode Ojoniyi of the Department of Languages and Linguistics, Osun State University, Ikire Campus, has blamed female students for the menace of sex for marks in Nigerian higher institutions. The PUNCH had on November 7, 2017, reported that the UNIOSUN Governing Council terminated Ojoniyi’s appointment after he was caught on video having an amorous relationship with one of his students, Mercy Ikwue. He appeared nude on a bed  in a hotel room and caressing Miss Ikwue in the video clip. Ojoniyi’s sex act was captured in a video which is believed to have been surreptitiously recorded by the female student. The female student was said to have been pressurised by Ojoniyi for sex and she eventually agreed and followed him to their agreed place with a laptop computer from which she pretended to be watching a movie, Things Fall Apart. Unknown to him, Miss Ikwue was actually recording their sexual activities. Ojoniyi had accused one of the lecturers of the university, who was recently dismissed for alleged misconduct as the person behind the drama. According to him, the lady was contracted to blackmail him. But Ojoniyi did not deny being the one in the video. However, the National Industrial Court in Ibadan, Oyo State, acquitted him of the charges recently and ordered the varsity to pay him his arrears for the time he was suspended and duration which his terminated appointment lasted. But relieving his experience after he was reinstated, the lecturer alleged that weak female students always make advances for sexual relationship with lecturers to gain favour and boost their marks. “Weak students are the ones who often seek to use sex to gain favour. Students should sit down with their academics and resist any lecturer who demands for sex to pass them,” Ojoniyi told Nigerian Tribune during an interview. Giving his side of the story on the scandal, Ojoniyi said, “You see, the story of results manipulation actually started with aggrieved students in 2015, and not 2016. Students who could not pay for their grades to be altered who then felt cheated by the ‘favoured crooks’ reported the case. They were the ones who reported the case of results manipulation by another lecturer to the then Ag. Dean. It was the Ag. Dean who first told me of it. “My first reaction was that it was not possible. And, my reasons were very simple: the raw results were always kept with the Head of Department. After they were computed, they would be vetted in Osogbo by a professor who often would check against the raw results. So, expectedly, any reasonable person would not attempt to alter such results on the computer. But, what that lecturer was doing was reprinting new raw results, forging the signatures of the lecturers on them and replacing the originals in the HOD’s office with the ‘Oluwole versions.’ “Unfortunately for that lecturer, when I was the examination officer, for security reasons, I usually kept private copies of the original results that had been approved by the Departmental Board. My private copies were the copies with which the ‘Oluwole’ copies of that lecturer were exposed and that was my sin.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com