The Kaduna State Government has confirmed that a device suspected to be an Improvised Explosive Device was detonated around Yazufa Junction, Hayin Danmani, Igabi LGA on Saturday. Saturday PUNCH reported that residents of Hayin Danmani were thrown into confusion as an IED exploded near a Point of Sale operator’s shop in the area. The explosion injured the PoS operator who was rushed to the hospital. The state Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, confirmed the incident, said the explosion caused “serious injuries” that affected the PoS operator and other yet-to-be-identified persons. The commissioner explained that the PoS operator, simply identified as Mohammed Hassan, at the close of shop had gone to pick up his motorcycle “where it was parked close to his shop, and upon starting the motorcycle, it exploded.” Aruwan, however, said that the personnel of the anti-bomb squad of the state Police Command had visited the scene of the incident and evacuated the debris. He also said operatives successfully disabled the second device planted in the area by some criminal elements. The Commissioner said, “Security agencies reported that a suspected Improvised Explosive Device was detonated around Yazufa Junction, Hayin Danmani, Igabi LGA after it was planted in a motorcycle belonging to one Mohammed Hassan, a POS operator in the area. “According to the preliminary investigations, Hassan, at the close of business, went to pick up his motorcycle where it was parked close to his shop, and upon starting the motorcycle, it exploded. “The explosion resulted in serious injuries to Hassan and a yet-unidentified passer-by. There was also damage to the roof of a nearby structure. “Personnel of the Police Anti-Bomb Squad arrived at the scene to remove the debris. They also disabled a second device found planted in the motorcycle. “The injured duo are receiving treatment, in a medical facility as investigations proceed.” The Commissioner quoted Governor Nasir El-Rufai to have expressed shock and sadness over the incident while calling on residents to remain vigilant. “Governor Nasir el-Rufa’i expressed shock and sadness at the report and wished the injured persons a speedy recovery. He reiterated calls for increased vigilance by citizens to the threat of explosives being placed by terrorists to cause harm and destruction. “Investigations are ongoing into the incident,” Aruwan added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com