Vice President Yemi Osinbajo Thursday said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.)’s regime would continue to invest in the nation’s tertiary institutions to achieve greater results. Osinbajo stated this in his remarks on Thursday at the formal handover of the Muhammadu Indimi International Learning Centre to the management of the University of Maiduguri. This was contained in a statement signed by his spokesperson, Laolu Akande, titled, ‘After FG launched solar Hybrid plants in four universities, the fifth in UNIMAID ready soon – Osinbajo’. According to Osinbajo, the Buhari regime is continuing to invest in our Universities. UNIMAID is in phase 2 of the Energizing Education Program funded through the Rural Electrification Agency. “The Federal Government through REA (in partnership with the World Bank) is in advanced stages of establishing a 12MW Solar Hybrid Power Plant to power UNIMAID and its Teaching Hospital. “The project will also include a training centre and is modelled around similar projects that have already been completed in Bayero University Kano, the Federal University of Agriculture Makurdi, Usman Danfodio University Sokoto, and the Alex Ekwueme Federal University Ndufu-Alike,” he said. Citing the rise to fame of Nigerian tech companies to justify the need to invest more in the education of Nigerians, Osinbajo recalled the Nigerian-owned tech firms that have become Unicorns, saying “these companies achieved the coveted Unicorn status despite the perceived disadvantages of our region globally. Imagine what we could do if we have a more committed focus on Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs. “Nigeria could conceivably dominate the technology space as we dominate in Nollywood and the music scene. The knowledge economy of the 21st century emphasizes the need for all of our children to have education so we can have many more unicorns.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com