Worried by the spate of alcohol abuse in the country, the Federal Government has called on breweries and manufacturers of alcoholic beverages to uphold the ethical standards that promote the principles of public health. The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, made the call at the Smart Drinking Roundtable organised by International Breweries Plc in Lagos with the theme, ‘Enhancing the Social Consciousness Around Responsible Beverage Service: A Collective Responsibility of Stakeholders’. Ehanire, however, reiterated the commitment of the Federal Ministry of Health towards effective collaboration with relevant stakeholders in addressing the harmful consumption of alcohol and promoting the health and wellbeing of Nigerians. He also commended the company for its Responsible Beverage Services initiative, which he said would help to reduce alcohol consumption in under-age persons and pregnant women. “The role of corporate organisations like International Breweries Plc in promoting responsible alcohol consumption through evidence-based initiatives is highly encouraged. “While recognising the socio-economic implications of the alcohol industry, programmes such as the Responsible Beverage Service are expected to uphold ethical standards that promote the principles of public health,” the minister, who was represented by the Director, Food and Drug Services Department in the ministry, Mrs Olubunmi Arebeana, was quoted as saying in a statement by International Breweries Plc. The statement was titled, ‘International Breweries Goes Bold with Smart Drinking Message’. The Managing Director, International Breweries Plc, Hugo Rocha, said the company was working to disrupt harmful drinking. Rocha further explained that the business of IB Plc went beyond making a sale to making the world a safer place, adding that in 2015, AB InBev launched the Global Smart Drinking Goals, one of which was aimed at the reduction of harmful use of alcohol by at least 10 per cent in six cities by the end of 2020. He disclosed that Lagos had been chosen in the second phase of the roll-out, as one of the cities where this global best practice would be implemented by the end of 2025.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com