Super Eagles striker Cyriel Dessers’ endured a torrid time as a substitute but a return to Holland has ignited his career, with the forward now top scorer in the Europa Conference League with 10 goals, writes KELVIN EKERETE One-cap Super Eagles striker, Cyriel Dessers, is the most talked-about player this season in the maiden UEFA Europa Conference League after taking the competition by storm scoring a record 10 goals in 11 games to help Feyenoord stake a claim for a place in the competition’s final. Heroics The 27-year-old, who is on loan from Belgian side Genk, has scored 10 of the 28 goals scored by Feyenoord in the campaign, amounting to 35.71 per cent of the club’s goals in the competition. His brace against French side Olympique Marseille on Thursday helped the Dutch side to a 3-2 win in the first leg of their semi-final clash, while they will also be banking on his form to help see them through to the final when they travel to face Ligue 1 giants Marseille at the Orange Vélodrome next Thursday. His performance in the semi-final first leg win also earned him the Player of The Week award, beating compatriot and Leicester City’s Ademola Lookman, teammate Luis Sinisterra and AS Roma’s Lorenzo Pellegrini to the honours. Dessers established himself as a Feyenoord hero after becoming their player with the most goals in a European competition with 10 goals, displacing the nine goals previously held by the legendary Pierre Van Hooydonck. In European competitions this season, only Real Madrid’s Karim Benzema has scored more. The Frenchman has found the back of the net 14 times in the UEFA Champions League, while Olympique Lyon’s Karl Toko-Ekambi leads the scorers chart in the Europa League with six goals. Home sweet home Before becoming one of European competition’s goals kings, Dessers had to play second fiddle to fellow countryman Paul Onuachu during his time at parent club Genk, whom he joined from another Dutch side Heracles Almelo in 2020. But his desire not to warm the bench as Onuachu remained the number one striker led him to adventures new, and it was a return to Holland with Feyenoord. Coming mostly from the bench, he could only manage seven goals in 34 games across all competitions for Genk, but at Feyenoord, he’s scored 18 goals in all competitions this season. When he arrived at Feyenoord last summer, he experienced the same fate, as he was made the second striker, behind Bryan Linssen, but he shone in this role, coming on as a late substitute and scoring late and important goals. However, he has flourished in the Europa Conference League as the main striker, with Feyenoord officials now considering a permanent move for the Nigeria striker. Self-belief Despite largely having to play second fiddle in the last two seasons, Dessers has always believed in his ability if given the opportunity. “I’ve always believed in what I can do, but you depend on the circumstances. Trainers, injuries, competitors,” Dessers told NOS. “At Genk, there was a striker (Onuachu) who scored 35 goals, then you are even sitting on the bench with twenty goals. But I know I can do it and I’m glad it’s coming out now. Also on a big podium in European competitions.” Rotterdam’s home! Speaking about his future, Dessers has revealed his intentions to remain at Rotterdam, the home of Feyenoord, and is hoping both Genk and his present club can reach an agreement on that. “Genk is a great club, but I enjoy Feyenoord. I’m happy here. It is a great team with a good trainer from whom I learn a lot. Everything is well arranged. “It also depends on what is decided in the boardrooms in Genk, Rotterdam and perhaps elsewhere. Players have less influence on it than people think,” Dessers added. Career progress The 27-year-old began his career at modest Belgian side OH Leuven. In the 2013/14 season, Dessers, then 19, stood out in the reserves and youth competitions for Leuven, scoring over 20 goals. With the club in danger of relegation and several first-team strikers either out of shape, injured or suspended, he was given his first minutes in the first team in a 3-2 away loss against Mons. But he had caught the eye, and Lokeren grabbed him in April 2014 on a two-year deal. At Lokeren, he managed four goals in 32 games before moving on to Dutch side NAC Breda, where he shone, scoring 22 league goals in 36 outings in 2016/17. FC Utrecht came calling and the striker pumped in 12 goals in 49 games, before another sojourn at Heracles Almelo, where he scored 15 goals in 26 appearances. From Heracles, he returned to Belgium, but his Genk adventure wasn’t a sweet experience. However, he’s back in the Dutch league banging in the goals. Nigerian connection At international level, Dessers hasn’t had the chance to prove himself in the green and white since his debut two years ago. The striker was born in Tongeren, Belgium to a Belgian father and Nigerian mother but chose to represent Nigeria at international level. On March 4, 2020, he was called up by former Super Eagles head coach Gernot Rohr for the Africa Cup of Nations qualifying fixtures against Sierra Leone but didn’t get to play. He eventually made his Nigeria debut in 1–1 draw against Tunisia in a friendly on October 13, 2020, for his only Eagles cap. However, with his current form, Dessers looks a sure bet on the Eagles’ list for the AFCON qualifier against Sierra Leone in June, when a new coach is appointed for the national team.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com