Every relationship will require the capability to manage certain situations either good or bad and how a couple manages the dynamics of those situations can make or break their relationships. Many marriages break up today due to unfulfilled emotional needs which a spouse may have been carrying from adolescent into adulthood and finally finds the perfect place to unload the burden and someone to hold responsible too. Have you ever wondered why some couples are still enjoying a peaceful and long-lasting marriage even after many decades together? It is not rocket science and it is possible to accomplish. It’s simply the power of self-control and valuing one another’s happiness above other things. Self-control is defined as a skill you require to manage your actions, feelings, and reactions; it is important in sustaining any good and healthy relationship and peacefulness. Self-control encourages compassion Conflicts are inevitable in relationships, especially marriage and the outcome can leave a strain on the marriage and emotional stress on the couple, children, and young persons in the marriage. This can be due to lack of self-control and the inability to recognise each other’s strengths and weaknesses before the situation reaches breaking point in your marriage. Self-control is understanding your own needs and the possibilities around you to meet them without taking your battles or worries out on someone else. Marriage can only flourish when couples have a good understanding of who they are and their own purpose in life primarily and their goals for their marriage after. Most conflicts escalate in marriage because one or both parties cannot take appropriate control of their feelings and often over-reacteven in the slightest situations. When words are exchanged on impulse, they can create a downpour of emotions and lead to unreasonable behaviour too. Self-control defines reactions Self-control has a significant effect on your internal and external behaviour which can impact on the lives of people around you. Historically, women are known to practice self-control and logically women brains are more effective in managing reactions more than men. But today, more women are becoming more responsive to situations especially in this modern society where feminism has found its place. It is possible for some women to become triggered in the face of disparity and injustice. It is also important to exercise self-control. Beware of how you conduct yourselves and the impact your actions can have on others and your own goal in the end. Self-control promotes mindfulness Some couples break up because they cannot imagine the future together especially when the present seems daunting and inconceivable, some dream of a marriage life without stress but unprepared to give it what it takes to work things out when the cookies crumble. The purpose of any good marriage lies in the hands of the couples and their capacity to anticipate the future together even when the present looks uncertain. When a spouse is reluctant to stay positive in the moment, the marriage is more likely to have a negative outcome. A spouse who is self-regulated is more likely to exercise patience and become mindful of the feelings of the other person and able to set a balance between his/her own individual goals in life and the long-term benefit of nurturing the marriage.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com