The Ekiti State Government has named and shamed a 24-year-old man, Ayokunle Eric, who is serving a life sentence at the Nigeria Correctional Centre, Ado Ekiti, for raping a 17-year-old girl. Eric, a commercial motorcyclist, had on December 25, 2019, raped the minor, who had mounted his bike as a passenger, in the bush between Ilawe and Igbara Odo following which an Ekiti State High Court sitting in Ado Ekiti sentenced him to life imprisonment. The convict, who is the 16th sex offender to be named and shamed since the policy began in the state in 2019, had his name and photograph published and listed in the sex offenders’ register. A public notice by the state Ministry of Justice on Saturday stated, “The person, whose picture appears here, is Ayokunle Eric, a 24-year-old native of lle-Oluji, Oke Igbo Local Government Area of Ondo State, formerly a resident of No. 24 Omiawo Street, Igbara Odo, Ekiti State. “He is a convicted sex offender and currently serving a life sentence at the Nigeria Correctional Centre, Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, for the rape of a 17-year-old girl. He has been registered in the Ekiti State Ministry of Justice Sex Offenders’ Register.” The state Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Olawale Fapohunda (SAN), who restated the state government’s zero tolerance for violence against women, charged the electorate to question political parties and their candidates on how they intended to handle rape and all other forms of gender-based violence. Fapohunda stated, “All persons living in Ekiti State should be aware of our zero tolerance policy for all forms of gender-based violence, especially sex violence. We will aggressively prosecute offenders and after conviction, they will be publicly shamed. “We have adopted a range of interventions. In the area of law reform, we have enacted a number of laws, including the Gender Based Violence (Prohibition) Law and Compulsory Treatment of Child Victims of Sexual Violence Law, among others. “We have also concluded a review of the Criminal Law of Ekiti State with far-reaching provisions on sexual violence. Administratively, we are implementing a ‘Name and Shame’ policy for convicted sex offenders. “We have opened a register for sex offenders. We are doing a lot more public education and awareness encouraging our people to speak up and speak out.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com