It was a weekend of mixed fortunes for Nigerian players in Europe with Emmanuel Dennis ending his seven-game goal drought and duo Kenneth Omeruo and Maduka Okoye experiencing a torrid time with their respective clubs ENGLAND Lookman, Iheanacho (Leicester City) Forward Ademola Lookman scored his sixth league goal of the season for Leicester City but it wasn’t enough to earn the Foxes a share of the points as Bruno Guimaraes’ brace, the second coming in the 95th minute, earned Newcastle United the maximum points in an exciting English Premier League game on Sunday. Lookman put the Foxes in front after a clever corner kick for his sixth goal in 21 league appearances for Brendan Rodgers men. The new Super Eagles forward has 13 goals contributions – eight goals and five assists – since joining on loan from Leipzig this season. Lookman’s compatriot, Kelechi Iheanacho was a 76th minute substitute for Patson Daka but fired blanks. Iheanacho has managed three goals and five assists in 22 league games this season, a far cry from the 12 goals in 25 appearances he had last season. Dennis, Kalu, Troost-Ekong (Watford), Onyeka (Brendford) Emmanuel Dennis returned to Watford’s starting line-up and scored his 10th Premier League goal of the season for Watford — who lost 2-1 at home to Brendford on Saturday – to end his seven-game goals drought. Dennis has featured in 30 EPL games and has provided five assists as well for the Hornets, who remain in 19th place in the EPL table with 23 points from 32 games. His compatriot, Oghenekaro Etebo, was an unused substitute, while duo Samuel Kalu and William Troost-Ekong were missing from the match-day squad. Kalu has made two substitute appearances – against Arsenal and Wolverhampton Wanderers – since he arrived from Ligue 1 club, Bordeaux. Troost-Ekong has 16 Premier League appearances, with his last outing against his boyhood club Tottenham Hotspur January 1. Ajayi (West Brom), Ekpiteta (Blackpool) Eagles defender Semi Ajayi had a hand in Andy Carrol’s 42nd minute opener for West Brom, who defeated Blackpool 2-1 at the Hawthorns on Saturday. The Nigerian’s diagonal ball was controlled by Carroll before he fired in a left footed strike for his third goal in six games. It was Ajayi’s 24th game in the English Championship this term, scoring once and providing an assist. Former Nigeria youth international, Ekpiteta, restored parity for the visitors when he hooked in the ball from the edge of the six-yard box after the Baggies failed to deal with a free-kick, for his fifth goal of the season in 38 games for Blackpool, who have now lost on six consecutive visits to West Brom. FRANCE Moffi, Bonke (Lorient) Nigeria internationals Terem Moffi and Innocent Bonke were in the starting line-up for Lorient in their 2-1 loss to Nice in the French Ligue 1 on Sunday. Both players were substituted in Lorient’s search for an equalizer, with Moffi making way for Thomas Monconduit in the 67th minute, while Fabien Lemoine came on for Bonke in the 89th minute. Moffi has been unable to replicate his 2020/21 form, where he bagged 14 goals in 32 league games. He’s only been able to find the back of the net seven times in 30 appearances this season. Lorient are currently 16th and just two points ahead of the relegation zone and one point ahead of 17th placed St-Etienne. Moses Simon (Nantes) Winger Simon clocked 86 minutes in Nantes 1-1 draw against Angers in the French topflight on Sunday. The Nigeria international, who made way for Osman Bukari, has had 10 goals contributions this season but last scored or had an assist in the league on February 19 against Paris Saint-Germain in a 3-1 victory. Holland Maduka Okoye (Sparta Rotterdam) Goalkeeper Maduka Okoye conceded three goals in Sparta Rotterdam’s 3-0 defeat at Fortuna Sittard, who took a big step towards safety with the crucial victory in a rearranged fixture on Saturday. Okoye has now conceded 35 goals this season, keeping five clean sheets. The 22-year-old conceded the first goal in the 10th minute when Mats Seuntjens put Fortuna in front. In the 35th minute, Paul Gladon made it 2-0, finishing off a Zian Flemming cross. Gladon sealed the win for Fortuna in the 77th minute. The defeat leaves Sparta in 18th position but they do have a game in hand against Vitesse Arnhe ITALY Success, Udogie (Udinese) Success made his 18th Serie A appearance of the season in Udinese’s 4-1 home win over Empoli. The Nigerian, who partnered Gerard Deleufou in attack, setting up the latter for Udinese’s second goal in the 52nd minute. He played 75 minutes in the encounter and was replaced by Ignacio Pussetto. The former Watford player has scored once and with six assists this term. Udinese left-back Iyenoma Udogie, who was born to Nigerian parents in Italy, played all 90 minutes. Okereke, Ebuehi (Venezia) Okereke played for 78 minutes before coming off for Luca Fiordilino in Venezia’s 1-0 loss at Fiorentina on Saturday. The Nigerian, who was booked in the 36th minute, his fourth of the campaign, has scored six times in 27 Serie A games this season. He is on a season loan from Club Brugge. His compatriot Ebuehi was not listed for the game. Ola Aina (Torino) Aina made his second Serie A appearance in 2022 for Torino in their 1-1 draw at Lazio at the Olimpico on Saturday. The defender played as a left wing-back and was replaced in the 74th minute by Wilfried Singo. He has made 18 league appearances for the Granata this season. GERMANY Taiwo Awoniyi (Union berlin) Awoniyi scored his 13th Bundesliga goal of the season in 27 league games for Union Berlin in their 2-0 win over Eintracht Frankfurt on Sunday to increase Union’s chances of playing in Europe next season. The 24-year-old opened the scoring in the 17th minute, taking his season tally to 18 goals in 38 appearances across all competitions. He has been on target four times in his last seven games for the club. Awoniyi is currently Union’s top scorer in the Bundesliga and the sixth top scorer in the ongoing campaign behind Robert Lewandowski (32), Patrik Schick (20), Erling Haaland (18), Christopher Nkunku (17) and Anthony Modeste (16). Afeez Aremu (St Pauli) Aremu came on as a 73rd minute substitute in St Pauli’s 1-1 stalemate at Sandhausen for his 19th  Bundesliga 2 appearances this season. St Pauli are currently second on the log and are eyeing an automatic promotion to Bundesliga. SPAIN Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal) Chukuwueze made his 31st appearance of the season for Villarreal, who defeated Getafe 2-1 in a LaLiga game on Saturday. The 22-year-old, who scored the equaliser against Bayern Munich, which secured Villarreal’s place in the semi-final of the UEFA Champions League, has scored twice and assisted six times for the Yellow Submarines this season. He was replaced in the 68th minute by Yeremy Pino and had 28 touches, completed 13 of the 20 passes made and lost possession three times. Kenneth Omeruo (Leganes) Omeruo captained Leganes in their 3-0 defeat to Malaga. It was his 14th league game of the campaign. The Eagles defender had the lowest match rating of 2.7 as he didn’t win any of his ground or aerial duels. SCOTLAND Aribo, Balogun, Bassey (Rangers) Eagles stars Joe Aribo, Leon Balogun and Calvin Bassey were in action for Glasgow Rangers, who beat archrivals Celtic 2-1 after extra time to qualify for the final of the Scottish Cup. Aribo and Bassey were in the starting line-up, while Balogun came on as a substitute in extra time. Bassey, who started at centre-back, was in action for the entire duration, while Aribo was replaced by Scott Arfield in the 75th minute. Balogun came on for Borna Barisic in the 109th minute to add extra defensive cover for the Gers. Aribo and Bassey were booked in the 36th and 117th minute of the game.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com