The Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria, the umbrella body of all licensed pension fund operators in Nigeria, has elected the Chief Executive Officer of Stanbic IBTC PFA, Olumide Oyetan, as its new president. PenOp said in a statement that the election took place after the completion of the tenure of the current executive committee. Other executive council members sworn in were the General Manager, Progress Trust CPFA, Joy Ojakovo, who was elected as Vice President; Chief Executive Officer, Tangerine Pensions PFA, Dapo Akisanya, elected as the head of Technical Committee; Chief Executive Officer, Veritas Glanvills PFA, Godson Ukpevo, elected as head of Legal Committee; Chief Executive Officer, First Pension PFC, Oloruntimilehin George, re-elected as treasurer and; Chief Executive Officer, Access PFC, Idu Okeahialam, elected as head of Branding Committee. Speaking on the leadership change, the Chief Executive Officer, PenOp, Oguche Agudah, said, “This shows the commitment of the organisation towards continuity and sound corporate governance while being committed to self-regulation. “The new leadership will continue to work together towards ensuring that ultimately, the pension industry positively affects the lives of millions of Nigerians.” The statement said Oyetan was elected unanimously by his colleagues to emerge as the new president. It said Oyetan would take over from the Chief Executive Officer, ARM Pensions, Wale Odutola, and would be the president of the association for the next two years. The statement said in an online ceremony, Oyetan, while accepting the new office, thanked the outgoing president for passing on the baton and for all the work done during his tenure. He promised that the incoming executive council would consolidate on all the previous work done. He also pledged to work in the interest of the industry, continue to promote the good work the industry was doing and proffer solutions to the challenges around pensions in the country. The new PenOp president said his administration would be counting on everyone’s support to take the industry to the next level.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com