Candidates who will be participating in the 2022 mock Unified Tertiary and Matriculation Examination organised by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board will have to pay N1,000 as service charge to computer-based testing centres they are assigned to sit for the examination. JAMB noted that it increased the service charge from N600 to N1,000 due to the high cost of diesel in the country. It had earlier been reported that JAMB promised to provide a soft-landing for CBT centres due to the hike in the price of diesel in the country. The board also reiterated its stance that the mock examination was optional. JAMB made this disclosure in its weekly bulletin, which was made available by its head of media and public relations, Dr Fabian Benjamin, in Abuja on Monday. The mock examination will hold on Saturday. Benjamin stated, “All candidates who had indicated their interest to sit the optional mock-UTME are to pay N1,000 as a service charge to the CBT centres they are assigned to sit for the examination. “The optional mock-UTME examination was introduced by the JAMB to give candidates the opportunity to be familiarised with the CBT environment. The candidates who indicated their interest to take the examination are expected to pay N1,000 at their respective centres for the use of the private facilities to be deployed for the examination. “Candidates assigned to the JAMB-owned centres would not be required to pay for the use of such centres. Much as the board would like to keep the cost at a minimum, the prevailing high cost of diesel and other consumables has necessitated the increase from N600 to N1,000, to enable the CBT centres to provide the needed infrastructure as partners of the board and host the examination scheduled to hold on Saturday. “The board has thought through this increase and resolved that instead of cancelling the mock-UTME, it is better to increase the service charge to make the exercise worthwhile to the CBT centres.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com