Under-five child mortality is identified as one of the leading causes of neonatal death worldwide. The World Bank stated recently that Nigeria was among the countries with highest rates of infant mortality and child marriage in the world. A World Bank economist, Samik Adhikari, said, “Nigeria is still among the countries with the highest U5MR and IMR, causing women to have more children in the hope that more of them survive past their childhood.” Also, the World Health Organisation noted that the total number of under-five deaths worldwide was now 5.0 million. This figure is said to have reduced compared to the figures since 1990. The statistics showed that the numbers declined from 12.6 million in 1990 to 5.0 million in 2020. Since 1990, the global under-five mortality rate dropped by 60 per cent from 93 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1990 to 37 in 2020. This is equivalent to 1 in 11 children dying before reaching age five in 1990, compared to 1 in 27 in 2020. The statistics further noted that despite the worldwide decline, Sub-Saharan Africa still has the highest rates of mortality in the world at 74 (68-86) deaths per 1000 live births, 14 times higher than the risk for children in Europe and Northern America. Two regions, Sub-Saharan Africa and Southern Asia, account for more than 80 per cent of the 5.0 million under-five deaths in 2020, while they only account for 53 per cent of the global live births in 2020. Under-five mortality rate is described as the probability per 1,000 that a newborn will die before reaching age five, if subjected to age-specific mortality rates of the specified year. Globally, infectious diseases, including pneumonia, diarrhoea and malaria, along with preterm birth complications, birth asphyxia and trauma and congenital anomalies remain the leading causes of death for children under five. Other major causes of Nigeria’s high child mortality are neonatal tetanus, diarrhoea, malnutrition, malaria, and maternal anaemia. Malaria is virulent in the country, and it is pricey for poor families to obtain treatment, experts stated. In 2018, Nigeria was said to experience a three per cent decline in neonatal deaths in 28 years. However, comparison of neonatal deaths’ reduction trend from the National Demographic and Health Survey showed that in 1990 (42 per cent), NDHS 2003 (48 per cent) NDHS 2008 (40 per cent), NDHS 2013 (37 per cent) to the latest edition of the survey — NDHS 2018 (39 per cent) showed only three percent neonatal deaths’ reduction in the country from 1990 till 2018. But despite the three per cent decline, Nigeria remains the country with the highest number of under-five deaths in Africa and overtook India in the latest UNICEF report. According to data by the United Nations Children’s Fund, out of more than 2.5 million babies born dead globally each year, more than 400,000 stillborn deaths take place in Nigeria. Despite the worrying statistics, the United Nations warned that without more efforts to tackle preventable child deaths, 48 million children under the age of five might die between 2020 and 2030 globally. The global body stated last year that 5.2 million children died of preventable causes before reaching age five, and that 82 per cent of those deaths were concentrated in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. It added that without more efforts to tackle preventable child deaths, 48 million children under five could die between 2020 and 2030. “Even before the COVID-19 pandemic, a child under the age of five died every six seconds somewhere around the world,” UNICEF executive director Henrietta Fore said in a statement. “Millions of children living in conflict zones and fragile settings face even greater hardship with the onset of the pandemic,” she added. A professor of paediatrics at the College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Chinyere Ezeaka, identified prematurity, infections as some of the causes of neonatal deaths. She said, “The newborns contribute up to 32 per cent of all the deaths in the under-five; so when we talk about under-five mortality and morbidity, we should know that they include deaths within the newborn period. These are the neonatal periods. These are the babies in the first month, the first 28 days of life and they take a big toll in these under-five deaths.” “Unless we tackle these problems, we may not be able to achieve the Social Development Goals which are within the next 10 years.’’ She further said that the 2030 projections had shown that unless Nigeria ignited reorientation to reduce deaths within the newborn period, it may not attain the goals. The professor of paediatrics said the management of premature babies should start from the deliveries. She stated, “This section takes a lot of planning and dedication, starting with working closely with the obstetrics departments who are with the mother to be sure that she is okay.” Although India’s population is at least six times Nigeria’s, things turned dramatically after Nigeria hit 858,000 under-five deaths in 2019 while India ranked second with 824,000 deaths. Five countries — Nigeria, India, Pakistan, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Ethiopia – account for 49 per cent of the global figures, but Nigeria and India “alone account for almost a third,” multiple reports stated. Also, a United Nations Children’s Fund Planning and Monitoring Specialist, Maureen Zubie-Okolo, said under-five, infant and neonatal deaths were still high in Nigeria despite the decline recorded in the NDHS 2018. Zubie-Okolo said, “The infant mortality rate was 67 deaths per 1,000 live births for the five-year period preceding the survey, while under-five mortality was 132 deaths per 1,000 live births. This implies that more than one in eight children in Nigeria die before their fifth birthday. “The under-five mortality rate has decreased since 2008, from 157 deaths per 1,000 live births to 132 deaths per 1,000 live births. “Similarly, there has been a slight reduction in infant mortality, from 75 to 67 deaths per 1,000 live births. However, there has been no noticeable change in the neonatal mortality rate over the same period.” Zubie-Okolo further said, “In spite of the progress made in infant mortality reduction from the surveys, Nigeria still has the worst infant mortality rate in the world. We must continue to talk about it because childhood mortality in Nigeria remains high. Every year, an estimated one million Nigerian children die before their fifth birthday. Nigeria is one of five countries in the world with the highest number of under-five deaths.” According to her, children are at an elevated risk of dying if a woman has too short birth intervals and if the mother is too young (under 18) or too old (age 40 or older). On her part, a public health expert in Lagos State, Dr Folasade Oludara, said all stakeholders in child care needed to embrace the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness approach, stressing that it would help reduce infants’ deaths. She stated that the adoption of the IMCI approach had improved the capacity of health workers handling under-five children especially at the primary healthcare level. The approach, Oludara noted, had significantly reduced the rate of under-five mortality rate, adding that with the training of more health workers both in public and private health facilities, more under-five deaths would be averted. The WHO noted that the IMCI strategy was central to the achievement of child survival and development. She explained, “IMCI started in the state in 2011 and it has given us a lot of mileage in reducing our under-five deaths. Then, we discovered that at the national level, the under-five mortality rate was rising to almost 250 per 1000 live births and this was worrisome. “Having rolled out the module at the federal level, Lagos State embraced it. We looked inwards to find out the causes of the high under-five mortality rate and when the baseline assessment was done, it revealed that we have a serious gap in capacity building with the skills of health workers. “The good thing about IMCI is that the module contains everything a health worker requires to handle under-five children starting from the day they are born and up to when they get to 59 months.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com