MEDICAL doctors are currently battling to save the life of the member representing Aninri Local Government Area at the Enugu State House of Assembly, Okwu Otaka, after political thugs reportedly gave him machete cuts on his head during a meeting of the Peoples Democratic Party in the local government headquarters. It was also gathered that three other party members were also brutalised at the meeting on Saturday. An eyewitness told The PUNCH that Otaka and others who were currently in the Intensive Care Unit of an undisclosed hospital in the state capital were inflicted with multiple injuries. The eyewitness, who did not want his name mentioned in print, told The PUNCH on Sunday that weapons including cutlasses and axes among others were freely used by the thugs who targeted only those suspected to be supporters of a former Deputy President of the Senate and governorship aspirant Ike Ekweremadu. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Daniel Ndukwe, did not take his calls as the phone rang out. Meanwhile, Ekweremadu, has condemned the violence that marred the expanded stakeholders’ meeting of the PDP. Ekweremadu, especially condemned the violent attack on his supporters and associates during the meeting at Ndeaboh. In a statement issued on Sunday by his Media Adviser, Uche Anichukwu, titled, ‘Ekweremadu violent PDP meeting, attack on supporters, political associates in Enugu,’ the Senator recalled that the attack left many, including Otaka critically injured and hospitalised. The lawmaker, therefore, called on security agencies to ensure that the culprits were brought to book. Ekweremadu said, “I received with utmost sadness, the news of the violence that marred the expanded stakeholders meeting of the PDP in Aninri LGA at the weekend as well as the brutal attack on my supporters and associates at the said meeting. “The attack, which left many, including the member representing Aninri State Constituency in the Enugu State House of Assembly, Hon. Chinedu Okwu, critically injured and hospitalised, is at variance with the peace-loving nature of Aninri. “Therefore, I condemn in strongest terms this attempt to stoke fire and political violence in our LGA.” He added, “I also condemn any attempt to pollute the processes leading up to the 2023 elections in Enugu State with acts of political intolerance, intimidation, violence and destruction of lives and property. That is not what Ndi Enugu, the Waawa people, are known for. “I, therefore, call on the security agencies and the relevant authorities to swing into action to ensure that the perpetrators and masterminds of this brigandage are fished out and brought to book to serve as a deterrent to future troublemakers.” Ekweremadu expressed his sympathy for Okwu and the “many others who sustained various degrees of life-threatening injuries during this act of political brigandage.” The Senator said, “However, in the midst of this clear affront and provocation, I urge our teeming supporters and the good people of Aninri and Enugu State to maintain the peace. We have been through this road before and the Good Lord, who saw us through it all, will surely see us through this and to victory, once again.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com