The Peoples Democratic Party has cleared the immediate past Commissioner for Information and Orientation in Bayelsa, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, for its May 12 House of Representatives primary election ahead of the 2023 elections. The committee headed by Hon. Edward Pwajok (SAN) cleared Iworiso-Markson to contest the ticket of the PDP for Ogbia federal constituency after the screening. Speaking shortly after the exercise, Iworiso-Markson commended members of the party for the smooth, transparent, and peaceful exercise. He also lauded the leadership of the party for the mechanism put in place in ensuring that internal democracy remained a basic tenet of its activities. The former commissioner said having crossed the hurdle of the screening, his focus would be to emerge as the flag bearer of the party, insisting that he possessed the requisite experience, networks, and contacts to bring a novel type of representation. Emphasising on his New Deal Manifesto, Iworiso-Markson said that he would work assiduously to ensure that the people of Ogbia got their pride of place, as the first area where oil was found in commercial quantity. He said, “It was a smooth process. It went well and it was worth every moment. I need to thank members of the committee for doing a very good job. There was a thorough check on all our documents. “Let me also thank the leadership of our party, for their relentless effort to ensure that internal democracy remains a major hallmark of our activities. This is of course what makes us different from other parties. “My focus now will be the primaries. I want to use this opportunity to call on our delegates to think me. With the New Deal I have promised to make a difference and I will not fail”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com