Nollywood actor, Yul Edochie, has urged his fans and other Nigerians to buy him a presidential form. The actor took to his social media accounts on Saturday to upload a short video, applauding the “united energy” of all Nigerians against his choice of a second wife. According to him, the “energy” came from all over the country, from all tribes, tongues and people. He said, “See what we did on Wednesday, we shook the world and still shaking it. The energy you all applied, and still apply is unmatchable. “The energy is united. The energy knows no tribe, no religion, no gender; the energy is coming from the North, the South, from the East, and the West and indeed, the whole world. “Once again, the energy is united. We are everywhere, on TV stations, radio stations, newspapers, blogs, Internet, Youtube, WhatsApp groups, churches, streets, we are on the lips of everyone; we are everywhere. The energy is unparallel. “My dear Nigerians, we can make use of this energy positively. I cannot do this alone, we cannot do this alone, we need you, I need you, Nigerians. Nigeria needs you. “My fellow Nigerians, please buy me the presidential form and together we will take back our country and fix it. “My name is Yul Edochie, I am running for the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2023. Thank you and God bless Nigeria. Thank you.” The PUNCH had earlier reported that Yul Edochie on Wednesday announced that he had taken an actress Judy Austin, as his second wife and that the actress had a baby boy for him. He had written on Instagram, “It is time for the world to meet my son. His name is Star Dike Munachimso Yul-Edochie. Born by my second wife, Judy Austin, and I love them so much; just as much as I love my other children.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com