The All Progressives Congress candidate for the June 18 2022 Ekiti State governorship election, Biodun Oyebanji, on Tuesday, unveiled his six-point agenda, which emphasised growing the state economy and creating jobs for the teeming youth in the state if elected governor. According to him, he would ensure human capital development and as well further tap the rich human resources that the state was endowed with to develop the state and its people. Other critical areas captured in the policy thrust included agriculture and rural development, quality education, infrastructure and industrialisation, arts, culture and tourism and governance. Oyebanji in his address to the crowd of party faithful and supporters in attendance, said, “This is not a promise made by a politician, but a promise that I made as an Ekiti man to Ekiti people. We are going to grow the economy and create jobs for our people. We will invest in human capital to safeguard the future of our people. “Our mission is to provide quality education and develop our knowledge zone in order to create jobs, new markets and attract financing for industrious Ekiti entrepreneurs to start or grow their businesses. “We will complete all strategic infrastructure projects in transport, agriculture and power designed to improve the quality of life for all and make Ekiti competitive for businesses of all sizes. “We will provide a conducive environment and sustainable welfare package for our workers, retirees and traditional institution, develop our rural communities and support our farmers and improve the productivity of our agriculture sector. “We are going to develop our tourism industry by investing in our attractions, cultural endowments and assets, complete projects that will increase power supply and extend and maintain our transportation networks”, he said. The Director-General, Biodun Oyebanji Campaign Organisation, Cyril Fasuyi, said the event signalled the beginning of the APC electioneering campaign, which, he said, would be issue-based. The APC State Chairman, Paul Omotoso, said the June 18 election was a concluded affair. He said, “You will all know that all other political parties are number two to APC in Ekiti because we have done well. The good work that Governor Kayode Fayemi has done can make us bold to ask for votes.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com