Nigerian Manchester United fans have called on the club’s board to give new manager, Erik ten Hag, enough time in order get the club back to where it used to be. United on Thursday announced the signing of the new manager, who will take over from interim manager, Ralf Rangnick, at the end of the season. The Premier League giants had been linked to the Dutchman for almost half of the season and the news comes as a huge relief for the club’s teeming fans across the globe. With their supporters worldwide and the board anxious to see the club return to their glory days, Nigerian fans advised that the former English champions should be patient with the new manager, adding that it will help him instill his philosophy on the club and hopefully transfer the successes at Ajax to his new club. Speaking after his appointment, a United fan @Oj_Urch on Twitter says the manager should be given at least two to four years to stabilise the club. “So long as we are playing good and entertaining football, we the fans are happy watching that for now. Definitely the trophies will follow. I can’t remember the last time I enjoyed good football from Man United. Categorically I’ll give him two to four years.” Kennyson Igwe tweeted, “four years will do. I believe he can take us back to our glory days. Just like Pep (Guardiola) and klopp did. We are ready to give him that time to build a team that can face any challenge any time, any day.” Okeugo Samson added, “I’ll like us to give him the same amount of time it took Guardiola and Jurgen Klopp to get the team up and running, long term success is not three months.” “He needs to hit the ground running. Five trophyless years must be brought to an end next season. Nevertheless, we shall be patient for him to turn things around,” @qu_faruq tweeted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com