A community in Gbako Local Government Area in Niger State has received a free 90KW hybrid mini-grid to provide free electricity for over 305 households in the area. The mini-grid was donated to the Gbangba community by Engie Energy Access and was inaugurated on Wednesday by the Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello, according to a statement from the power firm. The Managing Director, Engie Energy Access, Bankole Cardoso, said the provision of electricity to the community was the first time the area would have access to power supply. He added that the facility, which had been providing electricity for the people of Gbangba since November 2021, was currently empowering over 300 consumers. Cardoso was quoted as saying, “With this mini-grid, Engie Energy Access connects the people of Gbangba community in Niger State to power supply for the first time ever and empowers over 300 consumers comprising households, and micro and small enterprises. “The mini-grid directly impacts over 1,500 by providing them with affordable, reliable and clean electricity. This mini-grid will foster socio-economic development and prosperity in Gbangba community, its people and its neighbours. It will serve private households and commercial businesses.” On his part, Bello, who was represented by the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructural Development, Mamman Musa, said the power project was based on concerted efforts to change the negative narratives and stimulate economic activities in the rural areas. He said the mini-grid in the community would catalyse many businesses that would spring up within the short possible time and improve the standard of living of the beneficiaries. The governor urged the benefiting community to own the project and guide it against any form of vandalism for it to serve them optimally and efficiently. The village head of the community, Ibrahim Mammud, said residents of the area were currently enjoying 24 hours uninterrupted power supply. He said the community had never been connected to the national grid, as residents used generators for all activities that had to do with electricity.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com