A Federal High Court in Abuja, on Wednesday, ordered that contempt charge motion against four Senior Advocates of Nigeria involved in the $418m Paris Club Refund suit be served on them through courier services. The order for substituted service issued by Justice Inyang Ekwo followed complaints that the four lawyers had allegedly refused to personally receive the charge as required by law. The four SANs are Sunday Ameh, Jubrin Okutepa, Garba Tetengi and Olumuyiwa Akinboro. The contempt charge was initiated against them by a private company, Panic Alerts, and its sponsor, George Uboh, who accused the lawyers of engaging in wrongdoings in their service to their client. In the contempt charge, the SANs were alleged to have placed “Caveat Emptor” on the judgment of the Federal High Court, which granted permission to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to deduct the $418m from the financial allocations of the 36 State governments as payments for debt they incurred during the Paris Club refund contract. The implication of the “Caveat Emptor”, according to the two applicants, was to impede execution of the $418m judgment debt against the 36 states as their clients. During Wednesday’s proceeding, counsel for George Uboh and Panic Alerts, Emeka Okoro, moved an ex parte application, which asked Justice Ekwo to order the contempt charge to be served on the senior lawyers through courier on the ground that they allegedly evaded personal service as required by law. The aggrieved applicants asked the court for an order to serve the contempt charge on the lawyers through a nominated courier company and by pasting same in their respective offices. Justice Ekwo in a brief ruling on the ex parte application ordered that motion for contempt charge be served on the senior lawyers within seven days and fixed May 26 for hearing of the motion. One of the lawyers, Sunday Ameh, had made frantic efforts to stop hearing of the ex parte application on the ground that an appeal against the judgment debt itself had been lodged at the Court of Appeal and that the Federal High Court no longer had jurisdiction in respect of it. Ameh further told the court that the records of proceedings had been transmitted to the Court of Appeal while the appeal itself had been entered in favour of the appellants (36 states) and urged the court not to do anything in respect of the matter. However, Justice Ekwo proceeded with the ex parte application and granted the requests of the two applicants. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com