Experts have recommended technological solutions to ensure environmental sustainability. The Chief Executive Officer of Menaget SPC, Afolabi Monsur, has said that digital technology and literacy are essential in promoting environmental protection. Monsur stated this while delivering a speech as a Guest Speaker at the World Earth Day event organised by Futuresavers Sustainable Development Initiative. During the webinar with the theme, “Invest In Our Planet”, Monsur buttressed that there was no sustainable investment in this age that would not come with digital technology. While stating that with true sustainability came digital investment, he said that applying digital technologies would be in better management and implementation of environmental treaties. He buttressed that digital technologies would enable tapping data on emissions of methane and offering analytics to companies for building future sustainability goals. He observed that investing in digital literacy would form the basis of Africa’s sustainable development strategy. He said, “there’s no real investment in the planet if the humans of the planet aren’t developed. Hence, human capacity development is one crucial aspect of sustainable development that we should look into. “This is one of the most cogent reasons why I co-founded naturelab.ai as a technology startup accelerated platform committed to helping nature-focused startups with mentorship, capital raising, and professional supports.” Another key guest speaker, a former presidential candidate, Dr. Obi Ezekwesili, while commenting on the theme of the Earth Day 2022, stated, “to ensure sustainability is achieved, youths owe it to their generation and future generations that the planet is not ruined by the deeds of the past generation and this can be done by asking for regulatory frameworks that support sustainability and also adopting the framework of intention.” An environmental economist, Pamela Peters, while contributing to the discussion, stated that there was a need to have a historical approach to maintaining the ecosystem. The hosts of the event, Seyi Akinwunmi, Founder of Futuresavers, Folashade Molade, CEO of Futuresavers, and Priyanka Prakash of Ervis Foundation, also hailed the developmental work done by The Climate Footprint Reduction Project and Naturelab in integrating human skills and supporting nature-focused products respectively, in providing environmental solutions. The virtual event was graced by key policymakers, thought leaders, and industry experts across Africa as guest speakers. Other speakers were Dominica Una, Gitaka Nyawira, Jacklyne Namadi, Dr. Femi Omoniyi, Immanuela Celestine, Derrick Mugisha, Heer Nirav Desai, Careen Mwakitalu, Sam Okorie, Dr. Jumoke Ogunrayi amongst others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com