I am so happy that many people are returning to nature. The way readers ask for medicinal plants to plant in their gardens is also impressive. About a month ago, my mother and I visited a family friend, Alhaji Bello Abubakre, who is also a retired teacher like her and as soon as we stepped into the house, my attention was drawn to a tall Lawsonia inermis tree (ewe laali). I initiated a conversation about the plant and he told me many ways it can be used. Do not forget that I discussed the plant in the series on medicinal plants. Last month, a reader called from Ireland and demanded Peperomia pellucida (ewe rinrin). As you plant ornamental plants in your homes, try to plant medicinal plants too. I had my birthday almost a week ago and it was a fruity affair. On your journey to good health, you can break norms. You can create new recipes that are not even known by man in your kitchen. For example, not everyone will agree with you that plantain peels are edible, but on this platform, we know it is. Do not be afraid to stand out when it comes to eating right. This week, I will discuss Brazil nuts. I actually ate it for the first time last month. The size of the nut is what interests me, it is like half of a thumb! I enjoyed every bite. Let us see what this nut can offer. Brazil nuts are tree nuts native to the Amazon rainforest in Brazil, Bolivia, Peru and they come from the Bertholletia excelsa tree. The nuts are energy dense, highly nutritious and one of the most concentrated dietary sources of the mineral selenium. It (Selenium) is only needed in small amounts but plays a major role in important processes in your body. It acts as a powerful antioxidant, it reduces risk of certain cancers, protects against heart disease and helps prevent mental decline. It is important for thyroid health, boosts immune system and helps reduce asthma symptoms. Some benefits of Brazil nuts Rich in selenium: Brazil nuts are a rich source of selenium. They contain more of this mineral than any other nut with an average of 96 mcg per nut. However, some pack as much as 400 mcg per nut. The RDI (Recommended Dietary Intake) for selenium is 55 mcg per day for adults. Indeed, Brazil nuts are a highly effective way to maintain or increase selenium intake. In fact, one study in 60 people found that eating two Brazil nuts per day was as effective as taking a selenium supplement at raising selenium levels. Supports thyroid function: Your thyroid is a small, butterfly-shaped gland that lies in your throat. It secretes several hormones essential for growth, metabolism and body temperature regulation. Thyroid tissue has the highest concentration of selenium, as it is required for the production of the thyroid hormone T3 as well as proteins that protect your thyroid from damage. Low selenium intake can lead to cellular damage, reduced thyroid activity and autoimmune disorders like Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and Graves’ disease. It may also increase your risk of thyroid cancer. One large study in China showed that people with low selenium levels had a significantly higher prevalence of thyroid diseases such as hypothyroidism, thyroiditis and an enlarged thyroid compared to those with normal levels. Reduces inflammation: Brazil nuts are rich in antioxidants which help keep your cells healthy. They do this by combating damage caused by reactive molecules called free radicals. Selenium increases levels of an enzyme known as glutathione peroxidase (GPx), which helps reduce inflammation and protect your body from oxidative stress — an imbalance between antioxidants and free radicals that can lead to cellular damage. A three-month study gave people undergoing treatment for kidney failure one Brazil nut per day. It found that their selenium and GPx levels had increased while their levels of inflammatory markers and cholesterol significantly decreased. Good for your heart: Brazil nuts contain heart-healthy fatty acids such as polyunsaturated fats, minerals and fiber, all of which may help lower your risk of heart disease. One study in 10 healthy adults investigated the effects of eating Brazil nuts on cholesterol levels. It gave them either 5, 20 or 50 grams of Brazil nuts or a placebo. After nine hours, the group that received a 20 or 50 gram serving had lower levels of LDL (bad) cholesterol and higher levels of HDL (good) cholesterol, compared to groups that received lower doses. Another study analysed the effects of eating Brazil nuts in obese people with selenium deficiency who were undergoing treatment for kidney disease. It found that eating Brazil nuts containing 290 mcg of selenium daily for eight weeks significantly increased HDL cholesterol levels. Improving your HDL cholesterol levels may decrease your risk of heart disease. Good for your brain: Brazil nuts contain ellagic acid and selenium, both of which can benefit your brain. Ellagic acid is a type of polyphenol in Brazil nuts. It has both antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties that may have protective and antidepressant effects on your brain. Selenium may also play a role in brain health by acting as an antioxidant. In one study, older adults with mental impairment ate one Brazil nut per day for six months. In addition to experiencing increased selenium levels, they showed improved verbal fluency and mental function. Low selenium levels are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s, so ensuring adequate intake is important. Diabetes management: Some studies show that the selenium in Brazil nuts can help to lower insulin levels and boost insulin sensitivity, improving blood sugar levels in people with type 2 diabetes. Bone health: Brazil nuts have calcium and magnesium, both of which are necessary for bone health. More magnesium can lead to higher bone density. Scientific study In a study titled, “Consumption of Brazil Nuts Provides Cardiovascular Health Benefits,’’ by Mariana Sarto Figueiredo, the conclusion is that dietary intervention based on the use of foods with functional properties, especially Brazil nuts, can be considered a good strategy to prevent, treat or reduce the progression of cardiovascular diseases worldwide. You can find Brazil nuts in grocery stores either shelled or unshelled. You can eat them plain or with other nuts as a healthy, energy-boosting snack. You can also prepare them in a variety of other ways such as: Roasting (that if it is not already roasted) them either alone or with other nuts, sprinkling them on a salad, grinding them up and mixing them into a cake batter. You can blend them with your smoothies. The nut can be made into flour. It can be made into butter too. They are high in calories and fat, which may lead to unwanted weight gain if you eat too many. Eating too many can also lead to selenium toxicity. A single Brazil nut provides almost twice the daily recommended amount of selenium. If you must eat more, do not exceed two nuts. If you have selenium deficiency, nature has provided a good source in Brazil nuts for you. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com