FATTEH HAMID examines the struggles of drivers in the taxi services amid operations of ride hailing It was 10am on Friday and Lagos roads were bubbling with seas of vehicles and passengers hurrying to their destinations. Amid the energetic ambience, elderly taxi drivers at Anthony, Lagos, awaited customers at their taxi park. Three drivers surged as our correspondent walked leisurely into the park, simultaneously asking where he was headed. But they retreated disappointedly to take naps upon hearing that he wasn’t there to book a ride. The setting captures the current state of taxi drivers whose once lucrative operations are undergoing threats from ride-hailing. A ride-hailing platform allows a customer to take a ride via a smartphone application. Tough reality One of the drivers, Mr Sunday Adetayo, decried the challenges facing the taxi industry since the emergence of the ride-railing platforms in many states of the country. He said that there had been a huge drop in patronage with many customers now using smartphone apps to order customised rides online. Adetayo, who is also the Chairman, Taxi Drivers, Anthony Unit, Lagos, said they stayed idle most times as there were no customers unlike before when taxi parks across the country witnessed huge patronage. He said, “We are experiencing a big challenge in terms of customer loss and low patronage. You can see that there were several taxis in the park without customers. The reason is because we don’t have customers as it used to be.’’ He added that the lull in the business was so manifest that at the time of the day many of the drivers had not got a passenger. Adetayo stated, “If we must be sincere, the situation is due to the coming of ride-hailing in the country’s transport sector. The imported innovation has affected us and in turn taken many of our loyal customers. Our profit is dwindling by the day. “Though we hear that there are challenges associated with ride-hailing with evil passengers attacking them and some riders conniving with wicked individuals to rob customers, the business is still buoyant compared to taxi business in terms of patronage. “But regardless, taxi drivers still have the honesty traits that distinguish them in the nation’s transport sector. Passengers come to us when they lose any belongings after a trip. Many times they come to our parks to ask if we help them to see any lost items and we give them if they are seen.” More lamentations A taxi driver who said he has been in the business for over 40 years, Mr Tiamiyu Ahmed, decried their current situation in the taxi sector, noting that many would-be passengers claimed that taxis weren’t safe and would prefer ride-hailing based on its hi-tech structure. He said, “In other countries, it is expected that a taxi driver knows almost everywhere and when a passenger gets into a country, taxis would take him or her through navigating diverse routes. However, that is no longer applying to taxis as drivers are heavily charged by some groups at bus stops including airports. “This isn’t supposed to be the situation. Apart from the fact that our business is almost taken away by ride-hailing, the little ways with which we make money is being blocked by some people through strange collections and payments. It’s not fair to us because we are experienced drivers and have been in business for many years.’’ Tiamiyu stated that as part of his daily experiences he was nearly arrested at the Lagos airport when he took a passenger to the axis not long ago. He stated, “I took a passenger there and he later decided that he wasn’t travelling again because as he got into the arena, the person he wanted to meet called that he would be coming into the country. At that point, he asked me to park and wait a bit for something only for some people to charge towards me, to impound my vehicle. But for the man being a lawyer, he intervened and I was released. “Besides, ride-hailing service has nearly taken over our livelihood and it’s becoming extremely unbearable for us day-by-day. In some estates, we are not allowed to drive in passengers whereas drivers in the ride-hailing platform have easy access. “Ride-hailing charges are as low as N500 for some trips. How do they get money? We don’t know how possible that is. If we are called anywhere before we get there, they are there already. It’s getting unbearable day-by-day.” Adeleye Quadri, who disclosed that he would soon be 50 years old in the taxi business, also noted that they charged more than ride-hailing. He said, “How do you expect me to take a passenger from Challenge to Moniya (In Ibadan) for N1,500. Apart from the fact that it’s meagre, a certain percentage of my sweat goes into the hands of those we registered with. “I find it difficult to understand how those who are doing these ride-hailing cope. I “If l drive a customer to Moniya from (Challenge), I will use nothing less than N1000 fuel to and fro. The app may record N1,500 and some charges would still be removed. “In my opinion, ride-hailing is gradually getting us out of business. This is my means of survival. I have used proceeds from this taxi to send three of my children to the university. Two have graduated and are seeking jobs and the last one is in his final year. I was able to achieve that with the income I make as a taxi driver. Since you came to our park, I am not sure you saw any passengers. When you came in, I thought you were a customer. That was what my other colleagues thought too.’’ Technological concerns Markedly, while ride hailing trips are booked via smartphone app and give pooling choices, taxi service doesn’t offer such. Some drivers in the traditional taxi services also migrate to the ride-hailing sector to conform with the current reality in the transport sector. Notably, many of the traditional taxis are owned by elderly men who, largely, are not in tune with apps synonymous with ride-hailing bookings. Some years back, traditional taxis were the darlings of families and individuals. A taxi driver in Ibadan, Oyo State, Taye Omotosho, who said he had been in the business for close to 30 years, noted it was not easy for them to make use of the apps synonymous with ride-hailing. He said, “I’m over 70 years old and I can’t operate the apps on my smartphone. Even the one I use, I have to call some young boys to help me save numbers and dial saved numbers when I want to make a call. “You can’t expect me to be thinking of how to operate a phone before picking a passenger when I have other major responsibilities as the breadwinner. Even when I tried to learn it, it is difficult to operate because even the small phones aren’t easy for me.” Saturday PUNCH gathered that the taxi drivers also use the univasa app for passengers to book rides. This ultimately helps them to get a fair share of passengers in the transport sector. Known as ‘Baba Dey Online,’ it offers passengers to access taxis driven mostly by elderly men. Another taxi driver, Mr Asifu Musa, who said that he had over 40 years experience in the   business, however, said he wasn’t comfortable with the prices app fixes for rides. He said, “Those prices aren’t good enough. If I’m to take a passenger from Anthony to Ikoyi and the app displays N800 or N1,000 and I’m to fuel the car to and fro for N700, how much is left out of the N800 charged? Will I use the profit to buy tyres or repair the engine if it’s faulty? It doesn’t pay us. Some riders in the ride-hailing sector took car loans and tried to repay the loans. “When a car is new, one is likely not to spend a lot. But when one starts using it, it will have some challenges later. It should be that when a customer can’t afford our prices, then they can seek alternatives elsewhere. We hear of the challenges associated with ride-hailing too.’’ Musa faulted the process of having the app determine fares for rides. Taxi drivers try out ride-hailing Among the challenges faced by the taxi sector is that many drivers leave for ride-hailing to enjoy the ease of getting passengers. Adetayo who couldn’t fathom while some taxi drivers left to join the ride-hailing sector, noted that many of those who left were young drivers. He said, “Many of the taxi drivers who left to join the ride-hailing sector were younger than most of us. They have little experience in taxi business and have not spent many years like us.’’ One of the taxi drivers who is now in the ride-hailing sector, Ibrahim Yusuf, who spoke to our correspondent, said low patronage of taxis by customers forced him out of the business. Yusuf added, “With the emergence of ride-hailing, I was still doing taxi business until I noticed that there were almost no customers on most days “Before the emergence of ride-hailing, I used to make N20,000 daily. On days when patronage was low, I could get half of the money. But the week which preceded my exit from the taxi business, I made N7000 in a week and I was for two trips. It was then I realised that something must be done to increase my earnings. “After several considerations, I decided to also opt out of the taxi business and pitch my tent with ride-hailing. At least, half a loaf is better than none. In fact, though it has its own demerits, it has been a way better than where what I was doing.’’ He further said that despite noticeable challenges, there were days he made more than his highest weekly income as a taxi driver. Customers’ choices A content writer for a popular platform, Francisca John, who’s a regular user of ride-hailing, said she had only taken the traditional taxis twice, adding that she wasn’t impressed that day because the driver insisted on cash whereas she intended a bank transfer for payment. She said, “I took a taxi from Ikeja to Maryland one day and the driver insisted that I should pay with cash when I got to my destination. I said I wanted to do a bank transfer. But he said he didn’t have an account number. I was surprised because I wondered why someone would be in Lagos and not have an account number. “The other time, another driver couldn’t find a piece of paper where he said he wrote his account number. He insisted on taking cash. On both occasions, I had to find a place to use a Point of Sale because there were no banks around the area and even if there were, I didn’t think they would have the patience to wait while I went into a banking hall for withdrawal. After that second experience, I decided against taking taxis to anywhere.’’ Another passenger who is a bank worker, Itunu Ayilara, told Saturday PUNCH that taxis operations had yet to fully echo modern trends in the transport sector, stating that it would be time-wasting to seek a taxi park before booking a ride to go on a trip. When reminded that taxis were now on app for ease of booking by potential customers, Ayilara noted that it wasn’t as popular as ubiquitous ride-hailing. She added, “If I want to go out with loads now, will I use money to move it to a taxi park first before going to my destination when I could easily order a ride that’ll pick me at the comfort of my house to wherever I’m going to. I am not even aware of the taxi app because ride-hailing app is everywhere.’’ Another commuter identified only as Lanre said that taxi drivers’ charges were extremely high compared to ride-hailing. He said, “Imagine charging me N7000 to Oniru from Ojuelegba. I hope the taxi app also determines fares for rides compared to the old method of billing customers as they feel. “It may interest you that the drivers bill customers based on issues they’re facing. This is not fair to commuters. One can’t see a cheap, comfortable ride and decide to go for one that’s costly.” For an aluminium fabricator, Tope Ogundare, taxis aren’t classy vehicles to take to events compared to vehicles mandated to be used for ride-hailing. She said, “You don’t expect me and my friends to attend a wedding and we’ll take taxis in our glamorous dresses. For the ambience and style, we’ll definitely go for ride-hailing which matches style and give proper representation of where one is going to. Most of the cars are solid and beautiful.’’ Interventions The Vice President, National Association of Cooperative Transporters, Taiwo Omolekan, noted that taxis were still in operation fully despite the effects of ride-hailing. He explained that ride-hailing had not pushed taxis out of business, adding that they also embraced technology to ease operations of taxi drivers when ride-hailing kept hijacking their customers. He said, “On the issue of technology, when we saw what the ride-hailing sector was doing by taking our customers, we got an app called univasa termed ‘Baba Dey Online.’ The app is easy to use because we know that there are many old men in the taxi business who cannot use technology to access passengers. “The creation of univasa is a seamless operation such that even as a driver who cannot operate a phone, there are devices installed in the cars such as a tracking device that makes them accessible by passengers. “The passenger gets the driver’s details, calls the driver, negotiates prices and the driver will go to pick the passenger. We also understand that people don’t want to be on the streets waiting for taxis again. They want to be at the comfort of their houses and book rides, that’s why we have decided to embrace technology. We are still existing and operational.” Asked about the acceptance and awareness level of the app by passengers across the country, Omolekan described the app as impressively accepted by both passengers and drivers. He said, “It’s a new app but we have had quite a huge turnout, it’s on Google Play Store and App Store to be downloaded and we do have many customers who have started using the app since we launched it. On our own part, we’re also trying to get it across to a larger audience so that commuters would know that the ‘Babas’ are now online. We now have univasa in about 10 states at the moment. Before the end of the year, we hope that two-thirds of the country’s population would have known about it.’’ He also said that the drivers were aware of the app since it was fused in the cars, adding “We are managing it. Many of the drivers are old men but we have been managing it. They have been getting many of their customers back. We are training them on usage and they have been advancing in its usage.’’ Omolekan also noted that the percentage level was friendly and it was easier for the drivers to accept it. On whether the app determines fares for rides, he stated, “The same thing is applicable and it’s cheap. We want our customers to have a sense of feeling that we put them into consideration before the decision was made. We did that to continue to serve them better.’’ In Lagos, the sector appears more competitive for the traditional taxi when last month the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, rolled out the first batch of 1,000 brand new GAC-branded automobiles for the modernised taxi scheme in the state. LagosRide allows users to book and share the cost of a ride with similar transit patterns. It’s designed to link users up on their choice of pick up and drop off points, each within 1km and a pick-up time not exceeding five minutes. The state government last year also urged taxi drivers and cab operators in the state to use modern gadgets to make their operation imbibe current trends. The advice was given by the state Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf, during a two-day tour guide training for taxi drivers and community-based tourism officers in Lagos. She was represented at the event by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mrs Adenike Adedoyin-Ajayi. She urged taxi drivers to deploy smartphones, Google maps and other gadgets to make their jobs conform with current realities. She noted, “Taxi drivers should be customer-centric and driven by the desire to deliver delightful service to customers at every point of contact.” State of taxi industry abroad Countries with taxis and ride-hailing have modernised operation of the former to get a fair share in the transport sector.  In New York, taxi drivers sued a ride-hailing firm for what it described as violation of their right to pick passengers before an agreement appeared to have been reached. In Ohio, Yellow Cab of Columbus modernised its operation to compete with ride-hailing services. Expert’s view In his opinion on the issue, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Cowry Asset Management Limited, Mr Johnson Chukwu, advised that taxi drivers would have to make changes to get their fair share of the market. He said, “Evolution is a permanent feature in human life and change is inevitable in human existence. The mode of transportation has been changing over time, from bare legs to horses and up to taxis, then evolution and technology have brought about ride-hailing applications that are more efficient than the old taxi system in which one would have to go a long distance to taxi parks. But the ride-hailing system gives one a minimal waiting time to get to one’s destination quicker and it’s even cheaper in terms of cost. In this case, it might be difficult for the taxis to co-exist with the ride-hailing services.’’ The business analyst added that taxi drivers would realise that their business was going moribund and the only way out of it would be to modify their services and key into the modern taxi system. Chukwu stated, “They have to realise that it’ll be difficult for the old order to co-exist with the new order.’’ Asked specifically about the needed changes for the taxi drivers to get their fair share in the nation’s transport system, Chukwu said that taxi days were numbered if they didn’t adopt the current technological part of the world. He added, “Let the old taxis speak with the fintech companies to develop for them an app that’ll be simplified to use for the oldest of them and also put into consideration their own fares as well. “One thing about technology is that it’s not limited to innovation so I believe it is quite possible to put their concerns into consideration and develop an app that offers solutions to those concerns. However, the reality is that in any business segment or operation where one has a new system offering superior or the same services at a lower cost, there’ll definitely be a decline and the latter has to build a strategy that’ll make them able to compete on both parameters in terms of price and quality of services.’’  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com