Since 2009, ASUU has abandoned staff welfare issues to concentrate on funding public universities in order to provide quality research and teaching. Ranking in Webometric is not based on physical structures in universities but on research output which they believe can be enhanced by improving the physical structure. Even in Africa, Nigerian universities are not ranked among the best 100, yet if you go to South Africa which dominates top ranking you see the staff structure dominated by Nigerians forced out because of the poor academic environment. We attended a conference in one African country and found on the list of academic staff at the professorial level, 41 Nigerians out of 56 in various fields. One of them told me they migrated from Nigerian universities and most had been given citizenship! The loss of quality education at the public primary and secondary levels was low due to the fact that there is nobody to fight for facilities upgrading in schools at that level. The Nigerian Union of Teachers was very vibrant in the past and that sustained the quality of facilities and teaching at the two levels. But that was when members of the union had their children in public primary and secondary schools. These days, the children of current leadership are in private schools, so these leaders care less about what goes on where they work and earn their living. For now, the children of the union leaders in tertiary institutions are in public tertiary institutions and they must fight for the soul of the institutions. The actions of Late Alhaji Lateef Jakande, when he was governor of Lagos State between October 1979 and December 1983, are instructive in this case. What did Jakande do? At the time Jakande assumed office from the military government, Lagos State was running three shifts a day in its primary and secondary schools. Each set of students was spending less than four hours in school each day. That three-hour period included assembly and a break for food. What would any kid have learnt within three hours? Quality was very low and teachers were disoriented and frustrated. Jakande changed all that within one year. He built, on any available land, many makeshift schools that were of necessity at that time to accommodate not only the students on the ground but those who would come in under the government’s free education. The three-shifts system was thereafter turned to one shift starting at 8am and ending at 2pm. These have to do with infrastructure. On the human resource side, there was massive recruitment of teachers and training of potential teachers in teacher training schools and colleges of education. The number of children going to public primary and secondary schools swelled with more parents from other states of the federation moving to Lagos to benefit from the rapid development going on in the state. More important is the official policy he finally introduced. He directed all his commissioners to move their children to public schools so that everyone could show interest in the schools. Recently one of the federal legislators attempted to resurrect the idea but failed, possibly because his colleagues did not capture the essence of his submission. Albeit, democratic settings of the magnitude we practice may not allow the idea to succeed at the federal level. The Jakande action made education quality improve tremendously in the public schools in Lagos State as attested to in the WASCE results that followed. The products of that education system are already making waves in Lagos and many other states in Nigeria today. The quality momentum was sustained for some time but hardly so today because the children of most teachers are in private schools and those of government officials are abroad. When my secondary school celebrated Diamond Jubilee recently, the alumni association had to refurbish as well as equip the laboratory, among other facility enhancements. It is such alumni associations that have been assisting public secondary schools and one can imagine those schools that do not have such associations. The presence of vibrant unions at the tertiary institution level often forces the government to pay some attention. When ASUU found that the student population became so huge that many of them were receiving lectures through windows and laboratories were in shambles, it had to abandon staff welfare for the provision of lecture rooms, lecture theatres, laboratories, etc for quality teaching and research environment. Research makes teaching in a university special, promotes the university in global ranking and gives the researcher opportunities for promotion, recognition, and job satisfaction.  Hence, agitating for infrastructural development to promote teaching and research would indirectly enhance staff welfare. The government, whether federal or state, seemed not interested in improving infrastructure in existing universities; rather, they started creating more universities of different types for political reasons. As soon as the government that established these institutions gets out of office the succeeding ones will stop funding and they become orphans with the management concentrating on business ventures and high school fees to sustain its existence. What we have in all public educational institutions from primary, secondary to tertiary, where you find most Nigerians students, is low quality education and eventually low-quality output. Here comes the health issues. The quality of the health workers as output of the poor education system is invariably low. These two sub sectors deserve more fund allocation at both the federal and state budget as it was under the Unity Party of Nigeria that ruled five states in Nigeria between 1979 and 1983. The party had four cardinal programmes namely, free education at all levels, free medical care for all, integrated rural development and full employment. It was the party that started state universities and payment of bursaries to students of tertiary institutions in lieu of scholarship. The country did not have so much money at that time but fund management was key and corruption was equally at a lower level. Countries that take education and health seriously rule the world. This can be checked against literacy levels and life expectancy in developed countries. The World Population Review explained that developed countries have an adult literacy level of at least 96% while developing countries manage an average literacy rate of 65%. China with a population of about 1.4 billion people has a literacy level of 96.8% as of 2018, implying that over 1.2 billion Chinese are literate while Nigeria with just 200 million people was 62% in the same year and the highest ever was 70% in 2006. At the time of China’s revolution in 1949, the literacy level was 20% and rose to 65.5% in 1982. China was the poorest amongst its neighbours, Taiwan and South Korea, in 1949 with a per capita income of 49.7 yuan, today it is the richest and the second-largest economy in the world after the United States, which is predicted to yield that position to China after 2030. This is thanks to a quality education system that grew annually by over 10% for the first four decades after its revolution. The World Population Review explained “poverty and illiteracy tend to go hand-in-hand. Education is often less available in poverty-stricken areas. Moreover, even when education is available, a struggling family might need their children to work and earn money instead of going to school. Most of the countries with the lowest literacy… also include most of the poorest countries in the world. Nigeria was recently, in 2019, declared as the poor capital of the world. In terms of life expectancy, statista.com reports that “life expectancy at birth in Nigeria is among the lowest in Africa as well as in the world”. This depicts the state of the health facilities and health quality in the country. While quality health care promotes productivity, which is low in this country, education promotes innovations, inventions, employment generation, birth control and sustained economic growth. Thus, the combination of the two is, definitely, what we need for development. A situation in which universities break down today and health services are stalled tomorrow portends economic backwardness, rather than looking for oil thieves as a diversion, when the thieves are known and are within the government circle.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com