The Bishop of the Diocese of Ife, Rt. Rev. Olubunmi Akinlade, has advised the Federal Government to reduce the cost of governance and plug other means through which the country’s resources are being wasted. While speaking with journalists in Ile-Ife, Osun State on Tuesday, ahead of the diocese’s synod, Akinlade said Nigeria desperately needed visionary and selfless leadership to bring about the kind of change desired by the people. The bishop also asked the government to stop borrowing to pay political office holders and other unproductive ventures. The clergy said the second Synod, which will run from April 30 to May 1, 2022, has “The grace of giving” as its theme. The bishop frowned on ritual killings, internet fraud, and other criminal activities that he said brought many problems to the country. Akinlade commended the Federal Government on the successes recorded against insurgency but said the efforts should be redoubled. He said, “Government should improve the general living conditions of the population by reducing wastage and the cost of governance. Such savings should be spent on infrastructure and the provision of employment. “Borrowing to support political appointees and pay redundant workers should also be discouraged. “Small and medium scale industries, local manufacturing and agro-business should be encouraged and empowered to grow the economy and reduce our dependence on foreign goods.” The cleric said the country’s demand for foreign exchange would drastically reduce and enhance the value of the Naira if the government took the recommended steps, backed up with sustainable policies. “National rethink, reorientation, and rebirth on the part of every individual are urgently needed. This can be driven by visionary and selfless leadership that can create the atmosphere for such a change. The dwindling emphasis on morality, integrity, and forthrightness, especially among the youth, is alarming.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com