Singer Daniel Edoreh aka Dannyello, has said that his latest song, “Kala” is aimed at preaching love and patience. He told Sunday Scoop, “The message of ‘Kala’ is to remind the world that love still matters and to encourage humans to be a little more patient and considerate with one another in relationships. We need to realise that true peace and happiness is found in love.” “There are breakups everyday because we now live in a world in which great human values are getting lost, increasingly, and love is now priced only in material terms.” The singer, who is a 200 level Mechanical Engineering student of the Federal University of Petroleum Engineering, Effurun, said his song will be released on April 29. According to music critics at the pre-launch of the song, “Kala” is an inviting Afropiano and sing-along music with an emotionally deep  universal message both in lyrics, melody, chorus and instrumentation targeted at helping humanity recover the value of love. Dannyello added that his mission is not just to take African music to the world but to bring the world over to African music. He said, “Kala is an expression of the general deep emotion we all feel in relationships and the pains and depression we suffer when we are hurt in love. “At age 6, I started playing musical instruments for my church, The Redeemed Christian Church of God. I participated in several musical competitions and bagged high positions as a keyboardist. In order to improve my music, I took to self learning on the internet. Also, I did freestyles and beat challenges on Instagram which I won a couple of them. That boosted my confidence and made me put in more work into developing my craft.” The singer said that he sees music as the print of his identity and that music is like expressing a part of himself in rhythms, melodies and lyrics that come from the depth of his heart. He noted that he admires artistes including Davido, Alpha P,  Koffee, Tems and Burna Boy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com