The Anambra State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has suspended Chris Uba and Linus Ukachukwu over alleged anti-party activities. The suspension of the duo was contained in a letter written by the acting chairman of the PDP in the state, Comrade Okey Asolo and the Publicity Secretary, Mr Nnamdi Nwangwu, which was addressed to the National Chairman, Dr Iyorcha Ayu. The letter stated that the PDP, as a dominant political party in the state “cannot be left at the whims and caprices of few individuals”. Both Uba and Ukachukwu were accused of secretly working with other political parties to ensure that PDP go into extinction in the state. The state executive members of the party, noted that if the accused persons continue to be in the party, the party may not field any candidate for the 2023 general elections. The letter was signed by the acting state Chairman, Comrade Okey Asolo and Publicity Secretary, Nnamdi Nwangwu, and dated April 2, 2022, and copied to the national chairman. Part of the letter read, “Re: Suspension of Chief Chris Uba and Chief Linus Ukachukwu from the PDP Anambra state chapter. “Arising from our executive committee meeting held on April 2, 2022, at the party’s secretariat, Anambra State and having thoroughly X-rayed the problems of the party and activities in respect of the forthcoming 2023 general election, on further evaluation of the party’s electoral misfortunes in recent past viz-a-viz the anti party activities, abuse of privileges of the above party members, who had previously caused unimaginable damages to the electoral fortunes and stability of our great party. “And to forestall their evil plans and that of their agents, the executive committee of Anambra State PDP in our meeting April 2, 2022, resolved to wit: That pursuant to sections 58(1)a-m and 59 of the constitution of PDP 2017 as amended, Chief Christian Uba and Chief Linus Ukachukwu are hereby suspended from the party in Anambra State for a period of 30 days with effect from April 2, 2022. “Both Uba and Ukachukwu will be referred to the disciplinary committee for further investigation and all necessary actions.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com