Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, on Monday says he is the most qualified to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in 2023. Amaechi spoke in Ile-Ife, Osun state, during a visit to the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, as part of consultation on his 2023 presidential ambition. A statement by Ooni’s spokesman, Moses Olafare, titled, ‘Leadership is stewardship – Ooni Ogunwusi admonishes as presidential aspirant Rotimi Amaechi storms Ife’, obtained by The PUNCH, noted that Amaechi, who was accompanied to by the Chairman, Senate Committee on Army, Senator Ali Ndume, said there would be more relevance for royal fathers if elected President. The minister, who commended the Ooni for preserving the Yoruba culture, explained that he decided to commence consultation in Ile-Ife because the ancient city remains the source. He stated, “If elected as Nigeria’s president in 2023, I will sit down with the National Assembly to address the relevance of traditional institutions in Nigeria. There is a need to consult our traditional rulers in order to bring governance closer to the people. “With due respect to my brothers in the All Progressives Congress,  Peoples Democratic Party and other political parties, I am the most qualified in this present race and I am grateful to God for the opportunities given to me over the years.” Responding, Oba Ogunwusi said Nigerians had a lot to gain from Amaechi’s wealth of experience, having served in government at various capacities. He stated, “You have been relevant since the start of this republic, it is for a reason and I urge you to use that grace for the betterment of all Nigerians. “What is obvious in your team is the inclusion of women, I am proud of this and I want you to keep doing more in this regard. Women are so powerful, especially when given leadership opportunities, they see what we men do not see.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com