A leading data-management product, Audience Origin, is set to debut in Nigeria and 11 other African countries. The data-driven product, owned by WPP Choreograph, is a customer-centric approach to data management, usage, and brand growth. The product was unveiled in Lagos on Thursday at an elaborate event attended by major industry stakeholders. Speaking at the event in Lagos, the Chief Executive Officer, Sub-Saharan Africa, Group M, Federico de Nardis, said, “Audience Origin provides an original and deep insight into the human mind and thinking. We achieve this using a data foundation with an international network that employs a privacy-first data collection system using proprietary consumer surveys. This provides a great opportunity for key clients to gain deep insight into the lesser researched African markets and consumer segments.” Also speaking, Research Director, Audience Origin, Ramona Daniel, reiterated the importance of the product to Africa. He said, “The product is even more relevant and urgently needed in Africa. Many advertisers lack robust and reliable consumer research data, which is global in orientation. This leaves a gap in harnessing data that can be leveraged from global perspectives, though retrieved from local sources. “Audience Origin makes it possible to segment consumers using more defined psychographic details such as media consumption patterns and consumer touchpoints. In this way, we can better define the consumer by understanding their behaviours and motivations, enabling us to propose viable working solutions to business challenges.” The Managing Director, Wavemaker, a subsidiary of Algorithm Media, Mr Soji Olaogun, described Nigeria as a country of enormous opportunity but generating quality insights and data for marketing brands had always been a challenge. He said, “With Audience Origin, we can use real-life data to understand the consumers and create an authentic connection with them; and our client’s brands. Indeed, this is a game-changer for the industry, and we at Algorithm media are super excited about the possibilities it creates for our clients and us. “The product is a stand-alone tool that can collaborate with other data sources to deliver bespoke solutions to address clients’ challenges. It allows our clients to reap the rewards of extraordinary insight and intelligence. “This tool also brings with it to Nigeria a unique ability to segment audiences hitherto unexplored in the Nigerian consumer market, and to ensure that data Audience Origin proffers is relevant.” In Nigeria, Algorithm Media, the WPP affiliate company launched in the country in 2016, is the sole purveyor of Audience Origin. The company said it was excited about the timely entry of the product into the Nigerian market  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com