The Kaduna State Commissioner for  Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, on Tuesday, disclosed that terrorists who attacked the Kaduna-Abuja train are demanding hundreds of million of naira from families as ransom. The commissioner, who  spoke in an interview on the sideline of a one-day public lecture titled ‘Tackling security challenges; the role of the media,’ in Kaduna, insisted that the terrorists were making demands from the families of the victims. Aruwan, who did not disclose any specific amount demanded by the terrorists said, “Don’t forget that one of the victims paid N100m for his release. What do they really want? Next minute they will say they are not after money while the next minute, the terrorists will be asking for ransom.” Earlier, the commissioner, while delivering his paper, described terrorists as threats to national security while adding that media remained critical stakeholders in shaping the future of the country. He said, “We are confronting the monsters of banditry and terrorism daily. It is a fight, but I assure you we are in it to win. “However, as a professional journalist, I am able to see quite clearly the role that responsible, ethical journalism can play towards helping our efforts and building our society. “We are daily reminded of adhering to the ethics of our vocation. What I can do here is to stir up collective reflection towards an enhanced security environment. “The media can play a crucial role in building our peace, through effective peace journalism. “Peace journalists can investigate the causes behind a conflict and the true motives of the participants, while making sure to humanise all victims of the conflict. “Journalists should not exploit loss and suffering through selective condemnations, but make sure that the reporting is balanced. Peace journalism should be focused on preventing further escalation of conflict. “The government on its part will continue to collaborate with security agencies, and engage productively with citizens to address security challenges across the state.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com