A student under the Presidential Amnesty Programme scholarship, Bassey Emmanuel, has emerged as the overall best of Ritman University, Ikot Ekpene, Akwa Ibom State with a CGPA of 4.81 on a maximum scale of 5.00. Other PAP students who graduated with a first class are Akudike Ifeanyi Stephen, Obaila Christiana Church-Ere, Avura Blessing Elozino, and Baloga Livinus Baridupopnen. Bassey, who graduated from the Department of Computer Science and Mathematics was the valedictorian during the Institution’s 2019/2020 convocation ceremony. This was containrd in a statement signed by the Special Adviser, Media to PAP’s Interim Administrator, Neotaobase Egbe, on Tuesday and made available to newsmen in Port Harcourt Egbe said in his valedictory speech, Bassey attributed his academic achievements to hard work and dedication. He said the privilege extended to him by PAP to attend the institution motivated him to be at his best throughout the programme. He thanked the Interim Administrator of the PAP, Col. Milland Dixon Dikio (rtd.), for the scholarship and promised to be a worthy ambassador of the programme. He encouraged other beneficiaries of PAP scholarship to make the best use of the opportunity. In his remarks, Dikio who was represented by his Special Adviser on Projects, Godwin Ekpo, congratulated the graduating students for their academic feat and urged them to continue to be shining examples in society. He said he was to see that PAP scholars were among the very best, describing it as a testament that the investment in the scholarship scheme was not a waste. Dikio also commended the school authority for what he referred to as the quality of learning and the facilities which helped the students and charged them to maintain the standard. The PAP boss also appreciated the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (rted.), for his support for the amnesty programme and tasked companies in the region to employ the new graduates. “Education is beyond academic feats; there is the area of character-building too. Let your successes in academics reflect in worthy character development and the world is yours. “I want to encourage other students and the youths of the region to emulate these ones. I am elated to see their CGPA, especially those from our scholarship scheme. It gives us the assurance that the scholarship is not a waste. “I thank Mr. President for still believing and supporting the amnesty programme and I call on all stakeholders to continue to support the drive for human capital development in the region. For companies operating here, this is an opportunity to employ this new set of graduates who have so much to offer,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com