No ffewer than five persons were kidnapped when gunmen attacked Akpo community in the Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State on Monday. PUNCH Metro gathered that the victims were returning from the traditional marriage of a cousin to the Commissioner for Special Duties, Mr Sly Ezeokenwa, when they were kidnapped. A message by the commissioner, which was made available to journalists in Awka on Tuesday, stated that the victims were kidnapped around 10pm. Ezeokenwa wrote, “The following friends of my cousin – Sampson Okafor, Chidozie Eze, Franklin Osuuagu, Chijioke Uduba, Benedict Ozoagwu — who visited for his traditional marriage yesterday (Monday) were kidnapped at gunpoint around 10pm last night in Udo village, Akpo (Aguata LGA) along Akpo-Nkpologwu Road about 300 metres to Akpo Junction. We have yet to establish any contact with the victims.” The state police spokesperson, DSP Tochukwu Ikenga, confirmed the incident. Ikenga said the command had launched an operation to rescue the victims. “The command has already made contact with the Commissioner for Special Duties, Mr Sly Ezeonkenwa, and an operation is currently ongoing for the possible rescue of the victims. “We are hopeful that the abductors will make contact with the family members or friends of the victims,” he added. Meanwhile, some hoodlums on Tuesday attacked and stabbed a man to death in Onitsha. It was gathered that the yet-to-be-identified victim was questioning their collection of levies which was banned by the state government when he was killed. The source said the louts brought out knives and machetes and stabbed him. “The victim did not know that they had such weapons on them,” he added. The state’s police spokesperson, Ikenga, said information on the incident was still sketchy. He said the command was making efforts to get more details on the attack, adding that he would get back to our correspondent later. He had yet to do so as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com