The Bayelsa State Commissioner for Information, Orientation, and Strategy, Ayibaina Duba, has described the administration of Governor Douye Diri as a responsive and responsible government. According to him, the government was committed to serving the people and addressing their developmental and socio-economic challenges. Duba stated this in an interview with journalists on Friday shortly after an inspection tour of over 20 internal road projects being constructed by the administration in Yenagoa and its metropolis. He said, “This government is a responsive and responsible government. Anytime we see issues, where people need things, we always go for it and give them what they want. “As I have always said in the past, Bayelsans should understand that they are in the safe hands of His Excellency, Senator Douye Diri, who is a man of humility and plans deeply, taking into consideration every factor before doing anything.” Duba explained that construction work had not stopped at any project site undertaken by the present government, adding that all contract jobs awarded by the administration had been carried out smoothly and peacefully. He also said that over 20 internal road projects were awarded to indigenous contractors in line with the prosperity agenda of the government while building infrastructures to better a lot of residents. The commissioner also commended residents for their understanding of the little discomfort created by road construction in their neighbourhoods as they are the major beneficiaries and would derive long-term satisfaction and comfort when completed. Also speaking, the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Moses Teibowei, said only three out of the over 20 internal roads were remaining to be completed. He said they would be completed within the next two months. Teibowei said, “We have just three out of the more than 20 roads left. All the roads are directly supervised by the Ministry of Works and Infrastructure, and we (the administration) will continue to do more.” Some of the roads inspected included Doncont Road, Amarata; Egili Road, Yenizue-Epie; Otariah Street linking Erepa Road and Otiotio Road; Imiringi Road and the Law School Road, Agudama-Epie, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com