The Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere; Pan-Niger Delta Forum and Middle Belt Forum on Monday said it was the turn of the South-East to produce the President of the country. The MBF, Afenifere, PANDEF and other groups made the call during the ‘Greater Nigeria Conference’ which was held in Abuja, and organised by leaders and friends of the South-East. Among Igbo leaders at the event were a former governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi; former governor of Imo State, Achike Udenwa; Senator representing Imo West, Rochas Okorocha; former governor of Anambra State, Okwesileze Nwodo; ace Journalist, Chris Anyanwu; and former chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, Senator Victor Umeh. An elder statesman and leader of Afenifere, Pa Ayo Adebanjo, said there was a need for aspirants from the South, especially from the South-East to be united. According to him, the decision of presidential aspirants including the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and the Governor of Rivers state,  Nyesom Wike who are from the South-South to contest would only give the North undue advantage over the South. He stated, “I told Bola Tinubu himself, not in the paper, face-to-face. You believe this man (Buhari) will make you President? He said ‘yes’. I said he wanted to make you President, he asked (Yemi) Osinbajo to contest? He asked (Kayode) Fayemi to contest, he asked Ibikunle (Amosun to contest? All in the West, why? He wanted to divide the West first.” The leader of PANDEF, Chief Edwin Clark, appealed to all Nigerians to concede the Presidency to the Igbo in 2023. He said Nigeria could no longer be described Nigeria as a pot anymore because the country had 36 legs, saying if any part of these 36 legs got broken, the country would not be at ease. “Why the South-East should have Presidency is because the children from that geo-political zone are asking whether their own leg is k-leg, or deformed or broken, thus resulting in the inability of their zone to present the President.” Delivering his keynote address, the President of MBF, Dr. Poju Bitrus said the North should have a rethink for whatever reason they were still talking about the presidency in 2023, saying Nigerians were not fools. He said it was shocking that the same characters that were groaning in 2014 over zoning in the PDP were arguing that the zone that produced the president does not matter. “The North that presently is occupying the number one position in Nigeria and the South-West that has been served should not entertain any thought of throwing their hats in the ring.” Speaking, Ngige stated that Nigeria found it difficult to uphold equity, justice and fairness which are ingredients for a peaceful society. He stated, “Some people have also had power, and their people don’t take three square meals. Some people also had power but in their region, you will find Egbesu boys, militants and the Indigenous People of Biafra.” Okorocha, an aspirant on the platform of the APC, stated that what the Igbo were asking for is the opportunity to preside over the affairs of the country. On his part, Obi, a presidential hopeful on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, urged his colleagues to come together and support whoever emerged as the choice of the South-East for the 2023 presidency. Also speaking, Umahi stated that the conference had shown that the Igbo believed in a united and equitable Nigeria. He, however, spoke against the idea of a consensus candidate for the South-East, saying it will prevent Nigerians from having a wider choice. On his part, Anyim, a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, stated that what was needed to become the President of the country was experience. He said the challenges of the country were in three segments which he listed as political, economic and social. I want to tell you that most of the time, people lift the economic challenges as if it’s the most important thing. “I want to emphasis that the most important challenge of our country today is political which includes leadership. “You have to politically have a country before you can build the economy. You have to have a country before you have social cohesion. “If I have the opportunity to build a country, using consensus, I will set up a new foundation upon which we’ll build a new nation,” Anyim said. The event was also attended by Chief Achike Udenwe, Professor ABC Nwosu, Professor Chinedu Nebo, Senator Ben Obi, Chief Okwesiri Eze Nwodo, Senator Victor Umeh, Iyom Josephine Anenih, Rt. Hon Francis Nwifuru, Hon Chinedu Ogah, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com