Civil Society Organisations have noted that the Ekiti and Osun governorship elections will serve as a litmus test for the Independent National Electoral Commission as it plans the 2023 elections in the country. They also said that other factors, such as insecurity among others, outside the control of INEC, may hinder the smooth running of elections in the state. It could be recalled that INEC has slated the elections in Osun and Ekiti for June 18, 2020 and July 16, 2022, respectively. The Chief Press Secretary of the Commission, Rotimi Oyekanmi told The PUNCH that the commission was committed to strictly following the timetable and schedule of activities released for the two elections. Ariyo Atoye, the co-convener of the Centre for Liberty told Saturday PUNCH that although INEC has shown that it is prepared for the elections, the progress or the failure of INEC would be determined by observers and participants in the electoral process. He said that he believed that the electoral umpire should have learnt some lessons from previous elections. Ariyo said, “By my estimate, I think the independent national electoral commission is prepared for the elections. I also want to state that the preparation can be threatened by our security agencies, and it can also be threatened by political parties if all the moves they make are to undermine the elections. “The candidate of SDP(Social Democratic Party), Chief Segun Oni was attacked today (Wednesday) in Efon-Alaye, Ekiti, now that shows the kind of desperation that we are talking about. That is when you expect the President of Nigeria, the security forces to beef up security in the state. “We will know (whose problem it is), for instance, if it is a logistic problem, we will know it is the problem of INEC, If there is a late arrival, we know that there is a problem of INEC, if results are not properly transmitted, we know that it is the problem of INEC. Hopefully, INEC must have learnt from their mistakes in Anambra, Delta, and previous elections. We hope that INEC will be able to conduct the elections in Ekiti well on June 16 and in Osun in July,” he added. In a similar vein, the Executive Director, Yiaga Africa, Samson Itodo, said he is so far impressed by the activities of INEC towards the elections. Itodo who spoke to our correspondent noted that since INEC has optimised its Bimodal Voter Accreditation System, cancelled its Continuous Voter Registration exercise, and made available its Permanent Voter Cards to the electorate, it had deepened the faith that the electorates had in the agency.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com