Ahead of the ruling of Justice Binta Nyako of a Federal High Court in Abuja challenging the competence of the treason charges filed against him by the Federal Government, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has called on his supporters to remain strong in prayers as the day approaches. He also expressed firmness in his disposition and strong in his conviction that he would get justice that day. Kanu’s lawyer and human rights activist, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, said these in a statement issued on Monday night after their meeting in the custody of the Department of State Services. He said, “Our court-ordered routine visit to our indefatigable client, Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, was undertaken today (Monday). “The cardinal subject forming the fulcrum of our discussion centred on our final strategy towards handling the outcome of the anticipated ruling, come Friday, on our application challenging the competence of the charge. “Our expectations within the precincts of enabling laws were noted and taken cognisance of. “Onyendu is eminently ready for Friday’s ruling. He is firm in his disposition and strong in his conviction. “Chukwuokike Abiama will take absolute control come April 8, 2022, and we expect justice to be manifestly seen to have been done at the end of the proceedings. “Be assured that there will be light at the end of the tunnel. Onyendu’s freedom will happen soon. It is forward ever and backward never! “Onyendu requested millions of his followers, supporters and Ezigbo Umuchineke to remain strong in prayers, particularly as this special day approaches. You all should remain resolute in the belief that Onyendu will emerge victorious in no distant time. “Onyendu is enthused over the conduct of Ezigbo Umuchineke, and urges you all to keep up the good work. Thank you all and remain hugely blessed, Ezigbo Umuchineke.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com