An All Progressive Grand Alliance governorship aspirant in Abia State, Prof Gregory Ibe, has unveiled comprehensive public service reforms, which he claimed, will enhance the conditions of Abia civil service if elected governor in the 2023 general elections. In a statement to mark the 2022 Workers Day on Saturday, the aspirant said the public service reforms, when implemented, will improve the general welfare package of workers in the state. Prof Ibe praised the enterprising spirit of the Abia workers who he described as “resilient, focused and committed”, pledging to partner with the organized private sector in formulating strategic policies that will help in fashioning more job opportunities for Abia youths as a way of curbing the current high rate of unemployment in the state. The statement read, “On this auspicious occasion of the commemoration of International Labor Day, I want to specially recognize and celebrate the dogged and enterprising spirit of the Abia Worker, who in spite of the prevailing harsh economic environment has remained resilient, focused, and committed, thereby contributing immensely to stabilizing the polity. ”If by the special grace of God and will of the people I emerge as the state Governor in 2023, part of the initial undertakings of our government shall be the implementation of a comprehensive reform of the public service geared towards making the sector proactive, efficient and effective. Deploying the cognate experience and exposure I garnered while working as lead consultant to the federal civil service during the fourth republic under President Obasanjo, we shall restore the dignity of labor while making the public service engaging, productive, and rewarding. ”Against the backdrop of the alarming unemployment rate of 50.07% for Abia state as contained in the National Bureau of Statistics report of 2020, we shall adopt the Demand-Led Approach in tackling this problem by leveraging my academic and professional background as professor of entrepreneurial science to identify the skills needs of employers in both public and private sectors, with the aim of training and empowering our youths to sufficiently fill such gaps”. He particularly appreciated the Abia state chapter of Nigeria Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress for singling him out among the distinguished persons selected for conferment of special recognition during this year celebration of Worker’s Day and dedicated the awards to Abia Pensioners. ”I want to especially appreciate the Abia state chapters of Nigeria Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress for choosing to confer honors on me during this year’s commemoration of Workers Day. In sympathy with Abia Pensioners who recently publicly protested 38-months arrears of unpaid entitlements, I hereby dedicate the awards to them. I want to assure them that I feel their pain while working to deploy our reform template in resolving the pension issue permanently if by God’s grace and the peoples’ mandate I become Governor in 2023”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com