Head coach of Burundi’s senior women’s team, Gustave Niyonkuru, has said that his team will be ready to face giants Nigeria when the TotalEnergies Women’s Africa Cup of Nations takes place in Morocco in July 2022. Niyonkuru made this assertion following the draws held in Morocco on Friday. The draw was conducted by the CAF Director of Competitions Samson Adamu and assisted Moroccan Nawal El Moutawakel and Cameroonian Ajara Njoya. The competition, which is billed to hold from July 2 to 23, will serve as a qualification for the 2023 Women’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand in July of 2023. The Super Falcons were paired in the same group with rivals South Africa, Burundi, and Botswana. Burundi will be making their first appearance in the tournament and Niyonkuru said they would ensure they trained hard and be ready for the tournament when it begins. “Facing Nigeria who have won 11 titles will be a good experience for my players,” the coach told CAF. “We are going to prepare well for the tournament.” The 2022 edition of the competition sees the tournament expand from eight to 12 teams and the Burundi’s former U-20 men’s national team coach added that it was a great honour to be among the 12 nations that will be participating at the tournament. “First, it is an honour to be among the countries that will participate in the tournament. I know that for us this is the first time, but we shall try our best to perform well,” he added. Niyonkuru also made it clear that preparations are in top gear, and hopes to play some international friendly matches before heading to Morocco. “We have the CECAFA Senior Women’s Championship in Uganda next month which will also help us prepare well and the players to get good match practice,” he added. Nigeria begin her title defence against Botswana in their first game of the competition before squaring up against Burundi while their final group game will be against South Africa.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com