Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, while reacting to terrorist attacks on some communities in Kanam and Wase Local Government Areas on Monday, disclosed that his administration will not allow terrorists settle in any part of the state and use same to launch attacks on unsuspecting innocent citizens. The terrorists were said to have killed over 70 persons in several communities and burnt several houses belonging to the natives during the attacks which occurred on Sunday. The governor’s Director of Press and Public Affairs, Macham Makut, in a press statement issued on Monday revealed that the governor, who condemned the attacks, described it as an irresponsible act and vowed that those behind it will be made to pay a heavy price. The statement read, “Lalong, who expressed deep regrets over the dastardly act said he has directed security forces to dominate the area after their initial response which put a stop to the carnage. “He also charged them to go after the fleeing terrorists and ensure that they pay for their crimes.” According to the governor, Plateau State will never be used as a safe haven for terrorists to set up camps and use same to wreak havoc on communities and innocent citizens in the state and elsewhere. Lalong said the State Security Council has adopted far-reaching measures to strengthen all security measures and enhance the capacity of security agencies to respond to all situations that cause a breach of the peace in any part of the state. Lalong, who sympathised with the communities affected, promised them justice as those behind the attacks will not be allowed to go without punishment. He also directed the State Emergency Management Agency and the Peace Building Agency to immediately visit the areas; assess the situation and provide relief as well as trauma management. He said the state has already approached the Federal Government for collaboration to deal with the terrorists hibernating in the general area once and for all to enable people go about their legitimate businesses without molestation and harassment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com