2023: PDP’ll reunite Nigeria, end insecurity – Ayu
The Peoples Democratic Party Thursday in Benue State lamented that Nigeria and Nigerians are now being physically cut off from each other by terrorists who have made it unsafe to traverse the country by road, rail and air. Its National Chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, disclosed this at Zaki-Biam, Ukum Local Government Area of Benue state, during the burial of a Speaker of the House of Representatives in the Second Republic, Benjamin Chaha. In a statement signed late Thursday by the Special Assistant to the National Chairman on Communication and Strategy, Simon Imobo-Tswam, Ayu said a PDP Federal Government would rescue the country, reunite the people and put an end to the ongoing carnage. The statement was titled ‘We’ll re-unite Nigeria, end carnage, Come 2023 – Ayu’. The former Senate President who regretted the collapse of security in the country, and the attendant bloodshed, said “The task before a new PDP Federal Government will be to reunite the people, put an end to the incessant bloodshed and restart the development of the country.” Speaking further in his funeral oration, he said it was shameful that Nigeria was being cut off physically from the centre by terrorists. He said, “It’s a shame that Nigeria is being cut off physically by terrorists. Nigerians can’t travel by road. They can’t travel by rail. And they can’t travel by air, either. Our airports are now prime targets. “PDP must return peace and security to this country. There is too much carnage under the current administration. The new PDP government will do everything possible to make this carnage stops.”
He described the late elder statesman as a “mentor, torch-bearer and shining star” who believed in unity and the politics of development. “He was a teacher and torchbearer who mentored many. And in politics, he was a shining light who opened the door for the younger generations of the Tiv elite. “He inspired us to look up, to dream big and today, we too have become leaders. As torchbearers also, we must inspire the younger generations to dream big and contribute their quota in making Benue and Nigeria great,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com