The Actors Guild of Nigeria and the Artistes Village community on Friday, April 15, 2022, celebrated the life and times of multi-talented artiste, the late Lari Williams. Williams died at the age of 81 on February 27, 2022, after a brief illness and was buried on Thursday, April 14, 2022, in his hometown, Yala Nkum in Ikom Local Government Area of Cross River State. Williams was the founding National President of the AGN. He was a screenplay writer, drummer, dancer, poet, lecturer and mime artiste. In a celebratory mood, actors took turns to give account of their experiences with the late Williams while some performing groups entertained guests. The National President of AGN, Emeka Rollas, said, “Chief Williams gave our profession its best shot, inspiring generations of actors. He was a thoroughbred thespian, father and role model. He stood apart from whatever vantage position, we knew him as someone special. “He has left his footprint on the sands of time in our noble acting profession. Indeed, he came, he saw and conquered.” The National Secretary, AGN, Abubakar Yakubu, noted that the late Williams was well connected with renowned politicians and engaged those relationships to groom a lot of artistes. He said, “Chief Williams nurtured me like a grandfather would. He used his connections with renowned politicians to groom many of us and we pray God gives him peace wherever he is.” On his part, the Chairman, Artistes Village Development Committee, Mufu Onifade, described Williams as a peaceful artiste who did not hold grudges against anyone. He stated that Williams’ presence at the artistes village during his lifetime was a blessing as he was committed to mentoring young people who milled around him, while they tapped from his wealth of experience. “Uncle Williams was a devout drummer, a complete arts man. He enjoyed the company of his drums so much. He was often in the habit of rolling his famous Jembe drums to arouse the village at any time he chose and no one ever complained. “We have lost a vital part of us. The Nigerian art community will miss the legend of many talents,” he said. A son of the deceased, Femi Lari-Willaims, appreciated the actors and everyone present. He said, “Everytime I drive through the National Theatre, I experience some nostalgic feelings. I was always with my father in 1977 when he came back from the United States of America to develop Nigerian arts. “On behalf of the late Lari Williams’ family, I say thank you for coming out to honour our father. Thank you and God bless you.” Other performers on the night were the Kings and Queens Arts Academy, and Society for Nigerian Artistes. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com