The Governor of Nasarawa, Abdullahi Sule, has said the state attracted $500m in investments into key sectors within the last three years. He said this was a result of improvements in the state’s ease of doing business and investment promotion efforts. He disclosed this during the unveiling of ‘Nasarawa Investment Summit, 2022’ in Lagos on Tuesday. He added that the state was deliberate about stimulating its economy, building its people’s human capacities, and creating jobs. In his speech, which was delivered virtually, Sule said, “As a state, we have been very deliberate about stimulating our economy, building our people’s human capacities, and creating wealth and jobs for them. “This is the basis of the Nasarawa Economic Development Strategy (2019-2023), which is a testament to our collective commitment to implementing a practicable Economic Transformation Strategy for the State, as promised during our campaign. “It is founded on a vision to sustain accelerated growth of the Nasarawa economy driven by the private sector and translating this to a clear improvement in citizens’ lives and the achievement of other key development outcomes. “The implementation of the NEDS is already reflecting in not just improved outcomes in key areas of the state, but also in terms of development impact. For instance, through reforms, we have significantly increased our Internally Generated Revenue by 49 per cent in 2020 (a COVID-19 tainted year) and are already on track to surpass that in 2020. “An independent evaluation platform (Kingmakers) has also shown that Nasarawa has moved ranks on Standard of Living from 24th position in the country in 2016, to 12th position in 2020. Our ease of doing business and investment promotion effort has also seen us attract over $500m investments into key sectors in the State within the last three years.” He stated that the state was trying to solidify its position as a key investment destination in Nigeria and West Africa by hosting its inaugural Nasarawa Investment Summit themed, ‘Diamond in the Rough; The Making of a New Investment Frontier.’ He added that the President of Ghana, John Mahama, would deliver the summit keynote address at the event. Also speaking, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer,  Nassarawa Investment and Development Agency, Ibrahim Abdulahi, described the agency as a one-stop-shop for doing business in the state. According to him, the state is involving the private sector to revamp its economy. The Chairman, Nassarawa Investment and Economic Advisory Council, Prof Kanyinsola Ajayi, SAN, said the state is a good melting where the diversity is used as an advantage. He said, “The summit is about building infrastructure that does something; infrastructure that ensures there is continuity in good governance because the great structure and institution that you build which is the backbone of this administration, the less likely it is for consequent government to mess around with the good things that you have done. “If there is good infrastructure, development follows. The second thing that is important to this summit that we are conveying is to look beyond the physical infrastructure.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com