Sometimes the unexpected happens and a couple is unable to conceive through good, old-fashioned sexual intercourse, but it is not the end of the world because there are other ways to create and complete your family. A man that can sustain an erection and produce sperm does not automatically qualify to father a child. Certainly, he can “load and fire,” but he may be “shooting blanks” because to impregnate a woman, the man must not only produce enough sperms, they must be adequately motile and genetically normal. At least one of the sperms that are produced must be healthy enough to travel the distance to fertilise the egg. More and more men are failing to fulfill this basic biological role of fathering children in the bedroom because of declining sperm quality. As a result, more men are requiring a hand in the laboratory through Assisted Reproductive Techniques (ART) such as IVF and other laboratory-focused approaches to complete their families. Having a low sperm count can make a successful pregnancy difficult or impossible. Sperm develops in the testicles, but it’s not the only part of the male anatomy that matters for sperm production. The whole body plays an important role in reproduction. When couples are challenged by infertility, men don’t usually come out but male infertility is rampant and couples need to begin to see themselves as being jointly responsible for the causes of infertility. Couples need to begin to think they may be confronting male infertility as well as female infertility. The man’s role is just as important as the role of the woman because 40 per cent of infertility cases are attributed to the male partner. Just like women, men have a number of fertility issues to cope with, even though they tend to be less aware. Thankfully, there are now many advancements in the treatment of infertility and even though sperm counts are declining, help is available. The problem of abnormal sperm count and bad sperm parameters is more common and the men need to be alert because many marriages are affected. If you are a couple experiencing failed conception or recurrent miscarriages, you may need to be investigated for the problem of male-factor infertility. With the right diagnosis, lifestyle choices, and treatment, male factor infertility may be treatable. As a man, you can overcome male factor infertility with a variety of treatment options depending on whether the condition is categorised as mild, moderate, or severe. The goal of any treatment is to get the sperm as close to the egg as possible. The severity of the case, the fertility status of the female partner, and the comfort level of the couple together dictate the planned course of treatment. For moderate and severe male infertility, IVF is usually preferred because it has the advantage of making more eggs available for fertilisation. Male infertility is usually diagnosed through semen analysis, and for the most part, abnormalities are associated with the sperm. The sample will be tested for the volume of ejaculation, sperm concentration, sperm motility (how well the sperm moves), and sperm morphology (the size and shape of the sperm). Semen analysis and sperm counts aren’t the most enticing topics of conversation for most men, but if you’re having trouble conceiving, the man needs to be assessed too. Through a technique called Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI), a single sperm is injected directly into the centre of an egg. Each egg is then monitored for signs of fertilisation and embryo development. The ICSI is effective for overcoming male infertility because it doubles the chances of men with abnormally low sperm count and poor sperm motility. If a male factor is what’s making it tough for you and your partner to conceive, it’s important to understand what may be causing his infertility and what your options are. Sometimes male infertility can be the sole problem for a couple trying to get pregnant, but infertility can also be caused by a combination of female and male factors. Different treatments are available depending on what is causing the problem, such as extracting sperm from the testicle to be injected into an egg for IVF /ICSI. Hormone-stimulating drugs commonly used to treat female infertility may actually help some men too. These work similarly in men; some help the brain to secrete more hormones that will increase sperm production, and others cause the testicles to increase sperm production. Traditionally, you should seek medical advice after at least one year of trying to conceive on your own. If you’re having trouble getting pregnant, you should speak to your doctor who will advise you on how to improve your chances.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com