The Delta State Commissioner of Police, Muhammed Ali, has disclosed that efforts are being made to provide adequate security along the railway route in the state. Ali, who disclosed this while speaking to journalists, said the command would meet with vigilante groups and local volunteers with a view to securing the areas. He stated, “The attack on a train is unfortunate and we will engage local residents to monitor the railway and report to us on a daily basis any strange movement around the areas. “I am already making a plan to call all vigilantes, anti-kidnapping volunteers and others to a meeting on how to adequately police the state, especially the railway stations. “The command, under my watch, has neutralised attacks on Oghara, along the Warri-Benin Road. The attack on the Abraka axis has also been neutralised; that was the reason why kidnappers ceased operating in those areas. “We have taken the fight to them by storming their hideouts and neutralising their bases.” Ali noted that the issue of inadequate manpower and operational vehicles was as a result 10 years of rot. The CP stated, “For a long time, officers were not recruited, except when President Buhari came into power. No recruitment was done for over 10 years to replace those who died or retired. “You cannot manufacture manpower; we are only managing those we have, instead of closing down some divisions. In terms of vehicles, the state government is trying; just last month, it gave us some vehicles and the Inspector-General of Police also gave us five vehicles recently, which we shared among the big cities in the state.” Ali said based on available information at the command’s disposal, no Fulani herdsman had kidnapped without the support of the people in the community, warning such people to stop assisting herders in perpetrating crimes.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com