THE Governor of Akwa Ibom State and presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Udom Emmanuel, has said he will provide solutions to the problems of the country. This was disclosed in a statement signed by the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Ini Ememobong, on Wednesday. Emmanuel was quoted to have said this during his meeting with the PDP National Working Committee in Abuja where he informed them about his presidential ambition. He said, “I am a bridge builder, I have the capacity, I understand the issues, I know the problems and I have the solutions. Anywhere in the world, the economy is preeminent. As a trained, tried and tested economist, I know what to do. “Besides, I will not only tell you what to do but will also tell you how to do it. I performed in the corporate world and I have also performed in government. I have also demonstrated that by moving Akwa Ibom to the second position on Foreign Direct Investment coming into Nigeria.” Udom also urged the PDP chieftains to support him as he was prepared to lead the party to victory in the 2023 elections. The PDP National Chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, stated, “We do not want aspirants running around stadiums.” What the people are interested in are the problems bedeviling the economy and insecurity and how to solve them.” Meanwhile, the key officers of the presidential campaign council for Udom Emmanuel presidential project have been appointed. In a statement also signed by Ememobong, the campaign organisation said the expertise of the appointees would be fully deployed to attain success. The appointees are a former governor of Benue State, Gabriel Suswam (Chairman); former Governor of Plateau and Niger States, Col. Habibu Shuaibu (Director General); former Editor, Punch Nigeria Limited, Bola Bolawole (campaign spokesperson).  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com