TUNDE AJAJA examines how Federal Government’s non-utilisation of technologies has worsened security challenges in the country The late Dr Chinelo Megafu-Nwando was a gift to humanity. A smart, young dental surgeon, whose aspiration of making invaluable contributions to her chosen profession within and beyond the shores of her fatherland was gradually taking shape. Inducted into the profession barely five years ago, her colleagues would passionately describe her as a promising, courteous professional. But in a frightening twist of fate, the death of the overseas-bound medic by bandits-turned-terrorists during the train attack of Monday, March 28, along the Abuja-Kaduna railway sadly cut short her life and lofty dreams. The train had rumbled to a halt after an explosion on its track around 7:30pm, after which the terrorists in large numbers emerged from the bush and rained bullets on the train and its passengers. Pretty Megafu-Nwando was one of the victims shot. Remarkably resilient, however, she hurriedly posted an SOS via her Twitter handle ‘@nelo_x’ at 9:43pm, “I’m in the train. I have been shot! Pray for me.” Sadly, she eventually gave up the ghost at the hospital she was rushed to. With her baby eyes, shy smile and cheerful disposition–all glaringly obvious in her pictures that later emerged and have since gone viral–the death of the budding physician has left family members, friends, colleagues and millions of people across the world with an overwhelming tale of devastation. In the train attack that once again highlighted the vulnerability of Nigerians to avoidable attacks by rampaging criminals and terrorists that have taken over the North-East, North-West, North-Central and indeed the entire country, due largely to decades of leadership failure, no fewer than seven other persons also died, many were injured while about 146 passengers could not be accounted for till now. The Nigerian Railway Corporation revealed that 398 passengers bought tickets but only 362 tickets were validated. According to the survivors, most of whom escaped death by a whisker and had to trek about 45 kilometres in the bush under military protection, the terrorists who decorated the train coaches with bullets, had before the arrival of the soldiers marched their abductees, including several persons in the VIP coaches, into their waiting vehicles. Apart from Megafu-Nwando, those who died included the Secretary-General of the Trade Union Congress, Musa-Lawal Ozigi; the Kwara State Chairman of TUC, Mr Akin Akinsola; a Director at the National Board for Technical Education, Abdul Isa Kofar Mata; Zainab Awal, a staff of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria, Farida Mohammed; and Tibilere Mosugu. Those who sustained injuries included a former Deputy Governor of Zamfara State, Ibrahim Wakkala, Katsina State Commissioner for Health, Nuhu Danja, and Ozigi’s wife, Aisha. The terrorists planted improvised explosive devices on the train track in Dutse Village, Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State, leading to an explosion when it was detonated, forcing the train to derail, after which they emerged from nowhere and started shooting. Shockingly, however, in less than 24 hours after, when the dust raised by the attack had yet to settle, the terrorists again attacked the Gidan train station on the same route. And less than a week after, while a whopping 146 passengers in the train had yet to be accounted for, the criminals attacked a military base in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of the state with their RPGs, killing 11 soldiers and leaving 19 with injuries. Before and after the train incident, the attacks in the most garrisoned state continued unabated. Horrified survivors The ordeal shared by the injured survivors in their respective hospital beds is heartbreaking. One of them was Maimuna Ibrahim, who said she saw blood but didn’t know she was the victim. “I saw blood, thinking it was from someone sitting close to me, not knowing I had been shot in the thigh,” she said, letting out her breath slowly. The blood-soaked white bandage on her thigh tells the story. Maimuna, who said she was returning from a workshop in Abuja, said, “Thank God for those soldiers, they were really helpful to us. I was unable to walk but one of the soldiers carried me on his back to the vehicle that took us to the hospital.” Another passenger, Mohammed Isa, shot in the right arm, said he endured the pain for over an hour before the soldiers came to their rescue. A survivor, Mallam Muhammadu, affirmed that the terrorists abducted many persons from the VIP coach in the train. By the time the terrorists ended their evil, handbags, shoes, clothes, make-up kits and other personal effects of the passengers littered the scene while the interior of the train was in utter disarray. Terrorism, sad reality in Nigeria However deadly, the ordeal of the passengers has become almost an everyday occurrence in Nigeria, especially in the North-West and North-East where terrorists and several other non-state actors wreak havoc relentlessly. The other parts of the country have also not been spared by criminals, especially kidnappers and unidentified gunmen, killing people every day. In the North-Eastern states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa, the Boko Haram terrorist group has for years unleashed untold havoc, while in the North-Western states of Kaduna, Zamfara, Katsina, Kebbi, Sokoto and North-Central states of Niger and Plateau, there have several attacks by the bandits-turned-terrorists. From serial killings and abductions of schoolchildren, girls, women and men, especially for ransom, the terrorists soon began invading markets and homes to cart away food items while imposing and collecting levies and fines from villagers and farmers. They became even more daring; on July 19, 2021, they shot down a military jet in Zamfara State and then the crescendo was on August 24 when they invaded Nigeria’s topmost military college, Nigerian Defence Academy, in Kaduna, killing two officers and abducting Major Christopher Datong. He didn’t regain freedom until 25 days after. After killing, torching people’s homes and abducting hundreds of innocent Nigerians, including children who should be in school, the terrorists made another bold move on March 26 when they invaded the Kaduna Airport, killing an employee of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency while preventing an aircraft from taking off. This occurred on Saturday, while the train attack was on Monday. Killings everywhere Findings by The PUNCH showed that about 3,125 persons were killed and 2,703 abducted by the terrorists in the last 11 months. Barely four months into 2022, hundreds have been killed and many others abducted and could not be accounted for. On January 7, reports indicated that they killed over 200 persons in five villages in the Anka and Bukkuyum Local Government Areas of Zamfara State. On January 19, the Governor of Niger State, Abubakar Bello, said, “In January this year alone, we suffered not less than 50 reported attacks and loss of lives between January 1 and 17. Within the same period, no fewer than 300 communities were invaded by bandits. The number of people kidnapped is 200, including three Chinese nationals.” On January 2, in separate attacks in Igabi, Chikun and Zango-Kataf Local Government Areas of Kaduna State, seven persons were killed by the bandits as confirmed by the state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan. Among several other attacks, on March 26, they killed about 50 persons in nine villages in Giwa Local Government Area and abducted 100 persons. They rustled cows and burnt houses, a church building and about 30 vehicles. On March 9 in Kebbi State, the terrorists killed 19 security agents, including 13 soldiers. Two days earlier, they killed 57 vigilantes, while four policemen lost their lives after they were overpowered by about 500 bandits in Wawu village, Ngaski Local Government Area. In Katsina State, they killed a divisional police officer and two others in Jibia Local Government Area and the previous day, they killed 13 persons and abducted the village head of Guga. In Sokoto State, the terrorists killed seven persons in Rarah village in Rabbah Local Government Area of the state. On March 25, reports indicated that they killed six persons and rustled many cattle in an attack on two communities. Sadly, these are just a few of the attacks that were reported and the problem is even deeper than what is reported. “That the terrorists have the audacity to attack a moving train shows that the efforts of our security forces are not good enough,” a former Acting Head of Security and Safety Services Division at the African Union, Grp Capt. Sadiq Shehu (retd.), said while appraising the issue. Killings unabated in fortified Kaduna Ironically, despite being the state with the highest number of military institutions and formations in the country – about 12 of them, including Nigerian Navy School of Armament, Nigerian Airforce Training School and the Nigerian Army School of Artillery, Kaduna has been under relentless attacks by the terrorists, the most embarrassing being the attack on the NDA. In 2021 alone, Governor Nasir El-Rufai said in February that 1,192 persons were killed and 3,348 kidnapped in the state. This was more than the 937 killed and 1,972 kidnapped in the state in 2020. El-Rufai added, “I am persuaded that the insurgency in the North-West is far more serious than Boko Haram in terms of the numbers of the people affected. I have shown you the numbers in Kaduna. I can assure you that the numbers in Zamfara and Katsina (states) are up to three times this if they are keeping tabs (on it). The numbers in Sokoto, Niger and Kebbi will be about this. We are talking of tens of thousands of people getting killed and kidnapped.” Amid the outcry over the train attack and the persistent killings and abductions, seven soldiers were on Wednesday ambushed and killed between 4am and 5am by the terrorists on the dreaded Kaduna-Abuja Expressway. FG, military’s helpless contributions to the war Interestingly, the Federal Government and the security agencies were aware of the danger of running the train service without adequate surveillance and protection. But they did nothing about it and still allowed the train to keep running. First, El-Rufai noted that there were several intelligence reports that advised the Nigerian Railway Corporation to halt night operations, but it ignored the warnings. For that alone, many lives were wasted needlessly. Again, the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, said he warned that lives would be lost but that cabinet turned down his proposal for the procurement of security equipment that would be incorporated into the trains. However, a leaked memo later revealed that the company didn’t have the requisite experience and capacity to deliver the project. A source told The PUNCH, “Our investigation all pointed to a conflict of interest.” Shehu however wondered why safety equipment should be an add-on or afterthought for a rail system given the level of insecurity in the country. “Security and safety should not even be an add-on; the initial budget sent for the establishment of the rail system should have included such,” he noted. Meanwhile, a report by The PUNCH showed that between 2016 and July 2021, the government allocated approximately N5.08tn for defence and $1bn for the purchase of military equipment. It is therefore inconceivable that Nigeria was still unable to protect its citizens. Several die yearly. There were allegations of missing funds for arms purchase but nothing came out of them. While the country continues to battle insurgency, several past military chiefs who served past administrations were accused and some prosecuted for stealing funds earmarked for defence operations. Perhaps, this partly explains the breakdown of security and inadequate capacity of the security agents. Avoidable deaths A security risk and intelligence specialist, Dr Kabir Adamu, pointed out that there were several surveillance technologies available that Nigeria could have used to prevent the train attack and deal with the terrorists more effectively. He stressed the need for improved intelligence-backed operations. Adamu, who is the Chief Executive Officer, Beacon Consulting Limited, said, “One solution that is becoming common is called geospatial intelligence. What it does is to focus on a particular location and once there is a change in the usual heat emanating from that location, maybe a human being or even cow moves in that area, it picks it up and sends a signal to the appropriate channel. “With this, we would have been alerted to some unusual movements around those rail tracks and we would have done the needful. “We also have drones, in addition to different technologies out there for surveillance. Like the train service, there are multitudes of surveillance capabilities that are available. The locomotive of the train can be equipped with surveillance capabilities, so that before it reaches anything strange on the track, there would be a warning to the driver or the control room. “It can also be placed on the track and another one on the perimeter of the rail track, and in this instance, any violation of the perimeter can be captured and relayed appropriately.” Adamu said there should be accountability, recalling that a security agency bought drones years ago but rather than deploy them, they littered the premises of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport. He also lamented the waste of resources and lack of the requisite actions to win the war against terrorists. Citing the $470m National Public Security Communications System which the Federal Government awarded in 2010 to a Chinese firm, ZTE Corporation, to build and manage closed-circuit cameras and ensure a formidable security network in Lagos and Abuja, Adamu said it was scandalous that such a project that could have engendered a comprehensive, reliable, modern and robust public security communications system failed. The House of Representatives ad hoc committee that investigated the contract said the country was swindled, but a former Director-General of NigComSat, Ahmed Rufa’i, said the project was completed, adding that the government didn’t release money to operate the system. Regardless, the project failed and lives are being lost needlessly. Adamu noted, “The physical infrastructure for that system, including CCTVs, was installed in Abuja. In several police divisions they installed the antenna and the monitoring room but the last part, which was the airwaves that would have allowed that system to function, was between the police and the Nigerian Communications Commission, and it never happened. That was why I spoke about accountability. “The statement by the minister (Amaechi) that he knew there was vulnerability on that corridor and still allowed people to use the train meant they (government) were culpable and it could be actionable in court for damages.” Calling for an investigation into the train attack and the need to set up a help desk for victims and families of the missing persons and the dead, Adamu said Nigeria should be able to marshal its resources to deal with the terrorists no matter their number. On solutions, he said, “Let us improve on our intelligence gathering capability; let’s know who they are, identify them by their pictures, names and family history and put them out there so that everybody in the world would know who they are. “Second, go after them using intelligence and tactical forces, military firepower, even if it means inviting our foreign partners to support us in taking them out. Within three months, there would be results. However, I don’t support a total wipe out of communities. It has to be tactical.” He said once the criminals had been taken out, the government had to dominate the ungoverned space using both human resource and technology to bar reoccupation. He added, “Remember that these forests have links to Niger Republic and Cameroon, so we need to dominate those forests. We need to enhance the operational capability of our forest guards so they can dominate those areas. If we do this, within three months, we are out of this unfortunate situation that we are in.” The common, affordable solutions Similarly, an Israeli expert in intelligence and cyber security, Mr Yaniv Ovitz, noted that there were affordable technologies that could help Nigeria prevent the incessant attacks and tackle the raging insecurity, including kidnapping, banditry and terrorism. He highlighted the different layers of intelligence that Nigeria could deploy, including Human Intelligence, Signal Intelligence, Image Intelligence and Open Source Intelligence, all of which he said were affordable. Ovitz, who is the Chief Technology Officer, CyberSOC Africa Limited, told our correspondent in an interview that, “HUMINT or human intelligence is the first layer and there are millions of people the security agencies could extract information from. “We also have SIGINT (signal intelligence) and this entails using signal communication to collect intelligence. The criminals communicate even from their hideouts, maybe with their gang members, victims’ families or suppliers. With SIGINT, their communication can be intercepted and their location traced. In the forest or anywhere they operate from, their operations would likely create abnormal activities and that can be captured by flying a drone around that area.” Speaking on how Image Intelligence (otherwise called IMINT) could help fight the terrorists, Ovitz stated that private companies, individuals and countries buy satellite images, which could be used to monitor their activities and any unusual activity. He noted, “For example, the government can get the satellite image of the Abuja-Kaduna Highway, say every six hours. Nigeria has satellites in space and they can take images. A collection of those images would show where there are unusual activities, such as movements, camps, etc. “There is also Open Source Intelligence, which is the intelligence gathered from public sources, such as social media. There is a lot that can be harvested from there. All of these layers together can solve the insecurity problems Nigeria is facing. In advanced countries, people also go missing and people get killed by criminals but intelligence helps to reduce crime to a manageable level.” He noted further that analysing previous killings and kidnappings and interrogating the arrested perpetrators could also help to provide useful hints. “You can also use dogs and cameras,” he noted. “For example, you could install cameras at the entry and exit points and other strategic points on that Kaduna-Abuja highway. There would be a control room where the feeds are monitored. If a bus or exotic vehicle, both of which they usually target, enters the highway and it’s nowhere to be found when it should have reached a particular point, and there was no breakdown, you would know something could have gone wrong. “This approach is used in estates and public places and it has helped to reduce crime, whereby you can easily track movements and identify unusual activities. This kind of insecurity in Nigeria is solvable with technology and intelligence gathering. Likewise, there are trained dogs that can be deployed in those forests to track the terrorists, who can easily be detected because they hide close to the main road.” A nation living on “grace” As pointed out by Ovitz, images from Nigeria’s satellite could have helped in the fight against insecurity, but ironically, the nation’s earth observation satellite, Nigeria Sat-2, launched in 2011, has been obsolete since 2018. The Director-General, National Space Research and Development Agency, Dr Halilu Shaba, affirmed this in June 2021, noting that the agency was only functioning by grace. Appealing to the Federal Government for funds, he said, “In our culture in the satellite industry, you build a new satellite that is supposed to have replaced that one; we have not done that. We are living on grace, because normally, you imagine that it is to last for seven years but since 2018, the satellite has been functional and it is still giving us the necessary data.” Despite the data the obsolete satellite is giving “by grace”, that has yet to translate to improved security for Nigerians and so lives are being lost daily. Nigeria not serious about winning terrorism war – Military source A top source in the military told our correspondent that the military would ordinarily need no foreign assistance, in terms of tactical expertise and logistics, to defeat the terrorists, saying that some persons in the armed forces and in government had become complicit, aiding the criminals and benefitting from the situation. This lends credence to a statement by a former Chief of Army Staff and ex-Minister of Defence, General Theophilus Danjuma (retd.), in March 2018, when he said, “The armed forces are not neutral. They collude with the armed bandits to kill people, kill Nigerians.” The military source explained, “Last year, the Air Force was building a UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle), popularly known as drone, purposely for the train system,” he explained. “It’s a single rotor drone designed to go in front and track the rail tracks 100 metres away and another 100 metres from the track on both sides, and it’s to give all the telemetry. “It’s to relay its feeds to the command station in the train and they would know whether to slow down or stop to go and handle a threat if there is any. There would be about four screens for live images, Infrared, thermal image and gas readings that would show if there is a bomb. In fact, its sensors would specify if it’s gas bomb, TNT, etc. “If there is a threat, you can jam their signal so that even if they want to trigger the explosion, it would fail and you can track that signal to where the person is. A few soldiers would be in the train and if something happens, they would swing into action and take out the threats. We could even have a small weaponised drone and once it locates them, you wire them and bomb where they are or throw them some grenade. These things are not that hard but there is no commitment to do it.” As work progressed on the drone, it was reliably gathered that suddenly, the man in charge of the project at the Defence Industries Corporation of Nigeria in Kaduna, Major General Victor Ezugwu, was redeployed to Infantry Corps as the Commander. “That was the end of that project; it has been abandoned since then and it has not been funded either,” another source disclosed. Asked how much it would cost to put the drone together, he said, “From where the project stopped, it would require about $60,000 (about N24.9m) and it won’t take more than a month to complete it. Mind you, it will also be weaponised. If we have to build another one, it won’t cost us more than $100,000 (about N41.6m), a small fraction of the billions allocated to Defence every year.” Speaking on the train attack, he said the IED that caused the explosion must have been remote-triggered about 50m to 100m away. He added, “The one that happened in October 2021 was detonated prematurely but this was different. “If that drone was in use, it would have seen them, we would have jammed their signal so they wouldn’t be able to detonate it, the 18 armed men on the train would have engaged them, and if necessary, call for air support, and no civilian would have died. People complicate things when they want to steal.” When reminded that Air Force jets used to accompany the Abuja-Kaduna train up until last year, the source confirmed that it was stopped because of the cost. “That drone would have cut cost significantly but they compromised it; the UAV is lying there now. The Germans that were brought in to work with the NAF personnel have since returned to their country,” the source lamented. He noted that as El-Rufai disclosed, the military knew the hideouts of the criminals, wondering why there had been reluctance to fully engage them tactically. The source said, “If Sheikh Gumi could know their location, why won’t the security agencies know? These are people who walk around, they ride motorcycles to the market and they even collect levies. Clearly, they have police and military personnel that work with them.” Asked the number of drones Nigeria has, he said, “We have drones but many of them are grounded. Some were bought from China, some from Israel and we built some in Nigeria. Many of them are grounded. The Super Tucano jets have strong surveillance capacity, like sensors that detect heat variation and infrared signature that can capture little details, but they are not optimised.’  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com