Plateau United’s title ambition suffered a huge blow after the Fidelis Ilechukwu-led side stumbled to a 1-0 loss to Dakkada FC at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium in Uyo in their matchday 26 encounter on Saturday while Enyimba returned to winning ways with a 3-0 thrashing of Gombe United in Aba. The Jos-based side were hoping to cut down on the four points separating them and leaders Rivers United but failed to find the back of the net during the encounter as the hosts held off all their attacking advances. Emmanuel Charles got the only goal of the encounter in the 61st minute which will leave the boys from Jos rueing their missed chances. In Aba, Enyimba produced a five-star performance to condemn visiting Gombe United to a 3-0 defeat. Chukwuemeka Obioma put the People’s Elephants in front in the sixth minute of the game while influential striker Victor Mbaoma made it 2-0 in the 15th minute, his 11th goal of the season as midfielder Cyril Olisema ensured the game was beyond the reach of the visitors adding the third in the 29th minute. The People’s Elephant had a total of 10 attempts in the encounter while six were on target. Kano Pillars’ topflight survival bid suffered a huge blow on Saturday as hosts Niger Tornadoes came from a goal down to beat the four-time league champions 2-1. Pillars took the lead in the fifth minute through legendary captain Rabiu Ali but the hosts came back smoking in the second half. Jonas Emmanuel scored the equaliser in the 52nd minute while Musa Wakili converted a 90th-minute penalty to hand the hosts the maximum points. Matchday 26 games continue on Sunday as leaders Rivers United will be hoping to extend their lead on the log to seven points when they pay a visit to Kwara United in Ilorin. MFM FC will welcome Enugu Rangers to Lagos; Katsina United will play high-flying Akwa United while Heartland hosts Abia Warriors in an Oriental derby.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com