The Coalition of South-East Youth Leaders said they were alarmed over the gruesome murder of a young girl who was found dead and her body dismembered at Merry-Home hotel, Aba, Abia State, describing it as wicked, barbaric and villainous and condemned the act as despicable in its entirety. The President-General of the apex socio-political youth group in the South-East geopolitical zone, Goodluck Ibem, said “Aba is not known for such barbaric acts and anyone or persons who want to bring in such practices into a business and hardworking town like Aba will not succeed. Such plan is definitely dead on arrival.” The group demanded that security agencies should not leave any stone unturned in their investigation and prosecution of suspects involved in the wicked act as Abia is God’s own state and it must remain so. “We call on the state government and security agencies to commence a routine check of all hotels operating in Aba and the entire Abia State to ascertain the type of businesses they do and the activities that go on there should be properly investigated,” the group said. According to the group, “We have heard that some boys have turned some hotel premises to a yahoo rendezvous where they meet to perfect their evil plans of duping people of their hard earned money. This must be stopped immediately by the government. “It is quite unfortunate that some youths and teenagers who are supposed to be in school studying are seen in some hotel premises learning the acts and illicit business of duping people through ‘Yahoo.’ “From the way the victim in question was killed and dismembered by her killers, we suspect that it is a case of ritual killing. The number of teenagers found at the hotel premises points to the fact that the hotel is a rendezvous for the so called Yahoo boys. “We demand an immediate profiling and regular check-up of all hotels in Aba and any suspicious activity reported to security agencies for prosper action. “It is time for the implementation of policies and programmes that will discourage our youths and teenagers from going into the illicit business of the so called Yahoo or Yahoo plus. The future of our society will be in jeopardy if our youths continue in this trend. We must make hay while the sun is shinning,” the youths said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com