The latest daring attack of an Abuja-Kaduna passenger train by terrorists has again left the nation in a mournful mood. It’s quite inconceivable that some individuals derive pleasure in snuffing lives out of others for untenable reasons. How on earth would passengers leave their homes and not return because some louts attacked the train they were in. Truth be told, the government has to instill confidence in rail transportation and wholly address the festering insecurity in the country. For now, it is not an assumption that many people would fear travelling by rain especially with the development. Nigerians’ lives matter and the government should ensure that it does everything within its power to reverse this trend. Eavesdropper knows that the people have been subjected to the worst form of economic situation and it’s a double tragedy when they also have to be battling insecurity not only in their neighbourhood but also while travelling. It’s hard to understand why the terrorists cannot be confronted and their activities halted once and for all. This development is a terrible one for the country and its image. Rather than holistically finding a way to curb the issue, there have been more reckless statements by those who ordinarily should be held accountable for this shame. Eavesdropper wonders why Nigerians in public offices find it easy to justify nonsense when terrible mistakes are made rather than take the blame and join hands with others to avert a recurrence. Nigerians are not animals and whatever projects the country embarks on should mimic best practices. In fact, how does one explain that terrorists attacked a train and precious lives were lost to such terribly audacious act? Last month, passengers on a train from Ibadan, Oyo State, to Lagos State, were stranded on Thursday when it ran out of fuel. Also, in June last year, passengers on a train from Kaduna to Abuja got stranded at a forest in Dutse, Kaduna, when it broke down due to mechanical failure. Yet, days after the Monday train attack, the hoodlums have yet to be apprehended. It may embolden them to try their act in other areas and this is what should be encouraged. The federal and state governments must ensure that this development is the first and last. Everything necessary should be done to ensure that it’s not repeated. Lives cannot just be wasted repeatedly and nothing done to halt the situation. Yes, nothing, absolutely nothing. The noise about decimating terrorists would have been justified if these senseless killings were averted. There are too many killings in Nigeria by terrorists who invade villages, abduct pupils and kidnap people for ransom. Why is it too hard to halt their operation, identify their sponsors and trace their funding sources? The nation’s highways famous for incessant attacks by terrorists should be patrolled and manned often to forestall attacks of any type and by any merciless groups. Terrorists have caused several havocs in many villages in the North especially. Lives lost brutally to marauding terrorists and this is where the locals have to join forces with the security agents in sharing intelligence about movements of suspected terrorists in their domain. The security agents must change tactics to end the reign of the killers who continue to give many pain and anguish. Their attacks are countless. Only last month in Kaduna, terrorists who appeared to have become so bold in their activities reignited their brazen operation in the state, killing five people, including a teacher and a septuagenarian. Eavesdropper gathered that villages in Dogo Dawa, Layin Mahuta and Tabanni in the Birnin-Gwari Local Government Area of the state were in the grip of the hoodlums who operated brutally. Nigeria keeps losing people senselessly to terrorism. Among those killed in the train attack was a medical doctor said to be overseas-bound. This killing madness must stop and quickly too.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com