THE International Maritime Bureau has said that there was no crew kidnapping in the Gulf of Guinea in the first quarter of 2022. In its latest report titled, “ICC IMB urges continued caution while welcoming lull in crew kidnappings in Gulf of Guinea”, the apex maritime body expressed happiness over the situation, saying that it was a welcome development when compared with 40 kidnappings in the same period in 2021. The IMB said the efforts of both regional and international Naval officers had also resulted in a reduction in reported incidents. “Thanks to the efforts taken by maritime authorities in the region, there have been no reported crew kidnappings within Gulf of Guinea waters in Q1 2022. This is a welcome change compared to 40 crew kidnappings in the same period in 2021. “The efforts of the regional and international navies have also resulted in a reduction of reported incidents from 16 in the first quarter of 2021 to seven over the same period in 2022. The IMB Piracy Reporting Centre however urges the coastal response agencies and independent international navies to continue their efforts to ensure piracy is permanently addressed in these highly risky waters.” The body, however, expressed concern that despite the drop in crew kidnapping, the threat to seafarers still remained. “The threat to innocent seafarers remains and is best exemplified with a recent attack where a Panamax-sized bulk carrier was boarded by pirates 260 Nautical Miles off the coast of Ghana on 3 April. This illustrates that despite a decrease in reported incidents, the threat Gulf of Guinea piracy and crew kidnappings remains. “On being notified of the incident, the IMB Piracy Reporting Centre immediately alerted and liaised with the Regional Authorities and international warships to request for assistance. An Italian Navy warship and its helicopter instantly intervened, saving the crew and enabling the vessel to proceed to a safe port under escort. The IMB Piracy Reporting Centre commends the prompt and positive actions of the Italian Navy which undoubtedly resulted in the crew and ship being saved.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com