The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress and presidential aspirant, Bola Tinubu, is currently meeting with members of the Progressives Governors Forum at the Kebbi State Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro, Abuja. The meeting is coming less than 24 hours after Vice President Yemi Osinbajo hosted the governors at his Aguda House residence on Sunday evening; where he disclosed his intention to run for the APC presidential ticket. Although Tinubu is yet to officially declare for office, he had in January informed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), of his intention to succeed him. Fielding questions from journalists shortly after the meeting, Tinubu who said he was consulting widely to ensure his emergence as APC flag bearer ahead of next year’s presidential elections emphasised that he has no son at the moment who is grown enough to challenge him for the ticket. Asked about the Presidential declaration of Vice President Osinbajo which came only a few hours before the Kebbi House meeting, he said, “I don’t have any son grown up enough to make such declaration.” He added that “My mission here is to seek collaboration, support and encouragement of my party, the APC, for my ambition to become the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as replacement for President Muhammadu Buhari after his tenure.” The governors in attendance include Governors Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State, Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State, Bababjide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos, Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano, Gboyega Oyetola of Osun, Mai Mala Binu of Yobe, Dapo Abiodun of Ogun, Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa, Hope Uzondinma of Imo, AbdulRahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara, Simon Lalong of Plateau, Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa, amongst others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com