A governorship aspirant in Rivers State under the All Progressives Congress, Dakuku Peterside, has urged the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, to declare for the 2023 Presidency without “further hesitation”. Peterside, a former Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, made the call in Port Harcourt, saying that Amaechi is “eminently qualified” to preside over the affairs of Nigeria. According to a statement by his Media Team on Thursday, Peterside said the ex-Rivers governor and minister had shown capacity with railway development plans of the Federal Government. The ex-NIMASA boss also said, “Amaechi has left no one in doubt as to his fabulous large heart to score infrastructure goals for the country. Not even his dyed-in-the-wool enemies would deny that Amaechi has performed excellently as Minister of Transportation. “Today, Nigerians call him ‘Mr. Connect-Nigeria’ due to his drive to re-build, re-brand, re-position and revive the nation’s railway infrastructure, connecting the East to the West, North to the South through modern rail lines and subways. He has connected seaports to railway stations for the smooth freighting of goods to the necessary markets. “Amaechi has also worked to secure Nigeria’s waterways, protect Nigeria’s critical maritime infrastructure for the growth of the economy and wellbeing of our citizens. “Amaechi has shown sufficient mental strength to manage a country as diverse as Nigeria as well as her nationalities. De-tribalised to a fault, Amaechi sees the East, West, North and South as Nigeria and not regions or states, and treats Nigerians first and last as Nigerians. He showed that much off as governor of Rivers State when he appointed Nigerians of other states of origin as Commissioners in his cabinet.” Peterside added that since Nigeria returned to democratic rule in 1999, Amaechi had been schooled in governance and political diplomacy, describing him as the man diivinely prepared for the job. “In Amaechi’s case, as a humble student in Nigeria’s politics and governance, he has intimidating credentials. As Speaker, Rivers State House of Assembly, his colleagues-speakers elected him Chairman, Conference of Speakers. His leadership qualities endeared him to them and when it was time for his re-election, in the face of external interference, they resisted dictatorship to re-elect him,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com