Leading soft drinks company, Pepsi, will refresh the second edition of the DStv Premium Golf Day with top-tier music ensemble, Storm Band, and popular disc jockey, DJ Xclusive. The event holds today (Saturday) at the Ikeja Golf Club, Lagos. Pepsi’s decision to be a part of the event was announced in a statement by Flykite Productions, organisers of the event. The statement stated that ‘Storm Band, which is one of Nigeria’s finest and fastest-growing band, will provide the best of live music across a vast array of genres that include Naija hip-hop, juju, highlife, fuji, and RnB’. DJ Xclusive, who has performed with top acts such as Ne-Yo, Rihanna, Mario Winans, Brick and Lace, Nas and Fat Joe, will take charge of the turntable at the event. According to Flykite Productions, Pepsi promises to add a generous splash of colour to the event by providing a confluence between music and golf, and reflecting the company’s commitment to the promotion of Nigerian music and sports. The General Manager, Marketing (Beverages) of Seven-Up Bottling Company, Segun Ogunleye, described the company’s support of the sporting and music event as an extension of its contribution to sports and entertainment in Nigeria. He said, “We are proud to partner with DStv on this event. We are also happy to refresh the many golfers that would participate in the competition.” Over 100 golfers from across the country were said to have been chosen from about 600 registrants, to feature at the event where they will play with only four clubs and a putter.  Winners will then emerge via a stroke play format. The best golfer at the event will leave the course with a business class flight ticket to Dubai for a weekend getaway at a five-star hotel. The second prize is a business class ticket to Kigali, Rwanda, for a weekend stay at a five-star hotel, while the third prize is a weekend stay at a five-star hotel in Lagos.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com