The Peoples Democratic Party governorship candidate in Ekiti State, Bisi Kolawole, said on Tuesday that his administration would restore the lost glory in education in the state through the deliberate implementation of positive programmes and policies in the sector. While lamenting that the fortunes of education in the state had nosedived under the watch of the Dr Kayode Fayemi-led All Progressives Congress administration, he assured the “there will be another turnaround the moment PDP takes over power in the state on October 16, 2022”. Kolawole, who spoke in Ado Ekiti during a meeting with a group of retired secondary school teachers in Ekiti State, said, “It is worrisome that Ekiti State that came first in National Examination Council Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination in 2016 and 2017, came 9th in 2020.” A statement by the spokesman of Bisi Kolawole Campaign Organisation, Lere Olayinka, titled, ‘Ekiti 2022: Kolawole promises turnaround of education, laments dwindling fortune in NECO, WAEC exams’, stated that the PDP governorship candidate assured that Ekiti State would return to the top position in education that it was during the PDP government of Ayodele Fayose. Kolawole said, “Even the performance of the State in West Africa School Certificate Examination has not improved from the 11th position that it moved to in 2016 from the 34th position that it was in 2014. Teachers in the state will be adequately motivated with their welfare prioritized as it was during the government of our leader, Ayodele Fayose. “It should be placed on record that during his first tenure, Governor Fayemi met Ekiti State performance in WASSCE at 33 per cent. The performance went down to 22.9 per cent in 2012, 29 per cent in 2013 and 25 per cent in 2014.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com