Ace music producer, Samuel Oguachuba, aka Samklef, has noted that he is not at war with anybody in the entertainment industry. The music producer, in a statement released by his management on Tuesday and titled, ‘Samklef should not be misconstrued,’ said his recent rant was geared at “making public what he had to heal from.” This development occurred days after Samklef had demanded his royalties from EME label label boss, Olubankole Wellington, popularly called Banky W, over his contribution to Ayo Balogun, aka Wizkid’s hit song, Pakurumo. Pakurumo was among the songs on Wizkid’s Superstar album, while he was signed under the label. Reacting, Banky W had, in his response, asked Samklef to take his demands to Wizkid, after the producer rolled out the royalty split sheet as evidence. Clearing the air about his recent actions, Samklef’s management said, “He (Samklef) is not fighting anyone but making public what he had to heal from. “His contribution to the music industry cannot be overemphasized and the story of his humble beginnings needs to be told regardless of whose Ox is gored.” The statement further revealed that lawyers were working on the intellectual property rights regarding the matter, adding that Samklef would continue to tell his story about the creative industry. It read, “Like the story of Joseph in the Bible, he need not begrudge those who he once called family/friends but ended up betraying his trust with sundry attempts to obliterate his creative footprints. He stands tall today on the heap of stones hauled at him and hopes to inspire the youth globally with his story. “There is no room for self-pity for the enlightened. His rants are not out of pain or mere reactions but as a needed response to those who felt he had no voice. “The lawyers would do their bit on the intellectual property rights, while he tells his story uncut. When you are a seed and people choose to bury you, they are catapulting you to your growth and fruitfulness.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com