I have always believed that everything in life is writable as long as you have the passion to do so and are willing to put yourself out there. In all my years of writing the ICT Clinic column in PUNCH Newspapers, I can say that this piece you are reading took me the longest amount of time to finish. Why? This is because a farewell piece is something that I never thought I would write, at least not for the foreseeable future. But here we are. After nine years of running the ICT Clinic column, I am stepping aside. While I cannot say that I have ever aspired to be an Achebe or Soyinka, it has been a goal of mine to write about issues that revolve around technology, economic growth and human development. My passion was need one day mistaken because as long as it had to do with technology and startups, I wrote scathing pieces denouncing the government’s actions, inactions and incessant threats of sanctions. At other times, too, I have applauded the government’s initiatives to boost Nigeria’s digital economy. However, the ICT Clinic column is more than just a place to rant, complain or criticize the government’s every move. The ICT Clinic column has been a safe space for me to contribute my knowledge, experience and passion, as well as share my hopes and expectations for Nigeria’s startup ecosystem. It has allowed me to advocate for a better, safer, affluent and technologically advanced Nigeria. Through the column, I have championed the adoption of technology in Nigeria, especially among the youths. I made a personal commitment to keep my audience abreast of current technologies and their applications in different sectors of the economy. I have also covered human interest issues that the government and other relevant stakeholders can leverage technology to address. ICT Clinic helped me to understand clearly that my role as a columnist is interconnected with and shaped by my identity as a techie, entrepreneur, mentor, and investor. I have contributed and will continue to do my part in supporting young founders as they work hard to turn their innovative ideas into thriving enterprises. Perhaps you are wondering what happens next? Well, an adventure is what happens. I remain active within the African technology ecosystem, albeit in a different capacity. As some of you may know, I have recently been appointed to serve the people of Anambra State as Chief Executive Officer of the state’s ICT agency. While it remains my sincerest desire to see Nigeria become a technology powerhouse (quite frankly, we have the potential), I am equally committed to ensuring that Anambra State becomes a centre of technological innovation, and through this office, I hope to make this a reality. My nine-year stint as a PUNCH columnist has been super amazing. My eternal gratitude goes to the erstwhile Chairman of PUNCH Nigeria Limited, Late Mr. Wale Aboderin who gave me a chance where some would have refused and that singular decision is today a major part of my journey – May his gentle soul continue to rest in peace. Sincere appreciation goes to other top management particularly, the newly appointed Managing Director, Mr Joseph Adeyeye, who has always stood by me. Not forgetting the entire team including my current and previous editors, and the Digital team, I sincerely say a big thank you to all of you for the support and opportunity to pour my heart to our readers. I feel honoured to have been featured in the Sunday PUNCH since 2013. Before I say a final goodbye, however, I have a few messages to leave you with. My first message is to my devoted readers. Without you, the column would not have been a worthwhile undertaking. To you all, I extend my heartfelt appreciation. Your constant engagement and contributions are among the pillars upon which ICT Clinic has rested. It has been an interesting journey so far, and you all have been with me every step of the way. It is pretty much humbling. My second message is to the Nigerian technology sector. Kudos to the women and men who, through their achievements, are putting Nigeria in the global spotlight. Keep innovating, keep building and keep growing. For those new to the industry, you will learn – if you have not already – that there is ample space for everyone to make a difference. Let’s continue making a difference. My third message is to the government. Although our lawmakers seem to have rekindled their desire to strengthen the technology ecosystem, there is so much riding on the government’s ability to deliver on what has been promised. For example, the Nigerian Startup Bill is still awaiting passage into law. Moreover, the newly inaugurated Nigeria Data Protection Bureau, though a welcome development, needs to be given all the support to execute and better secure Nigeria’s data. Government at all levels must understand that technology is the only way forward for Nigeria, if we miss maximizing the opportunities, then we should say goodbye to our dream of a developed and prosperous country. My fourth and final message is to my well-wishers. For those who have called, texted and sent congratulatory messages on my social media pages, I appreciate your kind expressions of faith in my ability to lead the Anambra State ICT Agency. May history remain a kind judge of all human efforts, including mine. That said, I am off to a new beginning!  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com