The Ondo State Government has mandated all public and private secondary schools across the state to create counseling units for the pupils. The government said the availability of a functional counseling unit was one of the requirements to approve the establishment of private secondary schools in the state. The State Commissioner for Education, Science, and Technology, Mr. Femi Agagu, stated this at the maiden conference and award ceremony of the Counseling Association of Nigeria, Ondo State Chapter, held at Adeyemi University, Ondo town, on Thursday. The programme was themed, ‘Counseling and the challenges of 21st century Nigeria.’ Represented by the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Mrs. Lola Amuda, said the government was passionate about advancing the course of counseling practice in Ondo State. He said, “The state government has been sponsoring counselors for programmes and conferences on a yearly basis. Also, we have productively ensured that all public secondary schools in the state now have counseling units while of the prerequisites for approval of private secondary schools is the availability of a functional counseling unit. “Notwithstanding government’s efforts at improving counseling services in both public and private schools in the state, we are not ignorant of the fact that there are still teething  challenges bedeviling counseling practices in our schools.” In his remarks, the national chairman of the association, Dr. Joseph Oyadeyi, said the aim of the conference was to bring counseling psychologists all over the country together and present a paper on the theme of the conference so that at the end of the day “we will be able to have the recommendation that will mitigate challenges facing education and Nigeria as a whole.” The Chairman, Local Organising Committee of the programme, Dr. Michael Ogunboyode, said counseling was a pillar for addressing various challenges facing the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com