The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, on Wednesday, approved the promotion of 21,039 junior police officers who were last promoted on or before 2017. The beneficiaries included 20,572 sergeants who were promoted to the next rank of inspector, 324 corporals to sergeants and 143 constables to the rank of corporal. A statement on Thursday by the acting police spokesman, Muyiwa Adejobi, said the exercise was aimed at improving the welfare, conditions of service, and the boosting of morale of the personnel to reposition the force for efficiency. The IG further noted that the promotion of the officers was part of the manpower development drive of his administration to ensure that deserving personnel were promoted accordingly to encourage hard work, and promote the culture of merit, excellence, and dedication to duties. He was said to have equally assured senior police officers that the police high command was liaising with the Police Service Commission on their promotion, which was expected to be approved and released as soon as possible. The statement read in part, “The Inspector-General of Police, while commending the newly promoted officers for their resilience and invaluable commitment to duties, charged them to see their promotion as a call for renewed zeal, vigour, patriotism to duty, and further re-dedication to professional policing standards. The IGP equally restated the commitment of his administration to entrenching longstanding reforms in the Nigeria Police Force.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com