An Associate Professor, New York University, Dr Carlos Chirinos, has said talented artistes in Nigeria surpass the number of talent management professionals capable of helping the artistes to attain success in the music industry. Chirinos disclosed this as the Music Business Academy for Africa planned to commence its training programme for the second year. The MBA, which was founded by Godwin Tom, would hold in partnership with the Music Ally and Chirinos of the Music Business Department, NYU, the organisers said. Speaking on the importance of the programme, Chirinos said it would help educate music professionals and create a natural workforce for the music industry in Nigeria. He said, “The number of talented artistes in Nigeria far surpasses the number of music industry professionals that can help those artists achieve success. “The MBA for Africa programme fills the gap by providing professional education to create the required workforce for the industry. In doing so, MBA is contributing to the social and economic development of Nigeria and the continent.” In his remarks, Tom said when he started out in the industry, there was nowhere to learn about music business, adding that he made a lot of mistakes in the process. He said, “I, like many of my peers, had to make so many mistakes and it took me years to realise I had been doing so many things wrong. “The Music Business Academy for Africa has all the modules designed for creative music entrepreneurs to leverage and tap into the wide opportunities in Africa’s music and entertainment industry.” The programme director, MBA, Elizabeth Sobowale, said, “As Africans, we must take the creation and distribution of our knowledge into our own hands. MBA for Africa plays an important role in ensuring that the knowledge of Africa’s music, creative and cultural industries are passed on to the future leaders, executives and creators of the continent.” Our correspondent gathered that the programme would run between July and November 2022 and teach students about a range of music business trends and technologies as well as give them hands-on experience in releasing and promoting music to create sustainable careers for artists. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com