The Kaduna State Police Command has arrested six suspects in connection with the theft of a tanker loaded with 40,000 litres of petroleum products worth N6.2m in the state. This was contained in a statement by the state command’s Public Relations Officer, Mohammad Jalige, in Kaduna on Monday. According to Jalige, on April 19, 2022, the state command received a complaint from one Bakura Bukar of Mararaban Jos, Kaduna that on April 16, 2022, he entrusted his truck with number plate No BAM 02 XA, loaded with 40,000 litres of petrol valued at N6.2m to his driver for onward delivery from Lagos to Kaduna. He said following the breakdown of the truck as result of flat tyres, three unidentified men in a Sedan car attacked the driver and the motor boy and eventually made away with the truck to an unknown destination. Acting on a tip-off, Jalige said operatives attached to the command swung into action and trailed the suspects to a filling station where the products were being dispensed and thereby arrested some of the suspects. The statement read in part, “The police team acted on intelligence and succeeded in arresting three suspects, namely Habibu Mohammed, Halilu Mohammed and Isa Mohammed. “Further investigations revealed that two filling stations were used in disposing off the stolen products. The operators of the said filling stations who are strong collaborators of the crime were equally apprehended. They are Isa Yusuf, Sutajo Lawal and Stephen Habila. “The operatives pushed the process of investigation further and also recovered the operational vehicle of the criminals, one Jack knife, the stolen fuel truck as well as the PMS product. “Meanwhile, the suspects have since confessed to have been members of a syndicate who are notorious for such acts and are currently assisting the process of investigation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com