A civil society organisation, Brain Builders Youth Development Initiative, has called on the government at all levels to take more measures to improve security within and around schools, especially schools in isolated and vulnerable areas where attackers could get away easily. The Executive Director of the organisation, Olasupo Abideen, made the call in Ilorin, Kwara State, on Wednesday while speaking at a forum to commemorate the 2022 Global Action Week for Education. The programme was co-sponsored by the development Research and Project Centre, Ford Foundation, and the Kwara State Government. According to him, the governments need to provide safe and accessible learning environments for children in emergency situations and ensure that teachers are protected and adequately trained and remunerated. He further stated that government must increase funding for education and also create security plan and survey for schools. Speaking on this year’s Global Action Week for Education themed ‘Funding the Future’, Olasupo revealed that the Brain Builder Development Youths Initiative had lined up series of programmes to protect education in emergency situations and keeping schools and students safe. He said, “As an organisation that has significant interest in matters of education and young people, we, at the Brain Builders Youth Development Initiative, join the rest of the world to mark this year’s Global Action Week for Education. While this year’s event takes education financing as its theme under the banner ‘Funding the Future’, our organization’s focus is on protection of education in emergency situations and keeping our schools and students safe. “As a result, we have lined up series of programmes to be carried out under our ‘Safe School Initiative’. The programmes are targeted at driving the domestication and implementation of the ‘Safe School Declaration’ SSD outcomes in Kwara State. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Safe School Declaration Nigeria was ratified at the fourth International Conference on the Safe Schools Declaration which held in Abuja in October 2021. The Declaration was a commitment from governments around the world to keep schools, students, and teachers safe in times of conflicts. It is also to ensure that learning activities continue to take place during armed conflicts. This is in response to deliberate attacks on schools and students in different parts of the world including Nigeria. “The Global Coalition to Protect Education from Attacks reported that between 2015 and 2019, there were more than 11,000 reported attacks on educational facilities the Sustainable Development Goal 4 that focuses on ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education, and promotes lifelong opportunities for all. “It is against this background that our organization, the Brain Builders Youth Development Initiative, is embarking on different advocacy programmes to drive the implementation of the ‘Safe School Declaration SSD outcomes in Kwara State. As part of our programmes, we will hold an awareness programme on ‘Safe Schools’ in 50 schools across the three senatorial districts of Kwara State. We shall also hold a Community Townhall meeting involving relevant stakeholders to discuss how to keep our schools safe.” He added, we will organise workshops for teachers and Community champions on the process of implementing minimum standards for safe schools, the roles of teachers and community members in safeguarding students, school emergency preparedness and response and evacuation drill. We will also distribute safety kits to schools in the State. He concluded, “It is pertinent to note that we are doing these programmes in collaboration with the Kwara State Ministry of Education, Global Campaign for Education and with funding from the Development Research and Projects Centre and the Ford Foundation. Without the support of the DRPC, we would not be able to embark on this project. The DPRC has, through its Safe School CSO Movement, supported 24 CSOs across the six geo-political zones with funding from Ford Foundation to conduct Safe School Declaration step-down activities and workshops.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com