The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency has seized no less than 9.5 million tablets of Tramadol and Exol 5 worth over N5 billion. This is contained in a statement by the NDLEA’s Director, Media, and Advocacy, Mr Femi Babafemi, on Sunday in Abuja. Babafemi said that the Pharmaceutical Opioids were seized at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport Ikeja, Lagos State, the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja and Edo state respectively. He said that the operation was carried out in collaboration with the Nigerian Customs Service. “Of the figure, 214 cartons of Tramadol 225 under 10 different brand names, which translate to 9, 219, 400 tablets weighing 6, 384.5kg, with an estimated street value of N4, 609, 700, 000 were transferred on Tuesday March 29. “This is alongside the seizure of 85 cartons of dried Khat leaves with a total weight of 1, 327.35kg by the Nigerian Customs at the MMIA Command of NDLEA as a symbol of the synergy between the two law enforcement agencies. “In Abuja, about 228,740 tablets and capsules of Tramadol and Exol 5 were intercepted on Friday, April 1, at Abaji area of the FCT. The truck conveying the drugs was loaded in Lagos heading to Kano. “Though the truck driver escaped into the bush during the search of the vehicle, two of his assistants; Usman Abdulmumini, 23, and Aminu Ahmad, 22, were arrested,” he said. Meanwhile, three-drug joints were raided at Wire road, Benin City, and Uromi town in Esan Central LGA of Edo where 188 pinches of Cocaine and Heroin were recovered with five suspects arrested. Babafemi said that one Harrison Odion, a patent medicine dealer was arrested with 70 bottles of codeine based cough syrup in another raid in Okada town, Edo state. He said that 9,638 Tramadol capsules; 16,843 tablets of Exol-5; 80 tablets of Diazepam and 62 ampules of Diazepam injection were seized. He added that NDLEA operatives in the state also destroyed seven clusters of dry season Cannabis Sativa farms in Okpuje Forest along the banks of River Ose totaling 3.124998 hectares. Babafemi quoted the Chairman NDLEA, retired Brig.-Gen. Buba Marwa as commending the working relationship between NDLEA and other security agencies in the country. Marwa charged officers and men of the MMIA, FCT, and Edo not to rest on their oars. (NAN) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com