Look around you and behold the array of political heavyweights eyeing the presidency in 2023. It’s expected given the hard work put into governance in the last seven years. Who wouldn’t be thrilled by it and the efforts made at making the Nigerian Dream a reality. Eavesdropper is superbly thrilled too. Don’t you think the country is lucky, especially given the beautiful way it’s blessed? Eavesdropper notes that the country has been so blessed that whoever occupies the exalted position next year would just be on a roller coaster with nothing to do except cross his or her legs and watch as beautiful things unfold. Oh! The citizens are just too lucky. They are so fortunate that the roads across the 36 states of the federation are motorable and shining. Motorists enjoy pleasurable rides without potholes disturbing them. Robbery has become a thing of the past and the security is so watertight that no hoodlums or killer herders dare molest anyone on highways. Travellers enjoy road transport more given the secured atmosphere pervading the roads. Once vehicles break down on highways across states in the country, security agents emerge immediately to assist passengers who are too impressed with the distinct operation of the security forces. The security structure is beyond comprehension so much that foreign countries including neighbouring ones cannot wait to copy it. People can now sleep with their eyes closed and leave their property unmanned because crime has been reduced considerably. Citizens can travel via trains to any place they desire because the security surveillance is unassailable and threats are attacked before they manifest. Nigerians rush daily to board trains now with the foolproof approach put in place to make life easy for passengers. Policing is now top-notch and brutality of citizens has become a thing of the past. Policemen address citizens with respect and shun any attempt to strip them of their dignity. Farmers across states can go to their farms to till the ground and harvest crops till dawn because no terrorists can harm them. In fact, some farmers have relocated to their farms to work tirelessly for days pending completion of work on their farms. Eavesdropper is also aware that the economy has experienced a magic touch with the dollars struggling to meet up with the value of naira. Abi no be so? Oh beloved Nigeria where lecturers earn so much and never for once thought of embarking on strike. The funding for university is commendable and jobs are everywhere with the youth and adults selective about the ones they truly want. Students are all in school and not at home as governments at all levels pay notice to what is required to run university education. In 60 years, Nigeria has achieved so much that many are positive of its feats in the few years to come. Youths have no reason to eye ritual killing which is alien to the country. Hard work pays is now the watchword with the National Orientation Agency embarking on campaigns to promote outstanding values. Corruption is now a thing of the past with every politician ready to kill it if it re-emerges. Every Nigerian now disdains graft because of effort into quality governance. Soldiers are well motivated and truly given sophisticated weapons to protect the country against aggression. Health workers are given the needed attention and adequately motivated so much that many of them don’t consider the idea of going abroad to practise. The hospitals are equipped and filled with medical practitioners who give their best to save lives. These are the reasons why the focus is to occupy the exalted position to consolidate on these feats which set the country apart from others. The focus should be about rescuing this crumbling entity immediately and ignite discourses on how to tackle the imaginary feats outlined above. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com