Chelsea manager, Thomas Tuchel’and his wife, Sissi, have parted ways after 13 years of marriage. This is coming amidst the occupational hazard the German is facing at Chelsea following the sanction on oligarch owner, Roman Abramovich over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine by Vladimir Putin. Daily Mail reported that Sissi who gave up her job as a journalist at the German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung to bring up their family started the divorce proceedings last week. Tuchel has vowed to stick with the club despite The Blues’ inability to sell tickets for games, sign players or give new contracts to existing players, due to the sanctions placed on Abramovich. It appears the German can’t save his marriage from crashing despite efforts by the couple to avoid splitting. According to friends of the couple, ‘all avenues are exhausted’ when it comes to hopes of a reconciliation. ‘Sissi and Thomas have tried to avoid splitting but in the end, there was no other way,’ said a source. ‘It is very sad and now it is all about making sure their daughters are the top priority. Papers were lodged last week to get the divorce under way.’ Former journalist Mrs Tuchel moved to Britain in August, seven months after Tuchel, 48, joined Chelsea from the French team Paris Saint-Germain (PSG). He initially stayed in a hotel before the family set up home in Cobham, Surrey, near Chelsea’s training ground. The publication believes that Sissi may be entitled to a slice of the earnings of the Chelsea boss, who is reportedly paid £7million a year, in what is expected to be a multi-million-pound divorce deal. According to sources, the couple is determined to keep the divorce amicable. Just 10 months ago, Mrs Tuchel was seen running across the pitch at Porto’s Estadio do Dragao before leaping into her husband’s arms after Chelsea secured a 1-0 Champions League victory over Manchester City. While manager of PSG, Tuchel and his family lived in the upmarket Hauts-de-Seine district of Paris. Mrs Tuchel, 46, has been credited with helping her husband to excel during a managerial career that has seen him win a clutch of trophies in Germany, France and England. ‘Sissi is no fool, she isn’t your archetypal footballer’s wife, she is a clever woman,’ said the source.