A former Senator representing Kogi West Senatorial district, Dino Melaye, has said that God assured him of the emergence of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar as Nigeria’s next president. Melaye said this on Monday at the Peoples Democratic Party national secretariat in Abuja when he, in company of the leader of the technical committee, Atiku Abubakar presidential campaign, Raymond Dokpesi, returned the completed copy of the nomination and expression of interest forms for Atiku. The sale of forms which was earlier scheduled to end on April 1, 2022, was extended to April 8, 2022. Speaking to journalists on Monday, Melaye said “We are here to submit to you the form of a Nigerian with multiple competencies, indoctrinated with the art of civil administration and the rudiments of politics, the only unifier. “Atiku was the first to pick his form and the first to submit his form. God has told me that Atiku will be the president of Nigeria.” On his part, Dokpesi boasted that the party’s zoning arrangement would favour Atiku. The PUNCH  had earlier reported that the Samuel Ortom-led zoning Committee constituted last month after the PDP’s 95th National Executive Council meeting, is set to release its arrangement on Tuesday. According to him, “By the special grace of God when we get to the bridge, we will cross it. “I am not aware of any internal problems in the PDP. No crisis whatsoever. PDP is one big family we shall all be together as brothers and sisters. “Definitely, we have nothing against whatever the party will decide, but the zoning will not be against us.” Since the sale of nomination and expression of interest forms began on March 17, 2022, 13 Presidential aspirants have so far paid N40m each to seal their spot in the race for PDP’s presidential ticket. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com