A governorship aspirant of the Social Democratic Party in Kwara State, Engineer Sunday Babalola, has advised his supporters to obtain their Permanent Voter Cards and participate fully in the 2023 elections, saying that votes still count in the country. Babalola gave the advice in Omu-Aran, headquarters of Irepodun local government area of Kwara state, on Thursday while expressing his declaration to contest for the governorship election of the state on the platform of the Social Democratic Party in the 2023 general election. Expressing confidence in the country’s electoral system, Babalola, said, “If votes don’t count, they will not be stealing ballot boxes. “So votes really do count. Go and get your PVC and I’m appealing to all my supporters, go out there and campaign vigorously for the victory of the Social Democratic Party.” Babalola, while noting that the”O to ge” slogan used for campaign in the 2019 election in the state had not solved the problems of the people, said that his reasons to vie for the governorship is to provide solution to the myriad of problems facing the state. Speaking on his vision if emerged as the governor of the state, he said “We are going to be a government of the people by the people, and for the people. We are going to touch every community, know their needs, and prioritise them. “If they tell us they need this and this, we are going to give priority to each of them. We are going to also do some revenue drive in order for us to have enough resources.” Speaking further, the women leader, Olajumoke Oyewole, who stressed the importance of women in the society urged the governorship aspirant to give the women what they are due for, which includes empowerment, if he wins the election, promising that the women will also play their roles well. Also, the youth leader, James Adegboye, promised massive support of the youth for the aspirant but said that they should be remembered when he comes to power. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com