THE Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board  has expressed displeasure with the House of Representatives, saying the latter’s recent resolution to probe the board activities, following an allegation that it extorted candidates for the forthcoming Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination, was in bad faith. The Registrar, JAMB, Ishaq Oloyede, speaking on Tuesday, at the board headquarters in Abuja, dismissed the allegation. Oloyede, who expressed disappointment with the action of the legislators, claimed that it was meant to discourage the board from going ahead with the good work it was doing. He said he expected the lawmakers to be more factual in their allegations, rather than peddling falsehood which could amount to a calculated attempt to derail JAMB from its mandate. Oloyede stated, “As regards the resolution of the House, I will not want to talk about it, we feel that the purpose was to discourage us, but we won’t be discouraged. I believe I should not talk about it until we are invited. It’s an allegation but we expected that an allegation that would come from the House would be something solid and based on facts. “So I am a bit disappointed that somebody could use absolute falsehood to embarrass us. If it is the intention, as we expect it is to discourage us from doing what we are doing, we will not be deterred, we expect Nigerians to know when their representatives are doing what is right and what is not right, I can’t say more than that for now. The House of Representatives had, in its plenary, recently taken a resolution to probe JAMB over alleged imposition of multiple fees on candidates, following a motion raised by Sergius Ogun. Multiple fees that included printing of JAMB result slip, printing of admission letter, change of institution/course and retrieving of registration number were what the House wanted to probe the board for. Ogun stated that Sections 88(1) and (2) of the 1999 Constitution empowered the National Assembly to conduct investigations into the activities of any authority executing or administering laws. He said that JAMB was established to control the conduct of matriculation examinations for candidates seeking admission into Universities, Polytechnics and Colleges of Education in Nigeria, but alleged that in recent times,  the addition to the registration fees for the examination,  and other administrative fees were imposed on candidates. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com