Many of the bigwigs in the corporate, political and other sectors of Nigeria converged on Odoragunshin, in Epe, Lagos, on Sunday, April 3, 2022, for the ninetieth birthday celebration of Lady Doja, the mother of billionaire businessman, Femi Otedola. The event began with the dedication of the St. Peter’s Catholic Church which was built by Lady Doja in Odoragunshin. Some of the guests at the church include the governors of Lagos and Ekiti states, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and Kayode Fayemi, respectively. Immediately after the reception, the party train moved to the reception area, which was held in three different halls for different categories of guests, such as traditional rulers, corporate gurus and community members. A documentary highlighting the life and times of the former Lagos State First Lady was also shown to guests and it detailed her laudable philanthropic acts, which she had engaged in even before her late husband, Sir Michael, became a governor. This was even as many neighbours and church members spoken to in the documentary described her as a detribalised and kind-hearted woman, who never hesitates to help Recalling how she met her husband, Lady Doja said in the documentary, “I had a very nice childhood. I met my husband at Ijebu-Ode (Ogun State), and we dated for six years before getting married. We were blessed with six children— Ayokunle, Olufemi, Oluwarotimi, Tola, Lola Idahor and Olumuyiwa’. The chairman on the occasion and a former governor of Ogun State, Olusegun Osoba, also noted that he had always known Lady Doja as a woman with a large heart. He said, “Today is not a day for long speeches. I met mama in 1965 (57 years ago), when I was studying at the University of Lagos (where she worked as a nutritionist at the time). Whenever a student had no meal ticket, she would still give the person her best food. Mama, we ate your food while we were growing up, and I believe many of your ‘children’ will still become governors. “Muslims in the community attended the church service earlier and they were singing hymns. I had never seen something like that in my life.” Otedolas dominate stage To buttress the fact that music runs in their veins, Lady Doja’s son, Rotimi, and two of her grandchildren, Ifeoluwa (DJ Cuppy) and Tolani, performed to the delight of guests. Rotimi was the first to mount the stage as he thrilled guests with several of his highlife songs alongside his band, Afrinero. His niece, DJ Cuppy, also captured the attention of guests as she played several hit songs in her capacity as a disc jockey, and performed some of her songs, including ‘Gelato’. Her performance  got many talking as they noted that her artistry had evolved for the better. Tolani did not also disappoint as she entertained guests with her songs such as ‘Ba Mi Lo’. Cake from above Another highlight of the event was when the birthday cake dropped from the ceiling to the amazement of many guests who gasped in surprise. Creme de la Creme Guests at the event were undoubtedly the cream of the crop of Nigerian elite. They include a former Senate President, Bukola Saraki and wife, Toyin; the Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, Godwin Emefiele; the president of the African Development Bank, Akinwumi Adesina; a former Anambra State governor and presidential aspirant, Peter Obi; a former Delta State Governor, James Ibori; former chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Nuhu Ribadu, among others.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com