The Nigerian Institute of Journalism on Thursday conferred a fellowship award on the Chairman, Premier Lotto, Chief Kessington Adebutu, popularly known as Baba Ijebu. The award ceremony took place at the Shell Hall, Muson Centre, Onikan, Lagos. The Chairman, Governing Council of NIJ, Chief Olusegun Osoba, while conferring the award, commended Adebutu for his humanitarian services in the country. He noted that the award was approved by the International Press Institute which was made up of editors, media executives, and journalists. “This award is of utmost importance because of the humanitarian services this wonderful gentleman has rendered to this institution and the country as a whole. “All your contributions to the society have been deservedly noted and the IPI has approved this award for you as your contribution is genuinely appreciated. “We hope that this will serve as a springboard for other people to take a cue from your cap and also impact the society in more ways than you have done,” he said. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State commended NIJ for maintaining its code and ethics in the teaching of journalism. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by Mr. Gbenga Omotosho, Commissioner of Information and Strategy, urged well-meaning Nigerians to impact other people’s lives. “The NIJ must be commended for the great job it has been doing in bringing up professional journalists who are knowledgeable, fearless, and abide by the rules of the profession. “Also, the Golden Jubilee Special Convocation for the conferment of the fellowship award must be applauded as it shows that the recipient’s contribution to the society hasn’t gone unnoticed. “Mr. Adebutu has been carrying out several humanitarian efforts for decades and he is deserving of this award, but I’m also appealing that he should not stop. He should continue to impact and improve the lives of the people,” he said. Mr. Kessington Adebutu, recipient of the award, in his remarks, said that journalism must be given the right support to enable it to carry out its role in the society. According to Washington, journalism plays a vital role in the lives of human beings. “The importance of journalism cannot be overemphasized, that is why it needs all the support it can get so as to thrive well. “The press is vital and very important because it is a major source of information which determines what happens to the society. It is essential that they get all the support they need. “I’m very grateful for this award given to me and I promise that I wouldn’t relent in my efforts in serving the people,” he said. Dignitaries at the event also included the Chairman, Channels Television, Mr John Momoh; Chairman of Guardian Newspapers, Mrs Maiden Alex-Ibru; Head of Lagos News Agency of Nigeria, Mr. Sheyin Ephraim, royal fathers among others. NAN