The Association of Private Practicing Surveyors of Nigeria, Cross River State chapter, has x-rayed the major challenges faced by the survey sector in Nigeria, one of which it said is the craze for money. The National President, Surveyor Council of Nigeria, Clement Nwabichie, stated this on Wednesday while delivering a keynote address, at a seminar in Calabar with the theme ‘Challenges of survey practice: Present-day realities.’ According to him, the craze for money, poor professional services, unreported unprofessional conducts, unavailability of jobs from the ministries and parastatals, the unprofessional relationship between the surveyor with B.sc and HND, amongst others, are the challenges of surveyors in Nigeria. He said, “The university B.sc holder is a strategic thinker but may not have the practical ability like the HND holder. Do you even see jobs? “We should revisit our curriculum again for academic and professional qualification, create minimum knowledge and skillsets for students at different levels because if we have skilled workers, you will be thirsty for good jobs. “We will interface with NUC on curricular. There is a lack of partnership amongst surveyors.” Also speaking, the Chairman, APPSN Cross River State, Victor Nyamse, said, “There are so many atrocities being committed in the survey practice. That’s why we brought our surveyors to come and tell us why it is actually happening and the way forward.” Some of the participants at the event expressed resentment about the Federal Government’s noninclusion of surveyors in the conduct of the national population census, saying it is detrimental to the sector and the overall success of the exercise. The national headcount comes up next year after the general elections. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com