AN outpouring of anger, shock and grief has accompanied the death of a popular gospel singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu. She is believed to have been a victim of domestic violence, allegedly in the hands of her husband, Peter Nwachukwu. Though the suspect denies it and he remains innocent unless a competent court decides otherwise, Osinachi’s demise and the allegations however draw attention to the rising incidence of domestic violence in the country. Osinachi, 42, reportedly suffered prolonged abuse, ultimately dying due to the social and criminal malaise, leaving behind her traumatised children and aged mother. Though reportedly bedridden for a while, friends, family members, colleagues and acquaintances insist that the ‘golden-voiced’ singer was a victim of domestic battery. Commendably, police have swung into action. The allegations should be thoroughly and dispassionately investigated. At all levels, the government, law enforcement and the society at large, need to deal with domestic violence. Daily in the newspapers, and almost round the clock in the formal and informal online media, reports of domestic abuse abound. Graphic images circulate online of abused and battered women, children and men, including minors. A Lagos accountant, simply identified as Benjamin, allegedly set his Scotland-returnee wife ablaze; one Toogun dismembered his wife, Modinat Basiru; an eight-month pregnant woman, Doosur Ankyoor, was battered to death by her husband. A global malaise, some societies have responded with various programmes and vigorous prosecution. About 35 percent of women globally have experienced domestic abuse in one form or another, according to the United Nations. The respected medical journal, The Lancet, said domestic violence “is a global public health problem with many short-term and long-term effects on the physical and mental health of women and their children.” Violence in the home is mostly perpetrated by males who are in positions of trust, intimacy and power over the female partners, like husbands, boyfriends, fathers, fathers-in-law and mothers-in-law, stepfathers and stepmothers, and uncles. The National Human Rights Commission received over 1.7 million sexual and gender-based violence complaints in 2021. Many more are never reported. It said 900,000 of the complaints were from women and children. A Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey 2018 report disclosed that on the average, 14 percent of women responding have experienced physical violence; but Taraba State has the highest prevalence with 68 percent, and Jigawa the lowest with 4.0 percent. According to the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, a US-based NGO, many victims remain in abusive relationships due to religious and cultural beliefs. “Some religious and cultural practices stress that divorce is forbidden,” the organisation said. Such counsel thrives in Nigeria and sustains the culture of abuse due to the absence of adequate, well-staffed social welfare departments by states and local governments. Secular-minded NGOs should help fill this gap. Domestic violence is defined in varied and broad terms depending on the country. Lagos, which proactively created the Domestic and Sexual Violence Response Team, passed the Lagos State Protection against Domestic Violence Law. It defines it as, “acts against any person; physical abuse, sexual abuse, exploitation including but not limited to rape, incest and sexual assault, starvation, emotional, verbal and psychological abuse, economic abuse, denial of basic education, intimidation, harassment, stalking, hazardous attack including acid bath with offensive or poisonous substance, damage to property, entry into the complainants’ residence without consent where the parties do not share the same residence, or any other controlling or abusive behaviour towards a complainant where such conduct harms or may cause imminent harm to the safety, health or well being of the complainant.” Basically, all forms of domestic violence have one purpose: to gain and maintain control over the victim. Experts say children suffer the most in terms of setbacks and the trauma; for some the psychological damage may be irreparable. A child exposed to domestic violence during his upbringing could suffer developmental and psychological damage. Depression and self-esteem issues can follow, while problems of attitude and cognition in school can develop, along with a lack of skills. But women are not the only victims; house maids/boys, children, and teens are also victims with both men and women as the perpetrators. In July 2021, DSVRT released the shocking news that it received reports of 194 men who were assaulted by their female partners in the first six months of that year. Amnesty International said a third of Nigerian women have been subjected to physical, sexual and psychological violence. No fewer than 2,584 domestic violence cases were reported in Lagos State in 2021. In the United States, about 10 million persons are affected by domestic violence annually. Police in England and Wales recorded 613,929 incidents in the year to March 2021. By 2015, in addition to federal and state laws, 32 LGs in the US had passed resolutions recognising freedom from domestic violence as a fundamental human right. The UK’s Crown Prosecution Service had initiated 61,169 prosecutions for domestic abuse-related crimes by March 2020, 14 percent of all its cases in England and Wales. In 2015, Nigeria also passed the Violence Against Persons Prohibition Act criminalising all types of violence against persons, and offering protection and remedies for victims. However, according to media reports, as at June 2020, only 18 states out of the 36 had domesticated the VAPP Act by 2021. The reasons are not far-fetched. In some cultures, domestic violence is still accepted as a way of life instead of a crime. Some cultures view wife beating and thrashing of children as a right and duty of parents and guardians. The law should therefore be vigorously enforced to squelch such primitive notions. Indeed, domestic violence should be viewed as a human rights violation issue, touching on the rights to liberty, expression, and movement among others. Eradicating it has been adopted by the UN as a Sustainable Development Goal. Parents/guardians, clerics and counsellors should stop persuading victims to tolerate abuse rather than report to the appropriate authorities. Police should take reports/complaints of domestic violence seriously and respond accordingly. The prevention of domestic violence requires challenging cultural and social norms that tolerate or excuse it. LGs and state should open, expand, generously fund, staff and train, and equip social welfare departments and homes for abused children with expert counsellors, therapists and psychologists to help victims recover. The mass media and civil society organisations must help in raising awareness about the criminal nature of domestic violence, provide information about support services and protective laws, and encourage citizens to break the culture of silence by promptly reporting cases of violations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com