The Ogun State Government says some loyalists of the immediate past governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, in Ijebu North Local Government Area of the state have joined and pledged their loyalty to the incumbent state governor, Dapo Abiodun. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Kunle Somorin , on Saturday said the faction was led back into the mainstream of the All Progressives Congress by the former Commissioner for Health, Dr. Babatunde Ipaiye. The statement claimed that 200 loyalists of Amosun in the council pledged their loyalty to Abiodun. According to the statement, the event took place at the Presidential Lodge, Abeokuta The governor, according to the statement, noted that there is bound to be a misunderstanding among family members just as it is imperative for them to make peace. The statement quoted Ipaiye as saying, “Being members of the same family, there is bound to be misunderstanding and disagreement. What is important is that we all agreed that APC must continue to be in power in the state. “You must strive to achieve the objective of ensuring that the party is still in control of the state. Now that that has been achieved, there is no need to continue to be a rebel. It is now time for all our members who have gone astray to come back to the fold.” The statement quoted the state chairman of the party, Yemi Sanusi, as saying, “A good father should be happy to receive his children who had revolted against the family. “Now that you have seen the wisdom to return, go back to your local government and integrate properly. The doors of our party are open to everybody. We are happy to see and receive you. You are free to work as the party members”. The Ogun East Senatorial District Chairman of the party, Dr. Adeleke Adedoyin, in his remarks, lauded the returnees for taking such a bold step to reintegrate with the mainstream, assuring them that there would be no new comers or old members. Earlier, Ipaye said it was time to move on and make up as family members could not continue to be at war with one another forever. Members of the group, Chief Olusola Odusina and Mrs. Caroline Animasahun, who spoke at the meeting, acknowledged that there is time for war and for peace, saying it is time to move on and align with other members of the party to support the government that is meeting the aspirations of the people socially and economically. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com