A frontline Governorship hopeful in Benue State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, Mark Hanmation, on Monday, said that the manner Senator George Akume galvanised the support of other party national chairmanship aspirants contributed to the emergence of Adamu Abudullahi as the APC’s consensus chairman and the peace recorded after the convention. Hanmation, in a statement issued and made available to our correspondent in Makurdi, applauded the commitment, dedication and massive contributions of the minister to the growth of the ruling APC in the country. Senator Akume, a Minister for Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, was one of the national chairmanship aspirants but stepped down for Senator Abdullahi Adamu. Hanmation said, “Senator Akume had exhibited true spirit of sportsmanship, patriotism and statesmanship during the just concluded National Convention of the APC when he heeded the call by President Muhammadu Buhari to pave the way for the emergence of a consensus candidate as National Chairman. “Senator Akume was able to provide leadership by galvanising the support of all other chairmanship aspirants in achieving Mr President’s agenda in the interest and peace of the party.” The governorship aspirant commended the disposition of Senator Akume and other aspirants whom, he said, saved the party from rancour and acrimony that would have ensued after the convention. The APC governorship hopeful, who pledged total loyalty to Akume and his party, the APC, sued for sustained support for the former Governor of Benue State to succeed in building the party ahead of the 2023 general election. Hanmation congratulated the new leadership of the party and urged them to work tirelessly towards uniting the party and to harvesting more members across the country. The Benue governorship aspirant expressed confidence that he would clinch the party’s nomination ahead of next year’s polls, adding that he had all it takes to emerge the Governor. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com