Premium Trust Bank has launched its first branch in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, joining the list of licensed commercial banks operating in Nigeria. The bank said in a statement that it was on a mission to provide solutions to peculiar financial challenges of customers through innovation and speed of execution, improving lives, communities and businesses. It added that it would do this through premium service delivery,  human capital, and customer experience. Speaking at the launch, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Premium Trust Bank, Mr Emmanuel Emefienim,  noted that the bank’s coming on board was not to make up the numbers but to stand out with its speed of service delivery. He said the bank would be co-creating financial solutions with its customers to ensure alignment and seamless adoption at the stage of product deployment. The managing director said, “I have said it many times that drawing up strategy in banking is not new. We are not necessarily coming to re-invent the wheel because the banking business, especially in Nigeria, has a lot in common. “We trade in the same industry and we all have the same regulator. You find out that the industry somehow operates within a boundary. “But then, there’s a differentiating factor; we have realised that while all banks tend to offer the same kind of service, there is something that is unique or different when it comes to execution.” “Put it this way, a bank takes a position to offer a certain kind of service, but then it takes them such a long time to deliver this service. And then, you find another bank come on board, offer the same kind of service, but they deliver it in record time.” He added, “The speed of execution is something that will speak for us in the industry. We are going to be deliberate about it. We know the people, we know the market, we have the experience, and we understand the environment and the business. “So, when you have strong knowledge of the people, the market and the business, speedy execution comes easy. This is because you are clear about what you want to do. Also, add that we are going to leverage on technology to make all of these happen.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com