The Chairman of the National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee, and former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, on Wednesday, in Abuja, called for stricter sanctions for party delegates who create a crisis in any of the states they are assigned to conduct primaries in the coming months. This is as he urged the Chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, and the National Working Committee to ensure a thorough and extensive scrutiny process in selecting people who will be sent to conduct primary elections in the various states ahead of next year’s elections. Saraki said this when he submitted the committee’s report to the national chairman of the PDP at the Wadata Plaza, Abuja. Saraki, while addressing the NWC during the report presentation, stated, “We urge you to ensure a thorough and extensive scrutiny process in the selection of the people who will be sent to go and conduct the primary elections in various states as we prepare for the 2023 elections. “They must be people who will be fair to all and adhere strictly to democratic tenets. Sanctions should be meted out to those of them who create a crisis by their actions. “We need to mention that time did not allow us to dwell much on the area of strategy. We had so much to do in the area of reconciliation. It is, therefore, our recommendation that the party leadership should explore the idea of setting up a standing committee to advise it from time to time on the issue of strategy, particularly as we prepare for the 2023 general elections.” The former governor noted that the conduct of primaries had always been the source of squabble in the party and, therefore, called for transparency in the exercise. He stated, “Mr Chairman, we need to point out that while so much has been done, there is still much to do. Our party has recently commenced the journey towards electing candidates to contest on the party’s platform in the 2023 general elections at the presidential, gubernatorial, National Assembly, and state Houses of Assembly levels. “We have discovered that the conduct of primaries to elect candidates to represent the party has been a source of great intra-party conflict and friction in the past, resulting in the severe weakening of the PDP and hampering its chances of success in previous elections. “Mr Chairman, we believe that you and other members of the NWC are men and women of great courage and integrity who have displayed a commitment to our great party, its ideals, and values.” While receiving the report, Ayu thanked the members of the committee for their work, noting that with state chapters in crises, it would be challenging to run a successful election. He assured the Saraki-led committee that the NWC would study the report and pass it on to the NEC for implementation. “We appreciate members for their work; the adage goes that united we stand, divided we fall; if we have a division in the party, it will be hard to run a successful election. We have been anticipating the report and some of the issues we have addressed. “Soon, we will invite you to the commissioning of the Peoples Democratic Institute, which will help us in the coming campaigns. “We will go through the reports meticulously and submit them to the NEC. It will help us to strengthen the party, adding it will be difficult to unite the party if the state chapters are not working together,” Ayu said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com