The Chairman of Udom Emmanuel Presidential Campaign Council, Gabriel Suswan, on Saturday said if elected Nigeria’s next President, the Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, would revamp the nation’s economy and tackle insecurity. He added that the Peoples Democratic Party’s presidential aspirant could improve the nation’s rating among the comity of nations with good foreign policy. Suswan spoke with journalists in Lagos shortly after Udom met with PDP delegates from the state. He promised to pursue policies that would make the nation’s economy blossom. The former governor of Benue State said Emmanuel, who could float and run an airline, Ibom Air, successfully as a state governor, would not find it difficult to float a national carrier for the country if elected. He said it was time for Nigerians to put aside primordial sentiments and elect a leader who could reposition the country. He said, “His Excellency’s campaign will revolve around revamping the economy of this country that is in shambles. It will revolve around infrastructure – the need to improve the power situation in the country, road and rail travel, and generally fix the infrastructure deficit in the country. “The campaign will revolve around resolving the security situation in the country. Bandits and terrorists have taken over the country, and not even one is being arrested. “But there is nothing like insecurity in Akwa Ibom State governed by Emmanuel.” He added, “We are talking about a man who has done a lot to improve his state’s economy. Whereas Nigeria does not have a national carrier, Akwa Ibom today has a functional airline that is first class in terms of operation and management. He creates money through the kinds of projects he does. “It takes competence, intellect for someone to do what he does. Apart from South Africa, the biggest syringe company in Africa is in Akwa Ibom State.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com