Acquisition of a new language is understood to break communication barriers among people across nations by facilitating effective interactions. Language itself is a form of people’s identity and known to echo culture. Hence, learning a new language is linked to learning a bit of the culture and lifestyle of the native speakers of the language. Language has been variously defined  as a system of communication by written or spoken words, used by the people of a particular country or area. Linguists believe strongly that learning a new language has diverse benefits and advantages, among other proven scientific benefits attributed to bilingualism or multilingualism. Online sources note that learning to speak a second language could be challenging because learners would be training their brains to do something more complex than memorising new words and their proper pronunciations. They further stated that a 2014 study titled, ‘Age of language learning shapes brain structure’ discovered that the cortical thickness–associated with higher intelligence–of the bilingual brain was altered when language learning happened later in life, after developing proficiency in the first language. The study indicated that the later a second language was acquired, the greater the effect on the brain structure increases. Online sources further noted that the brain of polyglots operated differently than those of unilingual folk, noting that regular use of a second language sharpened many cognitive skills and it was even found to make learners appear more attractive. A study conducted in Georgetown University Medical Centre, Washington, USA, published in the journal Cerebral Cortex suggested that bilinguals had more grey matter in the executive control region of the brain. The study indicated, “In past decades, much has changed about the understanding of bilingualism. Early on, bilingualism was thought to be a disadvantage because the presence of two vocabularies would lead to delayed language development in children. However, it has since been demonstrated that bilingual individuals perform better compared with monolinguals on tasks that require attention, inhibition and short-term memory, collectively termed ‘executive control.’’ The grey matter is the region of the brain which contains most of the brain’s neuronal cell bodies which includes parts of the brain involved in muscle control, and sensory perception such as seeing and hearing, memory, emotions, speech, decision making and self-control. This proves that people who developed more language skills have unknowingly developed a more powerful brain. Research proved that other biological and scientific benefits of bilingualism or multilingualism included ability to multitask more naturally, speed in decision making, attention to details and lower risk of onset of memory problems such as Alzheimer’s disease and dementia. In his contribution to the issue, a Professor of French at the University of Ilorin, Kwara State, Tunde Ajiboye, stated that an average African was bilingual due to colonialism which imposed a second language. He clarified between a second and foreign language. First, he explained that a second language was usually the official language spoken in a federal state as a result of colonialism and spoken alongside with a mother-tongue. The linguist noted, “A second language such as English is one imposed by circumstances of education and civilisation. This is because you are a child of colonialism which is ancillary to the mother-tongue whereas a foreign language is one that is learnt out of choice. It is spoken or used because there is an ancillary function to that which is require for one to move forward.’’ He added that learning a foreign language was always tied to socio-economic necessities and the need to advance forward or have an edge over others in one area or the other especially in career development. He further stated that to learn a foreign language successfully, one must be motivated because there was usually no element of compulsion associated with a foreign language compared to a second language. On challenges connected with learning a foreign language, the lecturer identified phonetics of a new language as an aspect to be mastered, adding that spoken form doesn’t always have the same sound as written form. He stated that alphabets don’t necessarily sound the same way in different languages. He suggested that the time required to attain mastery in a language could be dependent on age, time allocated for the language daily, and aspects of the language to be learnt including its written and oral parts. Ajiboye also stated that immersion by learning was the best way to attain fluency within a short time in learning a foreign language. The lecturer said, “I started learning German when I was in the university and the German I learnt I can say was purified when I went to Germany. I was in Germany for three months and it seemed to be one year because I had no reason to speak any other language than German except in situations where I met friends from Nigeria. That’s the beauty of immersion and I have always been in support of such process.’’ Also, a Professor of Applied Linguistics at the Faculty of Arts, Bayero University, Kano, Kamal Aliyu, stated that the availability of good language teachers was a major challenge. He further identified the importance of good materials and modern infrastructure to aid learning. The lecturer advised learners to imbibe the habit of constant practice. Aliyu said, “The rule is practice. The language must always be in constant touch with the learners. Watch TV and listen to radio programmes presented in new languages. Read the language on a regular basis especially through novels and newspapers. Try personal writing in the new language.” He said language strengthens interpersonal skills and helps people connect with new contacts easily. He added that it could help one to connect easily in a foreign land since foreigners love to embrace their native language and place it in high esteem. On her part, the Institute Director, Goethe-institut; German Institute for Language and Culture, Lagos, Dr Nadine Siegert, harped on the benefits of learning a foreign language. The linguist said, “It opens a new way for one and equips the brain, making one more curious and open to the world. There are also study opportunities abroad especially in regions of the world where the language is being spoken. It also assists in making new friends and exploring new opportunities.” Siegert stated that the challenges of learning some foreign languages such as German could be a bit complex in grammar and word structure, noting however that with good language teachers, learning them would be fun. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com