***three vigilante operatives feared killed At least no fewer than 11 soldiers were feared killed by suspected terrorists in a military base at Birnin-Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. A source whose brother was among the soldiers killed by bloodthirsty terrorists told our correspondent on Tuesday. According to a source, the bloodthirsty terrorists in large numbers stormed and engaged the soldiers at the military base at Polwire village, 19 other soldiers were injured. He said the bandits, riding on motorcycles and carrying AK47 rifles, engaged the soldiers in a gun battle for more than two hours before the terrorists eventually subdued them (soldiers). The terrorists, it was learnt, razed the troops’ Armoured Personnel Carrier after they had overwhelmed them. The bandits carted away weapons after dislodging the soldiers, according to the source. Another source, also told one of our correspondents that the casualty figures on the side of soldiers might be more, adding that three civilians were killed. “Two of the civilians were members of a vigilante group while one was a traveller,” he added. Meanwhile, the chairman of the Birnin Gwari Emirate Progressive Union, Ishaq Usman Kasai, who also confirmed the death of three vigilante operatives, added that the attack took place on Sunday around 3pm. He added that the terrorists suspected to be the Ansaru were believed to be coming from Niger State when they attacked the military base. Kasai, however, noted that normalcy has gradually returned to Birnin Gwari who had been under intense attack. “When we heard we had to run and seek refuge elsewhere. Most of the residents slept outside Birnin Gwari town,” he added. He noted that the security situation in Birnin Gwari was getting out of hand, calling on the government to take urgent steps in addressing the situation. “The security situation is becoming increasingly alarming whereby a large swath of Birnin-Gwari Local Government Area is now at the mercy of marauding bandits who usually roll into towns and villages in convoys of motorcycles mostly riding three on each, brandishing AK47 rifles killing and abducting people including women and children. “BEPU noted that the bandits usually spend hours operating with impunity and unleashing terror, especially in rural communities. “The bandits also placed taxes on various communities and keep coming back repeatedly to attack them because of the absence of law enforcement agents. “BEPU observes this situation as not only tragic but shameful that these bunch of ragtag bandits on motorcycles wielding AK47 rifles can roam most communities in the area with impunity killing and abducting peaceful helpless innocent citizens in a nation that seems to have standing Armed Forces and the Police,” he added. As of the time of filing the report, there was no confirmation from the police, Army and the state government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com