THE President of the International Facility Management Association, Nigeria Chapter, Mr. Segun Adebayo, has commended the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), for assenting to the Executive Order 11 on National Public Buildings Maintenance Policy. According to a statement by the association, Adebayo said the Executive Order was long overdue and that its implementation would guarantee professional management and maintenance of the Federal assets. He said, “As we earnestly looking forward to the implementation of the provisions of the new order, through the setting up of maintenance department in MDAs, our association is committed to collaborating with Federal Government through relevant Ministry to provide required capacity building and knowledge development” “As an association, we have been advocating the integration of sustainable practices into the built environment and this has started yielding the desired results” “We would also want to appreciate the Honorable Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN, for this feat because his efforts in the ministry have yielded phenomenal results and it would positively impact the various projects that this administration has embarked upon.” According to the Executive Order, the Federal Government is committed to establishing a sustained maintenance programme to optimise the enormous investment in public infrastructure. The Department of Federal Public Assets Maintenance will oversee the coordination, implementation, management, and maintenance of federal public assets, facilities, and premises across Nigeria. The agency will conduct a maintenance needs assessment, development of maintenance plan, and the necessary procurement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com