The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, has said the Monday attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train and subsequent killing of passengers on board was premeditated. The PUNCH had reported how terrorists on Monday night bombed the Abuja-Kaduna rail tracks and attacked a train filled with passengers. The train attack was coming after terrorists, numbering over 200, on Saturday invaded the Kaduna International Airport located in Igabi Local Government Area in Kaduna State, disrupting operation and killing one security personnel of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency. The attack caused panic at the airport and reportedly grounded a Lagos-bound AZMAN aircraft scheduled to take off at 12:30 pm. But Adesina described the attackers as “people who hate God, who loathe humanity, and who despise themselves”. Adesina revealed these in an article titled, ‘They hate God, they loathe humanity’, and shared on his official Facebook page on Thursday. The article read in part, “Haters of God and humanity struck on Monday, bombing the Abuja-Kaduna train. They then proceeded to open fire on passengers of the immobilized coaches. It was premeditated murder from the very bottom of hell. “See the toll of the carnage. Promising lives, cut short. Destinies terminated. Hopes and plans, ruptured. People who committed no sin, no crime, except that they lived in the same space with people who hate God, who loathe humanity, and who despise themselves. “Hell awaits them, indeed, the hottest part of that nether region, “where their worms do not die, and the fire is never quenched.” While commiserating with families who lost their loved ones to the terror attack, Adesina assured them that the Federal Government would stop at nothing in bringing the terorists to justice. “Whoever or whatever they are, terrorists, bandits, it doesn’t matter. They sow evil, and they will reap it. They do not deserve to live. Not in this world, nor the next. They need to be sent to their master, the Devil, and speedily too. “The rail revolution in the country has been hailed for its safety, comfort, luxury. Now the evil people have come to show that they hate safety, comfort, luxury. They abhor any form of progress or development. They prefer to live in the Stone Age, out there in the wild, visiting sorrow, tears, and blood on humanity. “Short of personally carrying a gun to confront the troublers of the country (he did that in his younger days), President Buhari has given the necessary support to the different security agencies. He has equipped them, trained them, boosted their morale in different ways. “And they, too, have risen to the occasion. Daily, they are dispatching the evil people to meet their principal, the Devil. But those ones keep coming like locusts. You cut their fingers, they are even wearing rings. “However, there’s one thing we are sure of. Evil has never overcome good. Light has never conquered darkness. Nigeria will win. This country will be rid of terrorists, insurgents, bandits, ritual killers, all forms of criminals. As night inexorably follows the day, and dawn comes again, it will happen.” The presidential spokesman also cautioned Nigerians against speaking “evil” about the country, adding that such utterances forbade well for the country. “But the role of some Nigerians in perpetuating anomie in the country is worrisome. Through their tongues. They say evil about the country, utter negativity, thinking they are saying it against the government of the day. I mean even bishops, pastors, imams, commentators, talk show hosts, all sorts. “They are engaged in war of tongues with Nigeria. They don’t know that the more they say it, the more evil happens. “The cup fills up, and runs over. Let’s change our tongues. Change our hearts about our country. Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. Let’s begin to bless our country, rather than curse, and sow negatives in the hearts of people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com