The Gombe State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has lauded former Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo for not importing hoodlums into the state. The PUNCH reported that Dankwambo was received last weekend by thousands of supporters who ushered him from the Airport to the secretariat of the Peoples Democratic Party. Addressing journalists on Tuesday at the state’s secretariat, Publicity Secretary Moses Kyari said that unlike the visits of Danjuma Goje, former governor of the state and senator representing Gombe Central, and Jamil Ishayaku; a governorship aspirant of the PDP, where the state incurred losses, that was not the case with Dankwambo’s visit. In November 2021, there was a clash where Goje’s convoy was allegedly attacked by hoodlums which led to the death of a person, with property also lost, according to the Gombe State Police Command. According to the Publicity Secretary, although Dankwambo had been absent from the state for three years, he was able to conduct the activities of his supporters within the law without bloodshed. Kyari said, “The Gombe APC noted with delight how Dankwambo landed at the Gombe International Airport and proceeded to the PDP secretariat in the state along with his supporters and other chieftains, peacefully without disturbing the public peace. “During Dankwambo’s visit, we observed that his supporters conducted themselves in a peaceful manner. His conduct was a sharp contrast to other Abuja-based politicians of the opposition PDP, such as former Governor Goje and Jamilu Ishyaku Gwamna who during their visits to Gombe, brought in heavily armed thugs bearing and brandishing very dangerous weapons and caused massive mayhem as well as the destruction of public properties within the state capital, which is not part of his senatorial district. “This time around, we did not notice serious breach of public peace. This is despite the fact that Dankwambo was visiting Gombe for the first time since he left office as governor. We sincerely commend Dankwambo for conducting himself in a manner befitting a man of his status and conviction.” While commending the efforts of Governor Muhammadu Yahaya for canceling an empowerment programme for fear of clashing with supporters of his predecessor, Kyari said that Yahaya had displayed his love for unity. “We wish to also commend our dear governor and leader, His Excellency, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, for once more demonstrating uncommon statesmanship in his usual character of peaceful disposition by shelving his earlier scheduled function of same Saturday, April 1 in the state capital at APC Square, which coincided with Dankwambo’s visit so as to guard against any possible clash by rival groups. This is highly commendable and it goes to show how accommodating, magnanimous and tolerant His Excellency is. “We are equally happy with the conduct of our teeming party supporters, who remained calm and maintained decorum during Dankwambo’s visit, which is an indication that we are always peaceful in our conduct even in the face of provocation. This conduct is also a testimony of the peaceful nature of our party,” Kyari added. He further noted that politicians should desist from overheating the polity in an attempt to engage electorates in consultation. Kyari said, “I want to call on politicians, particularly aspirants of the opposition in the state to take a cue from our amiable governor, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, who preaches and practices politics of all inclusion and jealously guards the peace the state is enjoying. “We need more peaceful politicians and not those that use violence in the conduct of their politics and politicking, as well as leaving a trail of blood and pain anytime they visit the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com