A coalition of northern youths under the aegis of Arewa youths for Emefiele has concluded plans to purchase a presidential nomination form for the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele. The group said its action stems from the fact that Emefiele has what it takes to lead Nigeria to the promised land considering his massive strides as the CBN governor. The convener of the youth movement, Comrade Dauda Kushu, in a press conference in Yola, said they deemed it fit to purchase the form for Emefiele because of his sterling performance, professionalism, good economic management, and his robust contributions towards curtailing insecurity, fighting corruption, and promoting innovation in the country. He said Emefiele’s potential positioned him, as a vision-driven and target-focused leader who would help Nigerian youths unleash their creative talents, innovative energies, and resourcefulness, all of which will make them extraordinary citizens and sterling ambassadors, as present and future leaders. The leader of the group extolled Emefiele as the first CBN Governor to harness Nigeria’s non-oil export potential, boosted domestic output and increased agricultural productivity, and enabled young Nigerians to play active roles in the agro-business value chain as a result of CBN’s multi-sectoral interventions under his leadership. “Nigeria requires a leader like Emefiele, who was born in the country’s south, understands the country’s north, and has a profound knowledge of ethnicities, economies, and businesses to sustain the country in one united entity. “When the majority of our earnings are spent on service loans and other commitments, there is no better time to enlist the help of a technocrat. At a time like this, we need someone who can inspire confidence in both domestic and international investors. “Not a novice who will learn on the job, but a young man with extensive knowledge of the world economy. We cannot expect the rest of the world to wait for us to catch up. It’s in our best interests to deploy a man who can accelerate our growth by a factor of ten. “He has exhibited all of the qualities that make a strong leader. He is a reliable and devoted supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari. “Under his leadership, the CBN implemented several initiatives aimed at boosting the economy, creating jobs, and raising people out of poverty. “With his rise from the private sector to a government institution, erstwhile serving as the CEO of Zenith Bank, from which he was named the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, he was able to raise the standard of business operation at the CBN while maintaining a people-centric approach characteristic of governance.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com