The Olu of Warri, His Majesty, Ogiame Atuwatse III, and his queen on Monday partnered Stanbic IBTC Bank in providing over 1,000 Point of Sale machines to women and youths in the Warri Kingdom. This is in a bid to improve the livelihood of the less privileged people in the metropolis. The intervention tagged ‘Warri Kingdom Empowerment Programme’, which attracted a crowd of women, widows and youths to the Olu’s palace field in Warri, featured the presentation of empowerment kits to the beneficiaries. The PUNCH gathered that the programme was specifically aimed at easing the provision of a means of sustenance for the Itsekiris in Delta State. The Olu of Warri in a brief speech at the event appreciated his subjects and assured the beneficiaries of his concern, as their traditional leader, to ameliorate their plights. He said, “I care about each and everyone in this kingdom. If I have millions of dollars, I will make sure that I give them all to you. What I have I give it all to you today. “These empowerment items you will receive today, God will give you the wisdom to use them; you will see the prosperity that is coming into your life.” Also speaking at the flag-off ceremony, the regional agent, Network Manager South Region of Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc., Perebor Awoju, noted that the empowerment programme was powered by the bank to broaden opportunities and access to financial services for every Nigerian and African irrespective culture and location. Perebor appreciated the office of the Olu of Warri and the Olori, for the opportunity to be a part of their vision to create value and impact the lives of the people of the Warri Kingdom. Jonathan Amino Erikowa was the first of hundreds of beneficiaries to receive the empowerment kits from Stanbic IBTC, which included a POS machine and other accessories. One of the beneficiaries, Duakpemi Utieyinmi, expressed excitement, and delight, promising to improve and expand her business with the accessories. Another beneficiary, Ogiden Tuoyi, said, “I am grateful, I have been searching for this opportunity, and God has used the Olu of Warri to bless me.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com