Nollywood actress, Chioma Toplis, has said she will not attend her father’s funeral to pay her last respect when he passes on. The actress made the statement while reacting to a tweet made by a lady simply identified as @Jayritse. The tweet read, “My father was an elder in the church, a proper elder. That was at church. At home, he was a wife-beater. He once beat my mom with a wooden plank with nails, tore her arm too, with blood and all. “He died nine years ago. I still haven’t cried. Thanks, everyone, she left him before he passed on. She’s thriving now.” Chioma, while commenting on the lady’s post on Instagram, said her father was also an elder in a church, adding that her mother left him because he was lazy, lousy, senseless and foolish. She said, “I thought we were the only ones that have a useless father. He is an elder in the church too. We are in the same boat; my mother left my father too for many reasons ranging from laziness, lousiness, cheating, senselessness, foolishness, beating; in fact, (he is) everything bad. “Do you know what? She is the WINNER for leaving alive. I grew up wondering what the hell made my mother marry such an awful man. “I won’t even attend his burial even if I am in Nigeria, talk more of crying. The most interesting part is none of my siblings will either, except my brother, the first son, just to fulfill the native and custom law.” According to the actress, when her father dies, his burial will be nothing to write home about. “Yes, he will (definitely) die before us because he came to this world before us! His burial will be nothing to write home about. Just open the ground and throw him in at the corner of our house beside the garden. Oh yes, that is where he belongs. Of course, he knows this already,” she said. Chioma’s post was reposted by Instablog9ja on Instagram. The actress, while reacting to the post, said she was confident of the statement she made about her father. She added, “Enemies and Frienemies rush now to Instablog, my gist Haff (sic) dropped to use una fake accounts to have a filled day. That is what cowards do because they cannot face me. I said what I said with my full chest.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com