BLESSING ENENAITE speaks with six gospel singers— Eben, Onos Ariyo, Mike Abdul, Asu Ekiye, Monique and Joe Praize— concerning their careers, achievements and other issues I have no qualms collaborating with secular artistes — Emmanuel Benjamin (Eben) What influenced your decision to become a gospel singer? My relationship with God influenced my decision to become a gospel singer. I also thought about what I could give back to the person that saved my life and I found out that I could sing. I asked myself, ‘Why don’t I sing about Him, as well as His love and grace’? That is how we got here. What do you consider to be your notable achievements as a gospel singer? It is when I look back and see that we (Nigerian gospel singers) have contributed to the global playlist of believers around the world. That is a blessing to my heart. Globally, when (notable) Christian songs are being mentioned, some of the songs I have done would be mentioned. That is a blessing and I think it is amazing. Was it intentional for you to get married to a gospel singer? It was very intentional (laughs). Marriage is about going somewhere. If one is going to the farm, one needs a second person that is a farmer that will be useful to one on the farm. It is God’s ‘help-meet’ that is suitable for where one is going. God chose her for me and she has been a blessing to me. Do you go through any special voice training before singing? Not really. I just sing from my heart. I don’t undergo any special voice training. However, I do exercises, but not before singing. They are done way before I get on stage. Wande Coal recently expressed a desire to collaborate with you. How soon should we be expecting the song? It will be released at the right time. It will be a surprise. Have you ever faced any criticism for collaborating with secular artistes? No, I have not. It depends on what the both of us are singing together. If the person is singing something else, that is where the problem comes from. But, if both of us are glorifying God, it should not be a problem. I have collaborated with MI Abaga, and it was not a problem. This one with Wande Coal and any other one that may be done later will not be a problem. As long as we are gathered to glorify the name of Jesus, I am up for it. What are the factors that brought you this far in your career? Hard work, diligence, discipline, dedication and passion. One has to be passionate and when there is passion, making sacrifices is easy. One should not go into anything if one is not passionate about it. Passion can be worked on and built. I have not allowed my passion for God’s work to die. The Bible says we should ‘stir up every day’. One has to keep the fire burning. Most importantly, the grace of God has brought me this far. You gained prominence after your performance at a concert at Christ Embassy. How would you describe your relationship with Pastor Chris Oyakhilome? Pastor Oyakhilome is my father in the Lord, my pastor and coach. I thank God for sending him my way and what God has used him to do in my life. It has been a wonderful journey. What are your latest projects? I have been holding conferences (Rev Conference) about twice a year. It is a youth empowerment initiative. But, we don’t just advise the youth (at the conference), we empower them, pray for them and ‘charge’ them up. Those are the things I am working on right now. We also support small businesses, and give out scholarships. I have a whole lot of good things going on. I will also release a song this year. How do you unwind? I relax with my 10 dogs (laughs) by watching and playing with them. Time to reflect on life, challenges — Mike Abdul What does Easter mean to you? Easter represents a new beginning for me. It is an opportunity to start over again the things that have died or are not going well in one’s life. What do you consider to be your most noteworthy achievements as a gospel singer? They include gracing some of the most desirable platforms across the world, in the United Kingdom, United States of America, Nigeria and other places. Another notable achievement is releasing some albums and winning awards in the country and beyond with Midnight Crew, and as a solo artiste. Gospel music seems to be getting more attention than what obtained before. What do you think is responsible for that? I think it is because gospel artistes now see it as a responsibility to go into the entertainment industry and influence it. You own Spaghetti Records. What are the highlights of the company? So far, I have signed Monque and A’dam. The label has been able to place these artistes on platforms around the world. We have been able to develop a system that once people plug in (with us), their contents, promotion and marketing is assured. Gospel artistes are usually criticised by some for charging high performance fees. What’s your take on that? I don’t think anything is wrong with charging performance fees. As a matter of fact, I think anyone that wants to engage another person (for a performance) should know there are certain things that should be paid for. Nothing comes for free. Even if you are not paying them (gospel singers), know that it wasn’t for free because someone else would have paid for it. Gospel artistes pay for logistics, band members, and other things. It is only fair to accept that gospel artistes have to be paid. Which are the most memorable performances of your career? I remember The African Praise Experience in 2019 organised by House on the Rock church. As a solo artiste, that was my most memorable performance. As a member of Midnight Crew, some Experience concerts at House on the Rock were very memorable. We also had some memorable performances in Ghana. Once in Ghana, we thought the people might not understand our local language. After we had performed for some time, one of the organisers came to meet me and said, “My brother, you people have not sang Igwe (laughs). I thought since the song was a mix of Igbo and Yoruba languages, the people might not understand it. The organiser then said, “We won’t pay your balance, except you sing that song. That was the reason you were brought here”. It was a Pan-African event and immediately Patricia (Midnight Crew member) started the song, people brought out the flags of their countries and started chanting “Igwe”! It was a beautiful sight. You are usually energetic when performing. How do you prepare before mounting the stage? It is just who I am. I am energetic (by nature) and that is the way I am able to pass my message. I cannot be anything short of that. What current projects are you working on? I released my latest album titled, Hallelujah Always, on Good Friday, April 15, 2022. I featured 13 artistes, including Tim Godfrey, Ada Ehi, Onos Ariyo, Monique, A’dam and Sola Allyson. Your style of music has a heavy fuji influence and some people have criticised you for it. What is your reaction to that? It is just who I am. It is a culture I grew up in. I can only be true to myself and I present myself the way I am to the world. I grew up in the Mafoluku, Oshodi area of Lagos. Whenever my father drove us to school back then, we heard fuji music everywhere. He also played fuji music in the house. When it was time for me to find expression in music, it came naturally because it had been stored up in me. Elections are fast approaching. Do you think it is right for gospel artists to endorse certain aspirants or candidates? I don’t think endorsing any candidate should be about religion, either Christianity or Islam. One has the right to say, ‘This is the candidate I like or support’. I don’t think anything is wrong with that. If a gospel artist says they are supporting a particular candidate, it is fine. My encounters with God influence my music — Onos Ariyo You have had a thriving career. What would you say is responsible for that? God has been sustaining me. I recorded my first single in 2009 and I released my first album in 2010. One thing that has been consistent about me is my genuine love and passion for God. I have had different encounters with God and when those things happen, I want to express them in songs. My love for God has a way of pulling me back to the drawing board. Your style of worship is distinct, especially when you perform in your dialect. Is it deliberate or is that how you ‘flow’ when ministering? I think it is more about how I ‘flow’. Also, that is how music started for me. I grew up in Delta State. It was after my graduation from the Delta State University in 2003 that I moved to Lagos. The kind of songs I loved to sing while growing up influenced the kind of songs I now sing. When it comes to general worship, the state of one’s heart is very important. God sees our hearts and how it flows from within. There is something about when one finds one’s purpose and one knows the reason one does what one does. It could be in music, writing or any other field. When one knows what one is called to do, and the audience one is called to (minister to), it has a way of making one stay focused. When I found out that this is what God called me to do, I was bold enough to do what I wanted to do. What is most memorable Easter performance you’ve ever had? Every time I get to share my gift with a congregation on Good Friday or Resurrection Sunday, it is memorable for me as it reminds me of the death of Jesus on the cross. He is the reason we live. Why did you decide to become a gospel singer? I have always known that it is gospel music I want to do. It started at a very early age. I always want to sing about the God I often talked about. I love to sing about God’s goodness. What are your biggest achievements as a gospel singer? I have received a couple of awards and recognitions within and outside Nigeria. One of the most remarkable moments for me is when I minister, and people give their lives to Christ. Recently, I was in Abuja for the New Dimension Experience, which was the tour to promote my fifth album. One of the highlights of that meeting was when people gave their lives to Christ. Which artiste (s) would you like to collaborate with? I have collaborated with some international gospel acts, including Jekalyn Carr, when she came for my Breathe concert in 2019. However, I would still like to collaborate with Tasha Cobbs. What are your latest projects? I released my 14–track fifth album titled, New Dimension, in January. I featured Ada Ehi, Victoria Orenze and Oluchi, among others. I also recently concluded the New Dimension tour in Abuja, and I will be going to other states too. How do you like to dress? I like to dress comfortably, trendy, decent and classy. It amazes me when miracles happen during my ministration — Temitope Lawal (Monique) What were the challenges you faced on your journey to stardom? There were no challenges. I wanted people to listen to my songs and it was easy for them to accept my work. What are your notable achievements so far as a gospel singer? It is what money cannot buy, which is leading people to Jesus Christ. I have heard about my music being a blessing to people and also contributing to their healing. I consider that a huge achievement. What are your most memorable moments as a gospel singer? That would be anytime I am ministering and I see miracles happening. It is something that always amazes me. It encourages me to do more for God. What influenced your decision to become a gospel singer? I was born a Christian, and that made it easy for me to do gospel music. That was the only thing I knew. Which song brought you to limelight? It was my first album. I believe every song has its unique blessings and anointing. What are your latest projects? I just released a 10-track album. It is my fourth album and it is titled, Timeless. I also released the video for a song off the album on April 1, 2022. What does Easter mean to you and what are your plans for the season? For me, Easter is a time of revaluation because every time I watch how Jesus was laid to the cross for a crime he never committed, it takes me down memory lane. Even if we have been enjoying grace all these while, we should know that it comes with a price. It tells us that we should constantly show love and kindness. The resurrection of Christ makes me understand that God is supreme. I usually spend Easter in church, praising God and helping the underprivileged, as well as making people happy. How do you unwind? I like watching movies at home. I also like to be creative with my time and drive towards positivity. Easter is reason for Christianity– Asu Ekiye What inspired you to go into gospel music? I refer to myself as a product of the gospel. The Bible says, ‘Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks’. What I reflect in my songs is a function of my encounters on the inside. Your songs are majorly delivered in your native tongue. Why is that so? It is because every culture is a blessing. Sometimes, Africans marginalise their language and culture out of an inferiority complex. Some of the greatest musical exports from Africa to the world are vernacular singers. I was inspired to sing my language. English songs never worked for me in all the years I tried them. What do you consider to be your most notable achievements? I have won the Channel O award for ‘Best African Gospel Artiste’ on two occasions. Another achievement is touring the world to perform my brand of music and (winning) other music awards. Also, I have the legacy of creating a sound that is being copied by the new generation of singers from my area (Niger Delta). I have also been invited to participate in politics, which is now a big dream (for me). Another achievement is being elected as the president of the Fellowship of Gospel Music Ministers of Nigeria, which is an umbrella body for all gospel artistes in Nigeria. What does Easter mean to you and how do you intend to spend the season? Easter is one of the principal holidays in Christianity. It marks the resurrection of Jesus Christ three days after his death. For many churches, Easter is the joyful end to the Lenten season of fasting and penitence. I see Easter as the reason for Christianity. Without the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, there would be no remission of sin and no Christianity. I will spend Easter doing charity work around Abuja, perform in some concerts and also celebrate my wife’s birthday. What is the most memorable Easter ministration you’ve ever had? It was one special Easter that I spent in London, United Kingdom, in 2006. The experience was too unique for me to forget. What changes would you like to see in the way Easter is celebrated? Any kind of celebration that does not honour Jesus Christ is an abuse of the significance of Easter. One cannot celebrate Jesus Christ, yet desecrate His altar. What influences your signature style of dressing? It is influenced by the cultural genre of music I have chosen. The people from the Niger Delta have a unique way of dressing, and my style typifies that uniqueness. It’s time to reflect on God’s love — Joseph Ebhodaghe (Joe Praize) What inspired you to go into gospel music? From an early age, I was an altar boy. I did not really make the decision to become a gospel singer; it was more of an assignment. I am not doing gospel music because I cannot do other kinds of music. It is because I am out to fulfill a purpose. What were the challenges you faced in the early stage of your career? I had some challenges growing up, especially when I lost my parents in 1998. However, I never had challenges when I started my music career. God helped me quickly with money to record my songs and book studio sessions. I also learnt to save money to record my songs too. If one does not manage money well and invest in one’s dream, one should not expect someone else to do that for one. What are your notable achievements as a gospel singer? Being a blessing to this generation is an achievement for me. When people tell me that my music helped them out of a particular situation, I feel uplifted. There is a man who is now the general overseer of a church in Delta State. At one point, it was my music that drew him back to church. Things that make spiritual sense are what I count as my achievements and not material things. What does Easter mean to you and how do you intend to celebrate the season? For many years, I have hardly celebrated Easter in my house because I am usually out for ministrations around the world. However, Easter is a perfect show of God’s love. It was not the birth of Jesus that brought us Christianity; it was His death, burial and resurrection that brought it. We should use this season to reflect on God’s love for us. How do you unwind? I spend time with my family. We could just decide to eat together and play music. Music is still a part of how I unwind. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com