The Cross River State Governor, Prof Ben Ayade, has approved the deduction of N1,000 from workers’ monthly salaries for the Cross River Health Insurance Scheme known as Ayadecare. The state government on Thursday flagged-off the formal sector enrolment into the scheme six years after its introduction in 2016, when it signed into law a bill that set up the Cross River Health Insurance Agency. Speaking during the event, the Director General, Cross River Health Insurance Scheme, Mr Godwin Iyala, said the scheme would enable residents of the state to access affordable and quality healthcare. According to Iyala, qualified personnel have been engaged to give top-notch services to workers in the formal sector of the state. “Universal healthcare is what the government intends; this is important because it helps workers put money back into their pockets instead of paying out of pocket. “With N12, 000 annually, every enrolled worker in the state can secure care in the Primary Healthcare Centres, General Hospitals or the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital when the case arises,” he said. Also speaking, the state Head of Service, Timothy Akwaji, said with legal backing, the scheme had become mandatory for all civil/public servants and the political class. He said, “With this formal enrolment ceremony, deductions of the sum of N1,000 monthly each from the enrolees will commence forthwith. “The deduction which has been approved by the governor and critical stakeholders including the organised labour, have taken due appraisal and granted approval considering enormous benefits to members.” The state Coordinator of the National Health Insurance Scheme, Margaret Moffi, commended the state government for the scheme. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com