Popular stand-up comedian, Abovi Ugboma, aka Bovi, has stated that stand-up comedy in Nigeria had gotten worse than it used to be. During the session tagged ‘Ask me anything’, a fan of the comedian asked Bovi’s opinion if stand-up comedy had gotten better in Nigeria or worse? In a swift response, he said “worse.” He, however, went further to reveal that stand-up comedy in Nigeria could become better if people told “jokes in proper comedy clubs.” Earlier, Bovi revealed that he was banned from entering the United States of America because he had an ego clash with a visa issuing officer. Describing the incident as ill luck, Bovi, while replying to questions from his fans on Instagram said he was labelled and banned after the incident. A fan of the comedian asked if he could visit Massachusetts to crack them up with laughter. In a terse response, the comic star said, “I’m banned in the U.S.A.” Asked why he was banned from entering the US, the popular comedian responded saying, “Ill luck! Met a charity visa issuing officer! Egos clashed! I got labelled.” The comic star also revealed that his “performances at the school of the blind” were his favourite. Another fan asked if Bovi accepted proposals for creative work or relied solely on his creativity, he said, “I rely on mine only! Because creative works can be similar and one can end up thinking you stole their idea.” When asked to advise people addicted to hard drugs including cocaine, the comedian urged victims to “seek help through therapy. To defeat something stronger than you, you need something/someone more powerful than you.” Also responding to a question on his preferred presidential candidate in the forthcoming general elections, Bovi said he would wait “until they (candidates) debate.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com