Sickle cell anaemia is a serious condition which is inherited (genetic). It affects the red blood cells in the blood. With SCA, the red blood cells tend to go out of shape and become sickle-shaped (like a crescent moon) – instead of their normal doughnut/disc shape. This can cause various problems such as episodes of pain, infections, and various complications. The main symptoms of sickle cell disorder are anaemia and episodes of severe pain. The pain occurs when the cells change shape after oxygen has been released. The red blood cells then stick together, causing blockages in the small blood vessels. These painful episodes are treated with strong painkillers such as morphine to control the pain.   People with sickle cell are at risk of further complications such as stroke, acute chest syndrome, blindness, bone damage and priapism (a persistent, painful erection of the penis) etc. People living with sickle cell sometimes suffer from iron deficiency and this is quite common. A lack of iron leads to a deficiency in red blood cells and this in turn could lead to heart attack and other complications. Iron plays a central role in the function of red blood cells which help in transporting oxygen around the body, in energy production. Iron is used to produce red blood cells, which help store and carry oxygen in the blood. If you have fewer red blood cells than is normal, your organs and tissues will not get as much oxygen as they usually would. (www.nhs.uk). On the other hand, if you are given blood transfusion regularly, you might have what is called ‘iron overload’ in your system, which is also not good for your body, as it may cause organ damage. Additionally, transfusions are used to increase blood oxygen carrying capacity in sickle cell patients with severe chronic anemia or with severe anemic episodes. Transfusion is well-defined as prophylaxis (stroke) and as therapy (acute chest syndrome and stroke) for major complications of sickle cell disease and has been instituted, based on less conclusive data, for a range of additional complications, such as priapism, vaso-occlusive crises, leg ulcers, pulmonary hypertension, and during complicated pregnancies. The major and unavoidable complication of transfusions in sickle cell disease is iron overload. While transfusion may improve disease complications, iron overload is a dreaded and inevitable consequence of ongoing transfusion therapy. Chronically transfused iron overloaded patients with SCD have significantly higher mortality than less transfused counterparts without iron overload, Blood transfusion plays a prominent role in the management of patients with sickle cell disease but causes significant iron overload. As transfusions are used to treat the severe complications of SCD, it remains difficult to distinguish whether organ damage is a consequence of iron overload or is due to the complications treated by transfusion. I am sure that you would have noticed that a lot of foods I recommend are filled with vitamins and iron. Have you had an iron transfusion before? Well, I have, and I can tell you it is not a pleasant experience.  Being given iron intravenously is as if someone is slowly pouring iced water into one. By the time you have received the amount of iron that your body needs, one is left shivering and on the verge of having a crisis because of the procedure. After my last experience some years ago, I told myself, eating healthy and nourishing food is much better than what I went through.  Since then, I try to make a conscious effort to eat food high in iron and other nutrients and I can assure you that it has helped me enormously. With sickle cell, it is important to eat a well-balanced diet, meaning, your vegetables and fruits, as well as drinking at least two litres of water a day.  I have tried to compile a list of food that is good for us to eat and fight sickle cell and stay healthy and most importantly stay out of hospital. The list is by no means exhaustive.  The main thing is, if you are eating, do try and consider eating from the list below because these are food high in iron. Red lean meat, liver, egg yolks, lentils, vitamin C (orange), all leafy greens, (especially Ugwu, ewedu and okra), red peppers, sardines in a can, boiled eggs, beef, tuna, nuts (cashew, almonds, walnuts, pistachio, ground nuts), beans, (kidney beans, black eyed beans etc), dates, shrimps, raisins, turkey, chicken, pork, lamb, cabbage, steak, whole wheat, bread (go for brown), veal, hot dogs, chicken liver, peas, pasta, spirulina, sweet potato, tomato (puree or paste), cereal, quinoa. Drinks: Orange, carrot, apple, cherry, grape and tomato. I cannot insist enough that if you have sickle cell or you are looking after a child with sickle cell, please eat leafy greens as often as possible.  The likes of Ugwu are rich in iron, other kind of spinach, kale as well as jute leaves, known as ewedu are equally good for your diet. These leafy greens are known as ‘super food’ and classified as one of the world’s healthiest vegetables.  They are loaded with nutrients and have small calories, but high in fibre; high in irons and so good to eat. They are rich in iron, contain protein, minerals, and vitamins (A, B1, B2, B6, C, E, K) and folic acid. They also contain calcium, potassium, manganese, magnesium, zinc etc. Kale for example is filled with antioxidants and is a great anti-inflammatory food.  It is also high in manganese, calcium, copper, potassium and magnesium. Jute leaves for example contain more protein and iron than kale, which has become popular for its reputation as a superfood.   All in all, these leafy greens are known to add vitality, improve the quality of the blood and repair energy.  These leaves are perhaps some of the most nutritious vegetables on the planet. If you would like to get in touch with me about this article or about sickle cell, do so, via email: t.dehinde@yahoo.com.  Pls visit my blog: www.howtolivewithsicklecell.co.uk The e-copy of my book on sickle cell – How To Live With Sickle Cell is available for purchase on www.toladehinde.com and if you want to purchase a paperback version, it is available on Amazon.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com