Gunmen on Friday morning attacked the Mbieri Divisional headquarters located in the Mbaitoli Local Government Area of Imo State. This is the fifth divisional police headquarters gunmen had burnt since they renewed their hostilities in state in the past one month. Gunmen had burnt Okwelle, Omuma, Isu and Umuguma divisional police headquarters, killing two policemen and burning several vehicles in the process within the last four weeks. The hoodlums also released inmates during their invasion of police divisions in the state. In the latest attack, some indigenes of Mbieri told Saturday PUNCH that the attackers arrived at Mbieri divisional police headquarters around 3am and opened fire on the facility. One of the natives, whose house is close to the divisional headquarters, said the attack was frightening. The source, who does not want to mentioned, said, “We didn’t sleep last night. They arrived around 3am and sounds of their weapons kept us awake till the dawn of a new day. This is so scary.” Another source told our correspondent that the hoodlums threw Explosive Ordinance Disposals at the police station, adding that they affected part of the roof of the police facility. He said, “The hoodlums bombed the police station. Luckily, it was not a maximum destruction. The whole building was not affect. Part of the roof was affected.” When contacted, the police spokesperson for the command, Micheal Abattam, said that it was a foiled attack Abattam said that petrol bombs the attackers threw at the police formation only affected a part of the roof, adding that one vehicle was also affected. He said investigation had commenced with a view to arresting the suspects.  Anambra police station too. In a related development, hoodlums have attacked the Amichi Divisional Police Headquarters in Nnewi South Local Government Area of Anambra State. The attack came barely 24 hours after the administrative headquarters of the  Nnewi South LGA was attacked, leaving one person dead. The reason for the attack, which occurred on Friday, was yet unknown. The police station was still undergoing reconstruction as it was among the stations attacked during 2020 EndSARS protest. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, confirmed the incident. Ikenga said there was no casualty, adding that a team of personnel had been drafted to the area to ensure calm.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com