Controversial Islamic cleric, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, on Saturday asked the All Progressives Congress-led regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to declare a state of emergency on the nation’s health sector. According to Gumi, the health sector across the country has collapsed as the general hospitals are now mere consulting centres. The fiery cleric called on Nigerian leaders to fear God and ensure that the state of the nation’s hospitals got a facelift from what it is at the moment. Gumi, stated this as he led other Muslim faithful on a visit to two major state-owned hospitals in Kaduna, the state capital, shortly after the annual Ramadan preaching session which held at Sultan Bello Mosque, Kaduna on Saturday. Meanwhile, Gumi was reported to have floated an advocacy group known as Nomadic Rights Concern to fight for the rights of Fulani herders. Gumi, while announcing the formation of the Nomadic Rights Concern, said it would bring attention to the abuses and violations of rights of Fulani herders across the country. “We found it worthwhile to establish Nomadic Rights Concern to be headed by Prof. Umar Labbo. NORIC is supposed to be a channel whereby nomads will have their complaints and agitation addressed to the right authorities. “The organisation was established to address these fallouts, hopefully, nomads will follow the civil ways in addressing their grievances away from violence, it’s said that violence is the language of the unheard,” he said. The hospitals visited, according to Malam Tukur Mamu (Dan-Iyan Fika), Median Consultant to the cleric, are Barau Dikko Specialist Hospital in the metropolis and the Gwamna Awwan General Hospital in the southern part of the state. Specifically, Gumi described the situation of the patients in all the two major hospitals as “pathetic and indicting” on the part of the government of the day. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com