The Coalition of Northern Christian Youth, Kano State Chapter, over the weekend, unanimously endorsed the founder and coordinator of Buhari Support Organisation, Ibrahim El-Dabi, as its aspirant for the 2023 presidential race, on the platform of the All Progressives Congress. According to the coalition, the decision was owing to El-Dabi’s zeal for the youth, as well as his willingness to examine issues, as they are, with focused attention to public’s concern. In a communique made available to the The PUNCH in Kano, the coalition, said it also endorsed El-Dabi for his readiness, if eventually elected Nigeria’s President, to tackle security challenges head on, a monster that has been causing Nigerians sleepless nights. “We have had the opportunity to observe, analyse and evaluate all the perspectives and agenda of the various presidential aspirants in the upcoming elections on the basis of experience and expertise. Your honesty, zeal for the youth, your hopeful insight, your willingness to examine issues and listen closely to the public’s concern, set you far apart from other aspirants,” the communique read in part. “To this end, the coalition unanimously agreed on the person and pedigree of El-Dabi to vie for the position of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, come 2023, by the grace of God,” it read. According the coalition, what the country needs is different approach to governance, including robust and people-oriented policies, with a focused individual that has the mindset and passion for the country. “The Coalition of Northern Christian Youth is a platform of politically, religious-minded people from different Christian denominations and ethnic groups, with enduring structure spread across the 19 Northern States and the Federal Capital Territory. The coalition was born out of the desire to bring about positive change and ensure accountability in governance across the region. “The group comprises professionals from different fields of human endeavour, and our main concerns are religion, politics, security, education, scholarship and entrepreneurship, among others, as part of our nationwide contact and mobilisation drive to bring on board all well-meaning Nigerians and major stakeholders, who share in our vision for a great country. “It is on this premise that we call on party delegates, opinion leaders, critical stakeholders and key players to look beyond the optics and go for competency, accountability, and credibility in person of Dr Ibrahim Bello Dauda (El-Dabi) to be our next President in the forthcoming presidential election of the Federal Republic if Nigeria,” the coalition said. The communique listed the qualities of the aspirant to include fairness, equality, thoughtfulness, generosity, intelligence and dedication to good cause, with resounding achievements that resonate across the length and breadth of the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com