Some members of Edemosi community in Osun State have given the town’s royal father, Oba Samuel Olaniyan, a seven-day ultimatum to relocate to the town or quit the throne. They also asked Oba Olaniyan to recall two chiefs that he had suspended from office. Members of the community in a letter addressed to the Osun State Commissioner of Police dated 30th March 2022, against the monarch, which was signed by Sunday Awosina and two others, and obtained by our correspondent, said Oba Olaniyan had been administering the community from Ila. They also said the monarch must withdraw letters suspending two chiefs, the Obaala of Edemosi, Abiodun Awojide, and the Akogun of Edemosi, Aniyikaye Awowale, and apologise to women in the town for insulting them during a meeting. The petition further read in part, “Oba Samuel Olaniyan was installed as the king of Edemosi king four years ago, but he has neither passed a night nor slept at Edemosi community for a day. We are giving him seven days to relocate to Edemosi and stop ruling us from Ila-orangun. “Withdrawal of the suspension letter submitted to High Chief, Abiodun Awojide (Obaala of Edemosi) and chief Aniyikaye Awowale (Akogun of Ede).” But Oba Olaniyan when contacted by our correspondent said one of the suspended chiefs engaged in dishonest practices. The royal father in a letter suspending Awojide as Obaala, which he made available to our correspondent, specifically accused him of illegal conversion of farmlands belonging to some dead tenants of the community to personal use. The letter further listed, “Misappropriation of Edemosi funds, collection of Edemosi royalty fund and failure to give account, gross insubordination to HRM’s authority and organisation of palace coup to cause upheaval and disaffection against the person of Oba Samuel Olaniyan,” as other infractions committed by the suspended chief. Speaking further, the monarch, who accused Awojide of using his office as Akogun to defraud the community, also stated in the suspension letter that the embattled chief used charms to threaten other chiefs and insulted him. Oba Olaniyan dismissed all allegations levelled against him and challenged his accusers to approach the court if they have proof. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com