Eunice Ogundare is the Chief Executive Officer of a clothing brand, Styled by Valentynoh. She tells ADEBIMPE OLAJIGA highlights of her career What is your educational background? I had my elementary education at Emure Local Government Nursery and Primary School. For my secondary education, I attended Ekiti State Government College, Ikere. I went on to study Biochemistry at Ekiti State University. These days, I am creating a niche for myself in the world of fashion. Do you have any corporate work experience? Yes I do. I worked with 3way Communications, the operator of Eksu Smart School, as a learning management system administrator, while I was in 300 level in the university. I have also held leadership positions in school, such as being the Director of Awards for Junior Chamber international. When and how did you venture into fashion designing? I have always loved fashion, and I have a high taste for clothings. While in school, I decided to learn fashion designing from a colleague but I was not too serious about it because I did not see her as my boss. But, after I graduated, I went to her store to conclude my learning before going for the National Youth Service Corps scheme. I started with making casual boubous and kimonos as a one man business, and I did lots of work from fabric sourcing to cutting, sewing, ironing and modelling before I decided to employ more hands to ease the stress on me, and provide more amazing styles and designs to satisfy our customers’ needs as they are the reason we are in business in the first place. What services does your business offer? We offer ready-to-wear and bespoke outfits for unique and classy ladies. What motivated you to start your own business? I had a single machine before going for NYSC, but after my youth service, I decided to start sewing in my room with that machine. However, I needed more hands and more machines because I wanted my brand to be known and recognised by many. Then, the thought of relocating to Lagos set in. After a year of struggle, I eventually decided to relocate to Lagos in order to expand the business. However, upon getting to Lagos, I faced a lot of challenges. Relocating from one state to another is not easy, especially when one is just starting out, trying to market one’s brand, and getting the right people to work with. However, I am grateful to God for this journey because I know He is set to complete what he has started with me. How much was your initial capital, and how did you raise it? My initial capital was 200 thousand naira, and I was able to raise it during my NYSC in 2019. I had a separate account for my allowance, which I decided I would not spend until I was done with service. I am glad I was able to stick to that decision of mine. Though it was not easy, I am glad I took that decision. What is the difference between you and others in your line of business? We pay more attention to details. We also make sure we source for the best materials for all our collections to ensure the finishing is perfect. Also, all our outfits are affordable and pocket friendly. What major challenges have you faced in this business? I have faced a lot of them and I am still facing some. However, I am not bothered because I know it is one of those things a business owner should expect. As of right now, my greatest challenges are how to break even in this business because it is highly competitive, how to get and convince customers to buy from one, and how to get the right (brand) influencers to work with. How do you find customers? All I can say is that God has been the ‘chief pioneer’ of my business from inception. How he sends customers my way has been through grace. How do you advertise the business? I do sponsored advertisements, and work with reputable brand influencers, who I love and appreciate. Have you ever thought of quitting and starting something else? Sometimes, the thought come because I am human. There was a time I had to resume a computer training class because I got an offer to work at the Nigerian Bottling Company. Again, I said to myself that I am a born leader, so giving up is never an option for me. Also, the zeal to succeed keeps me going as I know I can do all things through Christ that strengthens me. How profitable has the businesses been since you started? The ready-to-wear line is a good and profitable business, as long as one is ready to invest. However, one always has to be on one’s toes. What future do you envisage for your business? Fashion evolves every day, so the industry is a creative and innovative one. I have a lot of plans for the future. I project that the business will grow bigger with different branches all around the world. My daily prayer is that God should position our brand in the right places because we believe with God, all things are possible. What kind of support did you receive from your family/friends when you started? My family and friends are my biggest brand supporters. What is the most influential factor in your business’ success? It is God. He has been the driver of the business from inception till date. What advice do you have for young people who would want to go into your type of business? I am still a work in progress myself but I would advice them never to believe in impossibility. They should always be consistent. Consistency is difficult when no one is clapping for you but you also need clap for yourself. Second, always be yourself and create your own niche by being unique in your own way. Lastly, be ready to spend money on advertisement. Also, be prayerful, and trust the process. How do you handle difficult customers? As a business owner, I have come to realise that my level of tolerance should be about 99.5 per cent. Whenever I sense a difficult customer, I practise active listening to have a better understanding of the issue and talk to them politely, and apologise when the need arises as customers are believed to be always right. How many employees do you have? There are currently five people working with us, and we hope to have even more hands as we grow and expand. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com