A coalition of 65 groups on Wednesday converged in Kano where they drummed support and also raised over N100 million for the 2023 presidential ambition of the Minister for Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio. A statement from the convener of the coalition, Dr Jibril Tafida, said the groups agreed to raise funds for the purchase of the All Progressives Congress presidential nomination form for Akpabio after “a frantic search for a detribalised Nigerian politician with a proven record of unbeatable policies at various points in the corridors of power”. The coalition said Akpabio’s “exemplary leadership abilities, his passion for helping people grow professionally and masses-friendly political style has made him distinct in today’s Nigeria.” The coalition further stated that Akpabio has made his mark as a listening leader with the competencies to lead the country on the path of growth and progress. “He is not just as a listening leader, but one whose main goal is to promote skills and competencies, as well as providing equipment, start-up funds and massive empowerment programmes to thousands of people in the six geopolitical zones of this country,” the group further said. The statement read, “The convener of the coalition and National Coordinator of Senator Godswill Akpabio for Common Good, Dr Jibril Tafida, told the crowd-VIPs, youth, women and traders association representatives that efforts through him have reached an advanced stage, with the voluntary donation of N111.387mn being raised. “The youth and women associations led the pack with over N100m out of the total sum realised at the end of the event.” The collation argued that donations proved that “stakeholders of the Nigerian project have acknowledged not just the leadership competence of Akpabio but also his energetic and sound health status.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com