Lagos Business School has partnered with Semicolon Africa and Henley Business School to provide training for African youths so as to transform job seekers into sustainable job creators. The project, called Nexus Project, was funded by the British Council and seeks to bridge the unemployment gap and reduce the failure rate of start-ups. A statement by LBS said in the first phase of the project, a total of 30 African techpreneurs representing 15 projects/business ventures with great entrepreneurial ideas would be trained, mentored, and supported to transform their ideas into investable and sustainable ventures. Speaking at the formal launch of the project, which was held virtually, the project director and LBS Faculty, Dr Adun Okupe said, “The beneficiaries who are selected for the training will undergo a 6-month (April to August 2022) management programme, which delivers specialist knowledge transfer, education, coaching, and mentoring to propel their venture ideas to investment readiness and connect them to a nexus of investors.” Vice-Dean Africa, Henley Business School, Jean-Pierre Choulet, stated that there was the need to provide the required platform for African youths to jumpstart their entrepreneurial journey while providing them with adequate support to scale their businesses. Speaking on Semicolon’s participation in the project, the CEO of Semicolon Africa, Mr Sam Immanuel stated that “We are pleased to collaborate with the LBS and Henley Business School on this initiative that sets to increase the success stories of African youths who are boisterous, creative, and desirous of building sustainable businesses to last a lifetime.” Meanwhile, five MBA Alumni of Lagos Business School had been added to the coaching and mentorship programme to provide technical skills support to the participants. The mentors were CEO, Sustmark Consult, Oluwafemi Adeniba; Founder, Truss Empowerment Foundation, Azukaego Chukwuelue; CEO, BPI Advisory, Deji Agboade; Founder, Brickstone Africa, Femi Awofala and CEO, Julie Harrison Pharmacy Ltd, Ada Okorie. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com