A group, Coalition for Revolution, Osun State, has insisted that protest is a fundamental human right. This was in reaction to the statement of another group, Osun Shall Rise Again, which accused it of planning to cause mayhem following a planned protest by some group on Monday. The PUNCH reported that the OSRA group had earlier released a statement where it alerted the state government and security agencies in the State, of plans by some people to embark on violent protest over the alleged extra-judicial killing of one Abiola Afolabi by the police. This was contained in a statement titled: ‘Afolabi Abiola: OSRA raises alarm over plot to disrupt Osun peace’, signed by the Chairman and Secretary of the group, Saheed Bakare and Lanre Akeju, respectively, obtained in Osogbo on Sunday. In response, CORE, in a statement signed by its Coordinator and Secretary, Lijofi Victor and Omowumi Ewatee, respectively, said that it was ridiculous that some persons would do anything to silence the voice of the people at any cost. The statement read in part, “Our attention has been drawn to a circulating propaganda from some unknown and unprogressive elements who hide under the umbrella of OSRA. “According to OSRA, Revolution Now right activists in Osun state are planning to embark on a protest against the extrajudicial killing of a young man named Afolabi Abiola. “Abiola was murdered by operatives of the Police Force, in cold blood and this has once again raised an agitation and the consciousness of good people of Osun state. “It is however ridiculous that some unscrupulous elements under guise would do anything to silence the voice of the people at any cost. We find the statement of the so-called OSRA amusing. An organisation that condemns the extrajudicial killing of Abiola, who at the same time, condemns the agitation of Osun youths in getting justice. Who then could be referred to as the one who does not seek the peace and development of Osun state if not these political crumb eaters who suddenly found their dissenting voices when the other voices are seeking justice. “Protest, whether social or political is a fundamental human right and whosoever tries to cause mayhem because of a peaceful agitation should be challenged. The group demanded, “the security operatives should channel their energy into fishing out the murderers in uniform who murdered Abiola in cold blood and justice be duly served. “In the situation where any protest holds, the security operatives should know their duty of securing the protesters, and ensuring no life is lost, and properties are safe.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com