There was a bit of confusion at the National Secretariat of the All Progressives Congress on Wednesday as at least N43,000,000 reportedly went missing. Our correspondent observed that the canopy under which the sale of forms took place was suddenly dismantled without explanation. The PUNCH reports that the party resorted to canopies due to the ongoing renovation/refurbishment works being carried out in the secretariat main building. It was gathered that the sum of $75,000 had gone missing amid the crowded struggle at the main entrance to the party premises. Party sources, however, disclosed that the missing money was in no way connected to the monies from the sale of nomination and expression of interest forms as aspirants are expected to make deposits in the designated account numbers before picking up their forms at the Buhari House. “It’s actually $75,000. You know there was a struggle at the gate when aspirants and supporters were trying to get in. “When the parcel of money dropped, it went missing in a flash. By the time security operatives were alerted, the thief had vanished with the envelope,” the party source said. Earlier, the secretariat had been a beehive of activities as aspirants trooped in to obtain forms for various electoral offices. On the outside of Buhari House were hundreds of supporters lined up to cheer their respective aspirants as they made their way into the premises. Wednesday’s sale of forms had made it clear that the party premises might not accommodate the nearly two-week exercise. Therefore, talks are underway to relocate to a different venue altogether. As of the time of filing this report, some officials of the party were heard deliberating to move the exercise to International Conference Centre, Abuja. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com