The Department of State Services has raised the alarm that some criminal elements are planning to bomb critical government infrastructures, markets as well as religious and relaxation centres among others. The service said the criminal elements had joined forces to recreate the bombings that rocked many parts of the country before 2015. But security experts told The PUNCH that public announcement of such intelligence report from the DSS could cause panic among citizens as well as help criminal elements change their strategies. A statement on Tuesday by the DSS’s Public Relations Officer, Peter Afunanya, titled, ‘Public alert on renewed bomb explosions’, read in part, “The DSS hereby draws public attention to plans by criminal elements to return the country to the pre-2015 era reminiscent of Improvised Explosive Device attacks on soft and hard targets in parts of the country. “Though, there are already reported cases of such incidents in some areas, the service has uncovered a ploy by suspected criminal gangs to forge an alliance among themselves with a view to launching further attacks on critical infrastructures and other frequented public places like worship and relaxation centres, especially during and after the holidays and festive celebrations. The objective is to achieve some self-serving interests as well as cause fear among the citizenry. “The DSS, however, recalls its earlier warning that some groups and individuals were plotting to stoke violence in the country.” Afunanya enjoined owners of religious centres, market and relaxation centres to take adequate measures to avert the attacks. The statement continued, “Following these, patrons, owners and managers of aforementioned public places are advised to be wary of this development and implement basic security measures to deter the threats. “While the service is committed to the disruption of this trend and pattern of violent attacks, it will continue to partner with other security agencies to ensure that necessary drills are emplaced so that public peace and order are not jeopardised. “To this end, residents are enjoined to go about their lawful businesses and share with security and law enforcement agencies useful information on the activities of criminals.” But a security expert, Jackson Ojo, condemned the action of the DSS, adding that intelligence such as that should be analysed to address the threats. He stated, “If it is true, do you know they have damaged the whole thing? “The work of the DSS is to gather intelligence secretly and act secretly. Their work is not for public consumption. “Since they (criminals) know they are aware if they want to start from somewhere, they will change their plans. “I totally condemn this. It is the ineffective, unprofessional disposition of the DSS that brought about this. “It is the duty of the DSS and other security agencies to gather intelligence and analyse the information and know which of the security agencies to involve in the situation to nip it in the bud. “For the DSS to come out, the intelligence has been rubbished because they have exposed themselves to their enemies.” Another security expert, Timothy Avele, said although this could cause panic and force the criminals to restrategise, he said such was needed. He stated, “Yes it could but sometimes this type of information is purposefully released to watch how suspected planners will react, in so doing make mistakes. Other times, when security and intelligence agencies do not have concrete intelligence on the exact targets or the planners involved, then the best option is to pre-empt the terrorists’ plans by publicising it. “Once the terrorists sense that their plans are blown open, they may panic, fearing a possible infiltrator and thus expose themselves for possible arrest or abort the attack for another convenient day.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com