The Academic Union of Universities has called on the National Assembly to repeal the Act establishing the National Information Technology Development Agency. ASUU said the agency had demonstrated gross incompetence in delivering its mandate of midwifing the creation and development of indigenous content in information communication technology. The union urged the federal legislature to conduct a joint public hearing on the agency’s activities since its existence to ascertain specific stellar homegrown ICT solutions credited to NITDA’s support. He also called for the assessment of the agency’s Key Performance Indicators. ASUU’s Zonal Coordinator in Port Harcourt, Stanley Ogoun, spoke at a press briefing at the union’s secretariat at the University of Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Ogoun challenged the agency to tell Nigerians how it facilitated the creation of the University Transparency, Accountability Solution despite the huge funds allocated to it. UTAS is ASUU’s preferred payment platform in the place of the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System. Ogoun said, “The National Information Technology Development Agency has completely failed in its mandate of midwifing the creation and development of indigenous contents in Information and Communications Technology. “As a union, we call on the National Assembly to conduct a joint public hearing on the agency’s activities since its existence towards ascertaining any specific stellar homegrown ICT technology credited to NITDA’s support or measuring her Key Performance Indicators. “Alternatively, the agency should tell Nigerians via a world press conference or a well-advertised town hall meeting on the infrastructure it provided to support the development of UTAS in line with its unambiguous mandate as cited above, drawing from its right to continue to expend funds accruing to the National Information Technology Development Fund for the support of such initiatives.” Ogoun alleged that despite the success of UTAS when it was subjected to an integrity test, NITDA made concerted efforts to malign the home-grown technology. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com