About one year after her alleged abduction by agents of the Intelligence Response Team of the Nigeria Police Force hitherto led by the suspended DCP Abba Kyari in Imo State, a grandmother, Maria Ezediaro on Thursday, April 21, 2022, regained her freedom. She was said to have been consequently detained at the IRT’s dreaded abattoir facility. A statement issued by Ifeanyi Ejiofor, the Head of the legal team of the detained leader of Indigenous People of Biafra, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, said following the application for the enforcement of her fundamental human rights filed on her behalf before a Federal High Court in Abuja, “she was hurriedly charged to court on frivolous and smokescreen charge by the infamous IRT.” He said, “This step was clearly targeted at truncating the Fundamental Human Rights suit we filed to compel her release. “Nevertheless, the long arm of the law has finally caught up with those monsters in uniform as the Federal High Court proceeded to hear our suit on the merit and consequently, directed for her unconditional release. “Damages were equally awarded against the suspended DCP Abba Kyari together with his disbanded outfit, for the gross violation of Mrs. Ezediaro’s fundamental rights. “The Federal High Court seized the frivolous charge brought against her and equally granted her bail on our application. “Today, Mrs. Ezedalor has finally regained her freedom and presently walks the street a free person. “Be assured Umuchineke, that we are vigorously pursuing the bail applications of every other person(s) arrested and detained in similar circumstances and they shall all regain their freedom in due course. “My team and I shall stop at nothing to ensure that all Umuchineke arrested and still detained at various detention facilities of the Nigerian Security agencies are released. Chukwuokike Abiama is always on the throne.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com