LEADERS from Orile-Agege and chieftains of the All Progressives Congress, Lagos State chapter, have expressed their support for the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Dr Mudashiru Obasa, to return to the House for another term. According to a statement issued on Monday by the Chief Press Secretary to the Speaker, Eromosele Ebhomele, this was disclosed at an Iftar programme attended by at least 80 APC leaders and political appointees in Lagos. A member representing Agege Federal constituency in the House of Representatives, Dr Babatunde Adejare, was quoted to have said, “Days ago, during the 80th birthday of Ebenezer Obey, a visiting Senator was marvelled that Agege now has very good roads. I told him not to forget that we have the Speaker of Lagos here. I pray for more wisdom for Obasa in his leadership position. “He has an unbeatable chance of winning if he vied for a seat in the Senate ahead of the 2023 election, but our appeal for his return to the House of Assembly is in the interest of the entire Agege people and Lagos State, which he has made better through effective legislation and related activities.” The Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Wale Ahmed, said, “I expect Obasa to be unopposed, but my prayer is that after the elections next year, we would all gather here to celebrate again.” The Chairman, Orile-Agege Local Council Development Area, Mr Johnson Babatunde, stated that Agege must not lose all that it had gained through the Speaker. “A lot of people from Agege have been employed because of Obasa. A lot of infrastructure have come to us because of Obasa. There should be no vacancy in Agege Constituency 1. One way Agege can appreciate Obasa’s love for the area is to ask him to return and work for him to occupy the position again,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com