Members of the All Progressives Congress in Kwara State loyal to the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, and opposed to Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, known as ‘APC Loyal’, have announced their defection to the Social Democratic Party. The secretariat of the faction at No. 26 Abdulrazaq Road, Flower Garden, GRA, Ilorin, has been branded with the SDP symbol and adorned with posters of members interested in contesting the 2023 elections on the platform of the party. The Kwara-South Senatorial Chairman of the faction, Mr Rasak Alabi, who spoke on behalf of the defecting members on Saturday, said they had lost confidence in the APC National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, because of his allegiance to AbdulRazaq. He said, “Despite our endurance in the face of the inhuman treatment meted to us in the party (APC), it will be correct to suggest that the Kwara State governor, working in tandem with the former National Caretaker Committee Chairman, Mallam Mai Mala Buni, has decided to edge us out of the party against our wish. “And to make matters worse, Senator Abdulahi Adamu, who once headed the party’s National Reconciliation Committee, has denied us fair hearing, but rather turned himself into Governor AbdulRazaq’s solicitor and advocate, is now the party’s national chairman. How then can we be hopeful of getting justice in this circumstance? “If the national leadership of the party does not believe that we are politically relevant in the state, we need to make them understand also that the man they queue behind is also a blown fuse and not capable of leading the party to victory in the state come 2023. “Seated with us at this press briefing are all the 193 ward chairmen, 16 local government chairmen and all the state working committee members, who have jointly decided with our numerous supporters to announce to you today our official defection and mass movement of our supporters and party members from the APC to the Social Democratic Party.” Receiving the new members to the party, the National Chairman of the SDP, Dr Olu Agunloye, represented by the National Publicity Secretary, Mr Rufus Ayenigba, assured the defecting members that the party was for fairness and justice, which would help them achieve their political aspirations. He said, “I pity them (APC) for losing you to us. It’s a pleasure to receive this mammoth crowd to a party that is poised to take over the government in 2023.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com