It’s a battle of brothers as Everton bid to continue their fight for Premier League survival against Leicester City at Goodison Park on Wednesday (today), PUNCH Sports Extra reports. The battle will see three Nigerians, Alex Iwobi, who has been in form for the Toffees, come up against Kelechi Iheanacho and Ademola Lookman. Iwobi helped Frank Lampard’s men boost their survival prospects with a 1-0 win over Manchester United a fortnight ago, while Iheanacho and Lookman went down 2-1 to Newcastle United at St James Park. The defeat ended the Foxes’ five-game unbeaten streak in all competitions, ending their hopes of challenging for Europe via their ninth-place league position, but Brendan Rodgers’s men will have a chance of playing on the continent with the Europa Conference League spot still open. Former Manchester City forward, Iheanacho, has not been able to replicate last season’s form, when he scored 19 goals across all competitions and only managed to find the back of the net on seven occasions with three of those scored in the league. He will mostly come up against Iwobi today, having featured in eight of the Foxes’ last 10 games in the league. Lookman was on target last time in their away defeat to the Magpies and is looking forward to a win against his countryman. “The game’s over now, so we’ll just look forward to Wednesday and come back from that and hopefully get the win there,” the forward said after their defeat on Sunday. Iwobi recently rediscovered his form and has started all of the last eight games in the league. Iwobi is in line to make his 90th appearance for Everton, who continue their fight for Premier League survival against the Foxes. The Nigeria international has played 89 games for the Toffees, scoring only seven goals and six assists, a far cry from the huge talent at his disposal. Iwobi has scored twice this term and will be aiming to make his 15th start – 21st league appearance of the season in the encounter. Should Everton win the game with Iwobi in action, it will be his 80th EPL win in 176 appearances since he made his league debut in the colours of Arsenal against Swansea in 2016 while an assist will increase his tally to 20. Everton are currently 17th in the EPL table with 28 points from 30 games and have won five of seven home matches and two successive Goodison Premier League fixtures. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com