Some of the country’s football fans took to social media to slam the Nigeria Football Federation following the appointment of Salisu Yusuf as the head coach of the Super Eagles B (CHAN team) and the U-23 team. However, some ex-internationals refused to comment on the issue. The NFF Thursday announced that it had approved the recommendation of its Technical and Development Sub-Committee to appoint Yusuf, who was banned for one year in 2018 after he was caught on camera accepting cash from men who posed as football agents to select two players for his Morocco 2018 African Nations Championship squad. He was also ordered to pay a fine of $5,000 by the federation, following the NFF Ethics and Fair Play Committee ruling that the coach received $1,000 from the men. The NFF reinstated the coach in 2019 and later approved his return as assistant coach of the Eagles and head coach of the Eagles B team, with effect from November 1, 2021. In a statement through its media team, the NFF said Yusuf would take charge of the CHAN team as well as the Olympic men’s team, an appointment that sparked reactions across social media. When our correspondent spoke to 1994 AFCON winner Mutiu Adepoju he declined comments on the issue saying, “I don’t want to comment on this issue.” Another ex-Eagles star Ifeanyi Udeze also refused to comment on Yusuf’s appointment. But a Facebook user, Philip Braide, wrote, “Salisu is either holding them (NFF) by the balls via blackmails or he has strong power brokers fronting for him.” Oyi-Oche said on Twitter, “SALISU again? That man has someone’s nude in the NFF. SALISU must have something on them because this fellow is inevitable, is he that good he must be the Nigerian football messiah even after being caught for bribery. This country smh.” Another Twitter user with the name Alasela of Lagos asked, “What is about Salisu Yusuf for crying out loud? Finidi George is okay, the rest should go home.  Get a foreign coach, match analyst, goalkeeper trainer, psychologist, fit trainer and physio.  Seek the service of Seyi Olofinjana as Technical Director and Director of football.” Shittu Oladipo added, “Is there something we Nigerians don’t know about this Salisu Yusuf… Somebody that just finish deserving FIFA ban.” “Please what is it about Salisu Yusuf? Is he the best in the land? Super Eagles, Chan eagles and U-23. No other people?” Roland Isiorho questioned. Samuel Umoh said, “The same Salisu that was indicted for bribery? Interesting time is here and I think there is something Salisu Yusuf has given these people.” El_Shitu sarcastically tweeted, “Apparently he is the most tactical Nigerian coach alive all others are dumb.” An amused Major -General Muhammad AbdulAm tweeted, “Just surprise or does he have Pinnick nude… Salisu Yusuf should not come close to our national team if we are normal in this country.” “I don’t understand this obsession with Salisu Yusuf. Even if this man die, NFF fit go wake am up to come work with new coach,” Imoudu wrote on Twitter. Lawal Tosin Taofik added, “This Salisu Yusuf get a lot of grips on the NFF and ministry of Sport. If this list is true. Enough of this parading of expired tacticians on our national teams. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com