Decentralized, rapid and secure blockchains are a lucky find in the crypto sphere, as not all coins have these combined qualities. It is true that some are better than others and knowing which ones to invest in can save you a lot of beginner mistakes, as well as maximise your gains. The media’s hype about cryptocurrencies has not stopped. The increasing growth of curiosity around cryptocurrency also means improvement and transformation in the crypto market, as more coins surge. Teams and companies behind the blockchains and cryptocurrencies are quickly adapting and upgrading to better and more innovative methods. Nevertheless, CoinMarketCap.com accounts for a total greater than 17.000 cryptos in the market and it can be overwhelming to pick and choose the most profitable coins; as well as the coins with the best set of features. Here are three profitable, decentralised and fast coins for effortless transactions. Avalanche was launched in 2020 and strives to be fast, secure and affordable. Currently, Avalanche (AVAX) is the fastest smart contracts platform in the blockchain industry as it can provide near-instant transaction finality, registering an impressive 4,500 Transactions Per Second (TPS). It is also an open-source project as users can view and modify the platform’s code. The blockchain platform and its native currency AVAX are said to rival Ethereum, as both use smart contracts to sustain blockchain projects. The AVAX token can be used to pay transaction processing fees beyond acting as the accounting unit among blockchains in the network. The Avalanche price today is $94,65 with a 24-hour trading volume of $1.1 Billion. It currently ranks 10th on CoinMarketCap.com, with a live market cap of $25.3 Billion and has a circulating supply of 267.3 Million AVAX coins. However, crypto market analysts estimate that the AVAX Token will increase to $940.939 by the end of 2026; with a 775.5% revenue in just a 5-year investment. Quitriam finance is a newly launched decentralised exchange platform with multi-chain operability, with an extraordinary ecosystem of DeFi products. It allows for Decentralised Exchanges (DEX), and investors can exchange assets across multiple blockchains. Quitriam is proud of its great use of decentralisation and scalability and further allows peer-to-peer (P2P) connections with liquidity, supplied by other users. But the outstanding benefits of Quitriam Finance do not stop here! The platform confirms that its multi-chain operability is what allows investors to exchange tokens at a rate of +50,000 transactions per second (TPS); and less than $0.00001 per transaction. The QTM token is the native cryptocurrency of the protocol, and its presale is not an investment opportunity you should miss. Token holders will also be able to vote on the measurable metrics of the platform. Now is the time to invest in the QTM token as it is currently in its presale stage. Launched in 2015, Ethereum is a decentralized open-source blockchain system that revolutionised the digital financial industry by popularising Decentralized Finance (DeFi). Currently, Ethereum can perform between 15–45 transactions per second (TPC) but the platform should expect to see a drastic change soon because an upgrade to Ethereum 2.0 is coming. This upgrade will occur in 2022, sometime in the near future and when that happens, the quickness will increase to an outstanding 100,000 transactions per second. The network’s native cryptocurrency Ether (ETH) is the second-largest cryptocurrency by market value. Its successful future was predicted when during its initial stage the price of an Ethereum coin in the Initial Coin Offering (ICO) was $0.311 and over 60 million coins were sold. More so, its presale began in July 2014 and in just half a day, it raised $2.3 million (7.4 million ETH). Ethereum’s money-making ability did not stop there and has grown into the second most profitable cryptocurrency. The coin saw an all-time high of $4,878.26, back in November 2021 (a +3M% increase over its presale price).  For More Information See Here: http://presale.quitriam.io/ https://www.instagram.com/quitriam_finance https://twitter.com/quitriamfinance https://t.me/QUITRIAMFINANCEOFFICIAL Keywords: Avalanche, AVAX, Mithril Finance, QTM, Ethereum, ETH, Transaction, Crypto