The Christian Association of Nigeria on Wednesday urged Christians to be wary of financial institutions they patronise. The apex Christian body also demanded the sacking of the Chief Executive of Sterling Bank, Abubakar Suleiman, over the bank’s controversial Easter advert comparing the resurrection of Christ with the rising of Agege Bread. CAN made this known in a statement signed by its National Secretary, Joseph Daramola, and titled, ‘CAN Condemns Provocative, Insensitive Advertisement of Sterling Bank’. Our correspondent had earlier reported that Sterling Bank over the weekend posted a puffed, golden-brown, halved Agege Bread with the caption, ‘Like Agege Bread, He Rose… Happy Easter’. Many social media users had slammed Sterling Bank over the denigratory comparison and the bank had deleted the posts on its social media handles. The bank subsequently uploaded another copy of an opened tomb significant of Christ’s departure from the grave and added the caption, ‘…let the one who has never sinned throw the first stone’ but the apology was rejected by many. The Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria also said it would sanction the bank for the provocative advert. Reacting in its statement, CAN said the copy by Sterling Bank was “ungodly, wicked, insensitive and deliberately provocative”. The Christian body added, “The purported apology did not come from a penitent heart. How can someone in his right mind describe the risen Christ as a loaf of bread? That is insulting, ridiculous and a mockery of Jesus Christ. We advised Christians to be wary of the banks and other financial institutions they are patronising. “We learnt that the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria has reportedly intervened in the matter with a view to impose some sanctions against Sterling Bank. The Christian Association of Nigeria is waiting for the decision of the organisation. “However, in the interim, we call for the immediate removal of the Chief Executive of Sterling Bank; Mr. Abubakar Suleiman with his Management whose actions have clearly shown their hostility and hatred for the Christian faith. “We call on all Christians not to take the law into their hands in seeking redress, but to let the relevant authorities handle the matter.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com