A member of the National Youth Service Corps, Stephanie Terungwa, who was declared missing in Abuja, has been found dead. The Microbiology graduate was said to have gone missing on April 14 after leaving her house in the Lokogoma area of the Federal Capital Territory fully kitted in her NYSC uniform. An uncle of the victim, Richard Ilorami, in a Facebook post, claimed that she was abducted with her baby, adding that her child was later found. He wrote, “My niece is missing; she was abducted with her one-year-old son after attending NYSC Community Development Service. Her Baby later found but she still remains missing.” Our correspondent learnt that her corpse was found at the Maitama area of Abuja on Wednesday. The Student Union Government of her alma mater, while demanding justice, said her vital organs were removed. The SUG Public Relations Officer, Zaki Christian, in a statement on Thursday, said, “Today (Wednesday), her body has been found lifeless; she was murdered in her corps uniform and all private parts removed. Relevant tests confirmed that the deformed corpse was hers.” The NYSC Director of Press and Public Relations, Eddy Megwa, in a statement on Thursday, said investigation was ongoing. Megwa said, “A corpse was found wearing the NYSC khaki trousers with the face defaced beyond recognition. “On account of this, the management reported the discovery to relevant security agencies to help identify the body. It was later confirmed that the remains were that of the missing corps member, Stephanie Se-Ember Terungwa, with state code number FC/21B/5807. “Investigations are, however, currently ongoing to unravel the identity of the perpetrators of the dastardly act in order to bring them to justice. May her soul rest in peace.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com