A widow, Mrs Olabisi Lawal, was inconsolable and visibly distraught as she paced around her shop in the Toll Gate area of the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway. Her grief was caused by the loss of her youngest child, Oluwatobi, to an explosion. “Let me go home,” she said in Yoruba. But as she attempted to leave, some sympathisers held her back, not sure of what she meant as she was still overwhelmed by the shock of losing her last child. City Round gathered that Oluwatobi was deeply asleep in front of his mother’s shop at about 2:30am on Friday when he was alerted to a raging explosion that erupted from a fallen tanker laden with 45,000 litres of premium motor spirit, also known as petrol, around Ajegunle bus stop, along the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway. The raging fire was said to have spread to the Toll Gate area as the tanker spilled its content on the road and into a gutter along the expressway. In the ensuing chaos and flames, he was said to have attempted to flee to safety when he tripped, fell into the gutter already engulfed in fire and was burnt to death. He was 15. It was learnt that many residents in the area were woken up by the explosion which also left some persons injured and destroyed many shops and some vehicles parked close to the Toll Gate area. It was further learnt that the burnt body of the teenager was brought out of the gutter and taken to the Alakuko Police Station before it was released for burial. Some traders were seen clearing debris from their burnt shops when our correspondent visited the area. However, there was a mild drama when another fire erupted from the tanker while some fire fighters and officials of the Lagos State Emergency Management Response Unit were carrying out their operations. The development forced traders and passers-by to scamper to safety before the fire was extinguished. But Lawal, who struggled to hold back tears, told our correspondent that she found her son lying lifeless in the gutter while she was screaming his name in search of him. “My son was sleeping on a bench when the fire started. The flames covered his eyes, so he could not see where he was running to. As he tried to jump over the gutter, he fell into it. I was screaming his name but did not know that he was already in the gutter. The fire burnt him. Instead of going home after helping me to sell my goods, he preferred to stay back so he would be close to me. “We insisted that he should go back to Mowe (Ogun State), but after some time, he told me that he was not happy there because he wanted to stay with me. I promised him that he would be allowed to stay with me at Toll Gate after completing his Senior School Certificate Examination. We paid for his examination and the money won’t be refunded. He was my last child. Now, he is dead. His father died a year ago,” the widow lamented. Oluwatobi’s elder sister who did not give her name said he wanted to become an engineer so he could support his mother. She also appealed to the Lagos State Government to come to the aid of her mother. “He was trying to escape when he fell into the gutter filled with fire. He wanted to study Mechanical Engineering. He was hardworking and nice. Ah, I don’t even know what else to say. He often slept close to his mother’s shop so he could help her to sell her goods in the morning. “We appeal to the state government to assist our mother in any way because she has been the only one taking care of him since his father died,” she said. Makeshift structures, vehicles affected by inferno –NEMA The South-West Coordinator of the National Emergency Management Agency, Ibrahim Farinloye, who confirmed Oluwatobi’s death, said some makeshift structures were affected by the fire which started at about 2:06am. Farinloye added, “The Lagos State Fire Service handled it from the Lagos end while the Ogun State Fire Service also faced it from the Ogun side. Unfortunately, a male adult casualty was recovered dead. Assessment on impacts of the incident is ongoing. The fire has been put out while responders are still trying to mop up the area to enable free flow of traffic. It was alleged that some guys were trying to scoop the spilled gasoline before the explosion started.’’ Commiserating with the families affected by the inferno, Chairman, Ojokoro Local Council Development Area, Hammed Tijani, decried the poor state of the portion of the expressway where the incident occurred. Tijani added, “I have called the director of works at the Federal Ministry of Works. That portion of the road has claimed the lives of people due to its bad shape. Pending the time the road would be put in good shape, they should convert the other part of the road to a one-way for motorists.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com