…Mother insists on justice Officers of the Puff Adder Tactical Unit of the Rivers State Police have re-arrested two teenage siblings for allegedly defiling twins (boy and girl) aged two years in Aluu community, Ikwerre Local Government Area of the state. The mother of the twins, Mrs. Clement Achinihu, who disclosed this to newsmen in Port Harcourt, narrated how she discovered her two children were defiled by her in-law who came to spend holidays with her. Achinihu said, while trying to dress up her daughter to sleep at night, she observed that her son was not able to sit properly on the bed, saying, upon interrogation the boy told her that her male in-law, aged 16 and 19, who reside with them tampered with his anus. Achinihu said she immediately took the children to the hospital, where it was discovered that the hymen of her two year old female child also has been completely removed. The mother said she made an entry to the police and the suspect was arrested, and later released, but expressed happiness that the teenage boys have been re-arrested, insisting that justice must be served. She said, “On the 10th of January, 2022, I was dressing my daughter to sleep, they are twins, two years, I discovered that my son was trying to sit on the bed, but he was uncomfortable. “I asked him what happened and he muttered something and pointed at his anus. When I checked, his anus was finished. That means he was raped. So, I had to report to the Operation Puff Adder. Now that they have re-arrested the boys, I am so happy and I want justice to prevail over what happened to my children.” Asked if her daughter was also defiled, Achinihu said the girl was not checked until later because they didn’t have anything in mind. “It was when I took the boy to the hospital that the doctor checked the girl and found out that the girl was also raped. So, right away the doctors, two doctors, three nurses ask the girl themselves, who touched your bom bom? “The girl now said ‘daddy boy.’ That was when I broke into tears, because all my attention was on the boy. Please I want justice for my two year old babies, a distraught mother demanded. Meanwhile, a non-governmental organisation, the Centre for Basic Rights Protection and Accountability Campaign, has lauded the Commissioner of Police, CP Eboka Friday, for ensuring the re-arrest of the suspects. A lawyer with the body, Charles Edwin, called for thorough investigation into the incident to determine the culpability of the suspects. “We are calling on the Commissioner of Police to ensure that the suspects who allegedly defiled the twins are thoroughly investigated, and if found guilty be made to face the law,” he stated. Meanwhile, our correspondent gathered that the suspects have been transferred to the human rights desk at the Police Headquarters, Moscow Road, Port Harcourt. Efforts to reach the acting spokesperson for the state police command, Grace Iringe-koko, was unsuccessful as her mobile telephone was busy and she had yet to return our reporter’s call as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com