THE Built With Bitcoin Foundation has announced that it is working with Satoshibles NFT to raise funds for its ongoing efforts. The essence of the programme is to build schools and communities around the world through Bitcoin sales of its Built With NFT Collection. According to the foundation, 100 per cent of the proceeds and royalties would go to the beneficiaries. It said the Built With NFT Collection featured artwork from students on its campuses across Africa. It added that the artworks belonged to students ranging from ages three to 12, noting that 10,000 unique NFTs had since been created. It said 5,000 NFTs were available to mint on Bitcoin via Stacks, with the remainder on Ethereum. In a statement, the Executive Director of the Built With Bitcoin Foundation, Ray Youssef, said, “The Built With Bitcoin Foundation not only builds schools, but strong and sustainable communities around the world. “The students’ artwork has already begun to fund new projects and now with the support of the Bitcoin community, we can’t wait to continue to carry out our mission.” According to the foundation, the first 13.41 ETH collected from the project had been reinvested in the communities that made its collection possible. The Director of Philanthropy of the Built With Bitcoin Foundation, Yusuf Nessary, added, “Making the Built With NFT collection available on Stacks allows our work to be as inclusive as possible. “We understand the power of Bitcoin and what it has provided to countless communities — I’ve seen this first-hand. We are thrilled to welcome the Bitcoin community and bring even more awareness to the project.” Also commenting, the Creator of Satoshibles, Brian Laughlan, said, “I am excited to see this project span across multiple blockchains. The Built With NFT Collection would not be possible without the students from the Built With Bitcoin Foundation schools. By extending the NFT mint not only on Ethereum but now to Bitcoin, we have the chance to spread the message even further and take advantage of the amazing Bitcoin community, who at its core, also aligns with the idea of using crypto, in this case, NFTs for social good.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com