SAMSUNG Electronics Co Limited and Western Digital have said they have collaborated to standardise and drive the adoption of next-generation data placement, processing, and fabrics storage technologies. According to the firms, they will initially focus on aligning their efforts and creating a vigorous ecosystem for zoned storage solutions which will help the industry focus on countless applications that create greater value for customers. In a statement, Executive Vice President/General Manager, Flash Business Unit at Western Digital, Rob Soderbery, said, “Storage is the essential foundation for how people and businesses consume and use data. “To enable today’s needs and tomorrow’s next big ideas, we must innovate, collaborate, and keep pace as an industry in bringing new standards and architectures to life. In order for a technology ecosystem to be successful, overall frameworks and general solution models must come together so they do not suffer from fragmentation, which delays adoption and adds unnecessary complexity for software stack developers. “For years Western Digital has been laying the foundation for the Zoned Storage ecosystem by contributing to the Linux kernel and open-source software community. We are excited to bring these contributions to this joint initiative with Samsung in facilitating wider adoption of Zoned Storage for users and application developers.” The Corporate Executive Vice President, Head of Memory Sales and Marketing at Samsung Electronics, Jinman Han, added, “This collaboration is a testament to our relentless effort to exceed customers’ needs now and in the future, and holds special meaning in how we anticipate it will actively grow into a larger basis of engagement for zoned storage standardisation. “Our collaborative efforts will embrace hardware and software ecosystems to ensure that as many customers as possible can reap the benefits of this highly important technology.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com