An Abia Central Senatorial aspirant from Isiala Ngwa North Local Government Area, Chukwu Nwachukwu Sunday, flayed the alleged anointing of an Ikwuano aspirant for the same position ahead of the 2023 general elections. Addressing members of Ohamazuo Social Club of Nigeria at Mbawsi in Isiala Ngwa North LGA during their National Convention and launching of their multi-purpose Cooperative Society, the state Peoples Democratic Party chieftain, Nwachukwu said that going by the rotation arrangement in Abia Central between Umunneato (Isiala Ngwa North, South and Osisioma) and Umuahia, and being currently occupied by Umuahia North, the senatorial seat should go to Umunneato. He said, “In Abia Central, we have a protocol arrangement and nobody has zoned it out to Ikwuano. You cannot hand over from Umuahia North to Ikwuano. It is, therefore, normal to hand it over to an Umunneato person. “I don’t need anyone to anoint me for senate. If the party says no, shun them. It is our right and I am capable of holding power.” He urged members of the club who are mostly PDP delegates, “Vote for yourselves, your family and for empowerment”, assuring them that if voted in, the constituency will not be left out of federal empowerment programmes. He enjoined them to be steadfast with their cooperative society as it is the way forward all over the world. Nwachukwu, who is the National President of the Association of Agricultural and Industrial Entrepreneurs of Nigeria, urged the club to join cooperatives to enable them to reap the benefit of registered cooperatives in Nigeria. Earlier in his address, the National President of Ohamauzo Social Club, Chamberlain Onyenowe, disclosed that the aim of the club is “to unite our people, fight for a common course, give absolute support to PDP and positively change some narratives”. He further stated that in the area, the club also ensures a crime-free society. His deputy and founder of the club, Donatus Orji, said the idea of the club came to him after seeing the suffering of the people about two years ago. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com