The Ijaw Youth Council has called on political parties jostling to present presidential candidates for the 2023 general elections to zone their presidential tickets to the South. The national spokesman for the IYC, Ebilade Ekerefe, stated this in an exclusive chat with Saturday PUNCH. He spoke against the backdrop of the fact that the opposition Peoples Democratic Party had thrown its presidential ticket open instead of zoning, while the ruling All Progressives Congress had remained undecided on zoning its presidential ticket to the South. According to him, the North would have done eight years at the country’s presidency by next year when the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) exit office. Ekerefe argued that power should naturally rotate to the southern part of the country after the president’s tenure. He posited that Nigeria was a plural state and added that it was only fair and equitable that the presidency should move to the South at the end of Buhari’s two tenures in office. Ekerefe said, “Nigeria is a plural state and power should be evenly distributed. The North has had eight years and it is expected that power should shift to the South to deepen democracy, mutual respect, equity and fairness. “We advise the dominant political parties, especially the ruling All Progressives Congress and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party to micro-zone their presidential tickets to the South.” The IYC spokesman noted that Ijaw and Niger Delta youths had been agitating for the presidency to go to the South and would not relent to do so, even ahead of the primary elections of the parties in May. He, however, observed that all the aspirants that have so far indicated interest to contest the presidency at the forthcoming polls had been silent on the peace and development of the Niger Delta. Ekerefe further said, “Curiously, those who have shown interest in the presidency are not prioritising the Niger Delta question. “Beyond the zoning issue, there are problems of insecurity and economic challenges in the country. As Niger Delta people, we are looking at a president that will push for the peace and development of the region like the former President, late Umaru Musa Yar’Adua. “Our brothers (from the South) that are showing interest in the presidency must have this at the back of their mind.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com