The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, has explained why he doesn’t vote, saying voting for any particular candidate will be an injustice to the rest of his political children. Adeboye who urged his congregation to participate by registering in any party of their choice, and ensure that their votes are counted, said he is not a politician but one whose assignment is to pray for his country and his children. He disclosed this on Sunday, shortly before preaching on the topic Waiting without wasting, during his monthly telecast monitored by our correspondent. Adeboye said, “My assignment has nothing to do with partisan politics. I have never told you the candidate to vote or party to belong to because every party is heavily represented here. The only reason I have never voted is that if I vote for anyone I will be unjust to the rest of my children and I’m the father of all. “You are first a Nigerian before a member of a party; you have a duty to register, vote, and make sure your vote counts, you have a duty to belong to a party. You can’t refuse to vote and begin to complain about the government. The General Overseer continued saying, “Wait to make sure they count your vote make sure there is no more rigging, I don’t care who or party that you vote.” Adeboye stressed that prayer plays a pivotal role in ensuring that the country got it right. “This year I asked for 1000 people to join me in praying for the country but I got 26,000 we prayed and whether or not you believe it God heard and has answered us,” Adeboye said. According to him, I’m still unsure whether there would be 2023 general elections. There are myriads of issues that are of interest to God concerning the country than to be fixed on an activity that is scheduled in about a year. He said, “Talking about myself as I’m standing before you, I still don’t know whether or not there will be election next year (2023). The last time there was an election God spoke to me in June, I don’t know yet.” He lamented the security challenges bedeviling Kaduna State and the financial issues of the country, warning that the generation unborn may bear the consequences if not tackled. “You can’t go to Kaduna by road or airplane (airport) because you may be attacked; why Kaduna, is working to isolate Kaduna. From reports, more than 80 percent of our crude oil is being stolen, who is stealing the oil, and where is the money going? What will they want to do with the money? What are the foreign nations buying the oil? “More than 90 percent of our income is used to pay interest of the money we have borrowed, we are borrowing more, we are moving steadily to bankruptcy, and your children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren will be paying debt,” Adeboye said. He revealed that he would continue to pray for politicians, noting that he has a single prayer point for them when they come for intercession. Adeboye added, “I will pray and I have only one prayer point for everyone; father let your perfect will for this fellow be done.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com