After several weeks of preparation, all is now set for the eagerly- anticipated UEFA Champions League Trophy Tour courtesy international premium beer brand Heineken. With Dutch football legend Clarence Seedorf headlining this year’s tour, the action-packed and fun-filled activities for the two cities of Lagos and Abuja have been unveiled by Heineken. The prestigious UEFA Champions League trophy, regarded as one of the most coveted sports silverware, arrived Monday, same day the iconic Seedorf and his entourage landed for the loaded two-day run of activities. According to the itinerary, the trophy tour activities begin today with Seedorf’s visit first to the SuperSport studio and then to the Nigerian Breweries Plc headquarters, where there will be an interaction with employees and the UCL trophy available for photo ops. Seedorf, while at the Nigeria Breweries headquarters, will meet with prominent Nigerian legends that would confront him and his teammates in the Heineken face-off football challenge. The Nigerian team against the Seedorf-led five-a-side team includes former Super Eagles duo Austin Okocha and Daniel Amokachi and artistes Davido and Reekado Banks. After the visit to Nigeria Breweries, the next point of call for Seedorf is the brewery’s bar, where a press parley would be held and the unveiling of the UEFA Champions League Trophy, the international legend and the home-grown legends will be conducted. Attention thereafter shifts to the Landmark Events Centre for the face-off challenge between Team Heineken and Team Nigeria. While both sides take some rest after what should be a frenetic exercise, the fans will take the centre stage to take part in the various games lined up for them. Activities on the first day of the tour will climax with the match viewing experience as Bayern Munich attempt to cancel the lone goal defeat to Samuel Chukwueze’s Villarreal FC at Allianz Arena, just as Real Madrid hope to end Chelsea’s reign following a 3-1 advantage from last week and looking set to complete the job at the Santiago Bernabeu. The excitement at the viewing experience will climax with after-party entertainment.