The three governorship aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party in Nasarawa State have united to ensure that the PDP wins the 2023 gubernatorial election in the state. The aspirants included a former Minister of Information, Labaran Maku; former House of Representatives member, David Ombugadu; and Major Gen. Nuhu Angbazo (retd). Chairman of PDP in the state, Francis Orogu, made the disclosure in Lafia on Monday at a ‘Unity Meeting’ of the aspirants organised by the State Working Committee of the party to perfect plans on how to unseat Governor Abdullahi Sule in 2023. Orogu explained that the meeting was aimed at getting commitment from all the three aspirants of the party contesting for the office of governor in the forthcoming election. He said that lack of unity among aspirants had affected the success of the party in previous elections which was what necessitated the meeting in order to avoid a recurrence of the ugly trend. He said, “We have experienced so many things and at this point, I think we are well educated to know what politics is all about. We have all calibers of politicians and we know that PDP in Nasarawa state can not be overridden or overlooked. “The last election in 2019, though the outcomes looked like we lost but all of you know that every candidate we brought solidly won that election but somehow were manipulated out. “Those reasons and areas that we kept open; those compromises that gave room to the APC, is what we are trying to block now. “Our aspirants are better than Governor Sule who always speaks of foreign investments but there is no single investment attracted to the state, not even local investment. The environment is not even good enough for any foreign investment to come into the state. “In 2023, we will not only cast our votes but make sure that votes casted are counted and we are going to use every might to make our votes count”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com