A former member of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Maria Nwachi, has called for the jettisoning of zoning policy in elections, arguing that it encourages mediocrity. This is as she threw her weight
behind the governorship aspiration of Ifeanyichukwu Odii. A Lagos-based business man and a member of the Lagos State University Governing Council, Mr Odii, is aspiring to govern Ebonyi State under the Peoples Democratic Party. The New Media practitioner, who represented Afikpo North/East State Constituency from 2015 to 2019, in a meeting with journalists, on Friday, said the state needs a vibrant leader like Odii, in these its trying times, addimg that he would be the best thing to happen to the state, come to 2023. She described the governoship aspirant as a service-oriented leader, who is untainted by the present corrupt political system in the country. Nwachi said, “It is rare to see someone that has emerged from outside the system. I knew nothing about politics when I was elected, I went in and served and served and even forgot to serve myself. I practice Service Politics, and we are highly likely to be blessed with a Governor with the same mindset in the person of Ifeanyichukwu Odii. “I honestly see Odii as Maria on speed, Maria at the highest level possible. So you can imagine what will happen. It seems too good to be true that we are going to get such a governor; but it is very very possible and then Ebonyi will rejoice.” On the argument that zoning does not favour the PDP aspirant as he hails from the same Ebonyi South zone with the incumbent Governor David Umahi, the New Media specialist said the practice should be jettisoned as it breeds mediocrity. She added, “I am personally and completely against zoning. I have always been against zoning as I equate it with mediocrity. I will support anyone I believe that has the capacity to win the election and to lead us effectively. “I would not care where they come from. I am reminded that every zone has taken its turn, and so the governorship can start from anywhere in 2023. “But even if it were not so, I will still want the best to clinch the position no matter where they come from, and as it is now, Odii is levels above the others, in all ramifications.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com