Three Crowns milk has revealed plans to reward its Muslim consumers with Ramadan gift boxes. The company said in a statement on Friday that the gift boxes would include fruits and other nutritious items needed to keep them nourished and energised during the fast. In a newly-launched campaign, tagged ‘Three Crowns supports your heart’, the company said it would be engaging Muslim consumers through a series of rewarding activities during the holy month of Ramadan. The Marketing Manager, Three Crowns, Gloria Jacobs, noted that Ramadan provided an opportunity for the brand to further connect with Muslims across the country. She said, “With this campaign, which runs from April 2nd – 30th, we aim to encourage the culture of giving associated with this period and promote the importance of healthy eating and lifestyle throughout the period of Ramadan and beyond. “Selected Muslim influencers will engage with Three Crowns consumers to highlight the importance of healthy eating and lifestyle during Ramadan while balancing life, family, and faith. “These activities will be held on the social media pages of the brand and the influencers. Consumers can win exciting prizes when they join these influencers on their Instagram/Facebook Live sessions and answer questions correctly.” The company further encouraged Muslims to stay healthy and only consume foods with low cholesterol, adding that these would be provided to consumers in mosques and praying grounds in Lagos, Ibadan, Ilorin, Kano, Abuja and Jos during Iftar. “It is important that our consumers get nourished while fasting from Sahur to Iftar and Three Crowns will support them on this spiritual journey by providing them with essential nutrients needed to stay nourished,” the statement added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com