…We won’t reply you now – Boroffice A legal practitioner and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State, Mr Tolu Babaleye, has decried the state of backwardness in the Ondo-North Senatorial District as he alleged that representative of the district at the Senate, Ajayi Boroffice, had not done well in influencing development to the area in the last 12 years. Babaleye, who was the Director-General of the Senator Boroffice Campaign Organisation, said the Ondo-North was experiencing backwardness rather than forwardness. The APC chieftain stated this while featuring on a radio programme at Adaba FM, Akure, the state capital. He said, “Senator Boroffice has no empowerment project for the people since he was given the mandate 12years ago and he has disconnected totally from the people who gave him the mandate. “I challenge the senator to mention any physical project he has completed since he became a senator. The district has been visited by insecurity, bad road network, which has led to lost of many lives especially in the local government area where he (Boroffice) hails from. “Senator Boroffice failed to secure employment opportunities in federal ministries, parastatals and agencies for the unemployed youths as evident in other senatorial districts.” Babaleye, who was recently appointed DG of the Alex Ajipe Senatorial Campaign Organisation, however, noted that his fallout with Senator Boroffice was not about personal grudges but for the sake of the development of the Ondo-North Senatorial District. When contacted, however, the media aide of the senator, Mr Kayode Fakusi, said the senator would react to Babaleye’s allegation at the appropriate time. “We don’t have any reaction to Tolu Babaleye’s outburst now, at the appropriate time we would respond,” Fakusi said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com