The Federal Road Safety Corps, Bauchi State Sector Command, has said it is deploying 978 regular, special marshals and road traffic crash respondents from five major routes in and out of the state before, during and after the 2022 Eid-el Fitr celebration. The FRSC Sector Commander, Bauchi State, Yusuf Abdullahi, in a statement made available to our correspondent on Wednesday said that the special Eid-el Fitr patrol operation will be from April 29th – May 4th, 2022. He said that six ambulances, 10 patrol vehicles, one heavy-duty tow truck, two power bikes mainly for highway surveillance, speed control patrol, and alert to motorists of obstructions and failed parts of highways will be deployed. He adde, “Communication equipment will be put at optimum level while inter-connectivity will be accorded the desired attention as all security agencies network are all connected for prompt response and synergy for hitch-free Salah festival. Out free toll number: 122 & 112 remain updated. “Health service providers are also in collaboration with the command to provide prompt services to road traffic crash victims to curtail fatality.” Abdullahi added that the station offices in 20 local government areas of the state are fully activated for prompt response to road traffic issues, clear obstructions, road traffic crash public enlightenment and traffic control. According to him, two road side clinics to manage road traffic crash victims and the immediate community have been set up while five help areas will be positioned in all routes in and out of the state. “Aggressive motor park public enlightenment, effective utilisation of the media, local associations, community and religious leaders remain major stakeholders in this crusade of safety during and after the festival. “Operation activities remain 24/7 throughout the seven days of the operation,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com