A United States-based presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Nwachukwu Anakwenze, on Thursday, held a closed-door meeting with former president Olusegun Obasanjo at his penthouse of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Abeokuta. Speaking with newsmen after the brief meeting, Anakwenze said Nigeria should have become a manufacturing nation to be regarded as the leader of black nations. The presidential aspirant noted that, with avalanche of God-given natural resources, Nigeria ought to have become an export nation of technological devices such as computers, automobiles, and airlines. He said lack of foresight by past Nigerian leaders to combine both the natural and human resources into productive ventures were responsible for the retrogressing state of the nation’s economy. Anakwenze also took a swipe at the APC-led government for incurring loans to fund the 2022 budget. He maintained that the PDP government under his watch, if elected, would focus on youth empowerment. “Nigeria should be leader of all black nations if we have smart and intelligent leaders. “We need to start investing in the youths. The youths have been destroyed and drowned. My job is to rescue the young people and put them in place to save Nigeria. The old politicians’ time is up. I will give scholarships and skill acquisition and government soft loans to drive their businesses. “(The) APC is a failed government, they are taking loans. We don’t need to take loans to service our economy, we need to become an industrial and manufacturing nation. We need to be making cars, trains, and ships, we need to be an export nation of computers. Our young generation can do that. I will empower the youth to make that happen.” Speaking on the health sector, the PDP stalwart said every region of the country should have specialist hospital to deal with major surgery of the body. According to him, this will discourage foreign medical trips by Nigerians. “I manage 4,000 health doctors in the USA. We need specialist hospitals in every region of the country that can do everything like eyes, nose, ear, brain, bone, prostate. In America, if your heart and kidney stops working, we can replace them with another one. Prostrate should not be a deadly disease in Nigeria. “We will bring experts from the US to train our indigenous doctors on these special treatments. “In America, prostate is like having catarrh. In America, Nigerians are top in education; why is it that when they come here, they fail? “On energy, we should have 24hours power. We have the flaring gas on our rivers. We can convert the rivers gas into turbine and generate electricity from it. “I’m a detribalised Nigerian. I will share power among the six geopolitical zones. Nobody will feel left out. The North are good in agriculture, I don’t have any problem working with everyone.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com