The Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra on Thursday warned South-East governors and members of the National Assembly from Igbo land against sabotaging the presidential aspirants from the region. The pro-Biafra group also warned that anyone found shall be treated as a saboteur and a betrayer of his own brother. The group also condemned the support given to the presidential aspiration of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State by some Igbo governors, especially Dr Okezie Ikpazu of Abia State. A statement by the group’s National Director of Information, Comrade Edeson Samuel, described it as very disappointing and unpatriotic that some Igbo political leaders whom Ndigbo gave the mandate to represent Igbo interests would work against the Igbo agenda to clinch the president of Nigeria. MASSOB queried “how could some of our political leaders support a man who openly denied his ‘igboness’; a man whose pathological hatred against Ndigbo is overwhelmingly seen “Governor Wike sponsored the killing of Igbo youths in River State, a man full of himself and arrogant without regard for anybody. “MASSOB warned Igbo leaders to stop their selfish actions that are capable of distorting the overall interest of the South-East region because MASSOB will never tolerate such political selfishness now.” It added, “Governor Wike is not interested in aspiring for the presidency, he is an errand boy to his master, Governor Tambuwal of Sokoto state. Our Igbo political leaders should know that Nyesom Wike is deceiving them. 2023 is the turn of the South-East to produce the next president of Nigeria. “These South-East governor’s played the same game in 2019 general election with General Mohammadu Buhari and the APC ruling government, which they promised Buhari 25% of our vote because of their selfish interest. “Our intelligence report has revealed that the Governor of Abia state is in agreement with Nyesom Wike, because of the crisis of who should control the state structures and the list of the party delegates that will be submitted to the party national secretariat in Abuja for the incoming primaries. “We can never forgive any Igbo leader that betrays our collective interest in 2023, irrespective of his position, we shall mark them.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com