A philanthropist, lawyer and female governorship aspirant on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party in Cross River State, Imah Nsa-Adegoke, has pledged to boost the economy of the state if elected to lead. She stated this on Tuesday at the PDP secretariat, Calabar where she presented her manifesto after declaring to run for the office of the state governor. According to Nsa-Adegoke who catered for widows and less privileged people, her manifesto was anchored on SHIFT, which stands for schools, hospitals, infrastructure, farms and technology. “My vision is to SHIFT the cycle of injustice and inequity in the governance of Cross River State using it as an example of what Nigeria can again become if the proper parameters of justice, equity and rightness are once again enshrined as the fulcrum of social engineering.” She also said, among other things, that there was a huge governance challenge in the state and that she would explore the state’s enormous resources to boost its economy, adding that “a backward integrated industrialisation for agriculture and our mineral resources will be focused on restoring the wealth of Cross River State and our people. “My plans to recover and restore the fortunes of Cross River State will hinge on the true meaning of democracy. I pledge to fight for you, the people of Cross River State. I am not an option but the choice you must make to win the Cross River State back in 2023.” Responding, the state Chairman of the PDP, Venatius Ikem said, “All women that came here were exceptional. PDP is attracting all the stars. We will provide a level playing field for all aspirants. Our situation is very peculiar. We need everybody to push those people (APC) out of power. We need a good candidate to win the 2023 election.” In 2011, Nsa-Adegoke contested the governorship election under the platform of the Labour Party. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com