There are situations the preposition, ‘to’, is wrongly left out in some phrases or clauses. It is supposed to be used in the given statements, but for one reason or the other, it is left out or substituted with another preposition. An example is when it has to follow ‘prefer’ and what you have is a wrong term – like ‘I prefer this than that.’  The correct expression is ‘I prefer this to that.’  Must to? But there are other contexts some of us use ‘to’ where it is not required. A popular but surely awkward one is ‘must to’, as you have in ‘I must to go.’ This is scandalously wrong and should be confined to comedy zone where it is usually used. You don’t use ‘to’ after ‘must’ and other modal verbs like can and will: I must to go tomorrow. (Wrong) I must go tomorrow. (Correct) I can to go tomorrow. (Wrong) I can go tomorrow. (Correct) I have to go tomorrow. (Correct)  To whom he gave it to You may boast that you cannot make the mistake in the expression ‘To whom he gave it to’. After all, it is obvious that something is odd in it. The ‘to’ that ends it is an abnormality that should be avoided. You either say ‘to whom he gave it’ or ‘whom he gave it to’. The irony, however, is that many of the people who commit the error know it is a wrong construction, yet they fall into the trap. The reason is this: many of such people indulge in long sentences. In the process, they would have forgotten that they started the statement with ‘to’, and thus again end it with the same word. So, apart from the fact that you should bear it in mind that ‘to whom he gave it to’ is wrong, you should be wary of too long sentences. Besides, always ensure you proofread the expression whenever you use it.  Heed to? Although it is normal to use ‘to’ with the verb, ‘listen’, it is worse than being abnormal to use it with ‘heed’. You don’t heed to a piece of advice or warning, you simply heed it: I asked him not to go but he did not heed to my advice. (Wrong) I asked him not to go but he did not heed my advice. (Correct) Enter into The error here has nothing to do with‘to’; I only add it as a reminder. It is not always all the time you use ‘into’ with ‘enter’. When you are talking in terms of an agreement, it is accepted. But when in terms of getting into a place, it is wrong: Nigeria and Niger Republic have entered into an agreement on border patrol. (Correct) I had entered into the room before she arrived. (Wrong) I had entered the room before she arrived. (Correct) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com