The committee set up by the Zamfara State Government to investigate the Emir of Zurmi, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, and the Emir of Dansadau, Alhaji Hussaini Umar, over their alleged involvement in banditry activities in the state, has submitted its report to the state government. The two Emirs including a district head of Nasarawa Mailayi in Birnin Magaji Local Government Area, Alhaji Bello Wakkala, were suspended in June last year over their alleged involvement in banditry activities. Receiving the two separate reports of the committee led by the former Governor, Malam Wakkala, on Tuesday, the acting Governor of Zamfara State, Hassan Gusau, thanked the members of the committee for a job well done. He assured that the state government would implement the given recommendations by the committee. Gusau stressed the state government’s readiness to deal with anybody, no matter how highly placed in the society, found wanting in scuttling the efforts exerted for the restoration of relative peace and security in the state. The acting governor called on the general public to help themselves by assisting the constituted authority with prompt information on any strange movement of individuals and groups for appropriate action. He further reaffirmed that the state government had placed priority attention to the security of lives and property of the citizenry at all times. Speaking earlier on behalf of the committee, the Commissioner for Security, Alhaji Mamman Tsafe, thanked the state governor for allowing them to serve in the committee. According to him, they put in appropriate strategies by using the already existing terms of reference provided to committees before they finally came up with reports on their findings and workable recommendations for implementation by the state government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com