The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, Thursday in Abuja said he was not in the presidential race ahead of the 2023 elections. Akpabio said he was engrossed with his portfolio to assist the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to complete his assignment in 2023. He disclosed this to journalists in Abuja shortly after a meeting with the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, at the party’s Buhari House national secretariat. The former governor of Akwa Ibom State, who said he was not eyeing the APC presidential ticket, said asides from his ministerial assignment, he was working for the development of the Niger Delta region and nurturing the APC chapter there to ensure a harmonious relationship among stakeholders. Speaking of the 2023 presidency, he said, “People have mentioned my name. You know I’m a minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and I work with the very focused President and I’m determined to ensure that he ends well. So, my job as a Minister of Niger Delta is to continue to interact with stakeholders for the Niger Delta. “As you have seen me, I’m with one of my leaders, Chief of Niger Delta, Don Etiebet. We want to continue to interact with each other, discuss issues and ensure the peace of that region and I can tell you that South-South Nigeria today, is one of the peaceful regions in the country and we want to keep it. “So there is no doubt that my job has not ended, my job is to continue to support Mr President, not just to ensure the completion of his legacy projects but also to ensure that his projects and legacy lead beyond 2023.” Speaking of the leadership crisis rocking the Akwa Ibom APC and the lawsuit that tried to stop the emergence of Stephen Ntukekpo, Akpabio lauded the party leadership for following the court’s pronouncement; urging party stakeholders to cooperate with the Ntukekpo-led working committee. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com