Nigerians have taken to the social media on Wednesday to slam the All Progressives Congress over its pegging of presidential nomination form at N100 million. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the APC, at its National Executive Meeting held in Abuja on Wednesday, pegged its presidential nomination and expression of interest forms at N100 million, with the nomination form going for N70 million and the expression of interest form going for N30 million. Twitter users had since bemoaned the development, saying that such an amount would encourage embezzlement if such a presidential candidate finally emerged. @DAMIADENUGA said, “#100m to buy one form, tell me how the person buying this form won’t take a loan to pay & when they win, they’ll use government money to repay personal loan they took to buy nomination form.” @Adedeji__O, tweeted, “#100m for APC’s Presidential Ticket. “More reason why these guys go towards any length to win elections. After winning, all they first care about is recouping their investments. Wow!” “Someone would buy party’s nomination form for #100M & We expect him not to embezzle when He attains office? Naija’s political rot is systemic,” @deKunLe_Oyo said. Others equally knocked the ruling party for having such an amount for a presidential form but could not fix the ongoing strike of the Academic Staff Union of Universities. “#100m for presidential form and students are at home coz of ASUU strike and all!
This country is finished already! Student Still hoping on using certificate after school is on the fence. It’s well!” Olusho Of OAU, @olusho101 tweeted. @Chypee3 also said, “So osibanjo get #100m to buy ticket but they don’t have money to settle ASUU so we will start school. Omo!!! I stand with Peter Obi jawe” “N100million for Apc presidential form, Where youth wan see 100m from?” @chukwuebuka_360 asked in his tweet. A presidential aspirant under the APC, Adamu Garba, via his Twitter handle, @adamugarba, also exclaimed over the amount, saying “100M for the form. Wow!” Meanwhile, tweeps who replied to Garba asked him not to waste his money, while some prayed that God would provide for him. “Adamu Garba don’t waste the money u don’t have purchasing the N100m APC presidential form, cos even if u purchase the form u will be invisible during the elections; People don’t rate u. Focus on bettering yourself as a person, cos u have a bad reputation & a questionable character,” @DanielRegha said. “Le n se waow waow bi ambulance yi.
Hope no problem, sir? God will provide for you sir,” @AfolabiBB replied to Garba. “Adamu e be like say you go change ambition to SUG president o,” @FS_Yusuf_ said in his reply. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com