THE Independent National Electoral Commission has warned political parties in the country against the violation of electoral timelines, as well as the provisions of the new Electoral Act, 2022. The electoral body said it would stick to the timelines and also monitor the primaries of political parties, as it had released the timetable and schedule of activities for the 2023 general elections on February 26, 2022. The Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, INEC, Festus Okoye, in a statement issued on Tuesday in Abuja stated, “The timetable provided detailed activities, including the conduct of primaries, nomination of candidates by political parties and other activities leading to the Presidential and National Assembly elections slated for Saturday, February 25, 2023, followed by the gubernatorial and state assembly elections on Saturday, March 11, 2023. “All the activities are in line with the provisions of the 1999 Constitution and the Electoral Act, 2022. “So far, two out of the 14 activities in the timetable and schedule of activities have been successfully accomplished. The notice of election was published on February 28, 2022, while nomination forms have been made available on the Commission’s website since March 1, 2022 for political parties to download and issue to their candidates. “The next activity is the conduct of primaries by political parties, which is in line with the dictates of Section 84 of the Electoral Act for which the timetable and schedule of activities provides a period of 61 days (April 4 to June 3, 2022). “The commission wishes to reiterate that parties must adhere strictly to the principles of internal democracy, drawing from their constitutions, guidelines, the Electoral Act and other regulations and guidelines issued by the commission.” INEC added that candidates for the 1,491 constituencies, for which elections would be conducted in 2023, must emerge from democratic, transparent and valid primaries, in line with the provisions of Sections 29 and 84 of the Electoral Act, 2022. The commission stated, “Where a political party fails to comply with the provisions of the Electoral Act in the conduct of its primaries, its candidate shall not be included in the election for the particular position in issue. “As required by law, the commission shall monitor the primaries of each political party that provides the required legal notice in line with Sections 82 (1) and (5) of the Electoral Act. Failure of a political party to notify the Commission of any convention or congress convened for the purpose of nominating candidates for any of the elective offices specified in the Act shall render the convention or congress invalid.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com