The National Chairman and the Deputy National Chairman (North) of the All Progressives Congress, Senators Abdullahi Adamu and Abubakar Kyari, respectively, have officially quit their seats in the Senate, two weeks after the ruling party’s national convention. President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, read their letters of resignation at the plenary on Tuesday. Adamu and Kyari emerged as the consensus candidates for the APC National Working Committee positions at the convention held in Abuja on March 26, 2022. Until then, Adamu was representing Nasarawa West Senatorial District while Kyari was representing Borno North Senatorial District at the Senate. Adamu had chaired the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, while Kyari headed the Committee on Federal Capital Territory. After their resignation, Lawan is expected to declare their seats vacant and communicate the vacancy to the Independent National Electoral Commission, which will in turn conduct a bye-election to fill the vacant seats. Adamu, in his letter, commended Lawan for how the latter is running the affairs of the federal parliament. The APC chairman said, “I feel a sense of duty and obligation to convey through this letter, my appreciation for the cooperation and guidance I received from you as chairman of the National Assembly throughout my official and private association with you. “As I leave the Senate, I cannot easily forget the change and style of leadership that you brought since becoming the Senate President of the Ninth Senate. Your ability to forge the deep-rooted bi-partisan approach on all issues which you chaired deliberations speaks volumes of your chemistry as a leader. “Since you assumed the chairmanship of the National Assembly, you have worked so hard for the assembly to be seen to work with the government and not against it. Indeed, you have roundly proved at every stage that the three arms of government are truly arms of the same national government. “You have stirred the National Assembly to do the bidding of our great party without prejudice to the other parties, irrespective of their representation. In so doing, you have been able not to only carry your colleagues at the leadership level of the Senate, but endeavoured to be a family head in the real sense of the word to all members of the Ninth Senate.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com