The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Friday said his administration would continue to collaborate with security agencies to ensure that the state remained the safest for the residents. Sanwo-Olu, who stated this when the General Officer Commanding, 81 Division of Nigerian Army, Major General Umar Musa; the Air Officer Commanding Logistics Command of the Nigerian Air Force, Air Vice Marshal Hassan Abubakar; and the Commander, NNS Beecroft of the Nigerian Navy, Commodore A. M. Haruna, led some military officers on a courtesy visit to the Lagos House, Marina. “As a government, in the last three years, we have been receiving tremendous cooperation from the men and officers of the Nigerian Armed Forces – Nigerian Army, Nigerian Air Force and Nigerian Navy. “As a government, we will continue to ensure that we raise the bar of governance so that our people can receive the real dividends of democracy, which is the improvement of the livelihood of our citizens. And in doing that, the safety and security of lives and property are critical and germane because it is only in a safe and secured environment that businesses can thrive; people will sleep with two eyes closed and go about their businesses lawfully,” he was quoted as saying in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, titled, “We’ll Continue to Ensure Lagos Remains Most Peaceful, Secure State in Nigeria, says Sanwo-Olu.’’ The governor, however, urged the military officers to sustain and improve the existing collaboration between the government and the various security formations in the state as they owed it as a duty to the country to continue to raise the level of security assurance that currently existed in Lagos. “For us, as civilians, we will ensure that democracy thrives, lives and is alive. We will continue to ensure that we bring to the barest minimum things that can bring about a civil disturbance. The expectation of our citizens is not lost on us and we know what we are meant to be doing. We will do what we can do to ensure that Lagos continues to remain safe, peaceful and enterprising to our citizens and foreigners,” he added. In his remarks, Musa said that members of the military in the state were working behind the scenes to make Lagos the most peaceful and secure state in the country. He added, “We will not allow the survival of the fittest in Lagos State. We will ensure everybody gets his best and ensure that bad eggs in Lagos State are fished out and the law-abiding citizens will continue to carry out their duties responsibly.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com