The Kwara State Government, labour leaders, Church and family members on Wednesday eulogised the late Trade Union Congress Chairman, Akinwunmi Akinsola, who was among the eight persons killed during the attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train attack. Speaking at the commendation service organized for late Akinsola at Emmanuel Baptist church, Sabo-Oke, Ilorin, the Kwara State Deputy Governor, Kayode Alabi, who lamented the loss of lives in the terror attack, urged Nigerians to abide by the will of God. He said, “When I heard about it, I felt so bad. We will surely die one day but not this way. Whatever situation one is, we should abide by God.” Alabi while commending the efforts of Akinsola during the negotiations for the new minimum wage for the workers in the state described him as a God-fearing man. The Deputy Governor urged the immediate family of the deceased specifically the wife and his aged father to take solace and believe in God praying that “Almighty God will guide you, console you and provide your needs. Earlier, the Deputy Governor while addressing the workers who converged in his office said that the request made by the TUC for a scholarship award to the two children of the deceased would be forwarded to the governor. He assured that the governor would look positively into the request, adding that “I’m sure the Federal government will also do something about it.” TUC Vice Chairman, Comrade Tunde Joseph, said things changed in the union immediately Akinsola became the chairman adding that the workers in the state were granted the new minimum wage less than six months that he assumed the union leadership. He, however, called on the government as well as the people to show love and commitment to his family. Spokesperson of Afurugbin society of Emmanuel Baptist church which the deceased belongs, Deacon Michael Adebayo said that Akinsola lived a meaningful life adding that “he is an active member and a philanthropist in the Church and he is ready to serve. In his sermon titled, “The rising star cut down suddenly”, Reverend Taye Adeola who remarked that many people had been killed and maimed by the bandits while many women and men had been turned to widows and many parents turned childless raised a poser that “what are the demands of the bandits and how long are we going to tolerate them? He described Akinsola as a man who stood and fought for the right of other people adding that he joined the union with a motive to fight for the right of civil servants. Adeola said that death was an appointment that everyone must keep as everyone would die “whether we like it or not” while urging the family members to hope that they would meet their relations again if they died in Christ. “Death is an appointment that every human being must keep, everyone will die. But everyone who has a relationship with Jesus Christ will not die and will resurrect, if a man dies in Christ, he will live again. At the commendation service were “the late labour boss’ wife, Mrs Modupeola Akinsola, his two children; Akinkolade and Akinjibola, Senior Special Assistant to Kwara Governor on Labour, Comrade Mumini Onagun, members of the Nigeria Labour Congress and TUC as well as top government officials. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com