THE management of the Nigerian Postal Services has announced it has launched an investigation into the alleged disappearance of an item belonging to one of its customers. The agency revealed this in a statement by the Director of Communications, Franklin Alao. It said the agency was aware of the protests by the customer, Mr Victor Eze, whose item, an iPhone, was allegedly taken at its Asaba office. The statement said, “The Postal Master General of the Federation, Dr. Ismail Adebayo Adewusi, upon being notified of the allegation, promptly directed that necessary investigations must be launched to unravel the circumstances and report the same. “Preliminary reports show that on the receipt of the bag containing the item from the Airline Handling Agent, the contents of the bag, of which the item in question was one, were examined. “The item in question was also examined and assessed in a full complement of the assessment team, comprising Nigeria Customs, NDLEA Operatives, Postal Operatives and Security Operatives, etc and the item was found broached. “Consequently, and in line with postal operational guidelines, a Verification Note was immediately issued to the country of Origin of the item, which is USPS. “One would have thought the item should have been forwarded for control delivery in which the customer will be invited and informed of the condition the item was received from the originating country and the efforts that are being made to rectify the situation instead of being delivered in that state.” According to the agency, it is not permitted to delay the delivery of a customer’s item under the Universal Postal Union regulations. It added that it has issued an irregularity report to USPS. NIPOST said it had developed a new capacity for responding to missing claims by its customers.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com