A non-governmental organisation, Protect the Child Foundation, has sensitised schools and government agencies on the need to take action to tackle the menace of child sexual abuse in various sectors. The Executive Director of PTCF, Mrs Elizabeth Achimugu, disclosed this during a two-day training workshop on creating sexual safety policies for schools in Abuja. Achimugu, during the workshop organised by PTCF with the support of Facebook Community Accelerator Programme, stated that the fight against child sexual abuse was the responsibility of everyone, especially teachers who spent more time with children as well as law enforcement agencies. She stated, “Child sexual abuse has become a menace to the society and the fight involves the collaboration of all relevant stakeholders to be able to stem the tide and achieve justice in the event of its occurrence.” “It involves teachers who spend so much time with children, police and other law enforcement agencies, National Agency for the Prohibition against Trafficking in Persons, social development, and relevant agencies, hence the need for this workshop. The training is essential because most stakeholders lack the requisite knowledge to prevent, respond or report cases of abuse.” The Programme Manager of PTCF, Stephen Oguche, noted that the purpose of the training was to enlighten parents, teachers and stakeholders on child sexual abuse. “The essence of this workshop is to enlighten parents, teachers, and stakeholders on how to prevent, respond and report cases of child sexual abuse and how to secure justice for survivors/victims in compliance with extant laws,” he stated. A Chief Intelligence Officer of the NAPTIP, Helen Emuze, emphasised the need for everyone to be vigilant because abuse could come in different forms and could be contact (fondling and rape where there is penetration) or non-contact sexual abuse (where children are exposed to sexual content).  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com