A chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Ahmed Lawan, has slammed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), over his request for an additional N3.557 trillion for fuel subsidy. Lawan, who lost the contest of the APC party’s National Organising Secretary during the last convention, argued that the current N250 pump price of Premium Motor Spirit renders the presidential request ridiculously unacceptable. His condemnation came ahead of Senate approval of additional N3.557 trillion fuel subsidy money as requested by Buhari. The PUNCH had reported that the Senate would, on Thursday, pass the revised 2022 fiscal framework before adjourning on the Easter break. The hint was given by the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan after the report of the Committee on Finance was stepped down for consideration, a statement on Wednesday signed by Dr. Ezrel Tabiowo, Special Assistant (Press) to the Senate President, said. Among other requests, Buhari had asked the chamber to approve an increase in the estimated provision for 2022 subsidy for PMS, also called petrol, by N3.557 trillion, from N442.72 billion to N4 trillion. The request was contained in a letter dated April 5, 2022. “My observation is that it’s better for Federal Government to remove fuel subsidy and use the money to improve the power supply in Nigeria. “If with subsidy, people will still buy fuel in filling station at the rate of N250 per liter and also collect subsidy from Federal Government by marketers, that’s double profits and does not make sense. “Federal Government should take over power stations from the private sector to give us light because we are paying bills every month without commensurate value. “Giving electricity to the public is like automatically creating job opportunities for our youths in Nigeria. More so that the youths are now manufacturing electric cars and other devices in Nigeria,” Lawan said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com