Academic scholars and practitioners in the insurance industry have urged Nigerians, including business owners, to consider embracing Takaful insurance. The stakeholders described it as a viable and ethical insurance that offers enormous benefits to all members of society regardless of race, religion, ethnicity, or social status. A statement said this was part of the submissions at the Takaful workshop organised by Noor Takaful Insurance Limited. The event themed, ‘Takaful insurance in an increasingly unstable and insecure world’, featured renowned scholars in both the academia and the industry, some of which include an Islamic cleric, Dr Bashir Umar; a former Commissioner for Insurance, Mr Mohammed Kari; Director, International Institute of Islamic Banking and Finance, Bayero University, Kano, Prof. Binta Jibril among others. Delivering his welcome remarks, the Chairman, Noor Takaful Insurance Limited, Mr Muhtar Bakare, noted that the workshop was one of the numerous ways the company intended to engage the populace and create much-needed awareness about Takaful insurance. He said, “This is the first in the series of workshops Noor Takaful plans to hold in various cities across the country and we should be starting that journey in Kano. “I am delighted to mention that Noor Takaful was conceived and incubated in Kano in 2015. This workshop intends to allow us to hear from Islamic and academic scholars how Takaful can help support businesses and communities in a rapidly changing, challenging world.” Also speaking, the Vice-Chairman, Noor Takaful Insurance Limited, Mr Aminu Tukur, stated that the company was delighted to reintroduce Takaful insurance to the Kano market, having started the journey from the ancient city. Commenting at the workshop, Umar said it was gratifying to note that Noor Takaful Insurance Limited was taking up the challenge to promote Takaful, which underscored the commitment to promote ethical insurance in Nigeria. Also speaking, Rabiu stated that though Takaful insurance is still in its infancy when compared with conventional insurance, the industry had witnessed a tremendous rise and reached a global market size of $22m within a short period.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com