A non-government organisation, Owe Ladies Development Initiatives, has commenced a mentorship program to ensure that Owe girl child in the Kabba metropolis of Kogi State gets the right mentor to be successful in life. This was disclosed on Sunday at a programme organised by the NGO with the theme, “The Successful Girl-Child” held at Olonijola Event Center, Kabba. Speaking at the event, the NGO President, Mrs Folashade Ann Shinkaiye, commended the commitment, enthusiasm, and determination of its members to make a difference for Owe girls. According to her, Owe Ladies Development Initiatives was an integral part of the program conceived by Kabba Development Union, an umbrella body that drives the development process of Kabba community. She said the movement was committed to creating platforms for the girl-child to realize their vision in life, especially the vulnerable young girls in the community. She said the KDU was concerned on how they can expand the horizon of the girl-child beyond the limit of their environment to aim for higher education attainment, high level of dedication to duty, exemplary character, and focus. Mrs Shinkaiye said the summit is aimed at galvanizing Owe young girls to overcome the ills within the society, pointing out that adolescent girls face significant disadvantages because of their age, gender, ethnic background, self-identity, and income disparity of their parents among other compounded factors. She said the organization would be fulfilled when in the nearest future Owe girls become big players in advancing the various sectors in their communities and of the global space of science technology, engineering, mathematics, humanity, creativity, sports, among others. Shinkaiye stressed that the NGO will work in conjunction with its partners to provide Owe girls with all the opportunities they need to be successful in life. She said over 50 Owe sons and daughters have donated to the organization to achieve its aims and objectives, adding that the fund under her leadership will be judiciously used to better the lot of Owe girl-child. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com