Stakeholders have called for the institution of the International Anti-Corruption Court, saying it would facilitate the tracing and recovery of stolen public funds and the arrest and prosecution of fugitives fleeing corruption trials. They also argued that when established, the IACC would ensure the trial of public treasury looters who could not be prosecuted in their home countries due to a lack of will by the political leadership. According to the stakeholders which include the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Global Governance Forum, the United States Embassy, HEDA Resource Centre and others, the IAAC would increase cooperation against graft among African countries, improve capacity to trace stolen funds, repatriate and bring to book anyone found guilty, among other benefits. These were the submissions of participants at a one-day conference on IAAC organised by HEDA Resource Centre in partnership with Integrity Initiatives International, with the theme: ‘Instituting International Anti-Corruption Court: Issues, Challenges and Opportunities for Engagement.’ The participants said, “An International Anti-Corruption Court would fill the crucial enforcement gap in the international framework for combating grand corruption. “It would constitute a fair and effective forum for the prosecution and punishment of kleptocrats and their collaborators; deter others tempted to emulate their example; and recover, repatriate, and repurpose ill-gotten gains for the victims of grand corruption.” Addressing the participants, the HEDA Chairman, Olanrewaju Suraju, said the IAAC would boost anti-graft campaign, particularly in Africa and help in curbing the looting of public funds. He said, “We are the first to set up this conversation here, and we shall continue to escalate it using our collective expertise and resources. We call for everyone’s input across board to see this project to fruition. “We shall take it further to the next level, but individuals should do their bit in their respective jurisdiction to support this move with enthusiasm and as a matter of top priority.” The EFCC Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, represented by Chinwe Uweize, said corruption is transnational, noting that the international anti-corruption court would compel leaders who may not have the political will to tackle graft to do so. The chairman of the event and Country Representative of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Dr Oliver Stolpe, observed that the UN Convention on Corruption was silent on the IACC but noted that the international Anti-Corruption Court would ensure impartial adjudication of corruption cases. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com