A group, the Legislative Advocacy Initiative for Sustainable Development, has collaborated with the office of the wife of Gombe State Governor, Asma’u Yahaya, towards reducing under-five deaths in the state. The group alongside Saif Advocacy Foundation also bestowed on Yahaya champion of Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Healthcare and Nutrition. Speaking on Wednesday, during the investiture, the Executive Director of LISDEL, Juliana Abude-Aribo, said this would enhance accountability for every health-related preventable death of women, children and adolescents in health facilities and communities. She explained that it would also reduce maternal, neonatal, child and adolescent morbidity and mortality through the provision of timely, safe, appropriate and effective healthcare services. She noted, “The last Demographic Health Survey reported that out of every 1000 live births in Gombe, about 130 die before they are five years old due to inadequate access to affordable quality healthcare services. Global benchmarks indicate that mortality in this regard should not exceed 25. In addition, 550 women out of 100,000 also die in the process of childbirth.” Abude-Aribo revealed that a coalition of female champions would be formed from RMNCAH-N, adding that they would assiduously work with the Ministry of Health and other stakeholders to ensure impact. On her part, the wife of the Governor commended the initiative, while promising to support every effort geared towards increasing longevity of children, adolescents and women. She said, “We will work and partner with LISDEL towards reducing maternal mortality and infant mortality. We are looking forward to working with you and I hope we achieve a great feat.” Speaking earlier, the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Habu Dahiru, explained that LISDEL advocacy cuts across two other states, stressing that the pillars of intervention include: universal health coverage, reducing maternal, neonatal mortality and morbidity. “This can only be achieved through high level advocacy with your person and, of course, your own husband our leader, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya. They proposed to identify advocacy champions and ambassadors and will facilitate states-led champions through our Primary Healthcare Development Agency and other sister agencies,” Dahiru said.