Nigerian striker Kelechi Iheanacho hopes to score more goals against Manchester United after finding the back of the net at Old Trafford on Saturday, as Leicester City secured a 1-1 draw in the English Premier League. Following a disappointing outing with Nigeria for a ticket to the 2022 World Cup in Qatar later this year, Iheanacho led Leicester’s attack against the English giants and put up a man-of-the-match display. The 25-year-old scored the Foxes only goal of the game and could have added an assist to his name, but had it chalked off after referee Andre Marriner cancelled James Maddison’s goal, following a VAR review. The 2020/21 FA Cup winners were denied all three points as Brazilian midfielder Fred equalised for the Devils four minutes after Iheanacho’s opener. Speaking with the club’s media team, Iheanacho, who now has four goals and three assists in 10 appearances against United, said he was pleased with his team’s performance, but hoped to score more goals against United in the near future. “Extra pleasing, yeah. I’m happy to get a goal against them again, obviously, now as a Leicester City player. I’m happy and hopefully more to come,” Iheanacho told LCFC TV. “We wanted to win the game but it wasn’t a bad one getting a draw at Old Trafford. So, we’ll take that and get ready for the next game. “It was a good performance from us. It wasn’t that cool in the first half, but we kept building up from the back. “But in the second half, we were a bit better, we moved the ball quickly, and we got in good positions, and we got the goal. It was a great performance.” Iheanacho also praised Kiernan Dewsbury-Hall and Maddison in the build up to his goal. “Dewsbury-Hall was great, made a great tackle, won the ball and gave it straight to Maddison,” the Nigerian striker said. “I expected that he was going to whip it in and I was at the right place at the right time to get my head to it.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com