The Proprietor of Premier Lotto, Chief Kessington Adebutu, has decried the lack of support for journalism in Nigeria. Speaking on Thursday while giving his acceptance speech after being conferred with the Nigerian Institute of Journalism Golden Jubilee anniversary Fellowship award, he maintained that the three other estates of the realm, including Executive, Judiciary, Legislative, were provided for in the budgetary allocation, saying the press had nothing. “Ironically, despite being the fourth realm, the press is on its own because the three other estates of the realm, are provided for in budgetary allocation but the press gets nothing, it has to fend for itself. It is for this reason we need to support the press and be the masses’ watchtower.” He added that the award would enable him to support journalism more and get more people to do so. “When I was approached about the conferment by my friend, Osoba, and others, honestly speaking, my initial approach was, not again this is the manner some of us are being honoured every now and then. When I was made the Odele in 2019 I had thought that should be the zenith but an honour by NIJ is a far cry from chieftaincy or traditional title and coming from the fourth estate of the realm, how will anyone turn such honour down. For me, it is for me to support journalism in Nigeria and rally other good people to follow suit. I feel humbled. My heartfelt gratitude to the council and journalists.” Chairman, NIJ Governing Council, Chief Olusegun Osoba, said the fellowship award conferred on Adebutu was endorsed by the International Press Institute, Vienna, Austria.
“There are so many nominees but Kessington towers above all and he is a product of NIJ. He is a great philanthropist too.” The Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu who was represented by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotosho, commended NIJ for being efficient in shaping the direction that journalism is heading in Nigeria. He said, “Sir Kessington has been an enviable and exemplary personality in our society for decades. Any honour done on him is worth it because he has dedicated his life to promoting worthy courses.” Provost, NIJ, Mr Gbenga Adefaye, described Adebutu as unique media content, saying, “Our best way of appreciating his worth is to confer the Golden Jubilee anniversary Fellowship on this builder of lives. As we honour Sir Kessington Adebutu today, we recommit ourselves to making the dreams of our founding fathers a reality. We will always seek your support.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com