Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has approved the sum of N18m for disbursement to families of nine persons killed by terrorists in the Abuja-Kaduna train attack. This was made known by the Executive Secretary of the Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency, Muhammad Mukadas, in Kaduna on Wednesday. The PUNCH had reported that on March 28, terrorists planted explosives devices along the rail track and when the Abuja-Kaduna bound train approached the point, the device exploded, causing the train to derail, leading to the death of eight passengers. A day after the attack, another passenger who suffered gunshot wound, died, increasing casualty figure to nine. From the manifest released by the Nigerian Railway Corporation, 398 passengers bought tickets but 362 were validated as having bought tickets. Over 100 passengers are still in the kidnappers den. According to Mukadas, in a statement, on Wednesday, N2million each would be given to each family of the deceased victims. He added that N250, 000 each would also be given to 22 persons who were severely injured during the attack. The SEMA boss said, “369 victims were called and offered opportunities for psychological support, 264 persons accepted the offers and were supported. “We secured ambulances and busses for evacuation and moved to the scene. Before arrival, the military had commenced evacuation. We therefore evacuated the dead bodies and a few severely wounded victims and one person that had escaped captivity. “We deposited the dead at the 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital and others at St. Gerald Catholic Hospital for treatment. We set up a crisis centre which availed families of the victims to call for enquiries and also provide relevant information about their missing relatives.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com