Veritasi Homes and Properties, a real estate company in Nigeria, has signed its commercial paper programme worth N10bn. The firm said in a statement that the CP programme was approved through the Board Listings and Markets Committee of the Financial Market Dealers Quotation Securities Exchange. It said the signing ceremony which held in Lagos was attended by partners, sponsors, and other stakeholders. The Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Veritasi Homes and Properties Limited, Adetola Nola, said the successful signing of the commercial paper programme was a significant feat for the company. He said, “We are delighted that the proceeds from the issuance of the CP will be applied to develop superior real estate projects designed for clients at home and in the diaspora. “We want to thank Mega Capital Financial Services Limited, the transaction sponsor, and Pathway Advisors Limited, our financial adviser, for their efforts and professionalism in getting this programme approved. “Our commitment as a brand to building a trustworthy business remains, and we look forward to other future engagements with the capital market.” Speaking on the signing, the Managing Director, Mega Capital Financial Services Limited, Mr Emmanuel Egbumokei, said that Veritasi had gone through a series of checks to qualify for this. The successful signing showed that the company was trustworthy and transparent, he said. He said, “Considering what the company has been doing over time, the track record and the impression of the investing public on the company’s programme, we are happy to be part of this great accomplishment. “We know that the funding avenues will be well managed and utilised to further the company’s growth.” Partner and Head, Marketing and communications, Tobi Yusuff, thanked all the partners who contributed to the successful signing of the commercial paper. A participant at the event, Mr Seyi Ebenezer, expressed optimism at the signing.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com