The Nigerian-British Chamber of Commerce has called for more emphasis on technology in order to help accelerate productivity and bridge the existing gap between Nigeria and the world’s leading economies. The chamber stated this during a two-day Trade Conference and Exhibition tagged ‘Fast Tracking Productivity – Leveraging Technology,’ held in Lagos earlier this week. According to a statement by the company, the conference had in attendance, high profile individuals from different industries and sectors. Delivering her address of welcome at the opening session, the President and Chairman of The Council, Bisi Adeyemi, described the theme of the event as germane considering the current realities in the country. She said: “The theme of the conference underscores the imperative of technology in driving productivity and is reflective of the current realities, propelled by the COVID 19 Pandemic.” She urged the participants to maximise the insights garnered during the conference to actualise their organisational goals. According to the statement, the session continued with a keynote address from Mr. Olukayode Pitan, MD, Bank of Industry (represented by Pastor Simon Arenonu – Executive Director/ Large Enterprises, BOI) who spoke on ‘Fast-Tracking Productivity – The Role of Bank of Industry.’ Mr. Lamin Mangang, MD, Standard Chartered Bank, who was represented by Head of Digital Banking and Financial Inclusion at the bank, Mr. Adeyinka Shurungbe, addressed the topic ‘Digital Banking – Creating Opportunities’. On the other hand, MD, First Bank, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, who was represented by Group Executive Treasury and International Banking at the bank,  Mr. Ini Ebong, spoke on ‘The Power of Technology in Business Development.’ The statement added that the Chairman of Zinox Group, Mr. Leo Stan Ekeh, delivered a paper on ‘Confronting Business Challenges and Staying Ahead,’ in which he highlighted the importance of knowledge pace as a very critical part of our economy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com