The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), Friday in Abuja, decried a poor culture of accountability in the country, and called for a “clean up”. He also noted that professionals in various fields, especially accounting, provide the strength and framework for thriving economies and promised that his regime will continue to engage experts to gain measurable and reliable results. In a statement signed by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, Buhari said this when he received a delegation from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria led by the President, Comfort Eyitayo, at the State House. The statement is titled ‘Professionals are the livewire of economies, we will continue to engage them, says President Buhari to ICAN.’ “Having served as a military Head of State, and returned to politics to serve as a President, after losing three elections, I have seen the system of accountability in the country, and the mess to be cleaned up,’’ the President said. He noted the contributions of the institute in ensuring probity, accountability and transparency, urging more diligence and professionalism. Describing ICAN as a “social stabilizer” of the economy, Buhari said he would go through reports and recommendations of the institute on inclusivity and strengthening the nation’s accounting system for growth. In her remarks, the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, congratulated the President of ICAN and the new management. “As a female President in a male-dominated environment, you are an example to our young girls of what can be achieved through diligence and excellence,’’ she said. The Minister noted that ICAN had, over many years, played a key role in the domestication of some international policies in the country, urging more interest in Finance Act implementation. The President of ICAN appreciated Buhari and his regime for adhering to best accounting principles and practices to secure and revive the economy, particularly reverting to the January to December budget calendar. Eyitayo said the institute had established seven faculties to train accountants in specialized fields, which include forensic accounting. According to the ICAN President, Forensic Accounting, working with security outfits, could be used to reduce the security challenges facing the country by tracking all monies used in committing crimes, and payments. She, therefore, pledged to keep supporting the nation-building efforts of President Buhari and his regime, especially in sensitization on monetary policies and taxation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com