No fewer than three persons including a mother and her daughter were confirmed dead from a transformer explosion which occurred on Wednesday, at Yaunde, Tumfure Akko Local Government of Gombe State. According to sources, the tragedy occurred when a transformer exploded due to the heavy wind that blew the high tension cable to touch the service line, which powered the transformer. Our correspondent gathered that a mother-of-four identified as Mrs. Patrick died with her daughter, as it was said that she had woken up following the sudden power surge to switch off her refrigerator, but suffered electrocution. However, her daughter who went to touch the deceased in the midnight was also electrocuted following the current. One other person, a man, was killed in a similar way while trying to switch off their electrical gadgets within the neighborhood. One the houses on the same street belonging to one Pastor Solomon, of Cherubim and Seraphim Church, also went up in flames. The water pumping machine located below the water tank at the entrance of the house was burnt alongside other electrical appliances. Confirming the sad event, Gombe State Police Public Relations Officer, Mahid Mu’azu, said three persons were confirmed dead at the Federal Teaching Hospital Gombe. Mua’zu said, “Two of them are women and one man. We are still investigating the cause of the incident but interim report said it was due to power surge.” Meanwhile, the state governor, Muhammadu Yahaya who paid a condolence visit to the families of the victims donated N1.5 million to the affected families. Yahaya directed the state emergency management agency to provide relief materials for the families who lost their property to the incident. The Governor also directed Jos Electricity Distribution Company to immediately look into the remote and immediate cause of the incident, in order to avert a repeat tragedy. Attempts made to reach the head Corporate Communications of JEDC, Dr. Elijah Adakole, proved abortive as at the time of filing the report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com