The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has asked his political appointees, especially legislative aides, to resign their appointments if they are interested in contesting in the 2023 general elections, The PUNCH can report. An internal memo sighted by our correspondent on Thursday indicated that the affected aides were given till Monday to tender their resignation letters. The memo issued by the Chief of Staff to the President of the Senate, Babagana Aji, was dated April 6, 2022 and titled ‘Resignation of Political Appointees.’ It read, “Pursuant to Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act, 2022, all legislative aides who are voting delegates or are to be voted for at the convention of any political party for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election, are by this memo directed to submit their resignation letters. “Such resignation letters, addressed to the President of the Senate, should be submitted to the office of the Chief of Staff not later than Monday, 11th April, 2022. All relevant aides are hereby advised to ensure strict compliance to this memo, please.” It was also reliably learnt on Thursday that mass resignations have hit the Office of the Deputy President of the Senate where appointees had been given up to Tuesday to resign their appointments to contest elections. The ultimatum was issued in a memo by Dr Otive Igbuzor, the Chief of Staff to the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, dated March 30, 2022, and titled ‘Resignation of All Political Appointees.’ Sources told our correspondent that about 10 aides to Omo-Agege had resigned as of Thursday. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, a source in the office said, “Those who have penned down their resignations from our office are about 10 as of the last count. Three resigned yesterday (Wednesday) and two more will resign today (Thursday). They are mostly state House of Assembly membership contenders. There are a few House of Reps aspirants as well.” Copyright PUNCH. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com