The crisis in the Anambra State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has deepened following the purported suspension of its acting chairman, Mr Okey Asolo. A faction of the party had issued a statement which was made available to journalists in Awka on Tuesday, saying that Asolo was suspended for allegedly insulting Chief Chris Uba, who they claimed is a member of the PDP Board of Trustees. Asolo’s suspension was contained in a statement signed by Mr Obinna Obialor and Mr Obinna Obichinyere, chairman and secretary of the party in Ward 13 Onitsha North, respectively, where Asolo comes from. The statement read in part: “Arising from a crucial meeting of the Ward Executive Committee held on April, 3, the PDP Ward 13 Onitsha North LGA of Anambra suspended Comrade Okey Asolo on account of his violation of the PDP constitution and anti-party activities. “The suspension of Okey Asolo is anchored on the provisions of Article 58 (1) and 59 (1) and (2) of the PDP Constitution 2017, as amended.” The suspension was allegedly upheld during a meeting on Monday by the Onitsha North LGA chapter of the party, according to a communiqué allegedly signed by Messrs Alex Anah and Chigbo Onyia. The party said it deeply considered the notice and came to the conclusion that Asolo violated the provisions of the PDP Constitution 2017, as amended. “We upheld the said suspension and equally suspend him from the Onitsha North Local Government Area PDP of Anambra State,” the council leadership of the party stated. But addressing journalists in Onitsha, on Tuesday, the Deputy Chairman of PDP, Onitsha North LGA, Chigbo Onyia and Chairman of Ward 13, Onitsha North LGA, Ezekail Okechukwu, denied knowledge of the purported suspension of Asolo. Onyia, who represented the PDP Chairman of Onitsha North LGA, Mr Obumneke Inoma, said, “Some faceless people have been circulating a forged letter dated April 3, 2022, purported to have sacked the party’s state acting chairman, Comrade Asolo, from the ward and local government on account of his alleged violation of the PDP constitution and for anti-party activities.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com