Africa Finance Corporation, Africa’s leading infrastructure solutions provider, has grown its assets by 16.3 per cent to $8.56bn. The corporation said the full-year earnings were driven by high impact investments and strong credit profile. The company noted in the report that despite the pandemic and commodity-driven headwinds impacting its operating environment, the corporation saw its annual profits increase by 26.6 per cent o $209.7m in 2021, passing the $200m mark for the first time in its15-year history, from the $165.5m in 2020. “This can be attributed to the dramatic increase in investments in high impact assets in targeted sectors across Africa. The corporation leveraged on its investment-grade credit rating and reputation to mobilise finance from international markets to help reduce Africa’s infrastructure deficit,” it said in a statement. The President and Chief Executive Officer, AFC, Samaila Zubairu, said, “This has been a year of solid progress in our core objectives of building value to Africa’s economies through instrumental infrastructure driving growth and job creation. “As the proverb goes, the best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago; the second-best time is today. We have proven over our 15-year history that you can successfully build a track record in infrastructure investment in Africa—and there has never been a better time to do so.” The AFC’s reach on the continent is now larger than ever before, with investments expanding to35 countries and cumulative disbursements rising by 14 per cent to $9.9bn. AFC increased member states by five to 33, with the accession of Burkina Faso, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Morocco and Niger. The corporation said it had continued to diversify funding, with a 21.5 per cent boost to borrowing year-on-year at $6.19bn. AFC successfully accessed the global debt markets by issuing $1.8bn in new loans and bonds during the year. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com