The National Universities Commission has granted the Kano University of Science and Technology, Wudil, full accreditation of 21 academic programmes in five faculties. The accreditation came after inspection and validation of manpower resources and facilities available for the training of highly skilled graduates. In a letter of approval dated April 14, 2022, and signed by the NUC Executive Secretary, Professor Abubakar Abdulrasheed, through the commission’s Director of Accreditation, Dr Maryam Sali, the NUC said the full accreditation was valid for the next five years. According to the letter, some of the approved academic programmes fully accredited by the commission include Agricultural Education, Education Biology, Education Chemistry, Education Physics, Education Geography, Health Education, Human Kinetics and Library and Information Science. Others were Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Food Science and Technology, Urban and Regional Planning, Biology, Chemistry, Geology, Mathematics, Microbiology, Physics, Statistics and Computer Science. KUST had earlier secured a similar clean bill of health from the NUC for the establishment of 14 new academic programmes and one postgraduate programme in the university. The NUC’s full-time mode approval for the new program came after a successful resource verification exercise conducted by the NUC team to ascertain the readiness of human and material resources to run the programmes. Those new academic programmes that scaled through the resource assessment include Forestry and Wildlife Management, Fisheries and Aquaculture, Quantity Surveying,  Estate Management, and Building Technology, among others. Speaking on the development, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Professor Shehu Musa, said the 100 per cent accreditation of academic programmes under his stewardship was another milestone achievement that would remain in the sand of time. A statement by the spokesman of KUST, Saidu Na’Yahaya, said the VC expressed satisfaction that the successes over the years were only dreams that came through, not without the support and commitment of the visitor and Governor Abdullahi Ganduje and Pro-Chancellor of the university. Prof. Shehu, however, renewed commitment to diligence and strong dedication to building a centre of global extraction and citadel of excellence essentially in the areas of science and technology. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com