Condemnations have trailed the suspension of the Chief Imam of Apo Legislative Quarters Mosque, Shiekh Nuru Khalid, over a sermon considered to be “anti-government”. In the sermon, the cleric lambasted government over killings in Nigeria, advising Nigerians not to vote leaders who cannot guarantee the safety of lives and properties during the 2023 general election. Though many Nigerians commended the Imam for speaking truth to power, the steering committee of Apo Legislative Quarters Mosque accused Khalid of “inciting” the electorate against politicians. Many Nigerians condemned the action of the mosque committee headed by Senator Saidu Muhammed Dansadau, describing the suspension as an “oppression”. While calling for the reinstatement of the Imam, they urged Khalid not to be intimidated. Khalid, popularly known as Digital Imam, had after hissuspension said, “God is the most powerful. He gives (enthrones) and takes away power (dethrones) from whomever He wishes”. Reactions: Senator Shehu Sani @ShehuSani: Sheikh Nuru Khalid dusted the mirror the Clergies used to show GEJ and he showed it to the President and his colleagues couldn’t stand it.Khalid has demonstrated fidelity to his faith,to his conscience and to his conviction.
Many religious clergies lose their gospel voice or dilute their sermons when the oppressor is of their faith or denomination. Reno Omokri @renoomokri:
The Chief Imam of Apo Jumat Mosque, Abuja, Sheikh Nuru Khalid, has been suspended for criticising Buhari over the Abuja-Kaduna train bombing. Yet, nothing has been done to the terrorists! They punish critics and victims. Farooq Kperogi:
The mosque steering committee said the sermon was “inciting” and in violation of “Islamic tenets.” But when Muslim clerics all over the North used to routinely curse and preach against Goodluck Jonathan in mosques for his inability to contain the intensifying insecurity in the country at the time, which pales in comparison with what we’re seeing now on Buhari’s watch, it was neither “inciting” nor against “Islamic tenets.” In fact, there is a famous video clip of Sheikh Isa Ali Pantami crying like a baby during a sermon where he blamed Jonathan for being singularly responsible for the mass deaths of northern Muslims in the country. Now, his eyes are as dry as the Sahara desert even when more northern Muslims than ever before are being murdered daily as a result of Buhari’s dreadful ineptitude and unconcern. The hypocrisy is galling! When/if a southern Christian becomes president next year, I can bet you that criticising a president would no longer be considered “incitement” or a violation of “Islamic tenets.” I don’t know how these people are able to live with this quantum of disgustingly reprehensible double standards. FS Yusuf @FS_Yusuf_:
So, a popular Imam in Abuja is getting suspended for criticising Buhari over the Kaduna train bombing? So, it would have been acceptable if he had come to the mosque to praise Buhari for the killing and kidnapping of passengers? What are you people actually telling the world? Kescambro@lordkeke:
It’s a shame that all our so-called fathers of faith in this country are silent about the suffering of Nigerian people. Abuja envelopes and contracts have closed their mouths to the death, poverty and suffering of the people. Thank you Imam for speaking the truth, you are a hero. Technokrat @maestro_chimex:
I heard that a Sheikh, The Chief Imam of an Abuja mosque was suspended for calling out the government over insecurity in Nigeria. This should teach us that the battle is between the masses and the political elite and not regions or religion. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com