The National Executive Council of Oyemekun Grammar School, Akure, Alumni Association has reiterated the commitment of the association towards bringing back the old glory of their alma mater. The association lamented that the school was suffering from infrastructural decay due to the alleged neglect by the state government. The national president of the association, Dr Adeniyi Ijogun, said this after the meeting of the National Executive Council of the Alumni Association and the dedication of the renovated alumni secretariat in Akure, the Ondo State capital. According to him, the newly inaugurated ninth executive council of the association is determined to work towards rebuilding the school. He said, “The new executive has decided to set up a Master Plan Development Committee, so as to help design the template towards transforming the school, because the present level of infrastructural decadence of the school has made learning difficult for the students and teachers on the ground.” Ijogun appealed to other old students of the school to join hands towards bringing back the glory of the school, saying the school belonged to everyone and all must collectively join hands to ensure the school was taken to the great position it rightly belonged among the comity of schools globally. Also speaking, the assistant general-secretary of the association, Mr Aderemi Edwards-Adebiyi, explained that the focus of the current executive was to fill the infrastructural gap, build human capacity, and restore the school to standard. “Several years of decay and neglect by the government has made the fortune of the school nosedive,” he lamented. The principal of the school, Mr Ogunleye Okeowo applauded the leadership of the association led by Dr Adeniyi Ijogun for the determination of the association to help rebuild the school. He said, “The alumni national secretariat has been abandoned for over 18 years and in less than two months they were completed and fully equipped.” He also commended the national president for yielding positively to the needs of the school and students since his assumption of office. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com