The Lagos State Government has ordered that all Chrisland Schools shut for alleged misconduct of some of its students in Dubai be reopened on Monday, April 25, 2022. The PUNCH had reported that the school was shut down after a video of an immoral act by some students who attended the World Schools Games went viral. The school reopening was announced in a statement issued by the state Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo, on Saturday. She said, “The Lagos State Ministry of Education has directed that all Chrisland Schools shut for alleged misconduct of some students in Dubai be reopened from Monday, April 25th, 2022. “The directive follows a review of the ongoing administrative investigation into the incident. Besides, it is to ensure that students are not denied access to learning when the new term begins on Monday, 25th April, 2022. “The state government shut the schools for the safety of students and the staff and to ensure an unhindered investigation of the incident. The Ministry of Education and other relevant agencies of the state, in conjunction with the school’s Parent Teachers Association, will be working on scheduled psychosocial support for the students.” A statement signed by the Director-General, Office of Education Quality Assurance, Mrs Abiola Seriki-Ayeni, said all proprietors and administrators are to ensure that all students resume on that date. She said, “All public and private schools in the state are to resume on Monday, 25th April, 2022, in line with the harmonised academic calendar for the year 2021/2022 session. “The second term holiday, which started on Friday, 8th April, ended on Friday, 22nd April, 2022 as stated in the year 2021/2022 academic calendar and the public holidays within the term such as Workers Day, Eid- El-Fitr and Eid-El-Kabir were put into consideration and embedded in the calendar. “We advise students to shun all forms of social vices as they prepare for resumption and implore parents to continue to monitor the activities of their wards at home.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com