The Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Education, Mr Tokunbo Wahab, has said inter-school quiz competition will promote intellectual development and health rivalry among youths. Wahab who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Office of the Special Adviser on Education, Mr Adeniran Kasali,  said this at the year 2022 Lagos Reads Inter-School Quiz Competition which was organised by the Library Board for public Secondary Schools In Lagos State. Wahab added that “This annual inter school quiz competition is aimed at reviving and improving reading culture of all Lagosians by facilitating and promoting reading programmes and activities like this in schools as well as in our public and private libraries across the state. “A competition like this in our schools, no doubt will promote intellectual development and health rivalry among our youths while at the same time will help to reduce crimes and youth restiveness as well as other vices associated with idleness.” At the end of the quiz, Lagos Baptist Senior Secondary School Agege came first, Ikeja Senior High School came second and Gbaja Senior Boys High School took the third position in the competition. The Quiz Master, Mr Morounfolu Ojutiku, enjoined schools to provide more books for their learners so as to improve reading, writing and learning. He said, “It is good to choose your team appropriately because I noticed that there are better students in the audience.” Director, Lagos State Library Board, Mr  Asimiyu Oyadipe, said the competition was the third edition of Lagos reads Quiz Competition and it covered subject areas in relation to Senior Secondary Certificate Examination  syllabus in public secondary schools, the students knowledge of happenings around them which was tested through current affairs. He said, “The Lagos reads Quiz Competition will have a resounding effect on how these students perceive reading, because it will definitely change their mind set towards reading as a life-long learning skill that will facilitate their ambitions in life.” Copyright PUNCH. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com