A former Commissioner for Information in Bayelsa State, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, has picked the expression of interest and nomination forms of the Peoples Democratic Party for the 2023 National Assembly election. Iworiso-Markson presented the forms to the people of Ogbia Federal Constituency, which he is seeking to represent, in Yenagoa, on Thursday. Speaking at the event, Iworiso-Markson promised to implement his “new deal manifesto” when elected into the House of Representatives, saying he remained the best choice for the PDP with the general acceptance and popularity to win the forthcoming polls for the party. He said the manifesto was anchored on the six pillars of the bond of unity, education, empowerment, special status for Ogbia, Oloibiri oil museum, a UNESCO heritage site, and effective communication. He said his decision to procure the forms was another stride in his conviction to provide effective representation at the National Assembly by leveraging his experience, network, exposure and connections. Iworiso-Markson described his manifesto as a well thought out strategic plan that encapsulates his vision to bring about a pragmatic approach and a paradigm shift in people’s representation. He said the manifesto formed the basis of his aspiration for the National Assembly and that he would work with the PDP leaders and stakeholders to fully achieve it. He said, “Having picked the form, I decided to bring it back home to present to our leaders and stakeholders who are pivotal to my journey to the green chambers. It is another very significant day in my quest to offer myself to represent the Ogbia people. “It also signifies a major step in the realisation of the new deal agenda, which we have mapped out. The focus of the agenda is to make stronger the bond of unity in Ogbia, to provide workable partnerships that will guarantee quality education for our children, empower our youths and women in critical skills that will make them employers of labour.” Iworiso-Markson vowed to deploy his network and support base to ensure the re-election of Governor Douye Diri, insisting that the governor deserved a second term. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com