The police and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps have deployed their personnel across the states to ensure the safety of lives and property as Nigerians observe the Sallah and Workers’ Day holidays. The Department of State Services had raised the alarm that criminal elements were planning to bomb and attack religious and recreational centres during the period. In Osun State, the NSCDC commandant, Mr Emmanuel Ocheja, said it was making efforts to boost the morale of his personnel in order to build a strong workforce and enhance service delivery during and after the celebrations. He said 14 dilapidated patrol vehicles and one ambulance had been refurbished to enable them to respond quickly to security challenges in the state. In Yobe State, the state commandant, Mr Useni Navokhi, said in a statement signed by the command’s spokesperson, Bala Garba, on Friday that the command would deploy no fewer than 565 personnel to ensure a smooth celebration. Navokhi directed all Heads of Department, Units and Area Commanders as well as the 17 Divisional Officers in the state to be proactive in the discharge of their duties. Meanwhile, the Federal Road Safety Corps, Zamfara State Command, said it had deployed its personnel, vehicles and equipment to ensure a free flow of traffic and prompt response in case of emergencies throughout the holidays. The Sector Commander, Iro Danladi, told the News Agency of Nigeria in Gusau on Friday that there would be robust public enlightenment at places of worship, motor parks, major roundabouts, junctions, as well as enforcement of some critical offences. In Cross River State, the spokesperson for the state Police Command, Irene Ugbo, said the Commissioner of Police, Aminu Alhassan, directed tactical commanders and special squads to embark on continuous and massive raid of blackspots in their domain. “Such raids must be purposeful and credible so as to be in tune with the Standard Operating Procedure of the Nigeria Police Force,” he added. Similarly, NSCDC spokesperson in Bauchi State, Garkuwa Adamu, said the state commandant, Nuraddeen Abdullahi, had charged the command’s personnel to exhibit high-level discipline, professionalism and civility while discharging their duties of ensuring the protection of lives and property as well as critical national assets of the federal, state and local governments during the period. In Delta State, the Police PRO, DSP Bright Edafe, warned cultists and other mischief-makers that the command was more ready to deal decisively with anybody who tries to disrupt the peace in the state.