The Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities and the Non-Academic Staff Union of Education and Associated Institutions have extended their warning strike by two weeks. The non-academic workers had commenced a two-week warning strike on March 27 over the inability of the Federal Government to meet their demands. The extension of the strike was contained in a circular addressed to branch chairmen of NASU and SSANU in universities and inter-university centres titled, ‘Re: Commencement of two-week warning strike’. The circular obtained by The PUNCH on Friday was signed by SSANU President, Mohammed Ibrahim, and NASU General Secretary, Peters Adeyemi. Part of the circular read, “Deriving from the failure of the Federal Government to act positively on the ongang warning strike, JAC hereby directs members to continue with the warning stoke for another two weeks, hoping that within the period the government wi11 be in a position to address these issues. “However, if the present situation persists members of NASU and SSANU will be adequately informed about the next line of action before the expiration of the additional two weeks. “The meeting observed that the Federal Government has not deemed it fit to invite the JAC of NASU and SSANU to a meeting since the struggle started and also took note of the media statement credited to the representative of the Government Dr Chris Ngige Honourable Minister of Labour and Employment on the application of ‘No Work No Pay policy to our members “The meeting, therefore, resolved that the issues in contention are not new ard trial JAC has followed due process and fulfilled all necessary conditions precedent before commencing the strike “In view of this, all branches of NASU and SSANU are hereby directed to hold congresses on Monday, 11th of April, 2022 and take resolutions on the ongoing strike. “The outcome of the resolutions should be forwarded to your respective Union Headquarters immediately for collation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com