Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has advanced reasons why All Progressives Congress critical stakeholders, particularly lawmakers must buy into the ambition of the APC National Leader, Bola Tinubu, to become Nigeria’s president in 2023. He said Tinubu’s antecedents, and ability to transform vision and ideas into a reality positioned him as the best candidate to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Sanwo-Olu made the call while addressing a gathering of Speakers of Houses of Assembly at a forum organised by Lagos State House of Assembly in Ikeja on Wednesday. The event’s theme is: “The Legislature, Changing Times and Nigeria’s Democratic Journey”. This was contained in a statement by his spokesman, Gboyega Akosile, titled, ‘Sanwo-Olu: ‘Asiwaju our only hope for true transformational leadership’. Fifteen serving HoA Speakers from states being governed by APC fully attended the consultative forum, which also had serving Deputy Speakers, serving legislators of states, and all former members of the Conference of Speakers in attendance. Sanwo-Olu told the lawmakers that the only tested individual with such gift and competence need for Nigeria’s transformation is Tinubu, who was a former governor of Lagos. According to him, Tinubu’s leadership capacity had been sufficiently demonstrated, given the tenacity with which the former Lagos Governor rolled out vision and ideas that transformed the sub-national city into a flourishing economy. He said the forum was held as part of wide consultations embarked on by the APC leader in his bid to win the support of the party members across various backgrounds and camps. Sanwo-Olu said: “It is not by chance that you all are gathered here today. It is because we agree totally that you all are important stakeholders that need to be engaged and identified with separately from others. “You are the real foot soldiers who can go back to the hallowed chambers and pass the message to all members of your respective Houses of Assembly and your former colleagues in the legislature across States. “Tell them that the man, Asiwaju Tinubu, whom we all look forward to, has reached out and identified with them as important stakeholders in the journey to next political dispensation. We need a fresh breath of leadership at this critical moment in our country. “Asiwaju is qualified and competent to provide leadership we desire to see. He has the spirit, capacity, tenacity, and experience to do that for us. As stakeholders, legislators, both current and former, are the critical component that can make this happen for us.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com