AN All Progressives Congress House of Assembly aspirant from Mushin Constituency 2, Adeniyi Isiba, has pledged to raise the bar of political representation in the Itire-Ijesha axis of the state. Isiba disclosed this in a statement on Thursday, while he expressed his sadness that no candidate from Itire-Ijesha axis has had the chance to earn a seat in the state House of Assembly since 2003 despite its overflowing wealth of human and material capital. The aspirant said that was one of the cardinal objectives behind his desire to run for a seat in the Assembly come 2023. He said, “I am seeking for a seat in the Lagos State House of Assembly as a representative of our people from Mushin Constituency 2 to raise the bar of political representation, demonstrate leadership capacity that will surpass our previous and current experience, as well as address the weaknesses of previous and ongoing administrations, and build on their gains to set a prospect for the future. “Above all, I am hoping that my adoption and subsequent election as the candidate to represent the All Progressives Congress in next year’s Lagos State House of Assembly elections will help redress the lopsidedness we have witnessed in the manner more candidates from Mushin Central Constituency have tended to take what I think has been rightly ours for so many years.” Isiba also appealed to residents to support his aspiration in the interest of equity and fairness. “As a democrat, I am a firm believer in building consensus through stable and due consultation among the elite of different groups. I am appealing to you to key into this democratic thinking. “As the foremost aspirant from the Itire-Ijesha axis of our constituency, I would like to humbly ask you to adopt my aspirations as yours in the interest of our party’s symbol of progressive politics, democracy, equity and fairness,” he added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com