Actress, Chioma Akpotha, says she has not revealed her age to members of the public because she does not see a need for it. In an interview with Saturday Beats, she said, “I don’t like talking about my personal life. My age is not known to the public and I am not revealing it because I see no reason to. Contrary to what is in the public domain, I don’t have two sons; I actually have a boy and a girl. Although it has been tough raising them, I have been able to handle it, sometimes with the help of my siblings when I’m not available to be with them. God has been faithful and I have been able to manage myself over the years. I have been able to stay out of scandals by being myself. I don’t go out of my way to do anything in particular. Being a celebrity does not affect how I view life. I have always viewed life the same way, irrespective of my celebrity status.” Akpotha also stated that she no longer expends time on things that don’t work out the way she expects. She said, “My birthday was on March 12, and I am grateful to God for bringing me this far. I am happy to be around my loved ones. In all honesty, there is nothing I am doing differently today, compared to 15 years ago, aside from the fact that I no longer stress myself over issues. If something is not working, I would just let go of it, instead of trying to break my head over it because what will be will be. There is a stage one gets to in life that one would just move on if things don’t go as expected. Ten or 15 years ago, I would always try to find every means to make things happen or get someone to help out. I don’t do that anymore, not even at this time that the country is hard. The major thing that has changed as I grow older is that I have a closer relationship with God. It was not a conscious decision, but something that happened over the years.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com