The Kano State Primary Health Care Management Board has uncovered 17 illegal health institutions offering training in community health and other health related courses across the state. The board, in a circular dated March 18, 2022 and signed by its Director, Admin and Finance, Suleiman Tanimu, directed all its personnel across the state to disallow students of the identified illegal health institutes from accessing PHCMB facilities. The letter stated that the directive was pursuant to a complaint received from the National Association of Community Health Practitioners of Nigeria, dated February 27, 2022. The board urged all its directors, zonal directors, and personnel to notify all concerned local government areas and facilities to disallow or stop students from any of the identified illegal institutions from accessing the PHCMB health facilities for practical purposes. The identified illegal health institutions in Kano include Unity College of Health Science and Technology, Dorayi Konannen Gidan Mai Kano, and Ibrahinm Khalil College of Health Science and Technology with three branches among others. Others are Shamila College of Health Science and Technology, Gezawa L.G. Kano, Autan Bawo College of Health Science and Technology, Rano LGA, Trustee College of Health Science and Technology, Jakara Dala LGA and Eagle College of Health Science and Technology, Bichi. They also include Albakari College of Health Science and Technology, Rijiyar Zaki, Kano, Jamaátu College of Health Science and Technology, Kura, Savannah College of Health Science and Technology Wudil, Royal College of Health Science and Technology, Wudil and Institute of Basic Health Education, Jakara Garden, Airport Road. The rest are Jamilu Chiroma College of Health Science and Technology, Zungeru, Sir Sunusi College of Health Science and Technology, Matan Fada, College of Health Science and Remedial studies. Dawakin Dakata, Nassarawa, Sahaba College of Health Science and Technology, Dorayi Chiranchi, Kumbotso, Standard school of Health Science and Technology, Rijiyar Lemo A, Fagge and Annur College of Health Science and Technology with three branches.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com