Sacked Imo lawmaker, Obinna Okwara, on Thursday said that the speaker, Kennedy Ibe has no constitutional power to declare his seat in the parliament vacant. Okwara, whose seat was declared vacant by the speaker during a plenary on Wednesday for defecting to Peoples Democratic Party from All Progressives Congress last week said that the speaker was preempting the court. He said that there were over five cases at the Federal High Court in Owerri challenging the defecting of 17 lawmakers to APC by some groups. Okwara said that the speaker who defected to the PDP, then to the APC from Action Alliance since 2019 was part of the suits. He said it was sub judice for the speaker to interfere in a matter that is already in court, in which he is a co-defendant, adding that Ibe risked a jail term. Okwara said, “The speaker risks jail term for declaring my seat vacant. The matter he dabbled into is sub judice. There are five suits at the Federal High Court in Owerri challenging the defecting of 17 out of the 27 Imo lawmakers from PDP to APC. “We are lawmakers. We don’t interpret the laws. The courts do. He who goes to the equity must go with clean hands. The speaker should first declare his seat vacant for defecting to three political parties in four political outings in three years. “He was sponsored by Action Alliance for his reelection in 2019. Shortly after his inauguration, he joined PDP when Emeka Ihedioha was the governor. Immediately Hope Uzodinma came on board, he joined APC. Just look at the kettle calling the pot black. “You don’t keep something on nothing and expect it to stand. Who is even the complainant in this matter? Did I write any letter to the house announcing my defection to the PDP? This is a parliament that suspended me for attending the burial ceremony of Uche Nwosu’s mother in December. “I will go to court for the interpretation of Section 109 which he relied on to declare my seat vacant. He doesn’t have the right. He has shot himself in the foot and I am not moved by his shenanigans.” Okwara accused the speaker of leading the parliament astray, adding that “Imo State House of Assembly is now a ‘Fuji house of commotion’. It is very unfortunate that Kennedy Ibe in his desperation has destroyed the integrity of our parliament.” The Chief Press Secretary to the Speaker, Ifeanyi Onyekachi, said that the speaker acted in compliance with section 109 of the 1999 constitution as amended before vacating Okwara’s seat on Wednesday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com