Has anything been more discussed than NFTs over recent months? Seriously, Non-Fungible Tokens, or NFTs, have become a real societal topic over the past couple of months, with questions such as “are they really the future of art?”, “what makes them so valuable?”, or the more classical “what does it even mean??”. Well, for starters, NFTs can be defined as digital creations that possess a unique cryptographic signature that is recorded on a blockchain – a technology comparable to a digital ledger that is – and that effectively makes these creations unique, ownable (by investors), and exchangeable. NFTs can be anything from a simple JPEG picture to more complex animated 3D creations. In this article, we will go over three projects that have been performing – or are likely to perform – extremely well. Mithril Finance (BARS) is a project in its developmental stage that ambitions to create a fun ecosystem drawing inspiration from the fantastic universe of Lord of the Rings. In Mithril Finance’s ecosystem, users will be able to mine mithril ore and turn it into valuable NFTs and other yield-generating items such as weapons and armors. The Mithril Finance ecosystem will feature an NFT marketplace where users will be able to exchange these items anytime and convert them into real-world money easily. But the Mithril Finance team did not stop there – if the ambitions they detailed in their whitepaper were to come to pass, Mithril Finance will issue its own US-pegged stablecoin called MithrilCoin (MC) in order to smoothen transactions across its ecosystem. Total BARS supply is 500 billion tokens, with 30% of these being released during the first stage of BARS’ presale. In its first presale stage, BARS is priced at $0.000011, making it an easily-accessible crypto for everyone. As with most presales, BARS’ price is expected to increase throughout its different presale rounds as the project approaches its market launch. Early investors therefore get to purchase the token at a lower price than that at which it will start trading, an opportunity worth a look! The Sandbox (SAND) is a leading project focusing on the metaverse and play-to-earn (P2E) space.  Sandbox developed a blockchain-based universe where players can control characters, buy and exchange items of various rarity by using The Sandbox’s native token, SAND. Sandbox’s name is now associated with one of the greatest metaverse success stories of the moment, along with Decentraland (MANA). In fact, The Sandbox developed an industry-leading metaverse that immediately caught the attention (and investments) of renowned investors, companies, and celebrities. The Sandbox metaverse contains 166,464 plots of land (“LANDs”), each of them being a unique NFT that can be purchased directly on The Sandbox’s website, or on leading NFT marketplaces such as OpenSea and Rarible. These plots of land can be bought, sold, and even rented or built upon – possibilities are (almost) endless! Metaverse is undoubtedly an exciting space with still a lot of room for growth and major breakthroughs ahead. Goldman Sachs acknowledged the metaverse as an $8 trillion market – owning some SANDs enables you to ride this wave! ApeCoin (APE) is the latest development of the APE ecosystem, following the creation of the massively-popular Bored Ape Yacht Club (BAYC) NFT collection.  ApeCoin aims at taking the APE ecosystem further, by becoming a governance token for ApeCoin DAO and allowing ApeCoin holders to influence the future of the project. On that point, ApeCoin insisted on rewarding its existing community by reserving a major amount of its supply for holders of Bored Apes and Mutant Apes NFTs. Unbelievably, some BAYC and MAYC NFT holders have claimed to have received over $180,000 in free ApeCoin airdrops – literally money falling from the sky! The crypto really can be crazy sometimes… APE’s market debut did not disappoint, soaring over 1200% within its first week of trading. However, investors have calmed down a little over the past few days, with APE’s price correcting a tiny bit from its $17.17 peak and stabilizing around the $13 mark. Considering the APE ecosystem’s explosive growth, ApeCoin looks like a promising investment in the long term. Keywords: Mithril Finance, BARS, The Sandbox, SAND, ApeCoin, APE, Non-Fungible Token, NFT, Metaverse Presale: https://presale.mithrilfinance.io/ Website: https://mithrilfinance.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/MITHRILFINANCEOFFICIAL Twitter: https://twitter.com/mithril_finance