Though disappointed and hurt, former Nigerian footballer, Peter Ijeh, says he is not surprised that the Super Eagles failed to qualify for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar in November, The PUNCH reports. Ghana beat Nigeria to the World Cup ticket on the away goal rule after playing a 1-1 draw at the Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abuja on Tuesday. The result followed a goalless draw between the two West African archrivals at the Baba Yara Stadium in Kumasi last Friday. Austin Eguavoen’s side put up a poor display in front of the packed 60,000 capacity crowd in Abuja with the team lacking cohesion in the midfield as Thomas Partey and co completely dominated the game. The result means the Eagles will miss out on football’s showpiece for the first time since 2006. Speaking with The PUNCH, Ijeh, who had five caps playing for the Eagles, said he was disappointed Nigeria would not be at the Mundial in Qatar, but was quick to add that he wasn’t surprised by the outcome because the team lacked a good technical team. “I am not too surprised at the results because you can’t give what you don’t have,” Ijeh told The PUNCH. “We all know Nigeria is a religious country, but idolatry isn’t far from it. The earlier they realise old keys can’t open new doors, the better. “We are all to be blamed for accepting such ideology and not looking into the right coaching qualifications and present occupation or engagement. Nigerians idolise the past and still defend it. “Some say his (Austin Eguavoen) predecessor (Gernot Rohr) would have qualified. That is to me a maybe because handling a team for six years without a team framework, consistency, structure and building a formidable team is a big deal that determines the prospect and progress of a team.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com