The Taraba State governorship aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party, Victor Bala- Kona, on Wednesday said he will only accept a consensus arrangement if it favoured him. Kona, who is the immediate past chairman of the party in the state, noted this while officially declaring his intention to contest the governorship seat of the state. The aspirant, who said he was not aware of any anointed candidate, noted that he was the most qualified person among the governorship aspirants in the state. While fielding questions from journalists, Kona said, “Consensus is discretional. It’s not compulsory. For me, I will only accept the consensus, if it favours me. “I am the most qualified person among the aspirants, so, if there is going to be any consensus, I can only accept it if I am the consensus candidate,” he said. On his plans for the state, Kona said if given the opportunity, his administration will focus on key development areas such as education, agriculture, health, provision of infrastructure, and ensuring the security of lives and property of the people. The aspirant who pledged to turn around the economic fortunes of the state through her abundant resources with the right political will added, “This task now requires some level of capacity, competence and strength of character, experience and insightful understanding of politics and politicians which I possess. “I am, therefore, putting myself forward and do hereby, present myself as an aspirant for the PDP gubernatorial ticket in the forthcoming primary election. “In my honour, I do hereby undertake to make Taraba a better place for all. I will ensure justice for all, unite the State and address the myriad of challenges facing the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com