A consultant psychiatrist and Chief Executive Officer of Grey Insights, Dr Shola Olowookere, has called for more awareness about mental health-related crises in the workplace. Olowookere urged the government as well as employers of labour to prioritise mental health as they do cancer, HIV/AIDS and COVID-19. He made the call at an event tagged, ‘Repose (Edition 2.0) – An Evening of Self-care through Expressions of Art’, organised by Grey Insights in Lagos. Olowookere said, “The mental health challenge is huge and it is just so sad that we are not talking about it enough. A lot of things are being swept under the carpet. There is not much emphasis and importance placed on our emotional health. Mental disorders are significant, and that is why we need to be reminding ourselves about them. “We at Grey Insights are really trying to implement global best practices. We try to encourage people to talk about their emotions, which is something that we, as Nigerians, are not used to doing. “We need to encourage people to speak up. We need to normalise that conversation. Driving past the Lekki toll plaza still brings a lot of anxiety to many as a result of the shootings of 2020. All these are gradually impacting the way we think, feel and behave, and we need to talk about this. “We set this up for professionals, who are too busy taking care of other people and forget to care for themselves. It is a safe space for therapy and relaxation. It is a place to be at peace with oneself and just be in a happy place, forgetting about work stress for a moment.” The Head of Programme, Grey Insights, Adekunbi Bello, urged more corporate participation from firms on matters around mental health and well-being to have a good country.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com