The Lagos State branch of the Nigerian Institute of Architects has said that proferring viable solutions to building collapse will be at the front burner at this year’s Lagos Architects Forum set to hold early next month. Speaking at a press conference held as a prelude to this year’s edition of the Forum, the Chairman, Lagos chapter of the NIA, Architect David Majekodunmi, said this year’s theme, ‘What is Lagos’ was a rhetorical question that placed Lagos side by side with the world’s most sophisticated cities, underlined by their architectural elegance and cultural peculiarities. He said; “The theme for this year’s LAF is the city of Lagos, which is what we had last year, ‘What is Lagos?’ When you mention the city of New York, the city of Paris, the city of London, what is more significant about these cities? It is not just their architecture alone, but other activities also.” Also speaking, the Chairman, Local Organising Committee, Architect Abiodun Fatuyi, said extensive discussions on tackling the incessant trend of building collapse in the state would constitute a focal point of the forum. “We want to say to the public that we are tired of building collapses. The chapter is working very seriously to make sure it saves the lives of the innocent residents of Lagos. This is a tool for advocacy, and we are inviting everyone to come in to discuss this matter with us, with our colleagues, with allied professionals that will be there and the governor. So, what we want to do is discuss how our Lagos should be, how the infrastructure of Lagos should be, what we should see?” A former Chairman of the Lagos chapter of the Nigerian Institute of Architects who created the Lagos Architects Forum 13 years ago, Architect Abimbola Ajayi, said the fundamental aim of the forum was premised on “how to empower and sustain the professionals,  how to be involved with advocacy, with government and interrelations with allied professionals in the building environment.” “Like the popular Yoruba saying, one tree cannot make a forest, so if you want to have a strong environment, you should be able to work together, actively, passively and in every way with your fellow professionals in the industry,” she added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com