Consultant ophthalmologist, Dr Funmi Bankole, tells EMMANUEL OJO the causes, symptoms, prevention and management of acute haemorrhagic conjunctivitis, popularly known as Apollo How best can you describe the eye infection acute haemorrhagic conjunctivitis, commonly referred to as Apollo? Acute Haemorrhagic Conjunctivitis is a viral infection and it comes periodically, usually as an epidemic. That is, many people start having it about the same time. It is a disease that is highly contagious, that is, it spreads quickly from one person to another and it is a condition that is generally known in a lame man’s language as “Apollo”. Being a type of conjunctivitis, we need to describe it in more details. It affects the surface coat of the eyeballs and characteristically, it presents with pain, redness, watering of the eyes, which usually affects both eyes most of the time. Also, the patient feels a lot of discomfort and sensitivity to light, which we call photophobia. The eyelid may be swollen. Usually if it is not complicated, we don’t expect that the patient would have purulent discharge, mainly it will be watery. But sometimes when there is secondary bacterial infection, the patient may begin to have discharge. And also one characteristic that is particular to acute haemorrhagic conjunctivitis is that there is a bleeding into the conjunctiva tissue, which makes the eyes very red and sometimes looking bloodshot. That is one of the reasons why the name ‘haemorrhagic’ is given because it leads to bleeding into that conjunctiva tissue. Is it true that the origin of acute heamorrhagic conjunctivitis or Apollo is the moon? No; actually the very first time that this condition was reported, it was an epidemic in Ghana in 1969 and that coincided with the period when “Apollo” landed on the moon. So, it was just a coincidence. There is no scientific prove that the infection came from the moon. It was not brought from the moon. It’s just like a scenario of having a pandemic like COVID and at the time it’s being reported in medical science, someone goes to the moon and was able to successfully land on the moon, people then begin tie both together. What are the cause of this condition? The cause is a virus called enterovirus 70, which is one of the picorna group of virus and it is also a variant of the coxsackievirus A24. These are just the causative agents. Once they gain entrance into the conjunctiva sac, they excite an inflammatory reaction in the tissue of the eye. It’s the inflammatory reaction they cause by infecting the tissue of the eye that is responsible for those clinical signs mentioned earlier. What are the unique symptoms of acute haemorrhagic conjunctivitis? The symptoms are the things that the patient comes to the hospital with, which are pains and redness of the eyes. The eyes become swollen and watery. And usually both eyes are affected. In majority of the cases, it causes a discomfort to the patient, gritty sensation in the eye and shying away from the light because it causes some kind of discomfort wherever there is bright light. The eyes feel uncomfortable and that is what we call “photophobia”. Are there cases where only one of the eyes is affected? Well, there is a saying that we never say never. It can happen. Maybe in a situation where it starts from one eye and the patient seeks medical attention early before it spreads to the other eye. It can present as a unilateral condition. Is there a natural healing process for the condition without any medical intervention? Yes. Actually from all indications, medical sciences believe that acute haemorrhagic conjunctivitis is a self-limiting condition. If there is no secondary bacterial infection and the patient is able to just maintain good personal hygiene, good hand washing habits and prevent eye-finger contact, the infection will clear out. By five to seven days after the onset, the body will take care of the infection and it begins to clear. But generally, between one to two weeks maximum, the infection clears out outright. Sometimes people use all sorts of substances that they are not supposed to be used for treating the infection and these prolong the course. The risk of having a secondary bacterial infection is very high, especially with a patient who does not maintain strict rules of hygiene. These are things that may prolong the course. In fact, some people go ahead to use some sort of concoction, self-medication and some local remedy that actually cause more problem to the eyes. You hear of people using very injurious concoction like cow urine, human urine, sugar solution, breast milk, cow dung. These are very injurious concoctions. Some have also used car battery liquid. These things erode the eyes by eating up the tissues of the eyeball which causes ulcer in the eye, which if eventually healed will leave a scar in the part of the eye that is supposed to be clear for sight, which is the part that light passes through. This eventually leads to visual impairment. What are the possible risk factors that come with acute heamorrhagic conjunctivitis? One of the important things that all of us must realise is that general precautionary measures, good personal hygiene are very important because with eye-hand contact, we pick up germs with our fingers and by touching the eyes; we transmit such organisms into the eye. So, sharing of objects, like towels, handkerchiefs can lead to a spread of the infection. Also, contact with infected pearls from someone else or eye discharge from someone else can make one develop this kind of conjunctivitis; same for respiratory discharge and faeces. People who use the rest room and don’t wash their hands properly with soap and water can easily contract the infection and washing of hands is not just splashing the hands with water. There has to be proper hand washing in a methodical manner, i.e. starting from the palms, in between the fingers, the peak of the finger, then the back of the hands; it must be ensured that the thumbs are properly washed before the hands are rinsed off. There’s this saying that when you do proper hand washing, it must be continuous for the whole period that should not last less than 20 seconds. Remember, we said this is a highly contagious infection and it can spread quickly, so in situations where you have people overcrowding within a small space can lead to rapid spread of the infection. But because it’s actually difficult to keep away from getting in contact with some of these discharges or objects that we have mentioned, so the risk of spread is easily high. Is the wearing of sunshades any helpful in stemming the spread of the infection? Wearing sunshade makes people who already have the infection comfortable because as I said earlier, bright light brings some form of discomfort to such people; so, they tend to shy away from light. Therefore, dark sunshades, which tilt the rays of light, will make the patient feel comfortable. After long-term implications for children who contract the infection? It shouldn’t, if the child is not immuno-compromised. What I mean by that is that if the child does not have any other medical condition that can suppress their immunity. The infection comes just like that in every other person. The immunity of the body will fight the infection and the infection, like we say, has a self-limiting course. During an epidemic, children must be discouraged from playing on the ground or touching things anyhow because they stand a high risk of getting infected. For children who come down with the infection, the parents must take the right decisions, which include avoiding self-medication, which can lead to eyes damage. For example, it is also wrong to use steroids for treating the infection because rather than help, steroids will only the causative organisms to multiply, resulting in greater damage. Sometimes children unfortunately fall under this kind of circumstance which increases the risk of making the infection complicated which could damage or impair their vision permanently. What are the preventive measures that can be taken? The preventive measure is that when someone has the infection, they should maintain social distance as much as possible. The infected person should as much as possible try to break the transmission chain to other people by ensuring the proper disposal of the tissue papers, handkerchief and so on, which they use to wipe the discharge from their eyes. They must also wash their hands regularly and properly. They should not share personal objects such as towel and handkerchiefs, pens and every other thing that easily comes in contact with the hands. Also, people with such an infection should not stay in overcrowded places. Those who have infection should also seek medical attention so as to break the circle of transmission of the infection. Also, in terms of prevention, healthy eating is important. One shouldn’t wait until there is an infection before eating well. One should take enough vitamins and minerals, green vegetables and fruits which will build a strong immune system. What are the social and psychological challenges that come with it? Because it is something that is contagious, despite the fact that the condition is easily spread, people will naturally distance themselves from people that are infected, which is a form of stigmatisation.  The good thing is that this condition is not something that lasts long. Within one to two weeks, it clears off completely. If there’s any form of stigmatisation, it wouldn’t last more than two weeks and then life goes on. I want to believe that it’s not something that will have a long-lasting or injurious effect on the social status of a person. Does the diagnosis require laboratory tests? Well, because the clinical signs, symptoms and all the features we see when we examine the patient are quite characteristics, more often than not, we may not bother to do laboratory investigations but in places where they have facilities for viral studies, samples taken from the eye can be subjected to viral studies, which will show evidence of the viruses that I have talked about. What is the proper treatment for the condition? For viral conjunctivitis, we can’t say there is a particular medication that has been scientifically proven to be the ideal medication but many times, in our environment here, especially for children, who we have said are at a high risk having a secondary bacterial infection, we tend to use antibiotic eye drops and ointment. This is actually to prevent secondary bacterial infection which may worsen the condition and cause complications like cornea ulcer, which will take a longer time to heal and even after it has healed, it may leave a scar which may cause visual impairment. So, to prevent that complication, we give antibiotic eye drops and the ointment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com