After several speculations and political permutations, a former Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso will this (Tuesday) evening declare interest to contest the Presidency on the platform of the New Nigeria Peoples Party. The PUNCH learnt from a top echelon of the party that political heavyweights from the North-West, especially Kano and his other disciples were already in Abuja to attend the event. “His Excellency (Kwankwaso) just called me that he’s declaring for the Presidency today in Abuja,” a member of the party said. The PUNCH reported that Kwankwaso, also a former Minister of Defence, on Tuesday, February announced the formation of the Third Force party, under the aegis of The National Movement, thereby lightening the political temper of Nigeria towards the 2023 presidency. About two weeks ago, he announced his defection from the Peoples Democratic Party, citing marginalisation and other factors as reasons. Others in the Third Force team included Sen. Suleiman Hunkuyi of Kaduna State; former Minister of Youths and Sports Development, Solomon Dalung; popular Northern critic, Buba Galadima; and other prominent Nigerians. According to them, the Third Force would take over power from the ruling All Progressives Congress in 2023. The TNM said it was conscious of its strong duties to save Nigeria from disintegration. While promising to save democracy and rescue the nation, the TNM said it was set to battle for the soul of Nigeria from the hands of APC and the Peoples Democratic Party. Prominent Nigerians at the formation of the TF were elder statesman, Tanko Yakasai; Air Vice Marshall Ifeanaju; Solomon Edoda; Nweze Onu; Falasade Aliyu; Rufai Alkali; Suleiman Hunkuyi; Grace Ben; Umale Shittu; Ibrahim Ringim; Ali Gwaska; Paul Okala; Rufai Hanga; Idris Wada; Abdulrahman Abubakar, among several others. Speaking at the occasion, the convener of the event, Kwankwaso said it was a collective desire to rescue the country. “We all left our comfort zones to grace the occasion. It is a special day in the life of our nation. A special day to redeem the nation. “For too long, Nigerians have been waiting for this day. For too long, friends of Nigerians abroad have been waiting for this day and the time is today and now. “Today, all Nigerians cut across all social, religious and regions have gathered. It is our collective resolve to rescue our nation from this difficult situation.” Kwankwaso said he met with his friends during the COVID-19 lockdown and resolved that a decisive step must be taken to rescue Nigeria. “We resolved that there must be a Nigeria first before politics. While some of us will want to contest, we must work together to rescue the country. “The National Movement has members in every local government area and outside the country,” Kwankwaso averred. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com