FOUNDER and Managing Director, i-Fitness, Foluso Ogunwale, has said keeping fit will help prevent deaths caused  by non-communicable diseases. Speaking at the opening of an i-fitness outlet in Ogba, Lagos, Ogunwale, said a 2021 global report from World Health Organisation had estimated death arising from non-communicable diseases globally to be about 71 per cent. Ogunwale noted that the outlet was inspired by the need to create a rare opportunity for Nigerians to embrace a wellness culture. “We are happy because it is just an opportunity. We feel that the more we open locations and make fitness affordable, convenient, fun, it will attract a lot of people. We are happy to register our presence in almost all urban locations in Nigeria,” Ogunwale said. He noted that the new branches would offer the opportunity for urban dwellers  to access the best of facilities to keep a healthy lifestyle. Also speaking, the chairman of the board, Michael Ikpoki stated that the company is extremely excited about opening the new outlet given that this is the 15th branch in Lagos. “At i-fitness, we are driven by the mantra, live healthier, live happier. The purpose of this company is to enable more Nigerians to live a healthier and happier life. So, if you have a healthier life, you are bound to be happy. For every outlet we open, we try to improve standards or raise the bar in terms of structure, appeal, look, or ambiance”, he said. A board member, i-Fitness, Nnenna Onyewuchi stressed that i-fitness remained a veritable platform to help people live a healthier and happier life, adding that it was not just about getting fit but about total wellness Another board member, i-Fitness, Femi Ogunjimi, stated that setting up i-fitness was triggered by the desire to encourage people to have good health and wellness.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com