A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, has warned Nigerians against making their choice for the Presidency in 2023 from career politicians who have been in government since 1999. According to him, Nigerians should not expect positive changes in their lives and in the country if they go ahead in choosing a politician who has been in government for the past 23 years. Olawepo-Hashim, who was the presidential candidate of the People’s Trust in the 2019 general elections, made the suggestion in an interview with journalists on Wednesday. He stated, “The truth is that some of those who have stayed too long in the status quo have become part of the corrupt system, and it is an illusion to expect corruption to fight corruption.” While explaining that a corrupt individual and system cannot fight corruption, he said the nation needed a clean break from its ugly past to break the heavy rod of rot off its back in order to move forward. Olawepo-Hashim stated, “Either in the APC or PDP or any other party, those whose only job has been to change from one government office to another and have never done any other productive thing apart from squandering government money, driving convoys of cars around that they do not fuel themselves, escorted by security paid for by government, are far removed from the true realities of Nigeria, and are therefore, incapable of comprehending the urgency and depth of transformation that the nation needs. “I laugh when I read about someone who has never even set up a barber shop in his or her life promising young people employment. These are people who do not even understand how businesses run. “The solution to national security challenges, the unemployment problem, high cost of petroleum products and basic items requires a new approach to handle which those who have never paid for anything they consumed in the past 23 years cannot understand.” He said one of the things that attracted him to the APC is the President’s belief that corruption must be crushed in Nigeria, but added that sadly, corruption had become one of the major reasons for the slow progress, and the underbelly of some of the nation’s security problems, such as banditry and kidnapping. Olawepo-Hashim added, “Nigeria loses a lot to corruption. According to Price Water Cooper, a global consulting outfit, and if not arrested by 2030, corruption will be costing Nigeria 37 per cent of her GDP; i.e. $200 bn, a whooping N100 trillion, about 15 times our national budget. “This will translate to $1,000 per capital; five hundred thousand by each Nigerian. The significance of this on our lives, in terms of avoidable death, is staggering.” Olawepo-Hashim, who is set to make his official declaration for the presidential contest before the end of this month, promised to release to Nigerians his perspectives on important matters such as security, jobs, availability and affordability of petroleum products, stable electricity supply, how to tackle corruption, health, education, infrastructure, etc. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com