The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), will on Tuesday meet the service chiefs over the rising spate of insecurity in the country. The Jigawa State Governor, Abubakar Badaru, disclosed this on Thursday, while briefing journalists after the Council of State meeting in Abuja. According to the governor, the proposed meeting is sequel to the recommendations by the council over the security challenge in the country. But the Peoples Democratic Party described the All Progressives Congress as a failure over its inability to tackle the insecurity rocking the nation, stressing that Nigerians are waiting eagerly for 2023 to vote them out of power. The party accused the government of always passing the buck, describing it as incompetent. Recall that the House of Representatives had also condemned the rising insecurity in the country, especially the recent killings in Benue, Taraba and Plateau states. The lawmakers, who stated this at the plenary on Wednesday, demanded the removal of the National Security Adviser, Major General Babagana Monguno (retd.) and the Minister of Defence, Major General Bashir Magashi (retd.). The legislators also alleged that security agents were aiding bandits and other criminals, adding that huge security funds were not being justified. The Northern Elders’ Forum had also on Tuesday called for the resignation of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for the killings as well as the attack on a train in Kaduna State last month. The Presidency, however, ruled out the resignation of the President, blaming past administrations for the insecurity in the country. The National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba in his reaction on Thursday, knocked the Federal Government for lacking a solution to the killings, kidnapping and violence in parts of the country. According to him, Nigerians were tired of excuses and apologies from the Buhari regime for its inability to contain the bloody attacks on the citizens. He said, “This government would be coming every day to apologise to Nigerians to say ‘we’re sorry for what we’ve done.’ But this is a government that is arrogant in failure. They’ve failed and they are still arrogant about it. They should bury their head in shame. “So, because insecurity predates the APC government, does it mean because they are incompetent and rudderless and completely clueless about the issues, we should accept it? I mean, these are lame excuses, which we’re used to.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com