The Governor of Bayelsa State, Douye Diri, has condemned the disruption of proceedings at a Yenagoa High Court by hoodlums suspected to be political thugs about one week after the incident occurred. The suspects had on April 13, invaded the court presided by Justice Nayai Aganaba while the court was in session for a matter involving factions of the All Progressives Congress in the state. Diri, who had kept mum over the violence, broke his silence while speaking during a reception and presentation of a book titled, “Astute judicial judgments and festschrift”, in honour of the retiring Justice Aganaba in Yenagoa on Tuesday. A statement on Wednesday by his Chief Press Secretary, Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor to have described the treatment meted out to the respected judge as “most unfortunate.” He cautioned politicians against desecrating the hallowed temple of justice and the judiciary, stressing that the courts remained the last hope of the common man. While showering encomium on Aganaba, the governor described him as a forthright, fearless, impartial and incorruptible judge. Diri thanked God for sparing his life throughout his meritorious service as a judge, saying he was very proud of his achievements and would not hesitate to call on him whenever his services were needed. He stated, “I like to use this occasion to call on politicians to respect judges and the judiciary. Why do we have to put Bayelsa State negatively in the media by storming a court? “I always advise that we eschew the politics of bitterness. We must at all times stand with other organs of government, the judiciary in particular, and ensure that it continues to be the last hope of the common man. “My brother Justice Aganaba, you came, you saw and you have conquered. We hope this will not be your last service to the state. We are proud of you.” In her remarks, the Bayelsa State Chief Judge, Justice Kate Abiri, said Justice Aganaba served without blemish and urged other judges to emulate him.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com