Microsoft has seized domains used by APT28, a state-sponsored group operated by Russian military intelligence, to target institutions in Ukraine. The tech giant disclosed in a blog post that Strontium — Microsoft’s moniker for APT28 or ‘Fancy Bear,’ a hacking group linked to Russia’s GRU — used the domains to target multiple Ukrainian institutions, including media organisations, government institutions and think-tanks involved in foreign policy in the United States and Europe. Microsoft’s Vice President for customer security, Tom Burt, said, “We believe Strontium was attempting to establish long-term access to the systems of its targets, provide tactical support for the physical invasion and exfiltrate sensitive information.” The firm said it obtained a court order on April 6 that authorised it to take control of seven domains of APT28 trying to carry out cyberattacks. Burt added, “We have since re-directed these domains to a sinkhole controlled by Microsoft, enabling us to mitigate Strontium’s current use of these domains and enable victim notifications. We have notified Ukraine’s government about the activity we detected and the action we’ve taken.” According to TechCrunch, this action was part of a wider Microsoft investigation into the Russian state-sponsored hacking group that started back in 2016. Microsoft has obtained several court decisions in recent years to seize infrastructure being used by APT28. To date, Microsoft has filed 15 other cases against the Russian-backed threat group, leading to the seizure of more than 100 malicious domains controlled by the Russian spies. The Russia-backed hacker group has been active since at least 2009, targeting predominantly media, military, security organisations, and governments worldwide, including a 2015 hack of the German federal parliament and an attack against the Democratic National Committee in 2016. APT28 has also been linked to the recent cyberattack on U.S. satellite communications provider Viasat, an incident that triggered satellite service outages across central and eastern Europe.