A former lawmaker representing Ife Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Rotimi Makinde, on Monday, declared his intention to contest the ticket of the All Progressives Congress for the constituency in the 2023 poll. Makinde, who represented Ife Federal Constituency between 2011 and 2015, also said he visited many prominent Nigerians seeking their intervention to end the disagreement between ex-Osun State governor, Rauf Aregbesola; and his successor, Adegboyega Oyetola. He said when he observed the disagreement between Aregbesola and Oyetola, he met the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye; the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi; and Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, seeking their assistance to resolve the feud because of his belief in a united APC. “Even before I indicated my ambition, you will never see me attempting to bootlick to impress Governor Oyetola, to write or speak against Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. I am an apostle of peace. “That is why I did everything to ensure peace. I went to Alaafin of Oyo; I was with Baba Adeboye, I went to Eleko of Eko, I went to Ooni of Ife, all in a bid to make sure we close ranks. As I stated then, what we need is unity. I am for Oyetola and I am close to him,” Makinde said. On his relationship with the APC National Secretary, Senator Iyiola Omisore, Makinde admitted that he used to have a rough relationship with the ex-Osun state deputy governor when they were in different parties. He, however, said the influence of Omisore in Osun politics would be beneficial to APC in the state and Ife constituency, expressing the belief that the APC National Secretary would support his ambition to return to the green chambers. If given the ticket, Makinde said his achievements while in office in the area of provision of amenities for rural dwellers, empowerment for the youths and women as well as the sponsorship of bills that had impacted positively on people’s lives would count in his favour and help him to triumph in the election. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com