Chief Executive Officer, Junior Achievement Africa, Simi Nwogugu, has called on influencers in the field of education to apply or be nominated for the inaugural Africa Education Medal. Africa Education Medal was unveiled by T4 Education in collaboration with HP and Intel to recognise and celebrate the works of those who are transforming education across the continent. Nwogugu in a statement said the new award would be given to an outstanding individual who had demonstrated impact, leadership, and advocacy in the field of education. She said, “Africa’s great changemakers know education is the key to our continent’s prosperity in a global economy. I urge inspirational leaders from Nigeria and across Africa to step forward and apply for the Africa Education Medal so their stories can inspire thousands more.” Managing Director at HP Africa, Brad Pulford, explained that quality education would skill the next generation to fulfil their full potential in a world being transformed by technology. “The Africa Education Medal not only honours the tireless work of those seeking to improve education all across Africa, but gives them a platform to amplify their voices and inspire others to follow their examples,” he said. Founder and CEO of T4 Education, Vikas Pota, said, “Quality education will help African countries grow and prosper. And it will help Africa produce the public leaders of tomorrow. “The Africa Education Medal recognises those who are working every day to make that vision a reality.” The Africa Education Medal is open to any stakeholder working to improve pre-kindergarten, primary, secondary, vocational and university education. The statement added that the top 10 finalists for the Africa Education Medal would be announced in July and the winner would be announced in September. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com