Zenith Bank Plc has emerged as the Best Bank in Nigeria in the Global Finance Magazine’s Best Banks Awards 2022, retaining the award for a third consecutive year. A statement said the bank was among other banks from 36 countries in Africa recognised as the Global Finance announced its 29th Annual Best Bank Awards Winners. The editors of Global Finance made the selections after extensive consultations with corporate financial executives, bankers and banking consultants, and analysts worldwide. The statement said Global Finance considered factors that ranged from the quantitative objective to the informed subjective in selecting the top banks. Objective criteria considered included growth in assets, profitability, geographic reach,   strategic relationships,   new business development and innovation in products. Subjective criteria included the opinions of equity analysts, credit rating analysts, banking consultants and others involved in the industry. Commenting on the award, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive of Zenith Bank, Mr Ebenezer Onyeagwu, said, “This award is a testament to our tenacity despite a very challenging macroeconomic environment. “Indeed, being recognised, for the third consecutive year, is an acknowledgement of the resilience of the Zenith brand as the leading financial institution in Nigeria.” The statement said Global Finance’s “Best Banks Awards” are recognised among the world’s most influential banking/finance and corporate professionals as the most coveted and credible awards in the banking industry,   with winners chosen in   150  countries and   territories across   Africa, AsiaPacific, the Caribbean, Central America, Central & Eastern Europe, Latin America, theMiddle East, North America and Western Europe. The Publisher and editorial director of Global Finance, Joseph Giarraputo, said, “With the financial world in a state of turmoil from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, corporate leaders   face   a   new set   of challenges concerning   the   choice   of   their banking relationships.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com