I watched an interview with a budding musician on a national television on Saturday. I was supposed to just enjoy the programme like every other person but the cross of the English Language training one carries means that, often, one is sensitive to linguistic elements that can inspire a discussion in this class. At the beginning of the encounter, the interviewer described the guest as an upcoming artiste, and something immediately told me, ‘No.’ An upcoming artiste? It is wrong to describe a person as an upcoming this or that. No matter how young or amateurish – or promising – he or she is in the trade, he is only an up-an-coming fellow, not upcoming. We use ‘upcoming’ to describe a programme or event billed to hold in the nearest future, but up-and-coming for someone growing in a business or adventure. So, unlike a Wizkid who is already an acclaimed musician, the one not yet very successful but has the potential to do so is up-and-coming. In the course of the interview which was inspiringly spiced with the artiste’s videos – and I like some of the songs the guy sang in the studio too – the presenter further asked him if he had ever ‘sang’ a particular type of songs. That choice of the world also hurt me. She had fallen into the trap of the ever dangerous irregular verbs, this time, ‘sing’. It is sing – sang – sung, not sing – sang – sang. I sing.  I sang. I have sung, not I have sang. So, she should have asked the singer if he had sung the song, not if he had sang it. Remember to treat ring, run, begin and drink similarly. They have begun the work, not they have began it. I have drunk it, not I have drank it. Still during the interview, the artiste confessed he was a school cert holder; so, I didn’t really bother about the way he handled several words and other expressions. Yet, I arrested an infraction of his because it is a popular one. Each time the interviewer asked if he did something regularly, he would say, ‘I used to do it’, despite the fact that he still does it. Many of us also make this mistake – using ‘used to’ when referring to what is done always, till the present: So, can you now explain the differences between upcoming and up-and-coming, sang and sung as well as used to eat and used to eating? Send a mail if you can. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com