A member of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria otherwise known as ‘Shiites’ was confirmed dead while scores sustained varying degrees of injuries. This followed a clash between the sect and security officials in Kaduna It was learnt that the incident happened when the Shi’ites were on a procession to mark the annual Quds day; the last Friday of Ramadan to protest against the Israeli occupation of Palestine It was gathered that security agents had tried to disperse members of the group when it turned violent as an eyewitness said security agents used teargas and live ammunition on members of the IMN. One of the leaders of the Shi’ites in Kaduna, Aliyu Umar, while speaking with journalists, said,  “The annual Quds day is a global event and commemorated even in western countries and wondered why they are frequently haunted by security agents when marking the day.” “The procession was peaceful and had tried to avoid the police who were already stationed in strategic position to block but they trailed from behind and used teargas and live bullets on our members. One person was shot dead; we have just held the Janazah prayers and nine sustained bullet wounds.” The police command in the state declined comment but a source at the police headquarters who crave anonymity described the procession as unlawful. He added that the force only employed the use of minimal force while the action of the Shi’ites had resulted to damage of public and private property. Two Civil Defence, three others killed in Makurdi Meanwhile, gunmen suspected to be herdsmen have killed no fewer than five persons, among them two personnel of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps in separate attacks in two local government areas of Benue State. The attacks happened in Makurdi and Logo local government areas on Thursday and Friday respectively. Sources said that two security personnel and a driver of the Livestock Guard Commander were killed while on duty on Friday at Adaka vicinity in Wadata area of Makurdi, the state capital. Another two villagers were hacked to death in their community in Logo LGA of the state. A resident told our correspondent that the NSCDC personnel encountered some armed invaders who opened gunfire on them and killed two in the process while others who sustained gun wounds were rushed to the hospital. A communty leader in Logo said that the o two  villagers were killed on Thursday evening  at Tse Tume in Turan council ward of Logo while they were working on their farm. The community leader who did not want to be mentioned gave identitu of the deceased to include;  Terkende Injarwua and Mfaiga Ukor, adding that their corpses had been recovered and buried on Friday. Chairman of Makurdi local government, Anthony Dyegeh, confirmed the killing of two Civil Defence personnel and the driver of the livestock guard Commander. Contacted the NSCDC Public Relations Officer, Michael Ejelikwu, promised to give  detail account of the incident, but as of the time of filing this report, he had yet to do so. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) for Benue Command, SP Catherine Anene, on her part, said, “That was not reported to me.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com