A lady, Ijeoma Tina, has mourned an official of the Federal Road Safety Corps killed by gunmen in Ezinifite, Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State, Chibuzor Keneth Nwafor. Tina, who described Nwafor as her lover, said they planned to get married this year before his “untimely death”. The PUNCH had reported Nwafor was killed alongside another FRSC operative when gunmen on Sunday, April 3, attacked an FRSC patrol team. It was learnt that Nwafor would be buried on April 22 in the Oyi Local Government, Anambra State. In her tearful tribute, Tina wrote, “Obim, my love, my joy, my happiness, My crown and My hero!! Your death came like a thunderstorm when the news came on that faithful day being 3rd April, 2022. You never planned to leave me cos you said I should wait for you that you are coming back. “When I had that you are among the road safety officer unknown gunmen shot on duty along Ezinifite Road, I said to myself it can’t be my hero. Until this day you never returned as you promised. Where will I start from? Where will I go to? “When I lost my dad you were there for me, you gave me your shoulder to cry on, you became my father, my brother and my strength to bear the loss, you covered some vacuums my dad left behind, all through my difficult times you always showed up, you gave me hope, you never leave me, you crowned me among your friends and family, we planned our wedding this year, but you are no more, Obim I know you as a strong man but you was shot at the head and your heart, so painful that you couldn’t utter a word oh! “You lived a life of legacy because you are a good and trusted friend, brother, a peacemaker, good adviser, hero, mentor, director and a rare gem. You never discriminate whenever you are on duty because you always show compassion to people when they are in trouble. “You saved many lives when there were accidents and secured their properties. Why was your life not saved? Now you are gone forever, Who will be my shoulder to cry on? Who will be my hero to stand firm by me all through my hardest time and my weakness? “With pains in my heart and uncontrollable tears in my eyes, I say May your kind, loving, generous, harmless, cool soul continue to rest in the hands of your Maker till we meet to part no more. In my next world, you will still be my husband. Goodbye, Obim.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com