The Edo State Government has reaffirmed its commitment to promoting made-in-Edo goods to enhance economic growth and development while reassuring that its policies and reforms will ensure businesses in the state thrive. The Edo State Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Cooperatives, Afishetu Braimoh, gave this assurance during a meeting with stakeholders, in Benin City. Stakeholders at the meeting included farmers, traders, and officials from the Bank of Industry, Standard Organisation of Nigeria, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, Federation of Agricultural Commodity Association of Nigeria, and Benin Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture, among others. According to her, the vision for the ministry is to drive economic growth and generate wealth through policies that make it easy to do business, promote investment, and develop enterprises in the state. She said, “We need to empower and lift up our people to start up and grow their businesses, get access to finance, and introduce their products to the market and also export these products. “NAFDAC is in partnership with us as they are ready to create a friendly environment and improve the process to make it easier to do business in Edo State. It is worrisome that made-in Edo products find it difficult to get to the shelves in supermarkets.” During the meeting, a farmer, Mr Omorogbe Joseph, urged officials of the BOI to assist farmers in the state with the right documentation to enable them to get opportunities for finance instead of political farmers. He added, “We are happy and encouraged by this stakeholders’ meeting. We appeal to BOI and Bank of Agriculture to make the processes of financial support (loans) easier and simple to enable farmers to utilize the opportunity of the loan to grow their businesses.” Representative of BENCCIMA, Mrs Aina Omo-Ojeinu called on the ministry to promote, support, and help entrepreneurs in Edo State develop local content. She said, “We urge the Edo State Government to ensure business linkages, access to market, and finance for entrepreneurs, and owners of small businesses in the state.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com