There has been a huge difference in how Alex Iwobi has starred under Frank Lampard compared to other managers he has played under since he arrived at Goodison Park. The Nigeria international joined Everton in 2019 from Arsenal for £35m, as a late alternative to Wilfred Zaha, who was the Toffees’ primary target that summer transfer window. Since his arrival at Goodison Park, the 25-year-old has shown flashes of his brilliant talent in the 90 games he has played and in most cases performed below par for the Toffees, with fans at some point doubting his quality. At Everton so far, the Hale Academy graduate has only managed seven goals and six assists, a far cry off the huge talent at his disposal. Statistically, the best season of Iwobi’s career thus far was certainly 2018/19, as he scored three and assisted six in just under 2,000 minutes for Arsenal, his boyhood club. He was undeniably influential in Arsenal’s build-up during the season in which the Gunners finished fifth, just one point adrift of Champions League qualification. After his Deadline Day move to Everton, then managed by Marco Silva, Alex Iwobi’s decline was immediate and steep. Despite scoring in both of his first two starts for the club, Iwobi ended the season with staggeringly low production; just one goal and zero assists from over 1600 Premier League minutes played. However, Iwobi is a dynamic player who can break defence lines with split passes from the middle of the park. He is also a possession player, a link man who can help the team play well with the ball but all these qualities were never maximised under coaches Marco Silva, Duncan Ferguson, Carlo Ancelotti and Rafa Benitez, he played under until the arrival of Frank Lampard in February. Lampard offered every player a new lease of life when he arrived and the Nigerian seems to be reborn again at Merseyside with that lifeline. His previous coaches deployed him at both right and left-wing, at times as a wingback under Ancelotti, where he hardly made an impact. During these miserable spells, Iwobi was linked with a move away from the club until the appointment of Lampard, where he has started to show his talent in a different role. Despite Everton having one of their worst seasons in decades, Iwobi has been one of the few players who has improved from last season to this. His work rate has been nothing short of excellent, his defensive work for a winger has been very good in the last 365 days, and his engine was on full display when he ran further and made more sprints than any other player on the pitch in the Toffees’ recent victory over Manchester United, setting Everton career-highs in both categories. Despite the fact that Iwobi has only registered two goals and a single assist so far this season, his stoppage-time winner against Newcastle will likely go down as one of the most important goals in Everton’s recent history should the Toffees avoid the drop come May. Having seen Allan dismissed for a heavy challenge earlier on, the Toffees looked set to be held to a draw at Goodison Park before they seized a winner in the final seconds of the match to reignite their survival hopes. Iwobi’s finish prompted frenzied celebrations from players, staff and supporters alike, and speaking in his post-match comments, Lampard admitted that he looked to have done some damage to himself in the heat of the moment. “I’ve broken my hand in the celebrations,” the former England man told Amazon Prime Sport after the match. “It was crazy, the scenes were amazing,” Iwobi said. “I wish I could describe it but in the moment it was one of those feelings you wish never disappears.” In Lampard’s first home game against Leeds, Iwobi had a pass accuracy of 82.9 per cent, 61 touches, 13 attacking third passes and nine-ball recoveries. He also won six ground duels, created five chances and made three tackles in the encounter to the delight of his manager. The 25-year-old was also a hub of energy receiving roaring plaudits from Everton fans at the stadium for his work ethic during the game. He also wasn’t far off a goal with his low strike which was inches away from the Leeds upright before half-time – a display that earned plaudits from the former Chelsea coach. “Alex (Iwobi) demanded a place in the team with his performance and he just needs to believe in himself,” Lampard said after his side’s emphatic 3-0 win over Leeds. “I certainly believe in him. “One of the beauties of coming in like this is it’s a restart for everybody. “What Alex (Iwobi) has done is that he trained at a great level.” After that performance, the Toffees suffered four straight defeats to Southampton, Manchester City, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Tottenham Hotspur but Iwobi was again one of the bright spots in the team despite those defeats. Against Manchester United, Lampard kept faith with the Nigerian ace, deploying him in a central midfield role and he delivered an energetic and tireless performance that inspired Everton to a flawless 1-0 victory over the Red Devils. And Iwobi was sharp in his movement and relentless in pressing, racking up two interceptions, one tackle, one clearance, and one key pass, according to WhoScored. He was also involved in the buildup to Anthony Gordon’s well-struck winning goal. Pleased with Iwobi’s display against United, Everton fans have warmed up to the Nigerian, while Chelsea legend Lampard has spared no words in praising him. The utility player might not be the sort of player Everton fans envisaged he would become but his rebirth under Lampard shows he is giving his all.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com