Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has called on residents to embrace peace in the interest of the state. Decrying spate of insecurity in the state, Uzodinma appealed to sponsors and masterminds of violence in the state to embrace peace. Suspected gunmen on Thursday killed an official of the Independent National Electoral Commission during the continuous voter registration at Isinweke, in the Ihitte/Uboma Local Government Area of the state. In a statement on Saturday to mark Easter, the governor said having gone through Lent by fasting, prayers, and almsgiving, Christians should soberly reflect on their contributions to the growth of the Christian love they profess and to the peace of Imo. Uzodimma said, “It is truly ironic and disheartening that over 90 per cent of both the actors and sponsors of insecurity in Imo State and, indeed, all over Igboland, claim to be Christians. Are these Christians the true followers of Christ? Do they even remember the fifth commandment which says, ‘Thou shalt not kill?’ The answer should be obvious. “In several fora, I have literally gone on my knees to appeal to the sponsors and perpetrators of these senseless killings to sheath their swords and embrace peace and reconciliation irrespective of whatever grudges they may have. I have also asked for forgiveness from anyone who feels offended by any of the policies or actions of the government of Imo State which I lead currently. In the spirit of the Easter season, I would like to repeat this appeal for forgiveness, peace, and reconciliation in our state,” the statement read in part. The statement quoted the governor as saying he had always placed the welfare of the people of Imo State above other considerations in decision-making as a governor.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com