Ahead of the 2023 elections, some opposition political parties have expressed their willingness to merge with other parties. The parties which spoke to Sunday PUNCH in separate interviews noted that they could meet the June 3 and 4 deadline of the Independent National Electoral Commission for submission of party candidates, and would serve as a formidable third force to wrest power from the All Progressives Congress. The National Chairman of the African Action Congress, Dr Leonard Nzenwa, said his party was willing to form a merger with “progressive minds based on democratic principles.’’ Nzenwa,  the immediate past president of the Inter-Party Advisory Council Nigeria, said the ACC would admit new members and defectors and consider them  as prospective party candidates in the 2023 elections as long as they had no intention to use the platform to destabilise the country. Nzenwa said, “As long as you are law-abiding, you are not an irritant, you are not an outcast legally, you don’t have a problem with the state, and you are not unnecessarily comical and controversial, the party will see you as a (potential) candidate, but once you an entertainer, a comic, the party will not have anything to do with you.” Stressing that the party was working  to meet the scheduled date of the INEC, he lamented the gross insecurity in the country, and the deep-seated anger of the citizens, describing it as a feature of a “failed state.” The National Secretary of the African Democratic Congress, Said Abdullahi, said that the party was having merger talks with other parties. Abdullahi, who said the ADC held its convention on March 23,2022, noted that while talks with the Labour Party had been fruitful, they were waiting for other parties to clear the legal hurdles before them so that they could join the ADC. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com