THE Managing Director, Background Check International, Mr Kola Olugbodi, has said that background check is a potent tool that can restore sanity in corporate organisations. He said in a statement that it would help to checkmate wrong hiring and those who could defraud the organisations. “Background check is not about hiring at face value, not just employing by what the resume of an individual states. “For 17 years of pioneering background check operations in Nigeria, we have supported several organisations in eliminating fraud and criminal tendencies among their staff.” Olugbodi said a major impact of Background Check International was ‘know your staff’, noting that this was not about what prospective staff would say or claim but how their claims would be corroborated and verified. He said, “It is also about knowing more about their staff. This makes organisations know whether the staff has requisite skills to secure employment. “Background check also helps ensure that some prospective staff do not have criminal records. It is also to ensure that those who claim to have work experiences have solid character and proper conduct while they were in previous employment.” Olugbodi said background check had saved several corporate organisations from blind hiring and also making employment decisions with empirical and statistical evidence. The essence of background check is that the staff who are entitled to secure gainful employment are the ones being employed and not the ones with fictitious records, he said. He urged corporate organisations to accept background check as a crucial tool to eliminating fraud and wastage in their systems. Olugbodi said, “It has become highly important for corporate organisations to see background check as critical tool that will aid corporate hiring. In essence, background check will save organisations from fraudulent and criminally minded elements who create bottlenecks.” While allaying fears about the process, he said, “Background check is not about witch-hunting. For any staff to be verified, we advise our clients to ensure that the affected staff gives consent to the process. “We counsel organisations to embark on necessary steps that their action deserves. Everyone should be in the picture of background check. There have been some cases of staff taking decision to resign rather than being verified.” Copyright PUNCH. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com