The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, on Wednesday, received the new Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Zone 5 Command Headquarters, Benin, Lawan Tanko Jimeta, with a request that they both join forces to resolve communal clashes and land disputes in the state. The governor while receiving Jimeta at the Government House, said the new AIG is not new to security issues in the state as he was among the team that designed the security architecture in Edo State. The governor noted that Jimeta was a commissioner of police in Edo before he was promoted and posted out of the state. He noted, “I am happy that you are back and will help us deal with the lingering land crisis in the state. Since you left, the issues of communal clashes and land disputes have increased astronomically. The Private Property Protection Committee is now in force and we hope that you will help us with one of your senior officers in that committee to control these boys before they cause havoc. “We also call on you to work with us to address our border issues with Delta State. We urge you to work with us and bring calm to the area. “As a government, we have no choice but to support you and ensure that you succeed. The security situation in Edo State is relatively calm and we can’t thank the police enough for ensuring peace in the state. “We are rebuilding some police stations burnt during the #EndSARS protests. I thank the Inspector General of Police (IGP) for helping us to deploy Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs) to the state to check such incidents that happened in Uromi.” Earlier, AIG Jimeta hailed the governor for the sustained collaboration with security agencies in the state, promising to work with the state government to improve security and ensure peace in Edo. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com