APM Terminals, on Tuesday, commissioned a new digitalised administrative building as part of its $438m investment in port development in Nigeria. The commissioning of the new smart building, which took place at the terminal in Lagos Port Complex, Apapa, is in line with APM Terminals’ commitment to introducing new innovations to help both shipping lines and landside customers to achieve improved supply chain efficiency and flexibility in a cost-effective manner. Speaking at the event, the Global Chief Operating Officer, APM Terminals, Keith Svendsen, said the new building would set new standards for port operations in Nigeria. “What is more important is to make sure that we are ready for the future. A port is one of the infrastructures that take years to plan and build. This is why we are working to make it better and get ready for the future,” Svendsen said. Svendsen said the technology embedded in the new building would improve container handling operations and processing in the terminal, particularly electronic invoicing, electronic receipt and online payment processes that allow customers to fast-track their documentation. Also speaking, the Country Managing Director of APM Terminals Nigeria, Klaus Laursen, said APM Terminals Apapa had invested a total of $438 million into enabling infrastructure, acquiring equipment and improving processes at the terminal. “In APM Terminals, we have led with a strong ambition to become a world-class terminal operator. We enable access to jobs, products, foods, and medicine that allow people to create and live better. On his part, the Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Mohammed Bello-Koko, commended APM Terminals for raising the standards of port operations in Nigeria, and for adding value to the ports over the past 16 years. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com