The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Governors Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Rotimi  Akeredolu (Ondo),  Adegboyega Oyetola (Osun), Babagana Zulum (Borno) and AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq (Kwara) have felicitated with Muslims across the country over the commencement of the Ramadan fast. They urged Muslim faithful to display acts of kindness, love and selflessness to the poor and to other people.  Nigeria’s woes: Tinubu wants God’s intervention Tinubu, in a statement on Saturday, lamented that the country was faced with a myriad of challenges, and prayed that God should make the country “a just, prosperous and harmonious society.” The presidential hopeful stated, “As we abstain from food, drink, and other material pleasures from dawn to dusk as Ramadan enjoins us to do, let us keep in the forefront of our minds that Ramadan also asks of us to show greater compassion, empathy and understanding, and enlightenment in how we treat and relate to one another. “Our nation is one gifted by Allah with bountiful resources and a good and decent people. Yet, we also face serious and dangerous challenges because of a small few who know not the way of truth, love, and goodness. These people have given themselves over to that which is bad and destructive. “We beseech Almighty Allah to grant Nigeria special favour such that we become the just, prosperous, and harmonious society He intends for us to be; that each of us in our own humble way contributes to the well-being of those around us, gives succour to people we find in need, and study more on how to solve problems instead of creating them.” Fayemi seeks prayers ahead of Ekiti election Fayemi, on his part, urged Muslims to seize the opportunity of the Ramadan period to pray for a peaceful governorship election in the state. The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Olayinka Oyebode, titled, ‘Fayemi greets Muslims at Ramadan’, said Ramadan offered an opportunity to draw closer to Allah and deepen relationship with him. Pray for Nigeria, Akeredolu urges Muslims In his Ramadan message, Akeredolu called on Muslims in Ondo State and the country at large to pray for Nigeria. The governor, who lamented the insecurity in the country, charged Muslims to seek Allah’s intervention to guide the leadership of the country in the fight against terrorism and banditry. “Let us intercede on behalf of the country. The recent invasion of the Kaduna Airport by terrorist and train attack which led to the death of many innocent souls was a national disaster,” he said.  Ramadan, time for Muslims to strengthen faith – Oyetola Oyetola, in a message on his official Facebook page, noted that fasting in the month of Ramadan remained one of the five pillars of Islam, adding that the month provides a unique opportunity for Muslims to strengthen their faith in Allah and spread kindness in the land. He said, “Let’s be reminded that the essence of fasting in the month of Ramadan, as Allah noted in Qur’an 2 vs 183, is for us to attain taqwa (piety). We should, therefore, endeavour to make the most of this month by strengthening our commitment to the service of our creator, Allah and humanity.” Zulum distributes cash, food, others Meanwhile, the Borno State governor (Zulum) supervised the distribution of cash, food and non-food items to 15,327 persons made up largely of internally displaced persons and other vulnerable persons in his home town in the Mafa Local Government Area of the state. The distribution which would be subsequently extended to other local governments is to enable the indigent to have food on their tables during the Ramadan fast. Those that benefited from the gesture include 9,313 females and 6,014 males; with each given N5,000 totalling N76,635,000. Aside from cash, each person got a 50kg bag of rice and five yards of Shadda while each woman received a wrapper and 10kg of sugar. The governor who participated in the Ramadan fast in his hometown, Mafa, where he spent Friday night, gave out the palliative on Saturday. Governor AbdulRazaq also congratulated Muslims worldwide on the dawn of another Ramadan fast, calling it a new opportunity to get closer to their creator through fasting, alms-giving, and seeking forgiveness. He said the fasting month is always a lifetime chance for the Muslims to take advantage of God’s abundant mercies to forgive sins and answer prayers in the month in which the Holy Qur’an was revealed and during which the Night of Majesty is witnessed once again. “I join the rest of the Muslim community to thank God Almighty for this one-of-its-kind window of mercies during which prayers are answered like never before and rewards for good deeds are given in manifolds,” he stated in a statement. Similarly, a former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki and the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Kwara State, Prince Sunday Fagbemi have enjoined Muslims to pray for peace and progress of the Nigerian nation during the Ramadan month. Saraki in a statement signed by the Head of his Media Office, Yusuph Olaniyonu,  said, “I congratulate all my Muslim brothers and sisters for the successful commencement of this year’s fasting in the holy month of Ramadan. We have many reasons to be grateful to Almighty Allah, particularly for preserving us till this moment. We are happy that except in a few places around the world, this year, the pandemic has reduced tremendously. “It is important that Muslims in Nigeria dedicate more time to pray for our dear country in this holy month. We should pray for Allah’s intervention as the entire country is suffering from security and economic crises.’’ Also, Sen. Umaru Al-Makura (APC-Nasarawa South) and Sen. Aliyu Wamakko (APC-Sokoto North) have urged Muslims to extend love to others and practice the act of selfless service to humanity during and after Ramadan. They reminded Muslims of the need to be selfless and to feed the poor among them. Emir offers prayers, Muslim commence Ramadan Thousands of Muslim community, residing in Kano on Saturday commenced the Muslim holy month of Ramadan with fasting and fervent prayers to God. In a statewide broadcast, the Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero announced the much awaited appearance of the moon, which signified the commencement of the Muslim sacred month. The monarch informed millions of Muslim faithful, residing in Kano Emirate that the moon had been sighted in Gombe, Zaria and Zamfara, adding that he has received directives from the Sultan of Sokoto, Abubakar Sa’ad for Muslim to commence the fast, noting that the directive was backed by  Islamic jurisprudential pronouncements. The royal father ,thereafter, directed the adherents in his kingdom to  observe the new holy month, Hijri 1443, praying that peace will reign throughout the country. He reminded his subjects that the month of Ramadan has a special divine ordination in the Islamic calendar and therefore appealed to the faithful to exercise the decreed virtues of extending  help to those in need, just as he stressed the importance of paying special attention to the plight of  orphans and widows living in the land. Bayero beseeched Allah to bless the political leaders with the wisdom with which to discharge their duties, with the fear of God and further prayed for divine intervention in the affairs of Nigeria. At the commencement of Ramadan on Saturday, the atmosphere across the ancient city was sober as residents wished one another well in the new month. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com