The proprietor, Topdeal College, Ikorodu, Lagos,  Dr. Oladeji Akinola, has said negative societal influence has been affecting students’ academic performances and moral values. Speaking at a seminar organised by Topdeal and titled,   ‘Overcoming societal influence in pursuit of academic excellence,’ Akinola said, “We are in a society where our youths do not value education not to talk of character because they are in a society where we honor fame and wealth. Youths are the key to sustainable development and quality of life in the society; so the decrease in values and an increase in negative influence among our students such as cultism, prostitution, drug abuse, rituals, etc is due to the high rate of negative societal influence.” He suggested that the step towards a better future was to invest in young people by giving them quality education and good morals. “Many students believed that the school is teaching them what they may not need in life, whenever the society tells them that school is the way, they will quickly refer you to a dropout or somebody that did not go to school and is doing well and will also show you someone that graduated with first class in university that is poor. “My dear students, school is not a scam, to get to the top, you need to work very hard in the university, polytechnics, or world of work. Today, the Nigerian youth thinks of nothing but effortless and short-time comfort. You must make frantic efforts to find a synergy between what is learnt in school and what should be done to solve real-life problems; it is the right time to resolve how to make a change and contribute positively to the changing world.” A 400-level student of Educational Management, University of Lagos, Miss Pelumi Fadiji, told the students that mobile phones would never help them conquer societal influence. She said, “You should let go of friends that have a negative influence on you. “You will make mistakes but never stop being a fighter, engage in profitable activities, read wide to gain more knowledge, establish a good relationship with your parents and never forget God.” Also speaking, a Pastor of Foursquare Church,  Ikorodu, Pastor Felix King, advised the students to be determined and focused. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com