A group of Young Professionals’ has presented  a presidential nomination/expression of interest form to the Peoples Democratic Party aspirant, Peter Obi. The group led by the National Convener, Mr Daniel Ruben, from Warri, Delta State, said they studied closely the pedigree of Obi and found out that he met the right criteria of someone who can lead the country out of its present “predicament”. Ruben and members of his group presented the form to the former Anambra State governor at his Onitsha residence late on Friday. He said the group constituted an umbrella body of all registered professional bodies in Nigeria, such as medical doctors, engineers, entertainment practitioners, legal practitioners, journalists, among others. “Competence, capability, credibility, acceptability both locally and internationally, experience in administration, management of economy and politics, were some of the attributes seen in Mr Obi, that motivated us to support him,” Ruben added. Thanking the group for the support, Obi assured them of his commitment to the future of the Nigerian youths, saying that “we must get this country to work again.” Obi noted, “Though Nigeria is in its lowest ebb at the moment, the problems of the country are surmountable, the first step to tackling the insecurity in the country is to work on the economy and have people gainfully employed. I have detailed plans to pull people out of poverty.” He expressed confidence that he would be in a pole position to clinch the presidential ticket of the PDP in a free and fair primaries. The former governor added that a new Nigeria was possible because  he possessed the criteria as one of the world’s economic social and political leader to address the present harsh conditions confronting the country. He said, “Ever since Alex Ekwueme, no person like me from the South-East under the PDP has aspired  to the position again. My first outing in 2019 was as running mate to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. So I urged the party leadership to put this into consideration and make me the consensus candidate for the February 18, 2023 Presidential election. “We must get this country to work; we must build a better country for all of us, especially for the young ones. In the coming days, you will see my formal declaration and my manifesto which I am committed to.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com