Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, has said there could never be a religious crisis in the state. The governor, who was represented by his Special Assistant on Inter-Faith Affairs, Pastor, Zacheaus Ibikunle, said this at the Easter picnic organised by the Olubadan Palace Chaplain, Rev. Olusoji Adediji, at the Alarere residence of the monarch on Monday. This was contained in a statement by the Olubadan Palace. Ibikunle was quoted as saying that, “For the first time in the history of Oyo State, the Office of Inter-Faith was created by Governor Seyi Makinde, and I became the pioneer officer in charge to demonstrate the open-mindedness of the governor on religious matters. “By the grace of Almighty God, I can say without fear of contradiction that there cannot be a religious crisis in the state. “The present administration in the state is passionately committed to its growth, progress, and development in every facet of human endeavour as can be attested to in the various projects being executed across the nooks and crannies of the state and could not be bogged down by religious acrimony.” Oba Balogun, in his brief remark, rejoiced with the Christian community over the celebration of this year’s Easter and said the coincidence of the two major religions’ annual fasting period was an important lesson on the oneness of religions and God, who created heaven and earth. He said, “There is the need for all adherents of different faiths to live and work harmoniously towards our country’s growth, progress, and development. “It is incontrovertible that our God is only one not minding whatever names we call Him, so, why do we have to fight one another because of Him if we are genuine and sincere in our professing of him?” In his sermon, Rev. Amos Adediran, said myriad problems confronting the country were caused by a lack of love while charging leaders in all areas of life to embrace love as the only antidote to the problems being encountered as a nation. He said, “The Easter celebration being held is a demonstration of the greatest love of God for mankind and it is a charge to us all, irrespective of religion which is the only mode of worship to share that virtue of unconditional love for one another for a peaceful, prosperous and progressive society.” The programme’s organiser and the Palace Chaplain, Rev. Adediji, said the programme was to rejoice with Kabiyesi being his first Easter celebration on the throne and pray for him for long life, sound health, and wisdom as well as understanding with which to direct the Ibadan affairs.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com