A non-profit organisation, Financial Services Innovators and the Federal University of Technology, Minna, organisers of ‘IncludeMe’ virtual Hackathon competition, have given out cash prices to winners of the keenly contested competition. The virtual hackathon, which started on March 11 with a webinar, titled, ‘Micro, small and medium enterprises challenges in northern Nigeria’, ended on Tuesday. Team Stemlab defeated nine other contestants to emerge victorious, carting home a grand prize of N1.5m; the first runner-up, Team Rocket, went away with N1m; and Team EarNest came third, earning N750,000. The team won with its innovative app, Ma’aji, an online and offline mobile payment platform in the Hausa language aimed at financial inclusion for both the banked and unbanked Nigerians. Team Earnest clinched the third position with ‘Kara Banking’, a non-smart phone voice banking app in the Hausa language for micro, small and medium enterprises aimed at conducting banking transactions irrespective of the user’s literacy level or social status. Speaking at the event, the Executive Director, FSI, Aituaz Kola-Oladejo, said, “The hackathon aims to identify talents in higher institutions and nurture them, thereby creating a pool of talents to address the financial inclusion challenges in Nigeria through an enabling platform. “It will also help us to develop the MSME sector and encourage entrepreneurship. The participants were drawn from 21 universities across the country. “I want to thank our sponsors, Flutterwave, Capricorn Digital Ltd, and Committee of e-Banking Industry Heads, and partners for their support and encouragement. “And to the winners, I want to plead with you not to disappear after winning but to strive to advance your innovation until it is deployed in the market.” In his address, the Vice-Chancellor, Federal University of Technology, Minna, Niger State, who was represented by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Administration, Prof. Emmanuel Udensi, said, “We sincerely appreciate what FSI is doing. The hackathon is necessary for the development of the MSME sector and the growth of the economy.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com