A humanitarian organisation, King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Centre, Saudi Arabia, on Tuesday, distributed food items to 1,000 poor persons in Ilorin, Kwara State. The beneficiaries of the programme, which was implemented by Abibakir As- Sidiq Philanthropic Home, cut across Muslim and Christian faithful. The distribution of the food items, which was held at the secretariat of the Muslim World Congress, Tanke area, Ilorin, was performed by the Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahaman AbdulRazaq, who was represented by his deputy, Mr Kayode Alabi. The anchor of the programme, Alhaji Abdullahi, clarified that the gesture was not solely a Ramadan package, but the donor’s efforts at feeding the poor and the needy in some selected Nigerian states. In his remarks, the President of Abibakir As-Siddiq Philanthropic Home, Mallam  Salman, lamented that many Nigerians at the moment were seriously hungry. He stated, “We have in Nigeria, as of now, millions of people who are seriously hungry. It is on this note that credit be given to the King of Saudi Arabia, King Salman Bin AbdulAziz Al Saud, for establishing this great humanitarian organisation, Eta’am Foodbasket Project, which is known around the world for its services in the provision of aid and relief to various communities around the world. “We at Abibakir As-Siddiq Philanthropic Home are humbled to be part of this project which will impact on the lives of 13,800 persons in Nigeria through the provision of food items which include  rice, beans, semovita and vegetable oil,” In his remarks, Governor AbdulRazaq thanked both the donor and implementation organisations for their kind gesture to the people of Kwara State. He expressed readiness of his administration to partner with any organisation that had similar objectives as King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Centre. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com