The Nigerian Legion, Rivers State Command, has awarded university scholarships to 50 students, comprising children, widows, and dependants of fallen soldiers. The award ceremony took place in Port Harcourt and was chaired by the state Commissioner for Education, Professor Kaniye Ebeku. The state Chairman of the Nigerian Legion, Justice Chichi, commended the state government for floating the scholarship scheme. He stated, “The key of the flagship was laid in the year 2020. Our patron, Governor Nyesom Wike, gave an executive approval for the establishment of this scholarship scheme based on the recommendation of the scholarship board. “Record was broken as 65 students drawn from the six geo-political zones were awarded scholarships to study in Nigerian universities and this was funded by the Rivers State Government.” Chichi added that the scheme had been enlarged to accommodate widows in order to give them a sense of belonging. Ebeku hailed the leader of Legion for his passion in driving the cause of the body and charged the beneficiaries of the scholarships to be focused. The commissioner stated, “You have an organisation that is responsible and led by a responsible person. The dividend of what you are getting today is because of his dogged fight and the request he has never failed to present before the state governor. “When you enter the school with a scholarship, don’t joke with it; make sure you use it to succeed so that you will be able to tell the story and what has been done for you, and remember you owe society to do the same.” Ebeku said the state government had always supported the Legion, adding that the governor recognised the labour of the heroes past and had demonstrated this by his continued support to the Legion. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com