Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the leadership of the All Progressives Congress has picked Lagos-based businessman, Tonye Cole, as its standard bearer in Rivers State. Recall that 10 governorship aspirants from the riverine extraction, including Tonye Princewill and Dr Dakuku Peterside, had signed a pact to support whoever would emerge amongst them. But it was learnt that the leader of the party in the state and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, had last week asked all 10 aspirants to halt consultation, saying the party would choose a standard bearer. Cole was the party’s candidate in the state in 2019, though the APC was excluded from the ballot by INEC following a court order after series of litigations by opposing camps of both Senator Magnus Abe and Rotimi Amaechi. Confirming the party’s choice in a statement on Saturday morning, a chieftain of the party and one of the aspirants, Tonye Princewill, said Cole was picked not by Amaechi but the party’s leadership. The statement read, “The decision has just been made for Tonye Cole to fly the flag. It was not made by the minister; it was made by the leaders of the party. “The 10 aspirants plus two new names that had also indicated interest were asked to excuse themselves, while all of the leaders minus the minister then sat and deliberated. We were just called back along with the minister to be given their decision.” Meanwhile the faith of Magnus Abe who recently declared his interest to contest the governorship position on the platform of the APC remains unknown. Abe, who represented Rivers South-East District in the National Assembly, had fallen out with Amaechi. He had said anything less than a fair contest to pick a governorship candidate in the state might have dire consequences for the party. Amaechi doesn’t take advice, says Abe group Reacting, Golden Chioma, Chairman of the Senator Abe-led APC faction, said  it would not support the emergence of Cole as the standard bearer of the party in the state. Chioma in a telephone interview said the process of Cole’s emergence was a “fraud”, adding that the business mogul would not be accepted by APC delegates. He stated, “Cole does not have our approval. We cannot be with him; the man is not a party man. He is a business associate of the Minister of Transportation. “This entails that selfishness has been taken to the highest order for a man who has no business of playing politics, who has no iota of idea of playing politics to be shoved down the throat of his supporters.” Chioma said Amaechi was backing Cole because of their business dealings, pointing out that there are more credible and experienced candidates in the minister’s faction but he (Amaechi) did not endorse them Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com