The Secretary to the Ebonyi State Government and Coordinating Commissioner, Dr Kenneth Ugbala, has denied that he has resigned from office. Ugbala said the publication quoting him to have said he resigned from office was false, adding that he remained the SSG. He said the authors of the publication completely misquoted what he told journalists who interviewed him on Thursday. Ugbala stated, “When I was asked by the pressmen whether I had resigned from office, what I said was that I knew the electoral law very well, and that I was taking all the necessary steps, and that my boss, Governor David Umahi, who graciously appointed me as the Secretary to the State Government, has all the necessary documents, and not myself. “I told them that the office of the Secretary to the State Government is known for confidentiality and that I’m not the one to announce my resignation. “So, I have not told anybody that I have resigned. The publication should be disregarded in its entirety.” Ugbala had on Thursday met with the APC State Working Committeeat the party’s secretariat, Abakaliki, to consult them on his senatorial ambition. He is aspiring to represent Ebonyi Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly. The SSG explained that he came to consult the party leaders over his senatorial ambition and to seek their approval and support. “I’m here to consult with the State Working Committee of our party and seek their approval and support to run for Senate for the Ebonyi Central Senatorial District. You know that a political party is a platform through which you can come into leadership. And before any step is taken, it’s necessary to consult with the party leadership and seek their approval. That’s why I’m here,” he said. Ugbala, who had served as Senior Special Assistant as well as commissioner under Umahi before his elevation to the SSG, said he would ensure effective and efficient representation if elected as senator.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com