The Benin branch of the Federal Government College Warri Old Students Association, on Tuesday, immortalised the late Captain Hosa Okunbo with the inauguration of a solar-powered project in the school. Speaking to the press at the inauguration of the Solar Lighting Project, the Chairman of the FEGOCOWOSA, Benin branch, Andrew Amadasun said that the project would enhance learning conditions in the school. He said: “To make conditions better for the students, we chose to do the lighting project. The idea was the brainchild of our departed Grand Patron, Captain Okunbo for whom we are here today. Our plan is to donate a total of 200 solar panels to the school and we have installed 35 already”, the Benin branch Chairman stated. The Principal of the school, Mr Inegbe Enoise, commended the Late Okunbo for the backing he gave the school while he was alive. He added: “Take a look around you, you will see inside the assembly hall, green durable plastic chairs, the same in the school library, they were all donated to the school by Captain Hosa Okunbo. He single-handedly provided the solar-powered streetlights from the school dining hall to the main gate and he has been promoting girl child education in Edo and Delta states. He could have decided to be careless, but he touched the lives of many”, the principal noted. The child of the late Okunbo, Olori Atuwatse lll of Warri Kingdom, Ivie Okunbo, said she was ready to carry on with the legacy of her late father. “Light both literally and figuratively is an essential need of mankind. No one rejects light. Instead, we all crave and seek it for direction, clarity, safety, and warmth it brings. According to Allan Bloom, Education is the movement from darkness to light. Today marks a huge milestone for the institution and my family”, the Olori revealed, while announcing that she has decided to donate the money needed to complete the project to the Benin branch of FEGOCOWOSA. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com