THE Edo State Internal Revenue Service has said the Ministries of Physical Planning, Urban and Regional Development; Education, and the Edo State Geographic Information Service topped revenue generation in the state in the first quarter of 2022. The Chairman, EIRS Internally Generated Revenue Taskforce, John Inegbedion, said this in Benin City. He noted that the activities of the three government institutions enabled the service to meet its monthly IGR target of N3bn. Inegbedion disclosed this during the service’s 2022 quarterly (January – March) performance review meeting by the management of EIRS. The IGR Taskforce boss thanked zonal and branch managers and employees of the service for their dedication and efforts at achieving the feat. The Ministry of Physical Planning, Urban and Regional Development, led by Isoken Omo, has been at the forefront of the government’s revenue mobilisation drive, with an ongoing campaign for recertification of building plans, permits and other services. According to the ministry, the expansion of the state’s real estate and the property market is closely linked with the uptake in receipts for the ministry. Activities of estate developers have been helping to open up new areas in suburban fringes of Benin metropolis, it noted. It noted that EdoGIS’ revenue profile is also linked to the real estate sector as individuals and corporate bodies are taking advantage of the land reforms in the state to secure their landed properties. The agency issues a Certificate of Occupancy for landed property. Recall that at the last quarterly performance review meeting of 2021, and on the assumption of office as chairman of IGR Taskforce, Inegbedion was urged by Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki to champion a robust revenue administration for the state in line with budgetary provisions.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com