Members of staff of Chrisland Schools on Thursday visited the State Criminal Investigation Department, Yaba, Lagos State, to make statements on the case of sexual acts involving pupils of the school during a trip to Dubai, United Arab Emirates. PUNCH Metro gathered from a source that the teachers that accompanied the students, who represented the school during the World School Games in Dubai, were among the staff members that visited the SCID. “The people that came from the school were about 20 and they include the teachers that accompanied the students to Dubai,” the source said. The source, however, noted that the parents of the male students had yet to visit the command, saying the mother of a 10-year-old female student at the centre of the incident gave her statement on Wednesday. “The school didn’t come with the parents of the male students, but the mother of the girl came yesterday to give her statement. She was the only one that met with the police,” the source added. PUNCH Metro had reported that officials of the Lagos State Ministry of Education interrogated the management of the school alongside the teachers, who accompanied the 76 pupils to the event. During the competition, which held between March 8 and 14, 2022, the pupils, including the 10-year-old girl, were involved in sexual acts which were recorded by another pupil. The video clip went viral on Twitter on Monday. The mother of the girl was heard in another recorded clip accusing the school of cover-up, adding that her daughter was taken for a pregnancy test without her consent. The state government shut down all Chrisland Schools in the state, as the police commenced investigation into the matter. Chrisland Schools, in a statement by a member of its advisory board, Akin Fadeyi, denied the allegations, adding that the school did not take the child for any pregnancy test. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com