Dear Madam Temilolu, I thought to return and thank you for how much you’ve impacted my life since I stumbled on your articles a few months ago. My life has never remained the same again since I began reading your articles and putting your teachings about sexual purity into practice. It has been one good news or another and I know God is not done with me yet! More testimonies are on the way. 2022 is my year! I know it and I believe it! Thanks so much ma! Jacinta Umeh Dear Mummy Temilolu, I salute your energy and the time you have to preach chastity. However, most guys I meet always say “I can’t stand blood…” “I can’t stand blood…” “I can’t stand her cry…” “It’s stressful…”  “Virgins don’t know anything…” I’m so tired of all the excuses! In fact, I met a guy two years ago, he wanted to date me but when he found out I was a virgin, he said to me, “You will have to do it with someone else because I can’t deflower a woman and I can’t date without sex.”  I was weak! Why is it so? Joy My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian sisters, I tell you a lot of people aren’t themselves! More than half of people in the world are satanically manipulated! Otherwise, how can anyone tell you if he can’t have sex with you, he won’t date you? He doesn’t care about God’s dictates, he must also be a selfish person who would waste no time in spewing you out of his mouth like gall once he’s done with you! What a pity as I imagine many other girls falling into his arms! I can even imagine him to be the type of guy in the story below! A few weeks ago, a 24-year-old lady sought counsel after a guy she recently met and slept with on their first date asked her the number of guys she had slept with. She told him she had slept with 85 men and he promptly blocked her!  Most people condemned her to no end including those who will tell you, you need to engage in sex before marriage and be sure you’re sexually-compatible. The heart-wrenching sexual trajectory of this young lady must have started with what anyone would call an innocent relationship! She must have been reading foolish counsel like “virginity does not matter anymore,” who virginity epp,” told by intending lovers that they can’t date without sex and so on until she got to 85 men. Eighty-five men, 85 multiplied by uncountable spirits of multiple partners transferred into her life at 24 and if she’s not careful, strange spirits and a legion of demons that could ensure she remains in the valley of life and on the same spot for the next 20 years if care isn’t taken! Yes it is that serious! For ladies in their 20’s, because your bestie at school had 10 different boyfriends she was sleeping with and got married to a good man at age 22 doesn’t mean the same thing would apply to you. Who knows whether this lady had planned and sworn in her teens to remain a virgin till her wedding night until she got into an unnecessary relationship which submerged her body, spirit and soul in fleshly lust? When I tell you it’s better not to engage in premarital sex at all as it breeds a vicious cycle that could completely topple your life over, I know what I am talking about! Take it or leave it, only God can deliver her from the dire spiritual consequences. By now, she must have realised her folly and the fact that most guys who say they can’t deal with a virgin are liars! Most of them DO NOT want what has been passed around either. I pray God sees her through and she ends up with a good man. Girls…girls…girls…may your mindlessness and following the dictates of the world up and down not become your greatest undoing and divert the course of your destiny! As the world celebrates the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ tomorrow, may every good thing that’s dead in your life come alive in Jesus’ mighty name! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @Okeowotemilolu Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com