FORMER President Olusegun Obasanjo has said the late Managing Director of the Power Holding Company of Nigeria, Joseph Makoju, was crucial to his vision and mission for the nation while he was president between 1999 and 2007. In a condolence letter, which was made available to newsmen by Obasanjo’s Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Akinyemi in Abeokuta on Thursday, the former president said Makoju stood out of the pack as an accomplished and most conscientious engineer and an inimitable administrator. The letter was addressed to the wife of the deceased, Mrs Gladys Makoju The letter read in part, “It is with profound sadness and heaviness of heart that I write, on behalf of my family and on my own behalf, to commiserate with you and the entire members of your family over the passing of your beloved husband, Joseph Makoju, fondly called ‘Joe’, at the age of 73. “On occasions like this, it is indeed difficult to find the appropriate words to soothe the anguish of the irreparable loss. He was arguably the dearest and closest relative, confidant, counsellor, and pillar of strength to you throughout his lifetime. “Your beloved husband has gone to his Creator as we all must go someday. But we must encourage you to accept the inevitable with faith in God’s unfailing love according to His will and purpose and thank God for his exemplary life, the precious love you shared with him, and his many beautiful acts and love that will live in people’s minds and hearts. “For me, in particular, your late husband was somebody I knew very well with very fond memories of his national service under my watch.  When I needed to put together a strong team of individuals who understood my vision and mission for the Nigeria project and could help actualize my dream as the civilian President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria between 1999 and 2007, Joe’s name just couldn’t escape the list of such individuals.   Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com