The National Union of Road Transport Workers has set up a nine-man caretaker committee to coordinate its operations in Lagos State. This came more than a month after the Lagos State Government banned NURTW activities in the state. Also, NURTW dissolved its Lagos State council under Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya popularly known as MC Oluomo on April 6. NURTW spokesperson, Chukwudi Asogwa, confirmed the development to The PUNCH, stating that a letter had been addressed to Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to that effect. According to a copy of the letter obtained by our correspondent, the caretaker committee will operate for three months as stipulated in the union’s constitution. Members of the committee are Fatai Adeshina (Chairman), Sunday Yusuf, Abraham Onifade, Jamiu Erinfolami, Ismaila Ojora, Lekan Ariyibi, Murtala Lawal, Taiwo Azeez, and Kayode Agbeyangi (secretary). Part of the letter read, “Owing to the crises that bedevilled Lagos State Council which culminated in the dissolution of the State Administrative Council on April 2022 and in order not to allow the vacuum created to be affected by outside influences, the National Secretariat deemed it necessary to set up a Caretaker Committee with immediate effect. “You are to take over the administration of the State Secretapt of the union. You should invite the State Chairman, Treasurer and any other SAC member so that any officer in possession of the union’s funds and properties hands them over to the committee. “You should take control of all saleable items onion such as Union receipts, membership cards, EOD’s, Way Bill, RAHIS (PAMS) etc. “You should liaise with the state and local governments including other law enforcement agents in the state with the sole objective of bringing the union closer for better performance. “You should try as much as possible to bring back the lost glory of the union and sanitise its operations hitherto rubbished by the former SAC.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com