Eleven convicted inmates serving various jail terms in Ile-Ife and Ilesa Correctional Centres in Osun State, but with option of fine, on Friday regained freedom after their fines were paid by the state government. The affected inmates were released during a visit to the correctional centres by a team from the state Ministry of Justice led by the Solicitor General, Mrs Kemi Bello, who represented the Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Femi Akande. The leadership of Nigeria Correctional Service, Osun State Command, had written to the Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, recommending for pardon some convicts serving terms after conviction for minor offences which carried option of fine. The Controller of Correction, Osun Command, Olanrewaju Amoran, while speaking during the visits, said seven inmates in Ile-Ife correctional centres were pardoned, while four others serving in Ilesa Correctional Centre were also released. Speaking further, Amoran said “this initiative will boost morale of staff and will encourage them to increase effort in trying to reform and counsel these inmates. “Government is embarking on this intervention to see that those who have changed their attitude, having undergone serious grooming from us, are freed.” In her remarks, Bello, said the gesture was part of efforts by the Oyetola administration to decongest correctional centres in the state, adding that when names of inmates convicted for minor offeces, that have shown remorse were compiled, the government promptly paid their fines. She charged the released inmates to ensure they did not involve in act that could return them to the Correctional Centre. “11 inmates were considered  based on the recommendation of those who are managing them in the custodial centres. 7 inmates from  in Ile-ife and 4 serving in Ilesa were pardoned,” Bello concluded. One of the released inmates, simply identified as Rasheed, who stole 50 yam seedlings from a colleague’s farm, and was sentenced to 2-year jail term, but had only served 5 months out of the term, during an interview with Saturday PUNCH, promised to turn a new leaf.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com