The Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Festus Keyamo, on Sunday came under criticism from Nigerians after the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), granted a presidential pardon to former governors of Plateau State, Senator Joshua Dariye; and Taraba State, Rev Jolly Nyame. The PUNCH reports that the National Council of State had on Thursday endorsed the pardon of Dariye, Nyame, and 157 other convicts following the recommendation of the Presidential Advisory Committee on the Prerogative of Mercy. With the development, Nigerians on social media platforms who described the pardon as a setback to the nation’s anti-corruption war, unearthed Keyamo’s tweet from 2015 where the then human rights lawyer faulted former President Goodluck Jonathan for pardoning convicted ex-Bayelsa State governor, Diepriye Alamieyeseigha. Keyamo had in his Tweet on February 27, 2015, asked the former President’s supporters to justify Jonathan’s pardon granted to Alamieyeseigha. The tweet read, “To GEJites: Give us 1 Good reason why pardon was granted to a convicted thief (Alams) when we are even looking for more ex-govs to send to jail.” But following Buhari’s pardon of Dariye and Nyame, Nigerians on social media, particularly on Twitter, had been condemning the minister for his silence on Buhari’s action. Reacting to the tweet, Jonathan’s former aide, Reno Omokri, wrote, “Today, the same Festus Keyamo, @fkeyamo, is defending the pardon Buhari gave to former Governors Dariye and Nyame, who were convicted of stealing billions. Just give them time, they will all expose themselves. May God deliver Nigerians from men without principles.” A Twitter user with the handle @owoniyilb wrote, “Oga Keyamo, questions are here oooo. Since we needed more corrupt people to checkmate, what is the need for this pardon for high-class robbers while petty ones are left to rot in jail? Who are the beneficiaries of your 774,000 jobs? Why are you hiding? Meanwhile, a former Assistant National Secretary of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Midat Joseph, has accused the President of sabotaging the war against corruption by granting state pardon to convicted corrupt politicians. The former NUJ scribe said the President had betrayed his conscience and the promise to fight corruption by granting state pardon to Dariye and Nyame. The journalist, in a statement, also accused the President of abusing the sensibility of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, who spent 11 years trying the corrupt politicians, only to be released in less than two years of their convictions. Joseph stated, “The two former governors were tried for 11 years and got convicted, they made appeals, yet their conviction was affirmed by the Supreme Court. “All of the charges in which they were tried on, bothered on corruption. Corruption is one of things that have retarded development of this country over the years. “And for the President to just wake up and pardon these former governors, after being convicted of stealing monies meant for the development of their states, is condemnable.” “How do you explain that a government, which came to power on the mantra of fighting corruption, has set free persons convicted for stealing funds in billions? “It then suggests that the so-called pledge to fight corruption by the Buhari administration was indeed a scam. “The granting of pardon to these convicted corrupt politicians has even made nonsense of the judiciary for enforcing the law of the land and sending these former governors to prison for corruption. “This doesn’t make sense and has the ability to weaken the spirit of the judiciary. It is clearly grandstanding. “If persons who wilfully stole public funds because of their position at the time cannot be punished, then there is no need for any law. This is because the essence of punishment is to serve as deterrents.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com