A governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party in Gombe State, Jibrin Barde, has called on the electorate to get their Permanent Voter Cards ahead of the 2023 elections. In a statement signed by his Media Office on Thursday, the governorship hopeful, stated that voters needed to complete their registration with the Independent National Electoral Commission to have the chance in removing bad leaders. This comes after a circular by INEC Public Affairs Officer in Gombe State, Mohorret Bigun, which stated that the state office had received 23,871 new PVCs from the headquarters in Abuja. The statement reads in part, “The Independent National Electoral Commission, Gombe State, wishes to inform the general public that it has received 23,871 new Permanent Voter Cards from the national headquarters of the commission. “Therefore, all those who registered or requested for replacement of their PVCs during the period are encouraged to visit the INEC LGA office where their polling units are domiciled to collect their PVCs from Thursday, April 21, 2022.” Barde called on his supporters and well-wishers across all political parties to visit their polling units in their areas to get their PVCs. “My dear good People of Gombe, the INEC in our dear state has taken delivery of thousand of PVCs and I am calling on all of you to proceed as from tomorrow to collect yours. “It is the only strength and power we have to unseat the incumbent administration of Inuwa Yahaya and clean up the state from the mess it has created and restore hope to all of you, both young and old. “I promise not to disappoint or let you down. Our administration will be people-oriented, with a human face. We will build infrastructures, revamp our health sectors and build capacities for our youths, women and the men alike. “Dividends of democracy won’t be for only a few persons who are in the inner circle as it is happening now under this administration and I assure you all of a new beginning that will usher in a new lease of life for everyone in the state,” Barde was quoted as saying in the statement.