MTN Nigeria and Pan-Atlantic University, on Wednesday, announced the launch of the MTN Media Innovation Programme which would be run by the PAU’s School of Media and Communication. This was revealed in a statement made available to The PUNCH on Wednesday. According to the statement, the initiative is open to media practitioners across the country, including print, electronic, and online platforms, as well as social media content creators. It said the six-month, well-funded fellowship for Nigerian media practitioners was designed to serve as a bastion for sustainable growth and development of the nation’s ever-changing media scene. The statement said the course would give participants “a greater understanding of Nigeria’s technology sector and the nexus between media and technology” whilst helping them (participants) to adapt to the changing realities. It also noted that fellows would be accorded access to professional resources and mentorship from the SMC faculty. The Chief Executive Officer, MTN Nigeria, Karl Toriola, during the launch of the event, said, “We are driven by our belief that everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected world and are driving accelerated growth by leading digital solutions for Nigeria’s progress. “Against this backdrop, the media landscape continues changing at remarkable speeds, boosted by new technologies. “Thus, it is only fitting that we support developments in the Nigerian media space with our infrastructure and enable capacity building initiatives to enable innovation in media practice.” The telecom boss expressed satisfaction over partnering with the Pan-Atlantic University, given the latter’s expertise, which he said had contributed immensely to the professional development of the media industry in Nigeria and across the African continent. In his reaction, the Vice Chancellor, Pan-Atlantic University, Prof. Enase Okonedo, stated, “The School of Media and Communication was established to train professionals who will uphold the highest intellectual, ethical and professional values that promote creativity, critical knowledge, social responsibility and the spirit of enterprise. “The MTN Media Innovation Programme could not have come at a better time for Nigerian media practitioners to imbibe these pertinent values,” Okonedo added. The course, fully sponsored by MTN Nigeria, would be available to 20 successful applicants, the statement summed up. Inspired by a strategic grandeur to drive leading digital solutions for Nigeria’s progress in over two decades of operations, MTN Nigeria had etched its name as Africa’s largest provider of communications services, connecting over 68.5 million people in communities across the country with each other and the world. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com