The federal and state governments are to spend about N120bn to fund the livestock transformation strategy of the National Livestock Transformation Plan, it was gathered Wednesday. A document on the implementation plan guidelines for the Federal Government and states in the NLTP 2019-2028, as approved by the National Economic Council, stated that additional funding for the livestock programme was also expected from donors. In the document, obtained by our correspondent from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in Abuja, it was stated that the bulk of the fund would be used on pilot ranches under the NLTP. The section on budgeting framework and preliminary estimates in the document read in part, “The government of Nigeria has set aside N100bn to fund the first phase of the livestock transformation strategy. “State governments have also committed to spend 20 per cent or a further N20bn in support of the strategy. The funds will be used to execute the strategy described herein alongside additional funding from private investors and donors.” In the document, the Federal Government stated that the livestock programme would initially develop pilot ranches in grazing reserves in each of the seven pilot states. It listed the pilot states as Adamawa, Benue, Kaduna, Nasarawa, Plateau, Taraba and Zamfara, adding that four categories of ranches – small, intermediate, medium and large, would be developed and tested in each grazing reserve in the states. “The implementation plan can also be adopted by other interested states,” the National Executive Council stated in the document. The government explained that the proposed high-level allocation of the N100bn would be spent majorly on the rollout of pilot ranches and the implementation of NLTP pillars over phase one, which would be from three to five years. It, however, noted that state contributions were not factored into the categories to be funded with the N100bn from the Federal Government, adding states’ funds would be spent within each contributing state as deemed fit. On the proposed uses of the budget, the NLTP document stated that behind each of the proposed allocations were specific estimations and calculations. It stated that for pilot ranches in seven pilot states, the fund would be spent primarily on capital investments required to provide sustainable access to water, forage, and supporting services. “Spend estimates are a baseline with the expectation that target numbers may be adjusted upwards or downwards subject to soil analysis, hydrology reviews of underground water reserves and the overall condition of infrastructure at the site,” it stated. The document added, “Each state is expected to have three ranches (two for dairy and beef production, and one for breeding); the estimation assumes that in year one, seven pilots will be rolled out; in year two, seven breeding pilots will be rolled out; and in year three, the other seven production ranches will be rolled out.” On the essence of the National Livestock Transformation Plan, the government said it would provide a roadmap for modernising livestock production using a mix of nomadic breeding and ranching that would serve a modernised dairy and meat processing industry. It said the NLTP would develop a plan for resettling and addressing the dislocated populations in the key conflict zones to enable them to become a part of the agriculture modernisation process. The document stated that the plan would provide a mechanism for peaceful dialogue and reconciliation in the affected communities for a harmonious multi-cultural inter-dependent and mutually beneficial future. It noted that the plan was a partnership between the federal and state levels of government and that there were entry points for all stakeholders.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com