The Yoruba World Centre has shifted the launching of its Language Millionaire Contest in honour of the late Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, who died on Friday, April 22, 2022. The Coordinator, Ogbeni Alao Adedayo, in a statement he signed, said the event, which was scheduled to hold sometime in May, had been shifted to July. The late monarch, who was the chairman when the centre was launched last year, had chosen the period for the contest. However, Adedayo said the management team felt they could not bring themselves together to organise such a huge ceremony just a month after Adeyemi’s death. Adedayo said, “The passing on of the Alaafin, to us at the centre, is a personal loss. He was the first to be consulted once the formation of the centre was agreed upon, and he not only keyed into the project, but he also promised that he would use all resources at his disposal to ensure its success. “He said he was proud of it and would see to its completion and he remained the strongest pillar till death. Alaafin Adeyemi was not just an Oba of Oyo but a father to all the Yoruba people wherever they lived in the world. He was the embodiment of our history, a repertoire with large resources, an Alaafin that oozed out our culture in all his speeches, actions and comportment.” “When you met Alaafin Adeyemi, you have met a complete Yoruba in everything. We sincerely condole with the Yoruba people, particularly the Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, and other South-West Governors, our revered royal fathers, people of Oyo, and the immediate family of our father. “No doubt, his demise will create such a gap that can’t be filled in decades. Who is going to dance like him? Who is going to chant like him? Who is going to relate Yoruba history with dates and data off hand? Who is going to promote the Yoruba royal ways of dressing like Oba Adeyemi? The gap may continue to grow wider.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com