The Indigenous People of Biafra says the Federal Government is secretly meeting with some human rights groups to blackmail the IPOB into backing out of its freedom struggle. The group said it has uncovered the agreement held between the DSS, Army, Police, Nigeria security and Civil Defence Corps with some few civil society groups where they signed to join hands to propagate lies and false information against IPOB. In a statement on Saturday, the Media and Publicity Secretary, Mr Emma Powerful, said that there were moves to tag IPOB a terror group. He added that the Amnesty International and Intersociety group were deliberately excluded from the meeting because the organisers knew that they would not agree to their wicked plans. The statement read in part, “The agreement was reached to tell lies against the freedom fighting movement championing the liberation of the people of Biafra. IPOB intelligence unit uncovered this evil meeting attended by faceless human rights and civil society groups, who agreed to peddle falsehood against IPOB across the world, but the IPOB family will expose and disgrace them. “If we were terrorists, we cannot maintain our presence in over 100 nations. The lies being propagated against us by the Federal Government will continue to fail. Nigeria Army, DSS and police created this insecurity to demonise IPOB and its leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu.” Pro-Biafra group warns sponsors of atrocities in S’East Meanwhile, IPOB has said that the sponsors and perpetrators of atrocities in the South-East would soon be exposed as the authentic arm of the group was out to do so. The group accused politicians of importing criminals and hoodlums into the region to help them carry out their evil agenda, adding that those behind the killings and insecurity were not IPOB members. Powerful said the atrocities happened more in the state where politicians were fighting themselves for selfish reasons. Powerful stated that IPOB had no business with the unidentified gunmen, and would soon expose those behind the monster. He said, “We will expose those behind the killings in the whole land of Biafra in no distant future. Those behind this barbarity are not IPOB members or ESN operatives. “We totally condemn the killing of the six innocent women in Imo State by hired hoodlums as they shared rice presented by the governor. We must fish out the perpetrators of this heinous crime against our mothers.” The group condemned the numerous abductions, car snatching, raping, and attacks on public institutions, saying that IPOB did not spill blood nor attack public institutions. The statement read in part, “We strongly condemn the recent attacks on Nnewi South LGA, the burning of the country home of Ohanaeze Ndigbo President, Prof. George Obiozor, and the attack on the palace of HRH Igwe Anayo Obika of Ezinfite. Those behind these devilish acts will regret their actions. “We advise our people to be circumspect this political season as enemies of Biafra have schemed different ways of causing havoc in our land and blaming it on IPOB and Biafra agitators to further demonise us. Everybody should be wise and vigilant. IPOB doesn’t spill blood. Anybody staging an attack anywhere has nothing to do with IPOB.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com