Scores of people have been killed and property worth millions of naira destroyed following a communal crisis which erupted on Wednesday between Yoruba residents and indigenes of Ibeno in the Ibeno Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. A community source who could not confirm the number of casualties to one of our correspondents, however, said both sides suffered losses. Although the actual cause of the fracas had not been established, the source said the crisis started as a result of cult clash before it assumed an ethnic dimension, adding that the Ilaje people, mostly fishermen, had started fleeing the community through bush paths, while their houses and tents were being looted and destroyed by hoodlums. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Odiko Macdon, when contacted simply said he would find out as he was not aware of the crisis. However, a concerned citizen and Yoruba indigenes living in the state, Oluwajuwon Ogunbiyi, who confirmed the incident, described the situation as unfortunate and called on the state government to set up a committee to investigate the crisis. In Osun State, a man identified as Rasidi ‘Olopa’, has been killed following violent clashes in Sabo community in Ede. An eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said a gang of four men, led by the deceased, who was second-in-command to a wanted cultist, Rasidi Oko’lu, had been extorting residents of Sabo. The resident also said the leadership of the Hausa community had complained about Rasidi’s activities to some indigenes and sought help to stop him from further extorting them. It was further learnt that the rising tension between Rasidi’s group and residents of Sabo reached a peak on Tuesday when the hoodlums allegedly seized some motorcycles belonging to some Hausa men and demanded money before they would release them. The situation, however, degenerated into fracas when the thugs reportedly went to Sabo on Tuesday, leading to the violent clashes and eventual death of Rasidi, while five other residents of the community were also injured. Speaking with The PUNCH on Wednesday, the Seriki Hausa of Ede, Ibrahim Gambo, confirmed the incident. He, however, added that the attack was not targeted at Hausa residents in particular. The Osun State Police Command spokesperson, Yemisi Opalola, said the attack occurred on Wednesday when some allies of Rasidi Oko’lu that went to the Sabo area and wanted to extort residents were resisted. “The thugs seized some motorcycles from Hausa residents and they were told to return the motorcycles. Police were quickly deployed which prevented escalation. One person was killed in the fracas, but normalcy has been restored,” Opalola added. Three persons have been reportedly killed at Uselu-Nahor Community in Uhunmwonde Local Government of Edo State over leadership crisis. The incident happened on Wednesday when gunmen attacked the victims at their duty post. It was also gathered that among those killed is the Chief Security Officer of the Community identified as Osasu. The deceased were said to be at their duty post at Ahor Kara, collecting parking fee from vehicles when gunmen opened fire on them, killing them on the spot. The state command’s spokesperson, SP Bello Kontongs when contacted  onfirmed the incident, adding, “it is true but I am yet to get detail of the incident.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com