Former Everton striker, Victor Anichebe, has urged the club to sack Frank Lampard following their 3-2 defeat by relegation rivals Burnley on Wednesday. The Clarets came from 2-1 down at half-time to claim victory and are now just one point behind the Toffees in the fight for survival. Everton, who next play Manchester United on Saturday, could drop into the relegation zone if they fail to win and Burnley are able to take all three points against Norwich a day later. Anichebe slammed the decision to only bring Salomon Rondon on in the final minutes, saying Dominic Calvert-Lewin was poor and that Lampard should be sacked as Everton manager Anichebe posted a number of messages on his Instagram story during the match, starting with his frustrations when Salomon Rondon only came off the bench in the 87th minute. The Nigerian wrote that Lampard should be sacked as manager after just more than two months in charge at Goodison Park. He wrote, “Too late… should’ve brought him on 10 mins ago it was obvious… DCL (Dominic Calvert-Lewin) has been poor. “The players aren’t good enough but neither is Frank. As much as I love him as a player and he looks a top guy. “Everton will 100 per cent go down if a change isn’t made.” After the final whistle, Anichebe suggested that Everton should go for Sam Allardyce, who didn’t endear himself to Everton fans during his six-month stay at the club from November 2017 to May 2018 – though he has a reputation for keeping clubs in the Premier League. However, he was relegated for the first time as a Premier League manager during his last spell with a club, at West Brom last season. Along with a picture of Allardyce, Anichebe wrote, “I said it weeks ago… y’all laughed. Some said rather go down with dignity. Okkkkk.” A little while later in his final post on Wednesday night, he wrote, “Apologies if I don’t respond tonight, I just can’t be bothered. So… The players are responsible first and foremost. But Everton’s board is absolutely horrendous. “The money they’ve wasted, the sackings of influential staff like (Dan Donachie), not letting Marcel Brands actually do his job, bringing in Rafa (Benitez), creating a complete disconnect with fans and club. “Next – appointing Lampard (who is a good coach) but appointing him when you know you’re in a relegation battle with a tough run in… was absurd… him getting Alli who is a luxury player… in a relegation fight… baffling. “If something doesn’t happen tonight they are 100 per cent going down. At the moment it’s 60 per cent. Keep the faith.” Copyright PUNCH.