The Senator representing Lagos West under the All Progressives Congress, Senator Solomon Adeola, has declared to run for the seat of Ogun West Senatorial District in the 2023 election. Our correspondent gathered that the senator declared his intention to represent the Ogun West district on Wednesday at an event held in Ilaro, Yewa-North. A statement issued by his Media Adviser, Kayode Odunaro, said his boss was heeding the clarion call of his people to return home to contribute to the development of his people as he has done for Lagos West as their senator in the last six years and counting. The statement read “I want to thank God Almighty and the governor of Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun, my leader, and the governor and all other leaders from Ogun West for their interest in me and their good wishes leading to the event of today in Ilaro, the administrative headquarters of Ogun West. I am officially declaring to heed their call as their son to run as a candidate for Ogun West Senatorial District in the 2023 election. “The Senator disclosed that over the years he has been contributing to the development of Ogun West Senatorial district through personal efforts and facilitation of projects which will increase in leaps and bounds if he is eventually elected as the senator representing Ogun West in the Red Chamber. “I was the major donator to the multi-million- naira electrification of the College of Agriculture, Olabisi Onabanjo University, Aiyetoro Campus, I facilitated the construction of a modern library in the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro as well as the ultra-modern community multi-purpose pavilion at Asade Agunloye Pavilion, Empire Ground, Ilaro and numerous empowerments in skills acquisitions, training and grants for many indigenes. “As a ranking senator, all these will come in multiples for Ogun West just as I am doing for Lagos West at present” he stated. Earlier on in a welcome address, the coordinator of West to west, Dr. kunle Salako, said similar rallies endorsing a second term for Prince Abiodun and for Senator Adeola to run as Ogun West Senator has been held at Imeko-Afon, Yewa North, Ado Odo-Ota, Ipokia LGAs adding that this one in Yewa South is the grand finale as the home LGA of Senator Adeola. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com