THE Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, has ordered the dismissal of nine policemen for allegedly spearheading a planned strike by members of the Nigeria Police over poor conditions of service. Those affected are two inspectors, five sergeants and two constables. A police signal issued by the Commissioner of Police Provost, Force headquarters, Abuja, said the men were dismissed from service following their orderly room trial for planning and coordinating a strike within the ranks and file of the police. The offenders were said to have been identified and subsequently arrested after their telephone calls were tracked. The wireless message which was addressed to various state police commands read, “Be informed that following the conclusion of the orderly room proceedings of the under mentioned inspectors, rank and file for the offences of discreditable conduct, improper conduct, breach of confidence, to wit: planning, organising, coordinating industrial strike within the ranks of the Nigeria Police Force; the Inspector-General has approved the dismissal from service of the following: AP/No. 245800 – Insp Nanoll Lamak; AP/ NP 287568 – Insp Amos Nagurah; F/No. 271367 – Sgt Onoja Onuche; F/No. 442680 – Sgt Franklin Agughalau; F/No. 495378 – Sgt Emmanuel Isah F/No. 508168 – Sgt Adesina Ismail; F/No. 508282 – Sgt Osoteku Ademola; F/No. 525839 – Police Constable Ehighamhen Favour Ebele and F/No. 528222 – Police Constable Ubong Inem. “Commissioners of police commands and formations concerned are to warn the men accordingly, to de-kit them and eject them from the police accommodation and facilities where applicable and revert accordingly; delete subjects from IPPIS payroll immediately. “The commissioner, welfare to delete subjects from police nominal roll accordingly. Treat as very important.” The IG had been shaken by reports that his men were planning to embark on strike a few weeks ago over poor remuneration. To forestall the plot, he dispatched members of the management team to different commands and zonal formations to pacify the police personnel while promising to accelerate the payment of the 20 per cent increase in salary approved by the Federal Government last December. The acting force spokesman, Muyiwa Adejobi, who had denied reports that the police were planning to embark on strike, did not respond to the sacking of the cops when contacted on Tuesday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com