The Chief Executive Officer, Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise, Dr Muda Yusuf, speaks with SAMI OLATUNJI on Nigeria’s inflation and the challenges of the private sector and other critical issues affecting Nigerians and the economy What would you say are the major challenges facing the private sector in Nigeria? The concerns of the private sector are multifarious and multidimensional.  There are macroeconomic issues bothering on the unprecedented depreciation of the naira exchange rate, the illiquidity in the foreign exchange market, the ravaging inflationary pressure, escalating energy cost and the worsening insecurity in the country.  There are also numerous structural, policy, regulatory and institutional impediments. These are not the best times for investors having regard to these challenges and the implications for investors’ confidence. Some of these challenges are consequences of developments in the global economic environment, but a significant part of the problems is inflicted by dysfunctional policies, regulations and corruption. Nigeria’s economy appears to be growing as the country’s GDP recorded a 3.4 per cent growth rate in 2021. However, the well-being of Nigerians doesn’t seem to be improving. What could be the reason for this? The recent uptrend in the GDP growth is a reflection of the gradual recovery of the economy from the shocks of the pandemic and the recession that followed. The impact of the pandemic varied across sectors, some were more impacted than others.  However, the growth trajectory should be celebrated cautiously. Laudable growth performance is one thing, translating the growth to improved welfare, job creation, poverty reduction and economic inclusion is a completely different matter. The last few years were characterised by a worsening poverty situation, high inflationary pressures, massive erosion of purchasing power, high energy prices, escalating production costs, sharp currency depreciation and many more. These are critical developmental metrics on the basis of which the performance of the economy should also be measured. Therefore, going forward, policymakers should prioritise these key development indicators. Citizens’ welfare and investment productivity in the economy matter even more than the GDP numbers. You are one of the critics of the current foreign exchange policy regime. What should be done differently? Let me acknowledge that our weak export base and high import dependence are major factors contributing to the depreciation of our currency. But I would like to emphasise that our dysfunctional foreign exchange policy has compounded the problem. My submission is that we should adopt a flexible exchange rate policy regime.  Let me clarify that this is not a devaluation proposition. Rather, it is a pricing mechanism that reflects the demand and supply fundamentals in the foreign exchange market.  It is a model that is sustainable, predictable and transparent.  It would reduce uncertainty, inspire the confidence of investors, eliminate discretion in the allocation of forex and reduce arbitrage opportunities in the forex market. Let me make a distinction between a flexible exchange rate regime and devaluation.  I recall that when Vice president Yemi Osinbajo, a few months ago called for a market-driven exchange rate, he was misconstrued as calling for a devaluation of the naira. Devaluation is a policy choice often adopted by countries to boost export and discourage imports.  Countries adopt this measure, not necessarily because they have a foreign exchange or balance of payment crisis; but as a deliberate trade policy strategy to make their exports cheaper. A flexible exchange rate regime on the other hand is adopted to cope with changing demand and supply dynamics in the forex market, rather than resort to administrative allocation.  We need a flexible exchange rate model for enhanced liquidity in the foreign exchange market; reduced uncertainty in the foreign exchange market, enhancing the confidence of investors; lesser discretion in the allocation of forex; and more forex inflows into the economy. We need to do away with a fixed exchange rate regime, which is significantly consequential, leading to a widening gap between the official and parallel market exchange rates which incentivises round-tripping and corruption in the allocation of forex; mounting trade debts; poor liquidity; inflationary pressures; decreasing capital inflows, among others. The Nigerian economy has the capacity to weather the current storm if the policy contexts are right.  We have the market, the natural endowments and a very resourceful entrepreneurial class. The huge potential of our economy would only be realised if we remove the policy, regulatory and institutional impediments to investment and resource flows. What are the implications of the rising inflation and what are the major drivers? The spiralling inflation dynamics call for an urgent policy response at the highest level of government.  The impact on citizens’ welfare is inestimable and the effects on SMEs are worrying.  We are dealing with a situation of elevated social discontent, driven by increasing joblessness and hunger. The key drivers of inflation include high and increasing energy cost; worsening currency depreciation, escalating transportation cost, high import duty on manufacturing inputs, illiquidity in the forex market, bottlenecks in the logistics chain, security concerns and low productivity resulting from structural challenges and weak application of technology.  Central bank financing of fiscal deficit is also a major driver of inflation. To tackle inflation, these key drivers would have to be addressed. All forms of taxes and levies on the importation of petroleum products should be suspended to give a respite on the spiking energy cost. Currently, there is Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, with several sanctions imposed on Russia. What are the possible implications on the Nigerian economy, which is still trying to recover from the economic crisis of the COVID-19 pandemic? If we had managed our oil and gas sector well, we should be reaping the bountiful benefits of high global oil prices.  Our reserves should have grown over the last couple of months, and currency should have an added strength on account of enhanced accretion to reserves. Regrettably, the Nigerian story is the exact opposite.  We are paying more for the importation of petroleum products putting even more pressure on already weak foreign reserves.  The immediate implications include high energy costs because of the dominance of Russia in the global energy market. Already we are already feeling the effects in the form of a spike in the cost of diesel by over 150 per cent in a space of two months. There is also the surge in the cost of aviation fuel which has caused about a 50 per cent increase in airfares in the country.  There is also the escalation in the cost of gas taking a toll on many industrialists.  All of these have serious consequences for exacerbating inflationary pressures.  Production and operating costs are already escalating, profit margins are being eroded, purchasing power is getting weaker, and profit margins are being rapidly eroded. We will see an increase in subsidy payment as the landing cost of petrol increases. Regrettably, we remain a major importer of petroleum products and typically when oil prices increase, subsidy payment also increases. The estimate by the NNPC is that subsidy payments will soar to N3tn, or even more given the mounting pressure on global crude oil prices. The scale of petroleum products smuggling has increased because of the effect of relative prices in comparison with petroleum products in neighbouring countries.  The price differential between the cost of petroleum in Nigeria which is heavily subsidised and the cost of petroleum in other countries is going to widen as a result of these developments the incentive for smuggling will increase. Nigeria is in an unfortunate situation because of the dysfunctional policy in our oil and gas sector.  Domestic refining capacity has collapsed, and oil-producing companies are grappling with large-scale oil theft, vandalisation of pipelines and all manner of atrocities which had resulted in significant divestments by major oil companies. We therefore cannot take advantage of high oil prices and simultaneously spend a huge portion of our foreign exchange earnings on the importation of refined petroleum products.  Additionally, huge sums are being spent on fuel subsidy. The story of our oil and gas sector is a very sad one. What is your assessment of the Nigerian manufacturing sector and what are their key challenges? The Nigerian industrialists have been grappling with numerous challenges ranging from macroeconomic issues, structural bottlenecks, policy impediments, regulatory burdens and rising energy costs.  Other specific challenges include the depreciation in the exchange rate and the inability to access foreign exchange in the official window.  Many have been resorting to the parallel market to source their raw materials and other inputs, including machinery and spare parts. There is also high energy cost and weak infrastructural base – power, transportation, Apapa traffic issues, railway system, and the ports. Another issue is the high cost of funds, absence of long-term funds, challenges of access to credit by SMEs as well as other firms in the sector, because of the perception of manufacturing is very risky in the economy. Except for intervention funds, especially from the Bank of Industry, the cost of funds in the Nigerian economy has been well over 20 per cent for industrialists. It is difficult to achieve a competitive manufacturing investment with this kind of fund. The tenure of the fund is also very short, most times a maximum of one year. It is difficult to do any serious manufacturing investment with tenure of fund of just one year or less. Small businesses account for over 50 per cent of the GDP but have access to only one per cent of the banks’ credit to the private sector. This demonstrates the enormity of the funding challenges that are faced by small businesses. The manufacturing sector also suffers from the challenges of weak institutions. This makes regulation ineffective – faking and counterfeiting, smuggling, under-invoicing etc. A major challenge to industrialisation is the low industrial space and absence of innovation. Many industries have the challenge of getting qualified labour for their businesses. The curriculum of many tertiary institutions is not dynamic and most often, not aligned to the needs of industries, which is very dynamic. Therefore, the static curriculum cannot meet the needs of a dynamic setting. What is the way forward for the manufacturing sector? The systemic issues of infrastructure should be addressed as a matter of utmost priority. The immediate focus should be on electricity supply and logistics. Unless we have these two critical infrastructures in place, it will be very difficult to ensure a competitive industrial sector and to make possible the transformation of the sector. We should ensure that there is adequate investment in core industries such as Iron and steel and Petrochemical. We should take full advantage of the large Nigerian market to scale up our industrial capacity utilization. We should fix and normalise the foreign exchange market for better liquidity, predictability, stability and transparency. Lastly, we should promote the culture of backward integration by the sector. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com