Residents of Agorogbene, a farming and fishing community in Sagbama Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, have appealed to Governor Duoye Diri to intervene in the continuous neglect of the area. According to a statement on Sunday, the residents made this known in letter also copied to the Senator representing Bayelsa West and former governor of the state, Seriake Dickson; member representing Sagbama Ekeremor Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Fred Agbedi; member representing Sagbama 2 at the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, Benard Kenebai; and the Chairman of Sagbama LGA, Prosper Alake. The community lamented the neglect of the area by successive administrations in Bayelsa, adding that the people lack access to roads, pipe borne water and electricity. The letter read in part, “We wish to call the attention of His Excellency Senator Duoye Diri, Executive Governor of Bayelsa state to the continuous neglect of Agorogbene people in the scheme of things in Bayelsa state. “Agorogbene people have no access road, no pipe borne water, no electricity and other amenities for the survival of any human being. The only road into the area was started by late Gov Diepriye Alamiesyeigha passing Amasoma location of Niger Delta University ending at Ogobiri remaining a few kilometers to reach Agorogbene when it was abandoned. “This neglect and abandonment has caused the people to be intimidated by other communities as no one recognises us for good. It is sad to note that the abandonment of this road which is not up to five kilometers has brought untold hardship on the people causing our farm and fishing produce which Bayelsa people are in dire need of to remain with us. “Because of the lack of access road, many of our people have remained immigrants in other communities rather than return to join in the development of the community for the ultimate benefit of the entire state. We need you, the kind and God fearing governor Senator Diri, to come to our aid and redress this neglect before we all perish.” An indigene of the community and a widow of late Comptroller of Customs,  Mrs Comfort Luwei, was quoted as saying, “Only government presence will redress the pains of Agorogbene people. Peace loving Gov Diri should come to our aid. Our dear senator Dickson, Hon. Agbedi, Hon. Benebai and Hon. Alake should remember Agorogbene people in their so called paradise if only to appease the spirit of late Chief Alamieyieseigha who started the road.” Also speaking, a farmer named Monday Peters, said “We are hardworking farmers in Agorogbene but there is no way to move our goods to Yenagoa or even Amasoma. With a road connection, life will change for our people.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com