A cloud of grief engulfed Huturu Village along Bauchi-Kano road in Bauchi State on Tuesday following a fatal auto crash that claimed 20 lives including four children, all burnt beyond recognition. Our correspondent learnt that the crash involved two commercial buses, a Volkswagen Golf mini-bus and Volkswagen Sharon Wagon. The Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Yusuf Abdullahi, confirmed the crash to our correspondent. He said that the crash happened at about 11.30 am and that it took the FRSC rescue team 12 minutes to arrive at the scene of the incident. Abdullahi said the crash was caused by a speed violation. He said, “Yes, there was a crash this morning at about 11.30 am at Huturu Village, along Bauchi-Kano road. It involved two commercial vehicles. “The vehicles include a Volkswagen Golf 3 mini-bus with registration number: SHD184YU and Volkswagen Sharon Wagon. “The crash was fatal as the two vehicles were engulfed in fire. ”When we were called for rescue, our personnel rushed to the scene and they discovered that 20 passengers comprising of 11 male adults, five female adults, one male child and three female children, were burnt beyond recognition. “Our men rushed the one male adult who was injured to the Kafin Madaki General Hospital for medical treatment, while the burnt corpses will be buried at Huturu Village.” He said that the rescue operation was carried out by a joint team of the FRSC personnel, the men of the Nigeria Police Force attached to Kafin Madaki Division, the State Fire Service and that of the Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa International Airport, Bauchi. The FRSC boss expressed worry at the attitude of drivers who drive recklessly in defiance of traffic rules and regulations. “This incident is so sad and pathetic. Look at how 20 people lost their lives in this crash due to the recklessness of drivers. ”I wish to call on all motorists to be very careful and vigilant while on the road. “They should observe all road traffic rules and regulations as well as road traffic signs that are on the road. By so doing, we will have a reduction in crashes that often lead to loss of lives and properties,” he admonished. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com