The zoning committee of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, contrary to the expectation of its southern members, has recommended an open race for the party’s 2023  presidential ticket. The party’s 37-person zoning committee, which took the decision at the Benue State Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro, Abuja, on Tuesday, cited ‘exigency of time’ for its recommendation. One of our correspondents learned the committee based its recommendation on the high voter turnout in the North and the party’s determination to return to power. According to a leaked document obtained by one of our correspondents, the committee stated that although zoning was affirmed in the party’s constitution, exigencies of time made it to dump the arrangement. But the recommendation of the committee generated angry reactions from organisations such as the Igbo socio-cultural group, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the Pan-Niger Delta Forum and the Middle Belt Forum with some of them saying it would affect the chances of the PDP in the 2023 polls. But justifying its decision, the PDP committee, in the document titled, “Recommendations of PDP Zoning Committee,”  stated, “ Zoning, as in our party constitution, is affirmed. In spite of the above, the ticket is thrown open, this time around due to the exigency of the time. “Our party is encouraged to always make the issue of zoning very clear at least six months before sales of forms. “Our party should commend the efforts of some of our contestants on the issue of consensus candidacy; the efforts should be seen to a peaceful and logical conclusion.” On March 16, the party’s National Executive Committee, at its 95th meeting, instituted a 37-man committee comprising members from the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory to recommend a zoning formula for the various electoral offices ahead of next year’s polls. Addressing journalists at the end of the meeting, Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, said, “By the grace of God, we have unanimously adopted a position that will be sent to the NEC of our party that appointed us. “The good news for teaming supporters of the PDP and Nigerians is that we have resolved and every one of us – the 37 members – unanimously adopted the position that we are going to present to NEC.” Although Ortom was reticent about the zoning formula, The PUNCH learned that the committee would urge NEC to fling open the presidential race to all aspirants, irrespective of their zones. Another senior party source who spoke to one of our correspondents shortly after the meeting said the party would throw open the presidential ticket rather than restrict it to a region. The source said, “Reference was made to the 10 states with the highest turnout of voters in the 2019 election. Of these 10, nine were northern states and only Lagos made the list. Kano, Kaduna, Katsina had the highest number of voters’ turnout while Lagos came a distant fourth. “Aspirants should be allowed to test their popularity at the primary election but if they choose to adopt a consensus approach, that will be acceptable to the party. It is a position member of the committee was comfortable with.” The PDP zoned its presidential ticket to the north during the 2019 general elections. The party argued that the zone still had an uncompleted tenure following the demise of former President Umaru Yar’Adua, on May 5, 2010, who only served for two years and 11 months. Consequently, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar emerged presidential candidate at the 2018 primaries held in Port Harcourt. In a related development, the former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, has resigned his membership in the zoning committee. In a letter addressed to Governor Ortom before the commencement of Tuesday’s meeting, Fayose argued that his status as a presidential aspirant in the PDP disqualified him to seat on the committee. In attendance were Governors Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu, Darius Ishaku of Taraba, former Deputy National Chairman,  Bode George;  former governors Ahmed Makarfi (Kaduna), Boni Haruna (Adamawa), Sule Lamido (Jigawa) and Ibrahim Shema (Katsina). Others include former Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Relations, Tanimu Turaki; Information Minister, Prof. Jerry Gana, and Chairman, PDP Disciplinary Committee, Tom Ikimi, among others. A member of the committee, who confided in one of our correspondents, said the committee would submit its report to the party’s National Executive Committee on Wednesday. “It is the party that will take a final decision on it,” the source stated. Decision of PDP zoning committee awful, disappointing – PANDEF PANDEF in its reaction expressed dismay at the decision of the zoning committee of the PDP. PANDEF in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Ken Robinson,  said the decision arrived at by the Governor Samuel Ortom-led committee would have consequences. Robinson alleged that the committee was playing out a script, saying its decision was, however, not surprising, insisting that for fairness, equity and justice, the next president in 2023 should come from the South-South. He stated, “It is an awful decision and there will be consequences. But we are not utterly surprised at the development. “The outcome was predictable; there were evident pointers that this would be the conclusion. Governor Ortom’s Committee had a script and they have played it out, with due deference to some patriots that were in the committee. “The level of desperation and political debauchery being demonstrated by some political stakeholders is deplorable and quite disappointing. Regrettably, we are in a society where it seems anything goes.” It is height of hypocrisy – Ohanaeze Ohanaeze Ndigbo described the recommendation of the committee as the height of the hypocrisy of politicians. It advised presidential aspirants from the South-East not to be demoralised instead should continue in the struggle until the result is achieved. The spokesman for the apex Igbo body, Chief Alex Ogbonnia, who spoke with one of our correspondents on the telephone, stated, “Any person that rises to oppose zoning is not very well-informed about zoning,” adding, “every Nigeria had known about this zoning. It is in the constitution, it has been the practice, it has favoured all other geo-political zones and they are all aware. “So, for anyone to even make that remark is the height of hypocrisy and that is the dangerous thing about Nigerian politicians’ inability to stand for truth and principles. But there must be justice.” He added, “Ohanaeze Ndigbo, however, will continue to talk in a relentless exercise. So we cannot be discouraged because we know that we are on the path to peace, a path for unity, a path for equity and justice, a part that will unify Nigeria on sustainable national development and anything to the contrary will not be good for the country. “Unfortunately for this country, with all these agitations going on in the South East, there can’t be peace, there can’t be unity, there can’t be nation-building and there can’t be development or sustainable development. So who is losing? Who is disadvantaged? Who are they targeting? It is a matter of choice for Nigeria, is it for Nigeria to continue to retrogress or to progress,” he queried. PDP will lose if northerner emerges – MBF On his part,  the President, Middle Belt Forum, Dr Pogu Bitrus, insisted that a southern Presidency in 2023 was not negotiable. Bitrus told The PUNCH that he was not bothered by the PDP’s decisions, adding that the Middle Belt Forum was not part of any political party. He added, “We stand by our word. We are consistent. We will work against any party that produces a northern candidate and we are not shying away from our commitment. As far as we are concerned, the North has had it for eight years and it should go to the South.” Makinde backs PDP consensus arrangement after Saraki, Tambuwal’s visit Meanwhile, the Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, has obviously thrown his weight behind the PDP’s plan to pick its presidential candidate for the 2023 election by consensus arrangement. The governor said on Tuesday that the presidential candidate of the party would be someone that had “everybody’s buy-in.” He said this while receiving leading presidential aspirants of the party, who paid him a visit at the Government House, Agodi, Ibadan. Those who visited him were: former President of the Senate, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki;  Governor of Sokoto State,  Aminu Tambuwal;  the Governor of Bauchi State, Senator Bala Mohammed, and foremost economist and banker,  Mohammed Hayatudeen, According to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Taiwo Adisa, the governor stated that the party would ensure the PDP  presidential candidate emerge through a consensus arrangement. Also, the PDP presidential aspirants met with  Akwa Ibom State Governor,  Udom Emmanuel Monday night on how to bring out a consensus candidate for the party in the forthcoming elections. In the delegation were the Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed;  his Sokoto State counterpart, Aminu Tambuwal;  the former President of the Senate, Saraki and Hayatuddeen. Speaking during the meeting, Emmanuel, while welcoming the delegation to the state, affirmed his support for the ‘one Nigeria’ cause and harped on the need to build a team of patriots to tackle the nation’s challenges on time. The governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic on Monday berated Garba Shehu,  the spokesman for the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari, over his comment on their communiqué. PDP govs flay Garba Shehu The governors had on March 23, in Abia State, chronicled the dire living conditions of Nigerians in the Buhari regime. Garba Shehu, according to the governors, in a statement by the Director-General of PDP Governors’ Forum, Hon. CID Maduabum, had described the communiqué as a fantasy, delusional and fictional. The governors noted that Shehu was dazed by the sheer assemblage of facts, figures and evidence on the existential threat Nigeria was facing as a result of the APC misrule. They stated, “The most disturbing aspect of misrule of the APC as chronicled in the communiqué is the petroleum sector. The stealing of Nigeria’s crude oil and the connivance of NNPC in shortchanging other tiers of government, namely, states and local governments are simply mind-boggling, if not outright criminal. “Nigeria now produces 1.1 million barrels of crude oil per day. It has the capacity to produce 2.5 million per day. It cannot even meet its OPEC quota of 1.8 million per day. “Nobody can call them to order to desist from the part of lawlessness and unconstitutional acts it has chosen to dwell in. “Of course, President Buhari is the Minister of Petroleum Resources. Under his watch, Nigeria’s oil and gas sector is deteriorating. In an accountable government, he should have resigned his position as Minister of Petroleum, as a result of the cataclysmic failures in the sector.” Ezeife criticises Atiku, Tambuwal, others A former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar; Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, and other politicians who were kicking against the zoning of the Presidency to the South-East lacked conscience and could not be trusted, Igbo Elders Consultative Forum said on Tuesday.. The Chairman of the IECF and former governor of Anambra State, Chief Chukwuemeka Ezeife, said these in Abuja during a condolence visit of Igbo leaders of thought and traditional rulers, following the demise of his wife, Njideka, whose burial had been scheduled for April 20. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com