With mounting casualties in the War in Ukraine, Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer is set to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin, becoming the first European leader to do so since the Russian invasion. Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine: – Austrian leader to meet Putin – Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer is expected to raise alleged Russian war crimes in Bucha and other Ukrainian towns when he meets Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow. Nehammer will be the first European leader to meet with Putin since the start of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. – Over 1,200 bodies found – Ukraine says it has discovered 1,222 bodies in Bucha and other towns around the capital Kyiv from which the Russian army has retreated. At least two bodies were discovered in a manhole at a petrol station, an AFP reporter says. – Kharkiv under attack – At least 12 people were killed in bombardments around Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine over the weekend, according to regional governor Oleg Synegubov. On Sunday, the United Nations says 4,232 civilian casualties had been recorded in Ukraine to date, with 1,793 killed and 2,439 injured. – Evacuations from the east – Evacuations resume from Kramatorsk in eastern Ukraine, where a missile strike killed 52 people at a railway station Friday. Nearly 50 wounded and elderly patients are evacuated in a hospital train by medical charity Doctors Without Borders (MSF). – Dnipro airport ‘destroyed’ – The airport in the central Ukrainian city of Dnipro is “destroyed” by shelling, the head of the city’s military administration, Valentin Reznichenko, says on Telegram. Dnipro airport already suffered extensive damage in attacks in mid-March. – Societe Generale leaves Russia – Societe Generale says it is ceasing its activities in Russia and selling its majority stake in Rosbank, weeks after scores of multinationals withdrew from the country. France’s third-largest bank estimates that pulling out of Russia will cost it 3.1 billion euros ($3.4 billion). – Pope urges Easter ceasefire – Pope Francis calls for an Easter truce in Ukraine to pave the way for peace through “real negotiation”. “Let the Easter truce begin. But not to provide more weapons and pick up the combat again — no! — a truce that will lead to peace, through real negotiation,” he urges. – Pro-Russia rally in Germany – Hundreds of pro-Russia protesters demonstrate in the Germany city of Frankfurt against the “hatred and harassment” they say they have experienced since the war began. Germany is home to 1.2 million people of Russian origin and 325,000 from Ukraine. – Biden, Modi to discuss Ukraine – US President Joe Biden will meet virtually Monday with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, weeks after saying New Delhi has been “shaky” in its response to the invasion of Ukraine. – Sixth-round of EU sanctions – EU foreign ministers meet to discuss a sixth round of sanctions on Moscow. EU members are divided on whether to impose the sanctions that would hurt Russia the most, a boycott of its oil and gas exports, but diplomats acknowledge there are discussions about the measures. – Ukraine economy collapses – The World Bank predicts that the war will cause Ukraine’s economy to contract by 45.1 percent this year. – More than 4.5 million flee – More than 4.5 million Ukrainian refugees have now fled their country, the United Nations refugee agency says. Ninety percent of those who have left are women and children. AFP