The business community in Nigeria has called on Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to take the bull by the horn and make official declaration to contest the Presidency in 2023. The group, under the aegis of Businessmen for Osinbajo, said supporters of the Vice President who have recently increased by millions across the country, were already running out of patience for his declaration. The BFO also raised the alarm that some bad elements in the country were currently using the opportunity to play on the intelligence of millions of Osinbajo’s supporters by circulating fake news about his declaration, thereby raising false hopes and creating tension among them. The BFO also asked the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to support the Vice President to consolidate on the massive infrastructural development, social intervention programs and economic diversification witnessed in the country. The BFO in a statement issued on Thursday by its convener, Dr. Tayo Fashogbon, said that the organisation has budgeted N97, 000,000 to purchase nomination form for the Vice President. He said, “Because of his track records with President Muhammadu Buhari, even in his short stint as the acting President, we are therefore calling on the Vice President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo to avail himself to be of service to the country he has committed so much to. “We are also calling on President Muhammadu Buhari, who has done so much in the last seven years despite the slime resources at his disposal as a result of the global shortfall in the price of crude oil at the international market, to throw his support behind the candidature of the vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, should he accept to vie for the office of President.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com