Erudite Kenyan scholar and activist, Prof. Patrick Lumumba, has said it is important that Africans begin to appreciate and be proud of the talents they have by using them to solve African challenges. Before that, he stressed that Africans must do away with low esteem and be proud of the things that they do in the continent which are distinct from others. He also charged Africans to learn to consume what they cultivate rather than depending on imported foods and other goods. Lumumba made the call on Friday while delivering the 30th anniversary and Convocation Lecture of the Delta State University, Abraka titled: “Whither Education in Africa”. The renowned university don however assured that a bright future lies ahead of the African continent and urged Africans not to relent in their quest of acquiring quality education. He declared, “As Africans, we should put off low esteem and be proud of the things that we do in Africa. We should be proud of the talents we have produced at Delta State University Abraka and use them in solving some of our problems in Abraka, Delta State, and Nigeria at large. “As Africans, we should learn to consume what we cultivate than depending on consuming imported foods. It’s the right time for us Africans to rely on African talents to solve some of the problems we have here in Africa. “But if we continue to worry about Africa, we will continue to make mistakes of giving up. We must remember the efforts of our past heroes of Nigeria who fought for the independence of Nigeria to liberate us from the slavery of the colonial masters and changed the continent of Africa through Education. “And we should not forget the sacrifices and voices of our past heroes who used their education to fight for the independence of some countries in Africa”. Prof. Lumumba submitted that “Delta State University at 30 has made enormous contributions to the development of Abraka, Delta, Nigeria, and Africa”. He said, “As we celebrate Delta State University Abraka’s 30 years of existence and some of the notable achievements of the university over the past years. It is time we re-energize and put on more efforts to contribute your quota to the development of Africa.” On his part, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Andy Ogochukwu Egwunyenga, commended Lumumba for honouring DELSU’s invitation to deliver the convocation lecture. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com