The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers has inaugurated a liaison office in Abuja to expand the scope of its operations, especially in the northern part of Nigeria. The CIS said in a statement that early this month, it had inaugurated CIS Academy to upscale the training of market operators and other members of the capital market ecosystem in line with the global best practices. Speaking at the inauguration of the new office in Abuja, the President and Chairman of Council, CIS, Mr Olatunde  Amolegbe, explained that the new office would serve as the focal point for expanding capital market activities of the institute in the northern part and beyond. He said, “I must express my profound gratitude to announce the opening of our liaison office in Abuja. We are continuously striving to amplify and expand our services to our clients in the region while empowering them to meet their investment aspirations.” The institute’s Registrar and Chief Executive, Mr Josiah Akerewusi, said, “Opening of our Abuja office is an exciting step for our business. “Already, the Nigerian market is poised to become a highly successful trading and partnership space.  We are obliged to educate the investing public on how to take advantage of incredible emerging investment opportunities to earn extra income.” Akerewusi urged interested citizens wishing to find out more about Chattered Institute of Stockbrokers and how to become a fellow, associate or student member to contact CIS’ Abuja liaison office. The statement said the event was graced by the 1st vice-chairman, Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria and representatives of TIDDO Securities, Federal Inland Revenue, as well as other corporate and individual partners in the financial market.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com