A governorship aspirant under the All Progressives Congress in Katsina State, Senator Abubakar Yar’adua, on Tuesday, lamented the insecurity in the state, arguing that it was a product of years of neglect of the poor who constituted over ninety percent of the population of people of the state. He said if elected governor, he would lead the war against terrorism and other crimes in the state. Yar’adua made the declaration in Katsina at a press conference shortly after notifying  the APC state executives of his intention to join the 2023 governorship race. According to him, the poor in the state had suffered utter neglect by successive governments, insisting that the development led to the security challenges being faced in the state. Yar’adua also promised to create at least 100,000 direct and indirect jobs for the youths annually, as part of efforts to tackle insecurity in the state. The governorship aspirant observed that Katsina State was in dire need of solutions to socio-economic problems which needed the input of all. He said, “We need to quickly come to the rescue of our state and salvage it from current security challenges and economic quagmire – both of which are results of decades utter neglect of the teeming talakawa (the poor) that constitute more than 99% of our state’s population, by those who should serve them. “Most significantly, we plan to confront the current insecurity challenges head-on. Our people must not only be secured but must be seen to be and feel totally secure. “We cannot idly stand by and watch criminals, bandits, insurgents , bigots and zealous terrorise innocent citizens , indiscriminately killing and mailing them as well as raping our women and girls and separating young babies from their babies. This is shear criminality and is unacceptable to me as your governor.” Yar’adua added that he already had a blueprint of his work plan which he intended to implement the moment he was sworn in as the State Governor in 2023. He solicited the support of the executives and other APC members to make his dreams of ruling the state become a reality in 2023. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com