The Taraba State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Col. Agbu Kefas (retd), on Friday, assured all aspirants vying for the party’s ticket at various levels in the state of a free and fair process. This comes as speculations are rife in the state that the party may favour some aspirants. Kefas in an exclusive interview with The PUNCH noted that the party has been democratic in its approach by allowing people to buy forms to contest for positions of choice without restrictions. “We are going to provide a level playing field for all aspirants. So, the speculations about an anointed governorship candidate are not true. If we have an anointed candidate, we wouldn’t have been so open. “We have allowed people to buy forms across the state and I was personally in Bauchi yesterday (Thursday) to ensure that all the governorship aspirants got screened and cleared to contest in the primaries. “If I have a special interest, I would have done some things there to disqualify some aspirants because there are so many reasons to disqualify aspirants. “Even aspirants who I did not see their records of paying dues I cleared them all, so, we have been fair enough to all the aspirants. “Even as a party Chairman I have the right to show interest in the governorship and nobody can stop me, but if I do, people will accuse me. So, we need to make some sacrifices for the party to stand. “As a leader, you have to sit down and assert your leadership that will carry everybody along and I think I am doing my best for the party and we are going to win elections come 2023.” While reiterating the stance of the party for the northern zone to produce the next governor, Kefas said it was undemocratic to stop people from contesting, noting that the party was mindful of the rights of the people to contest, hence people outside of the northern zone were allowed to buy the governorship form. The PDP Chairman who reminded the aspirants that only one person can be a governor at a time and that power comes from God urged them to support whoever emerges in the end for the benefit of the party. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com