The United Nations Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, on Monday, accused governments and businesses of “lying” about their efforts to stem climate change, seeking to shame them into action as the body released a landmark crisis report. The UN chief said the world must ditch coal, oil and gas, and go all-out to develop renewable energy without delay to avoid a “climate disaster.” “Some government and business leaders are saying one thing but doing another. Simply put, they are lying. And the results will be catastrophic,” Guterres said in a video message, released at the same time as the UN report on how to avert the worst impacts of global warming. The report by scientists warned that not enough was being done to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels that science showed were driving the warming of the planet. Nearly five months after rallying world countries at the inconclusive 26th Conference of the Parties climate summit, the UN chief hardened his rhetoric further, targeting the governments and companies who the report said must act to halt emissions. Successive reports by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change had shown that human-caused warming had already driven a rise in deadly storms, droughts, fires, and floods, and has even wiped out some species. Countries agreed under the 2016 Paris accords to limit the rise in global temperatures to “well below” two degrees Celsius compared to preindustrial levels, and 1.5C if possible. In the last of its latest three-part series of major reports, the IPCC warned that time had almost run out. If current policies were not improved upon, Earth was on track for 3.2C of warming, it warned. “High-emitting governments and corporations are not just turning a blind eye; they are adding fuel to the flames. “They are choking our planet, based on their vested interests and historic investments in fossil fuels when cheaper, renewable solutions provide green jobs, energy security, and greater price stability,” Guterres said. The COP26 summit saw pledges to halt deforestation, curb methane emissions, phase down coal-fired power and boost financial aid to developing countries. But Guterres said that the latest report highlighted the shortcomings in action. He called it “a file of shame, cataloging the empty pledges that put us firmly on track towards an unlivable world.” Hundreds of companies had promised to reach net-zero emissions by 2050. AFP