The wife of the Delta State Governor and founder, O5 Initiative, Dame Edith Okowa has tasked the people of the state to formally report doctors and nurses who do not come to hospitals, saying that the State Government was ready to bring to book, medical personnel who deprived vulnerable indigenes of medical care. She made the statement at the General Hospital, Bomadi, on Wednesday, while commissioning the 19th sickle cell clinic and also flagging off another phase of her free grassroots medical outreach for the Patani/Bomadi Federal constituency. The Governor’s wife noted that a lot of efforts had gone into upgrading existing government hospitals in the state and that it would be disappointing if the facilities were not maintained or the professionals denied the people the needed care. She then declared, “If doctors or nurses do not come to the hospital, report to the appropriate quarters. Put your feet on the ground and ensure that you get the needed medical services. The governor cannot be everywhere at the same time and so you need to serve as the watchdogs of the government.” According to the Governor’s wife, the last time she was at the General Hospital, Bomadi, she “was not happy with the state of the hospital”. “Since then, I have deliberately pressured the commissioner for health and other relevant stakeholders to make sure that there are improved changes. I am very happy today that they heeded my pleas and the hospital is in a better shape. But it doesn’t end there as all hands needed to be on deck to maintain the facilities and make use of them.” Commenting on the commencement of another phase of the free eye care outreach, Mrs. Okowa urged the politicians and elites to see to it that their people benefited. “Beam your searchlights into your communities, look for everyone with visual impairment and bring them because if after these given days, you still have any blind person in your community, you will be held responsible,” she said. The state commissioner for health, Dr. Mordi Ononye, expressed the ministry’s commitment to supporting the activities of the initiative. Also, the Chairman, Bomadi Local Government Area, William Angadi, in his vote of thanks affirmed that a lot of persons from the community had benefited from the activities of the wife of the Governor and pledged continuous support. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com