MINIMISE your exposure to toxic chemicals. Exposure to environmental toxins (in the form of industrial chemicals) in utero and neonatal may dramatically affect adult fertility. Most chemicals used in everyday life do not go through the same checks medicines do. Consequently, poisonous chemicals end up circulating in our environment, food supply, air, and water. The most persuasive evidence of heavy metals and environmental pollution adversely interfering with women’s healthy reproductive function is lead. Other compounds that can alter hormone function and result in adverse Reproductive health effects include: Toxins in the environment and our diet can disrupt or even stop ovulation. Endocrine disruptors interfere with hormone function and cause endometriosis and PCOS (polycystic ovarian disease). Phthalates toxins in plastic food containers, cling wrap, IV bags, medical supplies, vinyl flooring, and packaging at high levels cause miscarriage and testicular toxicity. At low levels, they disrupt hormonal balance. Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) chemicals: used in rubber tires, plastics, and pesticides. PAH (Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon): released from cigarettes, car fumes, and road tar Oil fossils, aviation fuels, diesel fumes can disrupt gamete formation in males and females. Men have a lot to worry about also. Sperm seems to be more sensitive to heavy metals and industrial pollutants than eggs. Many sperm abnormalities are linked to toxins. Most of these chemicals can be found in the atmosphere, on the ground, in cities, and the waterways. They have also been termed “repro toxicants” for their adverse effects on sperm development and maturation. Studies confirm male sperm counts are declining, and environmental factors, such as pesticides, exogenous estrogens (Xenoestrogens), and heavy metals, may negatively impact spermatogenesis (formation of sperm). The top 6 environmental toxins to avoid: Pharmaceutical drugs are in tap water. Seventy-four percent of the US population takes prescription drugs. Because the drugs do not metabolize fully, small quantities are excreted via feces and urine and flushed away. Toilet water is often treated and filtered before being discharged into lakes and rivers, thereby re-entering the water supply. The trouble is, many drugs are not filtered out via the normal filtration process. Minute quantities of chemotherapy drugs, contraceptive pills, antidepressants, anxiolytics, anabolic steroids, HRT (hormone replacement therapy), heart drugs, etc., have been found in tap water. Use a dual filtration system. Buy a double filtration water system that filters particles smaller than 1 micron (this will filter out the drugs and heavy metals). Use the filter in your shower and your kitchen. Shower steam contains the same chemicals, which you can end up inhaling and absorbing through your skin. Aim to eat an optimal fertility diet Your growing embryo will increase 20 million times during the first trimester of pregnancy. In the first eight weeks, your baby’s organs, hands, fingers, legs, feet, head, eyes, nose, ears, etc., are being constructed. To ensure the best possible foundations are laid down during this phase, you want to make sure there are plenty of building blocks in the form of the proper nutrients in the right combinations. If you have to eat fish, remove the skin with fat laced with toxins and heavy metals from the waters. What does a fertility diet contain? An optimal fertility diet is about what to avoid as much as what to include. A fertility diet should be as fresh as possible and organic wherever possible. Key elements are good quality protein sources (favor vegetable protein sources) and good fats. …to be continued.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com