Alex Iwobi is confident Everton can get a good result when they host Manchester United in a Premier League at Goodison Park on Saturday as they bid to avoid relegation, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. The Toffees currently sit just one point above the drop zone with nine matches before the end of the campaign. “I feel like we have respect for every opponent that we play. We have different tactics for every team, but we don’t go into any game with any fear,” the Nigeria international told talkSPORT. “We have a game plan and we try to stick with it. I’m sure we’ll come up with something for United. “We’ve been able to get results the last two times we’ve played against them, even away at Old Trafford. “At home, hopefully we’ll be able to do something and grab a result.” Iwobi who is expected to make his 20th league appearance in the encounter believes working under Lampard has been a fruitful process. Lampard has recorded four wins and eight defeats in his 12 games in charge of Everton but the former Arsenal is enjoying the opportunity to learn from the midfield legend. “He’s given me that confidence to go and express myself, even though I’ve played in a number of positions,” Iwobi continued. “He’s helped me out so much in training and going into games as well. “Currently I’m playing in midfield as a number eight and it’s a position that he used to play, so he’s trying to help and I’ve been doing alright so far. While Iwobi is enjoying life under the Chelsea icon, it’s clear that there’s only one focus between now and the end of the season. Everton have just nine matches to save their season and, according to the 25-year-old, the challenge for Lampard’s squad is to prove that they’re capable of challenging in the top flight moving forward. Iwobi explained, “The teams around us, like Burnley, are pushing up and putting pressure on us and it makes things a bit difficult, but you can’t look at it like that. “We have to keep on going. We have nine games to go and there’s a maximum of 27 points that we can get. We’re going to try and win every game, it’s not easy, but we have to take it game by game. “From what I see in training and spells in matches we know we have the quality, it’s just remaining consistent. “As players, we’re not Championship players. We feel like we have enough quality to stay up. We just have to prove it to ourselves and prove it to the fans and we’ll be alright, but it starts this Saturday.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com