Hundreds of sympathisers, mourners, traditional rulers, religious leaders and politicians thronged the Alaafin Palace, Akesan, Oyo State on Saturday morning. This came following the death of the Alaafin Of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III. Some of the of the sympathisers were seen crying, while others hailed the late monarch. Oba Adeyemi died on Friday at the Afe Babalola University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti. His demise has been confirmed by the palace on Saturday. Within the last five months, Oyo State had lost three prominent traditional rulers. The Soun of Ogbomosoland, late Oba Jimoh Oyewumi Ajagungbade III, who died in December, 2021; the late Oba Saliu Adetunji, the 41st Olubadan of Ibadanland, died on Jan. 2 and now the Alaafin of Oyo. The first class oba, who reigned for 52 years, departed at the age of 83. Some aides and associates of the late Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, the Alaafin of Oyo, described the traditional ruler as a great mentor, who would be sorely missed. Commenting, the Alaafin’s media aide, Mr Bode Durojaiye, expressed shock over the demise of the traditional ruler. Durojaiye described Oba Adeyemi as a great traditional ruler, who had contributed immensely to the development of Oyo town, Oyo State and Nigeria. He said that the traditional ruler was a custodian of Yoruba culture and history, and “he is loved by his people”. Durojaiye said that before the late Oba Adeyemi ascended the throne, Oyo Town was “not as developed as it is today”. According to him, Alaafin is a great traditional ruler, whom all other traditional rulers are very proud of. “He was a great custodian of Yoruba culture and history. “He was a philanthropist. He has transformed Oyo Town and the palace from what he met on ascending the throne. We have lost a great promoter of Yoruba culture,” Durojaiye said. Also, the Alaafin’s Cultural Ambassador, Paula Gomez, described the late traditional ruler as “a great man and mentor”, adding he was a father to everybody. “I don’t know what happened. I spoke to Baba last week and he was fine. Maybe his death is natural. “I worked with Alaafin on the preservation of heritage and culture. He was a father to everybody. He was a great man and mentor,” she said. Some palace workers in separate interviews with NAN, said that the traditional ruler already had a premonition of his death a few weeks back. “Two weeks ago, he called and told us that his late father was calling him to come. We were afraid and asked if truly he saw his father. “We are happy to have him as the Alaafin. He ascended the throne at a young age, preserved the stool, promoted the Yoruba culture and was an epitome of royalty,” they said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com