A group, Osun Shall Rise Again, has alerted the state government and security agencies in Osun State, to plans by some people to embark on violent protest over the alleged extra-judicial killing of one Abiola Afolabi by the police. This was contained in a statement titled: ‘Afolabi Abiola: OSRA raises alarm over plot to disrupt Osun peace’, signed by the Chairman and Secretary of the group, Saheed Bakare and Lanre Akeju, respectively obtained in Osogbo on Sunday. The group said some people were planning a political protest and hid behind the agitation for justice for the deceased, reportedly killed in Osogbo by the police. Condemning the alleged extra-judicial killing of the deceased by some police operatives attached to Osun State Command, the group commended the government for showing interest in the matter and appealed for calm. “We make bold to say it must resist any attempt by some discredited politicians and a few mischief-makers that want to profit from the sad incident, from hijacking the situation. “Already, we have reliably gathered that elements of the Revolution Now who take delight in destroying public properties and infrastructure under the cover of protest are planning a political protest under the guise of press for justice for the late Afolabi Abiola. “We are therefore calling on heads of security agencies in Osun to take proactive measures to avert mayhem in Osun. Although the protest is being originally planned for Monday, in Osogbo, security operatives must however be on the lookout for Ilesa, Ede and Ile-Ife as these mischief-makers may shift to any of these places to stage a protest that could cause a breakdown of law and order,” the group said. But reacting in another statement co-signed by its group Secretary, Ewatee Omowumi, and the Coordinator, Coalition for Revolution in Osun State, Victor Lijofi, titled: ‘Rejoinder: Afolabi Abiola, OSRA raises alarm…’, a Revolution Now group berated OSRA over what it called an attempt to silence people’s voice. It then demanded that “the security operatives should channel their energy into fishing out the murderers in uniform who murdered Abiola in cold blood and justice, be duly served”. “In the situation where any protest holds, the security operatives know their duty of securing the protesters and ensuring no life is lost, and properties are safe,” the group said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com