Senior advocate and founder of Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti, Aare Afe Babalola, and Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, have advocated revival of afforestation in Nigeria with a view to creating wealth and raising the country’s export trade. Babalola, who described tree planting as a profitable business, regretted that lack of political will to prioritise afforestation policies and implement relevant laws was killing the sector in the country. The ABUAD founder spoke in Ado Ekiti at the closing of a five-day forest certification training programme, with the theme, ‘Forest certification for responsible forest management’ sponsored by Ekiti State Government; ABUAD, United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation; Soil Association Organic; and Forest Stewardship Council. Babalola, who said the training was part of efforts to reposition afforestation in the country, said, “Western region used to be leader in the export of timber. But we left that route and this has affected our economy. These people being trained are going to manage their forests so that we can go back to where we were. There is going to be revival of afforestation in this part of the world”. He said, “Apart from the fact that trees give people oxygen, there is a lot of money that can be derived from the tree you plant. Good forest policy helps to stabilise the ecosystem, reduce global warming and contribute to economic growth through lumbering, amusement parks, drug production, horticulture and general medicine”. He told the trainees, “The surest profession in the world is tree planting. Don’t look for immediate profit like annual crops, plant trees, in 10 years, you will be making money.” “I have a teak plantation of 1.5 million stands, with 110,000 stands of mango trees in ABUAD farm, producing fruits for economic growth and human consumption. It is a profitable business and I urge you to plant trees today and become millionaires in future. Don’t think of now alone,” Babalola said. Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, represented by the Commissioner for Environment, Mrs Iyabo Fakunle-Okiemen, said that in the 1950s to 60s, timber was one of the real sources of wealth in the 1950, and 60s. Fayemi said, “The neglect of the sector by successive governments has led to a situation of over-harvesting, illegalities and the running-down of our reserves and free forest timber stocks”. The governor, who said forest economy and sustainability were top priorities of his administration, said, “Records show that forestry creates 15,000 indirect jobs in Ekiti and thousands of direct jobs. Our farmers, loggers, saw millers and institutions must key into the vision of our government that says, ‘plant a tree when you cut a tree in Ekiti’”. Soil Association’s Senior Policy Advisor and United Kingdom based expert, Mr Clive Thomas, said the workshop was a good step to reforming the forestry sector, noting there was a need for increased access to forestry value chain for the sector to be optimally utilised. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com