Nigerian Afropop singer, Yemi Alade, has retweeted a post justifying why Beninese legend, Angelique Kidjo’s “Mother Nature” album deserved to win the Best Global Music Album at the 64th Grammy Awards ceremony. The category also had Nigerian artistes namely Femi and Made Kuti with their Legacy + album and Wizkid with his Made In Lagos Deluxe album. Ghana’s Rocky Dawuni and America’s Daniel Ho & Friends were also defeated by Angelique in the category. Yemi Alade, who is now a Grammy winner courtesy of her collaboration with Angelique, spoke while reacting to outbursts from Wizkid’s fans. She retweeted a post by @PapiWater, explaining that “Mother Nature” celebrated Africans’ uniqueness and victims of the #EndSARS protests in Nigeria and climate change. The post read, “Angelique Kidjo dropped an album in which the headline song talked about the dangers of climate change-induced disasters (that the West is worried about) and how it will impact Africa more but you are wondering why she won a Grammy for that body of work”. “Stop playing. Please take your time to listen to the album. Listen to ‘Africa, One of a Kind’ and ‘Mother Nature’ “Drop your Pangolo expectations before you listen to them so you can enjoy good music.”  SEE WINNERS OF KEY CATEGORIES Here is a list of winners in the major categories for the 64th annual Grammy Awards, which were handed out on Sunday in Las Vegas. Jazzman and bandleader Jon Batiste led the night with five awards including Album of the Year. Retro act Silk Sonic — the group project of Bruno Mars and Anderson .Paak — won four awards including Record and Song of the Year. Pop sensation Olivia Rodrigo was named Best New Artist. Album of the Year: Jon Batiste, “We Are” Record of the Year (overall song performance): Silk Sonic, “Leave The Door Open” Song of the Year (best songwriting): “Leave The Door Open” – Brandon Anderson, Christopher Brody Brown, Dernst Emile II and Bruno Mars, songwriters (Silk Sonic) Best New Artist: Olivia Rodrigo Best Music Video: Jon Batiste, “Freedom” Best Rap Album: Tyler, The Creator, “Call Me If You Get Lost” – Best Rap Performance: Baby Keem featuring Kendrick Lamar, “Family Ties” Best Rock Album: Foo Fighters, “Medicine At Midnight” Best Pop Vocal Album: Olivia Rodrigo, “Sour” Best Pop Solo Performance: Olivia Rodrigo, “drivers license” Best Pop Duo/Group Performance: Doja Cat featuring SZA, “Kiss Me More” Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album: Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga, “Love for Sale” Best Country Album: Chris Stapleton, “Starting Over” Best Global Music Album: Angelique Kidjo, “Mother Nature” Best Music Video: Jon Batiste, “Freedom” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com