Ahead of the 2023 polls, the Independent National Electoral Commission on Friday said only one political party had submitted its membership register. There are 18 political parties in the country, which implies that 17 parties have yet to submit their registers. The commission called on political parties to submit copies of their membership registers before their primary elections. This it said was consonant with the provisions of the new Electoral Act (2022). The Chairman of INEC, Prof Mahmood Yakubu, who stated this at the second regular quarterly meeting of Resident Electoral Commissioners in Abuja, said only one party had complied so far. He said as stipulated in the Electoral Act, parties should submit their registers to the commission not later than a month to their primaries, congresses and conventions. He said, “There is concern that virtually all the nation’s registered parties lack credible membership registers, despite claims of numbers and valid card-carrying members. “Let me also seize this opportunity to remind political parties that by the provision of Section 77 of the Electoral Act 2022; each party is required to maintain a membership register in hard and soft copy and to make such register available to the commission not later than 30 days before the date fixed for primaries, congresses and conventions. “So far, only one political party has complied. It is a mandatory requirement of the law and all parties are required to comply. “Doing otherwise is like going into an election without the register of voters. There can be no credible primary or general election without a credible register of voters.” The INEC chairman also advised the RECs to thoroughly study the new Electoral Act, saying a credible election could only be anchored on the law. “As you are aware, the Electoral Act, together with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) and our Regulations and Guidelines for the Conduct of Elections, constitute the electoral legal framework for elections. “As election managers, it is incumbent upon us to familiarize ourselves with the legal framework”, Yakubu stated. Speaking on the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration, particularly the creation of additional centres to devolve the exercise beyond INEC State and Local Government offices nationwide, Yakubu said that a total of 2,673 centres had been activated nationwide. He said that in the last one week of the exercise, 405,587 eligible Nigerians had completed the registration at the various centres. This, according to him, represented about 31 per cent increase on the average figure of 125,000 weekly registrations since the exercise commenced in June 2021.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com