THE President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) and the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Sunday, congratulated the President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, on his 65th birthday. Buhari’s congratulatory message was contained in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, titled, ‘President Buhari greets Aliko Dangote at 65’. “The President shares the memorable occasion with the Dangote Group, which includes management and members of staff, and the many visionary leaders that daily redefine the livelihood of Nigerians for the better, and drive competitiveness in the economy with a clear ranking of excellence in the provision of goods and services,” the statement read. As Dangote turns 65, Buhari affirmed the footprints of the businessman in key sectors of the economy, and the results achieved in the production and supply of food items, making him a household name. The President appreciated the patriotism, simplicity and wisdom that Dangote has consistently displayed, making Nigeria and Nigerians his first priority, while setting an example for many that charity truly begins from home. He, therefore, wished Dangote greater service to God, country, and humanity. Sanwo-Olu, in a message by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, on Sunday, lauded Dangote’s contribution to the economy of Nigeria through his various manufacturing companies in different parts of the country. He said, “On behalf of my wife, Ibijoke, Lagos State Government, and the good people of Lagos State, I join family, friends and business associates to congratulate you (Alhaji Aliko Dangote) on your 65th birthday celebration. “You are a blessing to your generation considering how God has been using you to put smiles on the faces of many Nigerians working in your companies. You are an employer of labour and a respected business magnate who is contributing positively to the economy of Nigeria. “Lagos is happy to associate with you because of the tremendous work you are doing in our State by setting up two of your major companies – Dangote Fertilizer Plant and Dangote Refinery – that have provided job opportunities for thousands of Lagosians. “We want to thank God for the grace upon your life and for using your business acumen and philanthropic gestures for good cause in our society. I wish you all the very best on your 65th birthday. I pray that God will grant you long life and sound health for you to continue to contribute to humanity.” Also, the President, African Development Bank, Dr Akinwumi Adesina, in a statement on Sunday, described Dangote as a business colossus and a name recognised all over the world. He said, “From a very young age as a student, he learnt how to do business. He got lent some money by his uncle which he invested in trading, making a rapid turnover due to his very sharp business acumen and paid back the finances so quickly. “From those early days from trading in sugar and rice, he has thrived in becoming a global industrial colossus. I had the pleasure of visiting his incredible Dangote refinery and the free trade zone in Lagos recently. I was amazed at the level of investment that he has gone into what is the largest single-train petroleum refinery in Africa and in the world.” Adesina further hailed Dangote for his investments in various sectors and also his support for women and youths. “Equally impressive is his 2.5 billion dollars urea manufacturing plant which is the single largest urea plant in Africa and the second largest in the world. And of course he has the largest cement manufacturing plant in Africa, which has helped to turn Nigeria from a net importer of cement to a net exporter of cement. “Personal wealth may be measured by how much money one has but impact in life comes from people-wealth-how one treats and helps others in life. Aliko set up the Dangote Foundation to support philanthropic activities from health, agriculture, nutrition, entrepreneurship, women and youth,” he added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com