The Chairman of the newly constituted Parks Management Committee in Lagos State, Musiliu Akinsanya aka MC Oluomo, has supported the second term bid of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The former chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers in the state also promised the governor of three million votes from members of the parks committee and their families. Akinsanya’s Media Aide, Jimoh Buhari, made this known in a chat with The PUNCH on Tuesday, hours after the Lagos State Governor’s Advisory Council gave a nod to the second term bid of Sanwo-Olu in 2023. Reacting to GAC’s endorsement of the governor, Buhari, on behalf of his principal, said, “Chairman (MC Oluomo) is very happy for the governor and he has promised the governor that all his members will vote for him, he has promised the governor that he is going to deliver three million votes for him because we have over two million members and we have family members as well. So, the governor should be expecting three million votes from us.” Asked if all MC Oluomo’s followers have voters’ cards, Buhari said, “Of course yes, we all have Permanent Voters Cards.” Continuing, he said, “The governor should continue his good works and by God’s grace, we won’t experience COVID-19 or any other pandemic that will disturb him during his second term. As we know already, even with the pandemic, the governor still performed. So, we urge him to continue his good works. We pray for him and the state as a whole that he will perform better in his second term.” Buhari added that MC Oluomo has not sacked any member of the parks committee since he was appointed by the governor early April. The GAC, which is the highest decision-making organ of the party, headed by All Progressives Congress chieftain, Bola Tinubu, had in 2018 kicked against the second term bid of the former governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, which led to the emergence of Sanwo-Olu as APC flagbearer in the 2019 governorship election in the state. Ambode’s predecessors were in office for two consecutive terms. They include Tinubu, who was governor between 1999 and 2007; as well as current Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, who was governor from 2007 to 2015. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com