A senatorial aspirant in Ogun West on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Solomon Adeola, known as Yayi, on Thursday said if elected, his presence in the National Assembly would be a blessing for his constituency. The two-term senator said his status as a ranking senator made him the best option available to the people of his senatorial zone. Adeola currently represents Lagos West in the Senate but has returned to his home state, Ogun, where he is aspiring to return to the Senate in 2023 to represent Ogun West. He explained that having spent more than 10 years as a legislator, he is knowledgeable on how to achieve development for his people as he knew the workings of the National Assembly. He said, “I am going as a ranking senator. I know the workings of the house. “For Ogun West to benefit from the house, they must have a ranking senator who can facilitate things for them. “Ogun West needs somebody that can bring meaningful development to the place. If we are not doing anything to help ourselves, then we have ourselves to blame. “I have decided to go home to my root. It didn’t start overnight; it has been over 12 to 15 years. It was borne out of selflessness for my people.” Adeola also said he was supporting the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, for second term. He said, “I am supporting Prince Dapo Abiodun for a second term. I will contest for the Ogun State senatorial district, I have been making effort to return home since 2012 and constitutionally and legally, I can contest in Ogun State. “There have been some blackmailing reports in the media and our investigations revealed that fictitious names are being used. Ogun needs a strong leader that can give them good and quality representation. “I will be going in as an experienced senator but it cannot be the same for a first time senator. Some people even went as far as hiring lawyers to write that form should not be sold to me.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com