Wife of Gombe State Governor, Asma’u Yahaya, has lauded the efforts of Amen Healthcare and Empowerment Foundation in the establishment of breast, and cervical cancer screening and management. Yahaya hailed the partnership between the state government, and her pet organisation; Jewel Care Foundation where nurses in the state would be trained in the handling of cancer-related ailments. Speaking during the weekend at the Specialist Hospital Gombe, Yahaya, pointed out that breast and cervical cancers are the commonest types of cancer-killing women in the world with Nigeria, bearing the highest burden in sub-Saharan Africa. She described the cancer menace as an anguished situation that needs a pragmatic approach. She said, “Available statistics show that 35 women die daily of cervical cancer and about 14 thousand women also die yearly of breast cancer in Nigeria. “This is just a tip of the iceberg because most of the cases are not presented in the hospital, which is why the government of his excellency Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, is giving priority to the grassroots, by making screening available in the nooks and crannies of all the 11 local government areas of the state.” While applauding the Amen Foundation boss, for her doggedness and sacrifice for humanity, with a call on the medical team not to leave any stone unturned in involving every eligible woman in the exercise, he promised to work assiduously with the organisation alongside relevant partners in tackling the menace of cancer. Also, The founder and president of AMEN Healthcare and Empowerment Foundation, Rita Oguntoyinbo, acknowledged the support and contributions of the Gombe State Government to her organisation in addressing health issues from neglected tropical and nontropical diseases, to deadlier diseases such as cancer. Oguntoyinbo said, “It has now become imperative for eligible women to know how to perform self-breast screening for early detection and early presentation of cases to hospitals for quick treatment, thus, the nurses training on breast and cervical cancer screening and management program. “That on the whole, intake of clean water, sanitary food handling and maintaining good personal and environmental hygiene is a sure way for healthy living.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com