The South-East zone of the Nigeria Union of Pensioners on Wednesday decried the poor attitude of governors in the region on the payment of benefits to retirees in their states. The union, in a communiqué issued at the end of its zonal conference in Enugu, said that payment of pensions and gratuities to pensioners in the zone was poor. It said in some states, gratuities had not been paid in the last 10 to 15 years, while pensions were paid in arrears of three to six months. In the communiqué signed by the Zonal Chairman, Dr. Josiah Ugochukwu, and Secretary, Livinus Ashiegbu, respectively, the union decried the increasing suffering, anguish, and mass death of pensioners, especially in the region. The communiqué partly read, “The conference of NUP South East zone abhorred the deliberate and brazing abuse of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by the state governors. “The conference reiterated the provisions of the constitution that provides that pensions and gratuities shall never be denied or be delayed. “The conference regrets that many governors have diverted and embezzled billions of naira meant for the payment of pension benefits with great emphasis on South-East governors. “The conference strongly alleges that the EFCC has decided to compromise with these looters of billions of pension funds.” In another development, the Nigerian Union of Pensioners Chairman in Ekiti State, Mr Joel Akinola, said on Wednesday that the union did not receive any N200m from the state government recently for the payment of gratuities to its members. Akinola, who said the money was last released to NUP in December last year, called on the state government to be sensitive to the plights of the pensioners by paying the backlog of the gratuity amounting to N37bn. The NUP chairman lamented at a press conference in Ado Ekiti that “Members of the union are daily losing their lives due to lack of proper healthcare. If their gratuities are paid, they would use such to take care of themselves.” He spoke in reaction to a statement by the state government last week through the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Yinka Oyebode, who stated that the pensioners commended the governor for the release of N200m for the payment of outstanding gratuities. The NUP chairman said, “We are here today to correct the misinformation in the public as released by the state government last week that we just received N200m for gratuity which we wrote a letter to appreciate the government. “The truth is, the government released N200m on December 20, 2021, and as usual we wrote to appreciate the government immediately and pointed out where there were other issues for the government to address. “In January this year, the government released N100m and we wrote to appreciate. But to our dismay, we saw that statement last weekend that we received recently N200m, quoting our letter on the N100m of January. “That is unfair because our members have been calling and agitating since they heard the statement of the government; you know pensioners are old and expectant people. In a related development, pensioners in Ogun State, on Wednesday, issued a 21-day ultimatum to the state governor, Dapo Abiodun, to pay their over 12-year unremitted contributory pensions. The pensioners, under the auspices of the Nigerian Union of Pensioners, in a letter addressed to the governor alleged non-implementation of 33.4 per cent increase in pension and other unpaid entitlements. The letter, a copy of which was made available to journalists in Abeokuta, was titled “Unpaid Pensioners Entitlement: Notice of Industrial Action”, was jointly signed by the state chairman of NUP, Waheed Oloyede and the Secretary, Bola Lawal. The union lamented “avoidable deaths” among its members over their inability to cater for themselves, while their millions of naira are stuck in the hands of the government. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com