As part of policy to stem the tide of medical tourism, the Igbinedion University Teaching Hospital, on Monday, commissioned a multi-million naira diagnostic centre. The 24 hours state-of-the-art diagnostic centre is expected to improve the quality of healthcare delivery within and outside Edo State. The Chief Medical Director of the teaching hospital, Godwin Nosakhare Bazuaye, who listed some of the diagnostic facilities, assured of quality services as well as some best hands in the industry to man the equipment. In his remarks, the Chancellor of the University, Gabriel Igbinedion, said the continuous efforts at expanding the frontiers of the teaching hospital informed the idea of setting up the world class radiological and laboratory centre. Igbinedion, represented by Lucky Igbinedion, a former Governor of Edo State and the deputy Chancellor of the university, said the centre is the first of its kind in the state and it would serve the people of Edo State and Nigeria for 24 hours on daily basis. The chancellor of the university, who said the dream to establish the diagnostic centre started about two years ago, assured that the management would continue to contribute its quota to improving the health of the people of the state. He also disclosed that plans have been concluded to establish the Igbinedion University Teaching Hospital Cancer centre, which he said shall soon take off, completed and commissioned in recorded time. He added that, as part of investment in the health sector, he has since partnered with the Edo State Health Insurance Scheme by sponsoring thousands of indigent persons and directed all his staff in the university, teaching hospital and other establishments under the Igbinedion Business empire to key into the programme without delay. “The Igbinedion University Teaching Hospital, Okada, which is the first private teaching hospital in Nigeria, has contributed immensely to the training of thousands of highly skilled medical professionals who are doing excellently well all over the world today. “The teaching hospital has provided, and is still providing, affordable solutions to the medical challenges of the people of Edo State and Nigerians in general,” he said. Betsy Obaseki, the wife of the state governor, Godwin Obaseki, commended the Igbinedion’s family for the continuous investment in the state especially in the health and education sectors. Obaseki, who commissioned the diagnostic centre, urged other well meaning Nigerians, particularly those from Edo State, to emulate the compatriot disposition of the Chancellor of the university. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com