The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has said that it would conduct the most seamless and hitch-free Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. The board said this was based on the success recorded in the just-concluded mock examination nationwide. It, however, advised proprietors of Computer-Based Test centres not to relent on their efforts. The JAMB Registrar, Is-haq Oloyede, was quoted to have said this in the weekly bulletin of the board on Monday. The UTME is slated to be held between May 6 and 16, 2022. The bulletin reads, “Following the success recorded in the just-concluded mock examination nationwide, the management of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board expressed optimism for a hitch-free UTME scheduled to hold between May 6 and 16, 2022. “At the post-examination analysis held to conduct a post-mortem of the examination, the Registrar disclosed that the mock examination, conducted in about 757 centres across the federation, was held with little or no hitches. “Accordingly, he stated that the Board was primed to deliver the most seamless examination ever, come May, 2022 and advised proprietors of the CBT centres not to rest on their oars but consolidate on the success recorded in the mock examination and deliver an even better outcome in the main examination.” The Registrar also explained that the Board instituted the mock examination principally to test its facilities and ascertain its readiness for the main UTME. It also allows candidates to have hands-on experience with the testing system and application. This experience, he said, would not only help to boost candidates’ confidence and alleviate test anxiety but also to eradicate technophobia on the part of candidates during the main UTME.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com