The Chief Imam Of Oyo State, Masud Ajokidero, has led other members of the Oyo State League of Imams to the Alaafin of Oyo’s Palace for the burial of Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III. The remains of the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, would be buried today, The PUNCH has learnt. Palace officials told our correspondent that the traditional rites of passage had been completed as of 07:45 am. One of the officials noted that the Yoruba monarch would be buried according to Islamic rites. Around 12 noon, Ajokidero and other notable Islamic clerics in Oyo and neighbouring towns performed the funeral (Janazah) prayers on the remains of the departed Adeyemi The prayers held outside the Aganju forecourt. “Iku Baba Yeye is dead. We are even done with the traditional rites. The imams are preparing for his burial already. It’s a painful loss,” the palace official said. The Head of Oyo Mesi, who is the Prime Minister of Oyo Kingdom, High Chief Yusuf Ayoola, said added, “We have called the Imam. Baba will be buried today around 4pm.” The PUNCH had reported that the top Yoruba monarch died in the late hours of Friday at the Afe Babalola University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti. The late Alaafin’s first son, Prince ‘Tunde, and other children received the monarch’s remains at Idi-Igba, Oyo town early Saturday morning. Adeyemi ruled for 52 years before his demise, making him the longest-reigning Alaafin. The Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, is expected to make an official announcement of the death soon. The late Alaafin of Oyo was from the Adeyemi branch of the Alowolodu family. He was born on October 15, 1938.
During his late childhood stage, he lived briefly at Iseyin. Adeyemi III was the son of Oba Adeyemi II, the former Alaafin of Oyo who was deposed and sent into exile in 1954 for having sympathy for the National Council of Nigerian Citizens. He succeeded Alaafin Gbadegesin Ladigbolu II in 1970 and was crowned on January 14, 1971. He was a lover of boxing. Adeyemi’s death came after the demise of the Soun of Ogbomoso, Jimoh Oyewumi, and the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Saliu Adetunji, who died on December 12, 2021, and January 2, 2022, respectively. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com