The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Faruk Yahaya, on Wednesday, said that Army projects officers with the responsibilities of executing or supervising contracted projects in and around several barracks must be competent and proficient for timely delivery of high quality projects. He further said that since the Nigeria Army executes most of its projects through direct labour, a high standard of professionalism and competency must be maintained to avoid possible building collapse across barracks. Lt. Gen. Yahaya was the special guest of honour at the first project planning and management workshop, organised by the Nigeria Army Special Projects Abuja, held at the Nigeria Army School of Military Engineering, Makurdi. The Chief of Army Staff who spoke on the theme of the workshop, ‘Capacity Development for Efficient Management in the Nigeria Army’, said the theme was not only apt but germane. “In a sustained effort to shore up troops’ morale and well-being through the provision of conducive working and living conditions for personnel of the Nigerian Army, I have embarked upon construction and rehabilitation of a number of projects across Nigeria Army formations which range from accommodation office complex, training schools and other support facilities in the barracks. “So far, 18 Regimental Sergeant Majors houses have been commissioned and I have also commenced construction of a new barrack in Abuja while the second phase of RSM houses comprising 24 houses are at various advance stages,” Yahaya stated. The COAS, who was represented by the Chief of Logistics, Army Headquarters Abuja, Maj. Gen. Omotomilola Akintade, also used the occasion to inaugurate a digital signpost at the NASME entrance gate and launched tree planting projects across barracks. General Yahaya further stated that the completion of some projects evidently depicts the resolve of the NA to improve the wellbeing of its personnel. Earlier in his address, the Coordinator Nigeria Army Special Projects, Maj. Gen Philip Emorosele, explained that the workshop was organized and geared towards improving capacity for efficient project management and refreshing officers on global trends in construction management to enhance timely delivery of quality projects, enhance the honor, reputation and value of the profession. The Commander of Corp Engineer, Maj. Gen Kamilu Kadiri, thanked the Chief of Army staff for approving the workshop to be held twice in a year and urged participants to be committed to the programme so as to garner more understanding for implementation and formulation project planning and execution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com