The Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, has urged gunmen in the state to surrender their guns to the government. Soludo stated this after the prayer session organised by the state on Monday, which he observed at the St. Joseph’s Catholic Church, Ekwulobia, Aguata LGA. The governor said he would grant amnesty to the gunmen and promised to help those who surrendered to lead meaningful and productive lives. He said, “I have offered amnesty to all our brothers in the various forests around us. Give us your guns, and trust us to help you forge a meaningful living. “The task of taking back our dear state and reclaiming the dignity of our collective existence is at the heart of our drive towards a liveable and prosperous homeland.” Soludo restated his commitment to restoring the dignity of the state and assured the people of Anambra that he will ensure everyone concerned gets expeditious justice. He added that the government would be announcing the membership of the Peace and Reconciliation Committee that will address all areas of sincere challenge, including interfacing with the Federal Government on behalf of all Prisoners of conscience. “We have prayed to God, admonished our people and made a commitment to ensuring that everyone concerned gets expeditious justice. “Following the unanimous agreement of our leaders across the board, and the endorsement of the entire body of Christ, I am pleased to inform our people that today, Monday, April 4, 2022, marks the official end to the ‘Monday sit-at-home’ in Anambra State. “Shortly, I will be announcing the membership of the Peace and Reconciliation Committee that will look into addressing all areas of sincere challenge, including interfacing with the Federal Government on behalf of all prisoners of conscience. “This task is a must. I call for your support and prayers, as we have resolved to fiercely go after criminal elements who are out to threaten our peace and distort our development. “Anambra is the Light of the Nation, we must keep it so,” Soludo stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com