THE former Minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun, has explained that the Dash Me Foundation and its online thrift-for-charity initiative known as ‘Dash Me Store’ are established to give hope and better life to the vulnerable and needy people in the country. She said the foundation and the store had rekindled her love for the vulnerable and needy people. Speaking from her base in the United Kingdom on Wednesday, the ex-minister stated, “A N20,000 sale that will pay the medical bill of an abandoned child gives me so much excitement despite having handled transactions worth billions of dollars for Nigeria.” The Vice-President, Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), had on June 14, 2021, launched the Dash Me Foundation to raise funds for orphanages, Internally Displaced Persons, domestic violence shelters and groups working with the vulnerable and needy. Adeosun disclosed that the foundation was working closely with charity organisations at the grassroots to ensure that funds and materials donated via the Dash Me Store got to the beneficiaries. She stated, “The thrift-for-charity store is a unique model which does not just give to the needy in the conventional way of merely handing out donations. “It is an innovative and structured way of aggregating donations to earn income to transform the lives of the vulnerable and needy people in Nigeria, while also creating jobs in the process.” The foundation, according to the former minister, ensured that beneficiaries were genuine and had a track record of performance. Adeosun added, “It also makes sure that the funds granted are utilised in accordance with the agreed terms. Efforts are made to screen out opportunists and ensure that every naira counts. “The Dash Me Foundation currently operates two thrift stores in Nigeria – one is an upscale boutique located in the highbrow Lekki Phase 1 and the other, named Discount City, is in Ogba. The boutiques are filled with shoes, clothes, furniture and accessories which were donated by generous supporters in New York, London and Nigeria. The revenue from the sale of all items in the boutiques goes to support the needy.” According to her, a major grant beneficiary was the Feet of Grace, an organisation providing false limbs to amputees on low incomes and wheelchairs to polio victims in Kano, Nasarawa and Cross River States.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com