The Association of Lagos State Courier Operators, on March 21, 2022, staged a protest against ‘multiple taxations and extortion’. The association’s president, Mr Anthony Akhagba, speaks to GODFREY GEORGE about the group’s concerns What informed your association’s recent protest at the Lagos State House of Assembly? We have been swallowing a lot over the years. Every time, something new keeps happening. What caused the protest was that, before now, our means of identification, apart from company’s identity card, was the Lagos State Riders’ Card, being issued to us. But sometime last year, the Ogun State Government came up with its own Riders’ Card. Because these are two neighbouring states, it is impossible to avoid moving into and out of them in the course of our business. The two states share boundaries. So, if you decide to take a job at Ojodu-Berger, before you realise it you may have entered into Ogun State. And as Lagos is demanding rider’s card, Ogun is asking us to obtain its own for us to operate, which amounts to double taxation. Before resorting to the protest, did you try to engage government on this concern? We tried to speak to them but it seemed like they did not understand. Later on, the two states said they had come to an agreement that any rider who had Lagos State Riders’ Card should be permitted to operate in Ogun State. But you know how things are in this country, about saying something and not implementing it. My suspicion is that someone must have gone to lobby the Ogun State Government for a contract to produce the riders’ card. When you speak to the local government officials on the phone that most riders were still being asked to provide the OSRC, the officials would say, “No. Once you have the LSRC, you should be allowed to go.” But this is not the case. Some of these riders live in these boundary communities and you cannot stop them from going home after operating in Lagos because they do not have Ogun State’s rider’s card. These are the issues. Government agents would start arresting and impounding their bikes. These enforcers are so violent. A particular area, Oke-Aro, around the Ifako-Ijaiye area of Ogun State has the most violent of these enforcers, or do we call them thugs? Those guys are so violent. Once you don’t have that Ogun Riders’ Card, they would start beating the rider. You would think it is more than just the card. How much is this card? That of Lagos is about N3,500 and it is valid for one year. That of Ogun State is about N2,500, also valid for one year. The one for the Federal Road Safety Commission is valid for three years and one would spend around N9,000 to N10,000 to obtain it. They have also started to enforce it. That makes it three cards. The next thing, NIPOST came and said they were the regulators of the business. They also came up with their own riders’ card. They also said we would pay for it as well. They also proposed compulsory training for all dispatch riders. Most of us already had our NIPOST licences, either directly or with a partnership. So, they sent circulars that we had to come for compulsory training and then come to collect the NIPOST riders’ card. That is when everything went haywire. This is just a fraction of the whole frustrations and extortions in the business. How much does it cost to do all this documentation annually in Lagos? What was it before? Over the years, every year, since 2019, something new keeps coming up from the government and others. In 2020, the Ministry of Transport said we should come to obtain some approval to operate, and it was pegged at N5,000. It was supposed to be a one-off document to show that this was just an approval to do the dispatch business. All of a sudden, in the heat of the pandemic that same year, they came again to say we needed to renew this document. They called it ‘Renewal of Approval from MoT’. It looked like a certificate or whatever. The initial one came without an expiry date, but this new one came with an expiry date. That same year, we didn’t have what is now called OG-HUT – Ogun State High Way Used Task at the beginning – all of a sudden, it was enforced. These same people came again with another one called Ogun State Haulage or something like that. You might think you are using N10, 000 to do documents this year, but by next year, it has become N20, 000 because of all these new introductions in between. But on average, annually, we used, in 2022, was pegged at N40,000 – N50, 000 to get all your papers. When you started this business, was it as much as this? No, it wasn’t. This set of documents I told you about was not there in 2019-2020. Then they kept on adding one thing or the other. There was one we were able to fight off. They called it State Carriage. But we found out it was not for dispatch riders but for people carrying passengers. You can imagine. But we thank God for that one that we won this victory. It saves us roughly N4,500 annually. As of 2019, NIPOST was supposed to license us. But as of 2020, NIPOST was not enforcing this. Then, just recently, they thought dispatch riding was the ‘new oil’, so they began to enforce it. They initially said we should pay N2m then and an annual fee of N250, 000, but because our cries made them put us in SMEs category where we were required to pay N250, 000 annually. They (NIPOST) also stressed that we must make our companies limited liabilities, have a physical office for inspection and other things, which we felt were unnecessary for our kind of business. The thing is this business does not need a physical office. You can be in your living room and do your business. You can work from home easily. The government just wants to continue to milk us. Has your protest yielded any response from the government so far? The letter, which we got then for the State Carriage, was stressed, so everyone is aware. They also said we only needed one riders’ card. These people know what the problems are. The Ogun State people are saying that since the protest was held in Lagos, not Ogun, they would keep their enforcements going on. It is terrible. This should stop. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com