The Chairmen of the Peoples Democratic Party in Oyo and Ogun States, Dayo Ogungbenro and Sikirullahi Ogundele respectively, have declared that the party will take over the South-West states in 2023. The chairmen said this on Thursday during the official declaration of the governorship race on the platform of the PDP in Ogun State by a former aide to Governor El-Rufai of Kaduna State, Jimi Lawal, held at the Ake Palace grounds in Abeokuta. The duo said the PDP was determined to flush out the ruling All Progressives Congress of government in the remaining five states in the South-West in 2023. Speaking at the occasion, Ogungbenro said the leaders of the PDP in the South-West had resolved to consolidate its victory in Oyo and take over other five remaining states in 2023. Ogungbenro said, “In Oyo, we are enjoying dividends of democracy and when Jimi Lawal becomes governor of Ogun State in 2023, you will also enjoy same. “We will take over all the South-West states and the Federal Government in 2023.” Also speaking, Ogundele described the APC-led government as “visionless, clueless and wicked.” He said, “Whoever supports the APC in 2023 needs to be checked psychiatrically. They need to have their brains checked. What will the APC use to campaign for Nigerians. Is it the price of food stuff? Or prices of petrol? “They have messed up this country and disappointed Nigerians.” Ogundele assured all aspirants of level playing field, saying they must be united ahead of next year’s elections. In his remarks, Lawal, who is immediate past chairman of Kaduna State Economic Development Council, officially declared his intention to run for governorship in Ogun State on the platform of the PDP. Lawal, a British-trained banker, also announced his 5-point agenda, including economic development, human capital, infrastructure, good governance and security. Speaking during the well-attended official declaration, Lawal vowed to bring cultism, kidnapping and other security challenges to a standstill in the state. He noted that activities of cultists who murdered about 16 persons recently have rendered the state insecure and leave residents in palpable fear. Lawal also said his administration would grant “free and compulsory education up to the secondary level” as part of moves to improve education in the state. “From 2023, it is free and compulsory education up to the secondary school level. We will also pay for the WAEC and JAMB examinations. “If we make education free and compulsory, any children seen wandering or hawking during school hours, the parents of such children would be arrested. “Can you say this present government is doing this? If they are not, that’s the more reason we have to flush out this government,” Lawal said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com