A former Governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu, said on Tuesday that Nigeria is bleeding as a result of the spate of killings across the country. The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress urged all and sundry to join hands in the fight against banditry in the land. This is as Governor Nasir el-Rufai said that Nigeria is at a crossroads and needed to make a difficult decision to pick a leader, come 2023 that would take Nigeria out of its sundry challenges. Tinubu, who was in Kaduna on a condolence visit over the terror attack on a Kaduna bound train from Abuja, which occurred on Monday, March 28, donated N50 million to assist the state government to rehabilitate and care for the victims. The APC national leader said, “We are facing the current challenges seriously and we have to do more. Nigeria bleeds on behalf of everybody. “We need to fight terrorism with all our energy and whatever we have. It’s not shameful for people to be poor, but it’s unacceptable to accept poverty as a norm. “It’s shameful to be callous, wicked and be a bully or terror to instil fear in humanity and it’s not acceptable. “I’m here on a condolence visit to Kaduna to sympathise with the Governor and people of Kaduna and entire Nigeria. What happened to the people on the Abuja to Kaduna train on Monday for all of us.” In his response, el-Rufai commended Tinubu for cancelling his 70th-anniversary colloquium as a mark of honour for the victims of the attack. “This visit preempted my planned visit to Asiwaju to thank him for solidarity with the people of Kaduna for cancelling his colloquium the day it was to take place. “This gesture by Asiwaju is a show of powerful leadership, empathy and concern for the lives and property of Nigerians. It’s unprecedented in our history in Nigeria. “The government and people of Kaduna State will never forget this gesture. We are very grateful to you for the service, sacrifice and commitment to the unity and that of our country. “We appreciate your call for people to contribute to enable us to rehabilitate the victims of this tragedy. “We are aware of your aspiration to be president of this country, we look forward to further engagement so that we can progress that aspiration. “Nigeria is at a crossroads, a critical crossroads, and we must take very difficult decisions to get the right leaders that would take us out of the multiple quagmires that we are going through,” the governor said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com