This is certainly not the best of times for people in Imo State considering the deaths recorded last Friday of over 100 roasted to death after an illegal refinery went up in flames at Abaezi community in the Ohaji-Egbema Local Government Area of the state. Also, six vehicles were razed during the incident and the community was thus thrown into mourning. Eavesdropper is unable to understand how the illegal refinery operated before now and perpetrators are not arrested. The fact remains that crime no matter how anyone looks at it will always strive where there are human beings. It can be said to be part of a human feature. That is why the government is available to ensure that punishment meets crime. It is no longer tenable for those in authority to shift blame when incidents such as the Imo needles deaths occur. There are agencies whose work border on checking illegal refineries. Why can’t they be up and doing and nip this situation in the bud before it escalates to the level of such disturbing deaths?. Why is Nigeria so shameless when it comes to taking preventive measures? These deaths could have been avoided if those concerned do what they were supposed to do. Perpetrators of the illegal refineries are humans. They are not ghosts. Someone should have exposed their activities and alert the agencies in charge. On their part, the agencies in charge also ought to gather intelligence. This is where the people come in. They must do all within their power to partner with the relevant agencies to stamp out crime. Now that the unimaginable has happened, nearby communities will also be affected whereas a simple tip-off would have saved the day. In Rivers, the man in charge there launched a war against illegal refineries and even gave council chairmen in the affected areas a marching order to nip activities of the criminals in the bud. He also declared some of the kingpins wanted. At least, that appears a good step to tackle the soot affecting the state. Every state with suspicion that illegal refineries are flourishing should join hands to end the reign of impunity. It’s a sad one that the illegal refinery in Imo led to loss of lives when in actual fact the timely identification, closure and prosecution of the masterminds would have saved lives if some people had diligently done their job. Nigeria is a bundle of joke honestly so much so that its four refineries; two in Port Harcourt, and one each in Kaduna and Warri are working below installed capacity if some are even working at all. Yet, some dubious elements continue to connive with other equally criminally-minded Nigerians to run illegal refineries. Government must bare its fangs once and for all to end these illegal activities. Only in Nigeria You must have seen the viral video involving some misguided Nigerians parading themselves as hunters and forest guards who forcefully shaved a lady’s hair on the streets of Makurdi, Benue State. The individuals cowed the lady who was on a commercial motorcycle, made her seat on the floor, brought out scissors and cut her gold-tinted hair. The effrontery was so nauseating that one of them was shouting, “You see say you fine now” and while leaving the shocked lady who complied with their dictates, one of them foolishly shot in the air and they left the place in their irritating entourage. Eavesdropper hears the good news that  leaders of the group have been arrested. But that is not enough. No be Nigeria with initial bravado from many quarters. Those responsible should be fished out and made to publicly tender an apology to the lady for invading her privacy. The truth is that she was embarrassed publicly. It’s not clear if the group has delivered on its mandate, yet its members go about town cutting a lady’s hair based on their set morality standards. It’s appalling. The government has to get justice for the lady by ensuring that everyone who partook in the silly act gets their comeuppance. Eavesdropper couldn’t imagine what they were thinking when they shamelessly intimidated the lady because they were armed and felt that it was their right to subject anyone to ridicule. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com