THE Federal Government has been advised to sustain its efforts at diversifying the economy as this will help the country to consolidate its plan to export processed and semi-processed agro-allied products. The Managing Director of Foods, Agro & Allied Industries Limited, Mr. Kai Murthy, said this at the unveiling of the company’s consignment scheduled to be exported to Australia from its factory in Ota, Ogun State. He explained that the company was committed to using 100 per cent local raw materials to produce sorghum and malt extract. He said, “There is nowhere in the world today where this product is produced except from us in Nigeria. Our sorghum is gluten-free. This product is getting the attention of the world today and is one of the reasons we are getting orders from Australia and New Zealand. “Every month 500 tonnes malt extract will be exported to Australia. As we speak companies like Nigeria Breweries, Guinness, International Breweries, GlaxoSmithkline Plc, among other young and growing companies are already patronising our products.” The Group Managing Director, Sona Group of Companies, Mr. Ajai Musaddi, said the product was unique in the world today because it was borne out of research to the group. He said the health benefit of the product had made it standout, which was one reason why its producers were optimistic that it would re-echo the presence of Nigeria out there on the world map again. “We are still researching on other raw materials, we have seen that sorghum is just one raw material but there are still other ones that have a lot of potentials,” Musaddi said. He added, “We know there is a huge quantity of maize. We have looked at the market and we know that the product is basically for brewing but we are looking for a product that will be colourless, that is syrup and sweetener which will be useful to the pharmaceutical industry.” Speaking for the regulatory agency, Mr. Jerome Umoru, the state coordinator of the Standard Organization of Nigeria, explained that SON was interested in working with Sona Group to achieve its corporate goal of promoting local raw materials. He said, “The economy is already confronted by so many things and we need exportation to be able to earn foreign exchange and that is exactly what they are doing. “So we as an institution are solidly behind you to give all necessary guidance that you will require.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com