The Supreme Court, on Thursday, reserved judgment on the Kano All Progressives Congress’ crisis. The appellants in the suit are Musa Chola and 1,319 others and the respondents include the APC, Governor Mai Mala Buni, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, Olayide Adewale Akinremi, Senator Abba Ali, Dr Tony Macfoy, Auwalu Abdullahi, Usman Kaita, Adebayo Iyaniwura and the Independent National Electoral Commission. The PUNCH reported that a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, had November 30, 2021, declared the wards congress conducted by the Governor Abdullahi Ganduje faction of the APC in Kano illegal, null and void. Similarly, on December 17, the court, presided over by Justice Hamza Muazu, upheld the local government congresses conducted by the Senator Ibrahim Shekarau faction. Dissatisfied with the rulings, the Ganduje faction filed an appeal at the Court of Appeal which nullified the lower court judgment which gave Senator Ibrahim Shekarau’s G-7 faction of the APC victory, on February 17, 2022. On Thursday, the five-man panel of the Supreme Court led by Justice Mary Peter Odili adjourned and reserved judgment after the adoption of the briefs of all the parties in the appeal. A preliminary objection was raised by Fagge, the counsel to the first, second and third respondents, respectively, challenging the hearing of the appeal on the grounds that one of the prayers of the appellants had to do with the national delegates to the convention of the party which had been overtaken since the convention had held, stating that the exercise had become academic. However, the counsel to the appellants, Nuraini Jimoh, said the appeal was challenging the judgment of the Court of Appeal delivered 73 days after filing, contrary to Section 285(12) of the Constitution that stated that judgments should be delivered within 60 days in pre-election matters. The apex court said the date for the judgment would be communicated to the parties in the appeal. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com