The Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria has disagreed with the Registrar of the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria, Dr Tajudeen Sanusi, over comments accusing it members of unethical practices In a statement jointly signed by the National Chairman and Secretary of the Association, Adewale Oladigbolu and Ezeh Ambrose, respectively on Saturday, the association claimed that they had the right to dispense some drugs contrary to the comments of the MDCN registrar. The statement titled, ‘‘RE: Deal with the Rot in Medical Practice’’, read, “Our attention has been drawn to a reckless press statement credited to the Registrar of the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria, Dr. Tajudeen Sanusi.” The statement demanded that Sanusi, who reportedly accused community pharmacists of “toying with the lives of their patients by being negligent, corrupt and in some cases, showing gross incompetence while managing their patients…” should be disciplined. “For the sake of information, Mr Registrar, there is a National Health Act 2014 which recognises pharmacies, laboratories, physio-clinics and others, as health facilities in Nigeria. That same document allows all registered care-providers to have access to patients and their records. “A community pharmacist who is consulted by a patient for his health and drug needs therefore does not violate any law in Nigeria. Globally, the registrar should understand that drugs are classified as Over-the-counter, pharmacist-initiated medicines, prescription-only Medicines and controlled drugs. “A pharmacist has an unhindered liberty to dispense OTC and PIM without liaising with any other practitioner because the scope of his training covers it. The registrar of MDCN is a busybody which is why he cannot see the aberrations committed by his lawless members who operate in the private sector in particular.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com