The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has sought the support of the United Kingdom’s Parliament in the area of insecurity, parliamentary diplomacy, and political and economic prosperity in Nigeria. Gbajabiamila stated that Nigeria remains a key player in global affairs and that the country’s parliament plays an important role in addressing issues through legislation. He said this during a visit to the Speaker of the House of Commons, Sir Lindsay Hoyle, in Westminster on Tuesday, according According to a statement issued on Tuesday night by the Special Adviser to the Speaker on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, titled ‘Gbajabiamila Seeks UK Parliament’s Collaboration on Insecurity, Parliamentary Diplomacy, Others,’ he also noted that the Nigerian House had used parliamentary diplomacy at different times and it worked. The Speaker said, “We intend to work in close collaboration with your Parliament,” adding that Nigeria and the UK have “a rich history between them.” Gbajabiamila emphasised the need for the Parliament to come in whenever there is a government-to-government arrangement. “We try to use Parliamentary diplomacy to achieve certain things,” he added. The Speaker also noted the House had at different occasions intervened on the issue of xenophobia in South Africa, the dispute involving Nigerian traders in Ghana and also ensured the evacuation of Nigerian students from Ukraine recently. He said, “In a nutshell, it’s a noble idea that we come around to seek your collaboration. We know you’ll buy into this and support us for the Parliament to take its rightful place.” Gbajabiamila further noted that the issue of security is very important as Nigeria is currently grappling with insecurity challenges. He said whatever happened to Nigeria “has a ricochet effect on other countries.” The Speaker, who also told the British lawmakers that Nigeria’s general elections would be conducted next year, said the National Assembly did its part by giving the country “a near-perfect electoral law.” He added, “It’s in our best interest to work together for economic and other reasons.” Gbajabiamila sought to know the rationale behind deporting refugees to Rwanda, saying, “It’s noble but it will be nice to know the intricacies and how it affects Nigeria and the African continent.” Speaking, Sir Hoyle lauded the idea of legislative diplomacy, saying he was also disposed to soft diplomacy, which he said parliaments across the world should consider as a different approach. He also said Nigeria is a crucial country to have such diplomatic ties with. Hoyle promised to help where necessary to speak with the officials of the British government as regard some of the issues discussed. He also noted that peace and stability are priceless, stating that the ballot box is the answer to political instability. “It is very important to support each other,” Hoyle added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com