A lady, identified simply as Anabel, has demanded justice after policemen attached to the Osun State Police Command allegedly shot her boyfriend, one Abiola, to death during a raid around the Zone 10 area of Osogbo, Osun State. PUNCH Metro gathered that Abiola and his friend, one Matthew, alongside the latter’s fiancée, were eating at home when the policemen barged into Matthew’s residence around the Capital area of Zone 10. The policemen were said to be in the process of whisking them away when a cop shot Abiola’s leg. While Abiola was rushed to an undisclosed hospital, our correspondent gathered that Matthew and his fiancée were arrested and detained in a police station. Anabel, while narrating the incident on social media, said Matthew’s fiancée had been released. Using her Instagram handle, Anabelshugar1, the aggrieved lover said no one knew if Abiola was alive or dead since the incident happened last Sunday. She said, “Where is Abiola? My heart aches with sadness as I write this. Abiola (or A. B as he’s fondly called) is a young man, who on Sunday, 3rd of April 2022 went to pay his friend, Matthew (who is a mobile phone technician) a visit at his shop. “When it was evening on the same day, he decided to follow his friend home and slept over at his house and at midnight, while they were eating with Matthew’s fiancée, the Nigeria Police barged in without warrant, claiming to be raiding the area. “During the occurrence, an impetuous and impulsive police officer shot A.B. in the leg which made him pass out several times before the officers took him to an unknown hospital after detaining Matthew and his fiancée. “Now, Matthew’s fiancée has been released by the Nigeria Police Force, leaving Matthew in detention. But A.B’s hospital location is unknown and the police are claiming not to know, whereas his car and phone are in their custody. “This incident happened at Capital, Zone 10 Area, Osogbo, Osun State, and the Nigeria Police office is situated at Housing Estate. Fellow Nigerians, please help! Nigeria Police, Where is Abiola, fellow Nigeria please help us.” In a follow-up post, Anabel revealed that Abiola succumbed to the injuries he sustained after the alleged shooting, adding that she and the deceased were in a relationship for nine years. However, the state Police Public Relations Officer, SP Yemisi Opalola, in a statement, said the Commissioner of Police, Olawale Olokode, received a distress call from a woman around the Dada Estate area of the state, about the activities of some criminals who invaded her premises. She said the police chased the hoodlums, but they escaped with one laptop, five phones, N300,000, and other valuable items. “Five days after the incident, on Monday, April 4, 2022, around 2.15am, the information received based on intelligence was that some fully armed suspected criminals and hoodlums were holding a nocturnal meeting behind a house around the same Dada Estate area, Zone 11, Behind Capital Hotel, Osogbo, in preparation to perpetrate further criminal activities in the area. “Consequently, the police quickly stormed the area. On sighting the police, the suspected criminals opened fire on them, and the police responded accordingly and in the process, one of the suspected criminals was hit and injured. Two were arrested, including a lady, while others escaped through the bush,” Opalola added. The PPRO said items recovered from the scene of the incident include one cut-to-size single-barrelled gun, one live and one expended cartridges, Army camouflage T-shirt, Nigerian Army ID card, charms, among others. “The injured suspected criminal was taken to a hospital for treatment but later died. The arrested people are still under interrogation and efforts are being put in place to arrest other fleeing suspects,” the statement said. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com