The Federal Road Safety Corps, Akwa Ibom State Command, has said it would commence the road tax enforcement and recovery exercise in Uyo, the state capital starting from Monday, April 4 to Friday 8, 2022. The command also said over 3,541 drivers license in its custody remain unclaimed by the owners. The FRSC Sector Commander, Matthew Olonisaye, who disclosed these in a joint press briefing with the chairman, Akwa Ibom State Internal Revenue Service, Mr Okon Okon, in Uyo on Friday, noted that the exercise was necessary in order to ensure that all road users comply with the rules and regulations of the road. Olonisaye added that the operatives during the exercise would check vehicles using government number plates stressing that any vehicle with such number plate must present valid approval letter or risk arrest and impoundment of the vehicle. Olonisaye said, “We are commencing our road tax enforcement and recovery in Uyo starting from Monday 4 to Friday 8. The exercise is not to inconvenience anyone on the road but to ensure that rules and regulations are complied with. “Drivers using government number plates on their vehicles should be aware that we will check them and any vehicle that has no allocation paper will be impounded and the person arrested. “One of the reasons this exercise is important in Akwa Ibom State is because we have 3,541 unclaimed drivers license at the board of Internal Revenue, this is totally unacceptable and we are not going to condone drivers driving on the road without drivers license.” Olonisaye also cautioned the officers and men against extorting money from motorists or defaulters warning that anyone caught would be dismissed from duty even as he called members of the public to corporate with them. The chairman of AKIRS represented by Leo Umana noted that no monetary transaction should be done on the road or outside the office of the internal revenue service. “Every defaulter during the exercise is expected to come to the office for his monetary transactions,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com