The Nigerian Air Force has called for a special fund to enhance the operations of the Office of the Surveyor-General of the Federation due to the relevance of its activities to national security. Chief of Air Intelligence, NAF, Air Vice-Marshal Abubakar S. Liman, made the call when he led a team of officers on a courtesy visit to the Surveyor-General of the Federation, Abudulganiyu Adebomehin, recently in Abuja. Liman, according to a statement from OSGoF, said the purpose of his visit was to seek areas of further collaboration between the Nigerian Air Force and OSGoF. He said the expertise, skills and data of the surveyor general’s office were required to aid the NAF in its operations, stressing that there was the need for synergy among relevant authorities, especially for the war against insecurity. Liman was quoted as saying, “Security is everyone’s business. War is a national assignment. which requires the support of every citizen.” The air intelligence chief said the significance of the role of OSGoF in the war against criminality across the country was vital, pointing out that the usual annual budgeting system could hardly suffice for the proper funding of the activities of the office. In his response, Adebomehin said OSGoF, an extra-ministerial establishment and apex mapping arm of the Federal Government, was responsible for implementing the survey coordination act of the country. He said the agency was ready to provide all resources at its disposal for the success of the operations of the NAF and other arms of the Nigerian Armed Forces. Adebomehin said his office produced navigational charts for the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology, which was certified by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority. He noted that the OSGoF had acquired more sophisticated equipment, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles and a digital printing outfit, adding that surveyors and other staffers of the agency were already undergoing training to meet the geospatial needs of the government.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com