ADELANI ADEPEGBA examines the growing clamour in some quarters for ex-President Goodluck Jonathan to stage a dramatic return to power under the All Progressives Congress that hounded him out of office seven years ago and the seeming acquiesce of the former leader When speculations started flying around in 2020 that former President Goodluck Jonathan was being packaged to return for another single term by political hawks in the All Progressives Congress, many Nigerians waived it off as a hare-brained idea. To many people, the idea was not only preposterous but a hard sell considering the fact that the circumstances that led to Jonathan’s ouster in 2015 had assumed pandemic proportions under the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). They questioned the unique value proposition that the marketers of the Jonathan presidency would advance to Nigerians. Abruptly, the idea fizzled out after it failed to gain traction. Bizarrely, two years after, what was dismissed as an impossible idea had assumed a life of its own, complete with a campaign apparatchik, including hired support groups and strategy unit, among others. To actualise the project, Jonathan will defect from the Peoples Democratic Party to the ruling APC and declare his ambition to run for President in 2023. Apparently buoyed by the ex-President’s interest in the purported re-election bid, which is rumoured to have Buhari’s backing, his campaign posters have again resurfaced in public places, notably at the APC national secretariat in Abuja and other strategic locations. To set the plan in motion, groups are being mustered to spotlight the bid by asking Jonathan to join the presidential race. Last Saturday, some youths, with the media in tow, stormed the ex-President’s office in the Maitama area of Abuja, calling on him to declare his interest. In his response, the former President said he could not say for sure if he would declare or not, but advised his supporters to “watch out.” Hours later, his former spokesman, Dr Reuben Abati confirmed in a tweet he later deleted that Jonathan would run on the platform of the ruling party. There were reports that Jonathan had informed some APC leaders that he would only join the presidential race if he was directly endorsed by Buhari. A plan by some leaders in the APC and some elements in the Presidency to accede to the request had also been reported in the media. A member of the APC National Executive Committee was quoted to have said that all the presidential aspirants were aware of the plan to bring Jonathan in as the consensus candidate. The re-election plan, it was learnt, entails that Jonathan serves one term and hand over to his deputy, who will come from the North-East geopolitical zone. The idea is to hand over power to the North for another eight years after the Jonathan interlude. It was reported that two influential governors from the northern part of the country were behind the former President’s return bid. The two governors, said to be close to Buhari, had reportedly secured the buy-in of a section of the Presidency to actualise their agenda of drafting Jonathan into the presidential race. The Bayelsa-born politician is believed to be waiting for the appropriate time to join the ruling party. Expectedly, opposition to the alleged plan is mounting within the party with some stalwarts reportedly bristling at the idea of adopting Jonathan as the consensus candidate in the same manner Senator Abdullahi Adamu emerged as the party’s chairman during the March 26 national convention of the APC.  Adamu, a forme governor of Nasarawa State, was not among those initially campaigning for the office until few days to the convention. At the end, earlier aspirants were forced to step down for him. But analysts said any attempt to impose a presidential candidate may shake the APC to its foundation. The likes of a former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, may not step down for Jonathan, who enjoys a continent-wide adulation after he yielded power to Buhari in 2015 without contesting the outcome of the presidential election. Since leaving office, he has been leading various regional peace initiatives, which have raised his post-presidency profile. In June 2019, Jonathan emerged as chairman of the newly inaugurated International Summit Council for Peace. The following year, he was appointed Special Envoy of the Economic Community of West African States to lead mediation talks in Mali. Outside the ruling party, the incipient idea of re-electing Jonathan has also been met with disbelief. Some see it as a ploy to besmirch his credentials, but many view it as an admission of failure by the APC, which came to power on the strength of its powerful campaign against the ex-President’s administration, which was then described as clueless, corrupt and incompetent. Jonathan’s inability to contain the raging insurgency in the North-East, particularly his failure to rescue the 276 Chibok schoolgirls abducted by Boko Haram fighters on April 14, 2014, was touted as one of his most humiliating failures. Ironically, seven years after taking power, the Buhari regime has yet to bring the insurgency to an end as pledged, while over 100 of the abducted schoolgirls are still languishing in captivity. Thousands of others have also been kidnapped under this government with many of them yet to be rescued. This is beside the increase in poverty, high inflation, rising crime wave and other debacles the Buhari regime has continued to rationalise or blame on Jonathan’s government. The Chairman of the Northern Elders’ Forum, Prof Ango Abdullahi, described the move to adopt Jonathan by the APC as ironic and self-indicting, saying it was an admission of failure by the Buhari regime. Abdullahi stated, “What an irony! These are people, who kicked out a President for various reasons, and here they are now admitting that they have failed and that they were wrong in kicking Jonathan out of office in 2015 and so, they are now asking him to come and help them. “Isn’t that the irony of the whole thing? Here I am saying, ‘You have failed and I kicked you out,’ and then after some time I say, ‘I beg you, come back and take over, I am sorry for kicking you out in the first place.’ That is the meaning of the whole thing.” Former senator and activist, Shehu Sani, warned the ex-President against falling for the enticement, saying he should not be deceived. He wrote on Facebook, “GEJ should not deceive himself nor allow himself to be deceived.” Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, an ardent Jonathan supporter, also dismissed the idea of endorsing the ex-President’s purported bid on the ruling party’s platform. Speaking in an interview with the BBC, he stated, “I am a PDP member; if former President Goodluck Jonathan picks a ticket to run in my party, I will support him. I can’t do anti-party (activities). But if he picks a ticket to run on the APC platform, I won’t support him because I can’t do anti-party (activities).” A journalist and author, Joseph Undu, cautions the ex-President against falling for the APC bait, stressing that he would be messed up and might not win the poll. He recalled that the ruling party did much damage to Jonathan’s image during the run-up to the 2015 elections, which led to his defeat, arguing that his participation in the 2023 elections might destroy his post-presidency achievements and profile as ECOWAS special envoy. He stated, “Today, the world is celebrating Jonathan; he has become a political superstar, taking after the likes of Nelson Mandela and other African political giants. I want to believe those sponsoring his presidential bid are not happy with his rising political profile across the African continent and they are looking for ways to lure him back to the dirty political terrain and rubbish him once and for all. “As it stands now, Jonathan is one of the most celebrated African political leaders; it is not out of place for him to serve just a term. After all, Mandela had the opportunity to serve two terms but he refused and served only a term. Jonathan is a great man in African politics today and I will want him to maintain that status. Everything is not power and power is not everything. Jonathan should maintain that status and remain as a global statesman and continue to inspire young people and remain a reference point in Africa. If he contests, he will end up tarnishing his image; he is not going to win.” Regardless of the opposition and advice, various support groups are intensifying their clamour for Jonathan’s return. One of the groups, the Citizens Network for Peace and Development, explained that the Ijaw politician had yet to reveal his decision on the 2023 presidential race because he is still consulting. The National Coordinator of the CNPD, Raphael Okorie, said, “What he is doing is to respect every facet that has a role to play in the 2023 presidential election by consulting and having discussions with them and having them buy into this project.” Meanwhile, there hade been divided opinions on whether or not Jonathan is eligible to contest the position. Human rights activist and Lagos-based lawyer, Mr Femi Falana (SAN), said on Thursday that the former President could not contest the presidency again, having been sworn in twice for the same office in the past. Jonathan was first sworn in to complete the tenure of late President Umaru Yar ‘Adua, who died on May 5, 2010 after barely three years in office. On completing the tenure, he contested the presidency in 2011 and won. But with the amendment to the 1999 constitution that any person who completes the term of an elected President would only be entitled to one term. Falana, in a statement, said, “It has been confirmed that former President Goodluck Jonathan has decided to join the All Progressives Congress to contest the 2023 presidential election. “However, the former President is disqualified from contesting the said election by section 137 (3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) which provides as follows: A person who was sworn in to complete the term for which another person was elected as President shall not be elected to such office for more than a single term.” On the argument that implementation of a law could not be retrospective and that Jonathan could not be affected, Falana said, “Assuming without conceding that the amendment is not retrospective, it is submitted that under the current constitution, a President or Governor cannot spend more than two terms of eight years. “In other words, the constitution will not allow anyone to be in office for more than a cumulative period of eight years. In Marwa v. Nyako (2012) 6 NWLR (Pt.1296) 199 at 387, the Supreme Court stated that Section 180 (1) and (2)(a) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has prescribed a single term of four years and if a second term, another period of four years and not a day longer. “In the case of Governor (Rashidi) Ladoja v INEC (2008)40 WRN 1, the Supreme Court rejected the prayer of Governor Ladoja for 11 months’ extension to cover the period he was kept out of office through illegal impeachment. The Supreme Court rejected the prayer on the ground that a governor is entitled to spend a maximum period of eight years or less and not more than eight years.” He added, “Having spent five years in office as President, Dr Jonathan is disqualified from contesting the 2023 presidential election. The reason is that if he wins the election he will spend an additional term of four years. It means he would spend a cumulative period of nine years as President of Nigeria in utter breach of Section 137 of the Constitution, which provides for a maximum two terms of eight years.” Will Jonathan bite the bullet? His ‘supporters’ as directed by him, are watching. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com