When investing in crypto, it’s common to lean towards the big ones such as Bitcoin (BTC) and Ethereum (ETH). Being the two largest cryptocurrencies in the industry, they seem like the obvious choice. However, is there something you’re missing with the up-and-coming new cryptocurrencies? You may find that investing in pre-sales may be worth your time, and more importantly your money. With Seesaw Protocol launching on April 8th, this may be something you want to get your hands on. With Bitcoin (BTC) being the largest cryptocurrency in the world, it is no doubt the most popular one to invest in. With a market value of over $804 billion, it is the industry’s biggest asset. Nevertheless, when investing in Bitcoin, there is a great deal of risk that comes with it. Within the last 24 hours, Bitcoin’s value has decreased by 3% from hitting the $47,000 mark yesterday to around $45,300 today. Coming as a surprise as BTC was expected to rise above $50,000, you need to consider whether this is the right time for you to invest. Although, keep your eyes peeled as the largest Bitcoin conference is currently taking place in Miami with over 300 speakers including US senators, tech giants, and world leaders, in which we can expect some big announcements, possibly causing major waves across the crypto market. Ethereum (ETH) launched in 2015 and quickly rose to become the world’s second-largest cryptocurrency, with its supply growing each year by 3%. ETH is currently going through a merger, as they plan to shift from their proof-of-work (PoW) model to a proof-of-stake (PoS). This will allow ETH to become more scalable, secure, and sustainable, but will also be better for the environment. They currently use a proof-of-work model, meaning that Ethereum mining uses a large amount of computer power and is often criticised due to its environmental impact. After the merge, Ethereum’s mining will no longer continue, cutting down its energy consumption by 99%.  Launching on April 8th, 2022, Seesaw Protocol (SSW) was created to enable users to transfer tokens along with the blockchains of Binance Smart Chain (BSC), Polygon (MATIC), and Ethereum (ETH), allowing users to take advantage of its cross-chain capacity. With the launch coming up, this may be a good time to think about investing your money into the Seesaw Protocol pre-sale. Since the pre-sale started in January 2022, SSW has grown by 4000%, providing significant results to early investors as SSW prices have risen from $0.005 to $0.20862. On the day of launch, prices could go up even further, so if you’re thinking about investing, this is the time to do so. Additionally, existing SSW holders earn a 3% bonus on each transaction confirmed on the blockchain, so by already having tokens, holders can earn extra tokens. Find out more: Presale: https://presale1.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com