No fewer than seven commissioners, including the Chief of Staff to the Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, have resigned from the State Executive Council. Aside from the chief of staff, Festus Agas, who had debunked the claim, others who resigned are Basil Ganagana, Evelyn Oboro, Julius Egbedi, Jonathan Ukodhiko, Christian Onogba, Ovie Oghoore, and Chika Ossai. Their resignation, it was gathered, may not be unconnected to the requirement of Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act 2022. The act stipulates that political appointees must resign their appointments before participating in the 2023 general elections, either as delegates or seeking elective offices. However, Agas On Friday said that he was yet to resign from his position. Okowa had last week ordered his cabinet members who have political ambitions to resign their appointment. Agas’s resignation was said to have been kept in secrecy, as he was sighted in his office from Monday to Friday morning (today). It was learnt that the Chief of Staff tendered his resignation on Monday. Credible sources within the Okowa’s government, while confirming the development, said Agas has started moving vital personal documents and belongings from his office. Also, the Special Assistant to Okowa on Media, Ossai Ovie Success, in a post on his Facebook page on Thursday, confirmed Oga’s resignation. He wrote, “I just had a good time with Rt Hon Festus Ovie Agas who just resigned as Chief of Staff Government House Asaba. We spent good time together at the office. Rt Hon Ovie Agas has always been a good father, leader with humility and heart of generosity.” Agas has been severally rumoured to be interested in contesting the 2023 governorship election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party. It has also been rumoured that Agas had alleged to have secured the nod of Okowa to go into the race. But when contacted by our correspondent, Agas denied his resignation. “It is not true, I have not resigned, as I speak to you, I am in my office,” he told The PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com