There was pandemonium at the Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, on Wednesday, when some hoodlums, said to be graduates, attacked workers at the hospital over the death of a patient. A statement by the hospital’s Public Relations Officer, Ayodele Adeyemo, in Osogbo, said the group invaded the accident and emergency unit of the facility and beat up doctors and nurses on duty after the death of the yet-to-be-identified patient. Adeyemo said doctors, nurses and other staff caught in the violence sustained injuries, adding that the perpetrators also damaged some facilities at the unit. The hospital’s spokesman, while condoling with the relations of the deceased, assured patients and staff of adequate security. The statement read in part, “On Wednesday, April 6, 2022, some hoodlums attacked doctors, nurses and some other staff on duty at the Accident and Emergency Unit of the UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital, causing bodily harm and damage to facilities. “The unwarranted attack was premised on the death of a relation of the said thugs who was rushed into the hospital hours earlier. It is pertinent to say that all necessary medical efforts were made to save the patient, of which the relations were aware and carried along. “It is unfortunate that those concerned took the law into their hands by beating staff on sight in spite of appeals to them by the leadership of the hospital. They also disrupted the calmness of other patients, thereby sending frights into them. “It is the management’s stand and hope that those involved will be made to face the procedure and process of the law as appropriate.” However, the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrooshed Akanbi, in a statement, appealed to the hospital management to forgive the hoodlums, saying they had realised their mistake. “No doubt, the perpetrators conducted themselves in an uncultured manner affecting public peace and human dignity. As a responsible king, I don’t tolerate immoral acts.  I have scolded them and they were sober. They came crying and pledged to turn a new leaf. “Please, consider the future of these children. They are graduates. Sending them to prison may jeopardise their future. Realising today’s mistake may enhance rethink for their future public conducts,” Oluwo added. Copyright PUNCH. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com