Security agents in Imo State have started combing forests in search of owners and operators of illegal refineries in the state. This followed the Friday night explosion at an illegal refinery at the Abaezi Forest in the Ohaji-Egbema Local Government Area of the state which killed over 100 persons and razed many vehicles. This is just as a group, Igbo National Council, flayed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the state governor, Hope Uzodimma, for not visiting the scene of the explosion 72 hours after the tragedy. The state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, who disclosed the security operation in a statement on Monday, also stated that the state governor had ordered that the remains of the victims be evacuated from the crime scene. Emelumba stated that the government would begin the fumigation of the scene once the victims had been buried en masse on Monday. The statement read in part, “Imo State Government yesterday condoled with families of the victims of last weekend’s illegal refinery fire disaster at Egbema. “The government deeply regrets that more than 70 Nigerians lost their lives in the unfortunate incident even when they were engaged in illegal activities, including sabotaging the nation’s economy.” A group, Igbo National Council, has called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the state governor to declare a state of emergency on unemployment following the Friday night explosion. The group also flayed Buhari and Uzodimma for not visiting the scene 72 hours after the tragedy occurred. The statement which was issued by the group’s President, Chilos Godsent, called on the youth of the area to stop getting involved in illicit businesses. It demanded compensation for owners of farmlands that were destroyed during the explosion. Meanwhile, youths in Egbema have commenced a sensitisation programme following the Friday explosion. James Ogbanje, who spoke to our correspondent in a telephone conversation on Monday, said the essence was to disabuse the minds of the youth from engaging in oil bunkering. “We have started a sensitisation programme in all the communities in Egbema. The essence is to highlight the dangers of indulging in illicit businesses like oil theft. We know that there are no jobs in Nigeria. People will go to school without getting jobs after graduation but that is not an excuse to commit crime,” he said. Meanwhile, a presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has commiserated with the state governor and bereaved families over the explosion. Lamenting the loss of lives, Tinubu stated that the disaster must not be allowed to reoccur just as he called for the arrest of the owner of the illegal refinery and accomplices. This was contained in a letter he signed and addressed to Governor Uzodinma which was made available to journalists on Monday by his Media Office. He said, “I join all Nigerians in mourning the loss of over one hundred precious lives caused by an explosion at an illegal crude oil refining station in Abaezi forest, Ohaji-Egbema Local Government Area of Imo State. “This devastating loss underscores the need for all concerned Nigerians to do what we can to discourage the type of improper activities that led to this unspeakable tragedy. “I offer my sincere condolences to you, to the families, friends, and loved ones of those who perished, and to all the people of Imo State. As survivors begin the process of healing and recovery, may the dearly departed find peace and eternal rest in the embrace of God Almighty.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com