MAIHARAJI ALTINE writes that the recent abduction of five female students in Zamfara State is indicative of the fear under which schools in the state operate More than any other state, Zamfara State has suffered attacks on its schools by bandits, who have now been tagged terrorists by the Federal Government. This has led to closure of some schools across the state. In 2021, the state government shut down schools  following the abduction of pupils of the Government Day Secondary School, Kaya in the Maradum Local Government Area. Also, the  state government has yet to reopen the school and the Government Girls Secondary School Jangebe in the Talata-Mafara Local Government Area, where students were abducted  on February 26, 2021.  Over 300 students were kidnapped in the female school, while over 100 students were kidnapped at the Kaya school on September 1, 2021. Although, the students were rescued after payment of large sum of money, the two schools are closed down due to the fear that, the bandits could still return to these schools. On April 13, the terrorists carried out an attack on the College of Health Technology, Tsafe, where they abducted five female students, instilling fear into the minds of many students of the institution. This is because the attack was the first of its kind, even though it did not occur in the school premises. The abduction also caused panic among pupils and students in the state, who realized that the terrorists still had their eyes on schools and that they could attack them at any time. Although the five students, who have since been released, were abducted in their rented accommodation, some students of the college expressed the fear that, the bandits could attack them at any moment, considering the fact that, Tsafe town was besieged by bandits who attacked residents on a daily basis. Just recently, the resident of the state Commissioner of Security, Deputy Inspector General of Police Mamman Tsafe (retd.) was attacked by bandits where four people including his son were killed. The abducted female students were in their rented apartment on the outskirts of Tsafe town and far away from the college when they were kidnapped by bandits in the night and taken to unknown destination. One of the students was able to escape while the remaining four were released after payment of an undisclosed amount. When The PUNCH visited the college, it discovered that, the students were busy studying in their various classes and the lectures were going on as normal but the four students who were kidnapped and rescued were not in the school. The Provost of the college, Idris Maradun, said they were in their homes and would return to the college as soon as they were treated and debriefed. The provost said the college had taken adequate security measures to ensure the safety of both the staff and the students. Maradun maintained that the security personnel were deployed in the college, adding that they were always on the alert. “They are always on patrol of the college both during the day and in the night.” He stressed that the college hd never recorded any bandits’ attack in the past, adding that, the five students that were abducted were not residing in the college’s compound. “We have never recorded any bandits’ attacks in the college since from its inception to date. Those that were kidnapped last week were not in the school. They were in their rented accommodation,”  said the provost. Maradun  added that the college had already informed the students to stop sleeping in rented accommodation. “We directed all the students to make sure that they are residing in the houses we provide for them whether in the college or in the town”. He lamented however that some of the students preferred rented accommodations to the ones being offered by the college simply because of the restrictions. According to the provost, the college charges between N7,000 to N10,000 for accommodation per annum, while in the town, it attracts up to 50,000 per annum. He however maintained that, the college had banned all the students from sleeping in rented accommodations apart from the ones provided by the college authority. He stated that the college had also closed down the house where the five students were abducted. “We have already closed down the house where those five female students were kidnapped and we will keep on monitoring to ensure compliance”. He also maintained that,the college had also restricted movement of students along some areas like the Bush House road, Kwaren-ganuwa road, Grave yard road and Siririya-Railway road. “These roads are dangerous areas and prone to bandits attacks”. That is why, we don’t want to see our students roaming around in those areas”. The provost also explained that the college authority would be closely monitoring the movement of people around the neighboring houses so as to ensure the arrest of persons of questionable character. “We have stationed some security personnel very close to the school who will monitor the movement of people around the neighboring houses and they have been directed to arrest any person whose movement is questionable.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com