The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, has declared the lawmaker representing Bonny-Degema Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Farah Dagogo, wanted for allegedly hiring cultists to attack the Peoples Democratic Party’s secretariat in Port Harcourt on Wednesday. But Dagogo had faulted Wike and the Rivers State Police Command for labelling him a cultist and declaring him wanted. It was leant that some party members had protested at the state secretariat located along the Aba Expressway over alleged exclusion. It was further learnt that officials of the PDP national secretariat had arrived Port Harcourt to begin the screening of aspirants for the Senate. As the protest was holding, a team of policemen reportedly arrived the scene, shot into the air to disperse them, and arrested some persons. Wike, in a statement by his media aide, Kelvin Ebiri, directed the state police command to arrest Dagogo. The statement read, “The governor has hereby directed the Rivers State Police Command to arrest Farah Dagogo for hiring cultists who stormed the PDP secretariat in Port Harcourt, and disrupted the screening of aspirants for various elective positions. “The police must as a matter of urgency arrest Farah Dagogo, wherever he is, and must be made to face prosecution. “Already, some of the hoodlums hired by Farah Dagogo have been arrested and will be made to face the full wrath of the law.” But Dagogo’s Special Adviser to on Media and Publicity, Ibrahim Lawal, in a statement, urged the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, to ask the Commissioner of Police in Rivers State, Friday Eboka, to ignore Wike’s order. Lawal alleged that the move against Dagogo was meant to frustrate his governorship ambition on the platform of the PDP. The statement partly read, “Farah Dagogo is not a cultist and did not hire, send or procure anyone to disrupt the screening exercise. “Farah Dagogo was never at the party secretariat where the screening process took place. He is a governorship aspirant and not national or state assembly aspirant.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com