The Chief Executive Officer of Obimzy Records and Properties, Abel Egbarin, otherwise known as Abu Abel, has distanced himself from the reports making the rounds on social media, insinuating that he ‘declared war’ against some alleged cult members in the country. Abel, who spoke to The PUNCH, said that every life was sacred to him and he did not support any form of violence. He said, “Every human life is sacred, I do not support any form of violence, and I do not have the capacity to perform the function of security agencies whose primary responsibility is to maintain law and order in the country. “I admonish these misguided elements who are working tirelessly to pitch me against some alleged cult members to desist from such irresponsible acts and find something worthwhile to do with their time for the betterment of society. The property merchant and showbiz personality said that it was worrisome for his name to be added to the life-threatening message. He said, “It is worrisome that those who are circulating this slander even added my name and claimed that I pledged to reward anybody that can kill one Dolapo, otherwise known as Dolly Pizzle. I however advise the public to disregard the viral rumour as such will never come from me. “Furthermore, as a law-abiding and responsible citizen of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I hereby disassociate myself from any criminal activities that may arise from the post. Consequently, I have written a petition to the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, notified security agencies, and instructed my legal team to immediately take necessary legal steps to apprehend whoever might be behind the post. “More important than the need to even exonerate myself, is the need for people to know that I am a gentleman with good character, and I will never sponsor a murder or an attack on anyone. People should not let whatever price tag that these evil perpetrators attached to the campaign of calumny push them into committing a crime. They should know that officers of the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies are always on alert. “I have better things to do with my time, as I’m often outside the country to attend to my businesses.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com