The government of Ogun State has stressed the need for a sustained harmonious relationship between government and those whose properties were acquired for development purposes. According to a statement, Special Adviser and Director-General, Bureau of Lands and Survey, Ogun State, Mr. Aina Salami, stated this during a town hall meeting with natives of Ijebu-Ode Local Government Area of the State. Salami said that for a meaningful development to take place in the area, the people must make sacrifices by surrendering their landed properties for development. The special adviser also promised that the government would provide more link roads across cities and health centres, amongst other social amenities for the benefit of the people. He appealed to the people to support the government to enable the state attain an enviable position among its comity of states. “Everyone will be sorted out by the state government accordingly. We are partners in progress in making our dear state a better place and investors friendly,” Salami said. Also speaking, a member of the Ogun State House of Assembly, representing Ijebu-Ode constituency, Hon. Kemi Oduwole, enjoined residents of the area to join hands with the present administration by releasing their land for developmental agenda. This, he said, would attract more investors and consequently improve the lives and livelihoods of the people. Responding, Lamodi of Isiwo, Oba Sikiru Salisu and Aladeken of Oke Ako, Oba Joshua Osunsanmi, appreciated the Prince Dapo Abiodun-led administration for creating an enabling environment for investors, promising their support. They appealed to the government to ensure that investors abode by the principle of Corporate Social Responsibility.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com