Former Governor of Imo State and Senator representing Imo West district at the National Assembly, Rochas Okorocha, Tuesday in Abuja, said the All Progressives Congress had no time left to conduct its primaries. This is as he said, the Adamu-led national working committee had a lot on its table and therefore required faster and bigger steps to get things done. Okorocha said this while fielding questions from journalists after a closed-door meeting with the APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, at the party’s National Secretariat. “We literally have no time left to conduct party primaries. So, this present working committee has a lot on their table to deal with and it requires faster and bigger steps to get this done; but as you know internal democracy is very key in this country and I believe that the present excos will ensure beautiful internal democracy where all will be happy and no one will feel deprive or cheated. “They will do their best and I have confidence in them that they will give us the best of candidates which includes; President, governors Senators, and others.” On the purpose of his visit to Buhari House, the presidential aspirant said, “Today, I just came to see the national chairman to discuss some great vital issues and suggestions that will move this party forward.
“I have told the whole world and Nigerians that I will be running for the office of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and I’m still in it. “What is important at this stage is for all of us Nigerians to understand the nation’s mood, which is very important. Aspiration is one thing, yet vision is another thing. I think Nigerians should be able to separate aspiration and ambition from vision. “If you have ambition without vision, you will be wasting time, you will contribute nothing but if you have vision then it is appropriate that you should lead the people.” The PUNCH had reported that the former Imo State Governor officially declared his intention to vie for the APC’s presidential ticket. Addressing a World Press Conference on Monday, January 31, 2022, Okorocha kicked against the zoning of political offices in the APC, appealing to party leaders to allow a level-playing field for candidates no matter their region. He said, “I hear people talking about zoning; I’m not a candidate of zoning; I am a candidate of justice. Maybe the South-East has not been able to present their matter very well before the rest of Nigerians.
“I appeal to my party (APC) to allow a level-playing field. And the South-East must know that power is not given; it is taken. “You must reach out to people who you want to vote for you. But let justice reign.” The lawmaker promised that, if elected, he would reunite the country; a challenge, he said, previous leaders have been unable to tackle head-on. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com