The Federal Road Safety Corps said it had deployed 1,190 operatives ahead of the Easter celebration in Rivers State. The state FRSC acting spokesperson, Juliana Eni, disclosed this in a statement issued made available to newsmen in Port Harcourt. Eni said of the 1,190; 330 officers, 360 marshals, and 500 special marshals would be drafted to patrol various highways across the state to ensure obedience to traffic rules and regulations, flow of traffic and to respond promptly to any case of auto crash. This, as directed by the Sector Commander, Corps Commander Salisu U Galadunci MLCJ, is in keeping with the Command’s promise to effective service delivery to the citizens of the State to ensure they enjoy a hitch-free Easter Celebrations. Additionally, more than 30 patrol vehicles will be deployed on duty across the state and two ambulances to be strategically located on standby for emergencies. The statement read, “The Sector Commander, Rivers State Command, Sakisu Galadunchi, has further promised citizens of the state that the Special Patrols will adopt the engagement of the motoring public through impactful public education and surveillance activities among other things. “The idea is to regulate and check excesses of bad driving habits of the will be violators of traffic rules.” She advised the motorists to drive safely, avoid drunk driving, use of mobile telephones while driving, overloading and related habits that may endanger their lives. The statement decried the emergence of traffic light violations being noticed at various newly installed traffic light locations within the metropolis, saying violators would be punished according to the law. Eni urged members of the public to avail themselves of the opportunity to call the FRSC emergency toll free number 122 to report any such situation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com