Gombe State Police Command has arrested three suspects said to be specialised in dismembering body parts of corpses at the cemetery in the state, over alleged possession of human heads. The paraded suspects include: Yale Saleh, 27, Baba Muhammadu, 24, and Aminu Salisu, 22, all from Dinawa village in the Kwami Local Government Area of Gombe. According to the Public Relations Officer of the Gombe State Police Command, Mahid Abubakar, officers were able to retrieve one out of the two human heads the suspects dug from their graves. Abubakar said, “Based on credible information, the suspects were arrested in possession of a human head. During preliminary investigation, the suspects confessed that they dug the grave and cut off the head of one Abdullahi Mohammed ‘m’ who was buried on March 28, 2022, at the Dinawa village cemetery. “The suspects further confessed to have dug the grave of a deceased woman, name yet unknown, at the same Dinawa village cemetery and cut off her head. Effort is ongoing to recover the second head. The case has been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department for discreet investigation and prosecution.” Abubakar urged residents to continue to provide officers with relevant information towards curbing heinous crimes in the state. “The State Commissioner of Police, Ishola Babaita, wishes to use this medium to appeal to all peace loving citizens of Gombe State to continue to partner and co-operate with this Command by furnishing us with credible information about the activities of the men of the underworld. All information shall be treated with utmost confidentiality and the identities of our informants will be protected,” Abubakar added. Meanwhile, A 50-year old gun fabricator, Usman Isah, from the Darazo Local Government Area of Bauchi State, was also nabbed for aiding crimes. The PPRO revealed that investigation was ongoing, adding that Isah would be charged to court for prosecution. Abubakar said, “Isah specialised in fabrication of arms for men of the underworld who operate along the Wawa-Dukku area of Gombe State. The suspect confessed that he is responsible for fabrication of several Dane guns to criminals within and beyond Gombe State. Exhibits recovered include four locally-fabricated Dane guns.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com