A Mobile Court in Bauchi State has sentenced a commercial car driver in the state, Samaila Garba, to a six-month jail term for assaulting personnel of the Federal Roads Safety Corps in the state. The FRSC Sector Commander in the state, Yusuf Abdullahi, in a press statement made available to our correspondent late Friday evening, said that the court, however, gave the convict a N20,000 option of fine which he paid to the court. “The convict was prosecuted following an assault on personnel of the FRSC while on duty as well as dangerous driving in a case number FRSCBH/01/22, FRSC vs Samaila Hamisu Garba. “The offences charged were WOV, Hazardous Goods Declaration, AMD, and OVL as presented before the court on been arraigned on March 26, 2022, and prosecuted on the same date. “He was also directed by the court to pay a compensation of the sum of N20,000 to the FRSC staff that was assaulted and injured,” he said. Meanwhile, the FRSC Boss, expressed worry over frequent attacks on its operatives by hoodlums across the country, promoting the Corps to resort to seeking divine intervention from God to protect them. Consequently, the Command donated foodstuffs and other items to the orphanage homes to solicit prayers for its operatives on the line of duty. The Sector Commander said that the Command was requesting the children to use the opportunity of the holy month of Ramadan to pray for the protection and safety of the operatives to enable them to carry out their mandate successfully. He stressed that, though the operatives were facing high risks in the line of duty, they would not relent in the efforts to ensure accident-free roads across the state. He said that the primary objective of the FRSC was to minimize ghastly road crashes by ensuring adherence to traffic rules and regulations by all road users. Abdullahi, who commended the operatives for risking their lives for a safer road, advised them to be cautious and security-conscious while performing their official duties. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com