THE Lagos State Government, as part of efforts to ensure that enrolees on the Ilera Eko Health Insurance plan have access to quality healthcare services, has commenced visitation to its health providers. According to a statement on Monday, the General Manager, Lagos State Health Management Agency, Dr Emmanuella Zamba, disclosed this during his team’s visits to County Hospital and Blue Cross Hospital, in Ogba. Zamba explained that the purpose of the visits was to inspect the hospitals’ facilities in order for Ilera Eko enrolees to be treated politely and enjoy all the outlined benefits under the scheme. She said, “We have seen the facilities, observed customers’ experience, we have seen the services offered and we are satisfied with the various innovations in line with international standards put in place to provide quick and better healthcare to our Ilera Eko enrolees and other Health Maintenance Organisations. We encourage you to keep up the good job. “LASHMA will continue the visitation to both public and private health facilities under Ilera Eko and other health providers that are not yet on the scheme to immediately come on board and collaborate with the Lagos State Government to be part of the success story.” Responding, the Chairman of County Hospital, Mr Michael Craig, noted that the hospital would continue to provide best services to residents. “The hospital, since its existence, has invested a lot in infrastructure to render adequate services to all kinds of patients and I promise that it will continue to render best services to Ilera Eko enrolees and other residents of the state,” he stated. The Medical Director of Blue Cross Hospital, Dr Oluwakayode Ayodeji, who was represented by the Head of Clinical, Dr Danjuma Yinusa, said the hospital is delighted to be at the forefront of quality service delivery for the scheme. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com