The Igbo Youth For Positive Change has commended the filing of criminal charges against Simon Ekpa by the Indigenous People of Biafra. The National President of the group, Mr Chinedu Obigwe, stated this in a statement he made available to journalists in Awka on Tuesday. Obigwe said, “The truth is that Simon Ekpa is behind the killings and other heinous crimes in Igbo land and he should pay for his evil deeds. “We joyfully commend the leadership of IPOB for deciding to take the bull by the horns by filling criminal and terror charges against Simon Ekpa in Finland.” He added that Igbo leaders must do the needful by teaming up with IPOB to get justice for those that lost their lives to Ekpa’s instigated killings. Obigwe urged IPOB to finance the case so that Ekpa will pay for his crimes against humanity in the South-East. He stressed that all hands must be on the desk for criminal and terror charges against Ekpa in Finland to yield fruitful results. The group alleged that Ekpa is the only one encouraging people to continue to sit at home every Monday and also instigating criminals to be terrorising the whole Igbo land. The statement read in part, “Chika Edoziem, IPOB DOS and the entire leadership of IPOB have proven to the whole world that they are not supporters of evil by first exposing Simon Ekpa as the brain behind the killings in Igbo land and their second step of filing criminal charges against him in Finland is a way of making the general public to know that they are not framing him up. “Ekpa is inhuman and he does not deserve to be walking freely in Finland. This is a man that denounced Nnamdi Kanu, insulted Mazi Chika Edoziem and Barrs Ifeanyi Ejiofor that is Kanu’s close confidant. “Their offence is that they are not in support of Ekpa’s criminal activities. “Another offence they committed against him is that they communicated Kanu’s decision to the Igbo people that they should end the senseless every Monday sit-at-home because of the devastating effect it is having on the South-East economy. “Ekpa is the only one encouraging people to continue sit-at-home every Monday and he is also instigating criminals to be terrorising the whole igbo land every Monday and other days. “Ekpa cannot be in the comfort of his house in Finland and be instigating violence, killings and maiming in igbo land. He has taken more than required and should face prosecution.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com