Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo visited Ibadan, the Oyo State capital to woo delegates of the All Progressives Congress, who will vote to elect the presidential candidate of the party. Osinbajo paid a courtesy visit to the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Lekan Balogun, before he addressed hundreds of delegates and APC leaders in the state, on Friday. The APC chairman in Oyo State, Isaac Omodewu; two governorship aspirants, Chief Niyi Akintola,SAN, and Senator Teslim Folarin, were among the party leaders present at the meeting. The Vice President said his position as the number two citizen of Nigeria had placed him in a very good position to function very well if he is voted into power in 2023. He said, “On April 11, 2022, I, your son, your brother and your friend declared  my intention to run for the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I declared my intention to run with the greatest humility. “I have served in the Federal Government of Nigeria for the past years. And in those seven years, I have been involved because the President considered it right, and in his own generosity and his openness, he gave me every opportunity including sensitive international assignments. “As you know, I also acted as President during the period when the President was away on medical vacation. “Everything that I learnt as Acting President, everything that I have learnt as Vice President has prepared me to run as President of our country and to function as President of our country. “God is always deliberate in everything that he does. By giving me all of those opportunities, to understand governance, to be exposed to everything local and international at the highest level in our country. “All of these were not given to me to sit down and write my memoir. It was to come handy one day and I believe the time has come. I believe that I have the responsibility to my country, I have the responsibility to you, to all our children and to coming generations to give everything I have learnt to serve our country faithfully honestly and transparently. That is my intention. “One advantage I will have is that from day one, I can hit the ground running because I know what it takes.” Earlier, at the palace, Osinbajo congratulated the monarch and described the ascension to the  throne of Oba Balogun as a blessing to Ibadan and to Nigeria. The Olubadan prayed for Osinbajo and wished him well. Oba Balogun said, “We are proud of you and share your aspiration. I don’t want to be tempted to talk politics, and I can spend hours praying for you, but let me hand you over to the Almighty Allah to take total control and be with you and your entourage. “  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com