Four revenue-generating agencies of the Federal Government generated a total of N28.02tn between 2017 and 2019, the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative announced on Thursday. NEITI outlined the agencies to include the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited; Federal Inland Revenue Service; Department of Petroleum Resources, now Nigeria Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission; and the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development. It stated that out of the amount, N22.68tn was remitted to the Federation Account, as a breakdown of the figures showed that minerals and non-minerals revenue contributed N12.84tn (56.61 per cent) and N6.57tn (28.97 per cent) respectively, while Value-Added Tax accounted for N3.27tn (14.42 per cent). “The cost of collection and joint-venture cash calls deductions by revenue-generating agencies accounted for the differences between the revenue generated and remittance,” NEITI stated. It disclosed this in its latest Fiscal Allocation and Statutory Disbursement report which covered the period 2017-2019. The audit report examined total extractive industry revenue remitted into the Federation Account, tracked allocation and disbursement from the account to statutory recipients, as well as utilisation and application of the funds by the beneficiaries between the years 2017 to 2019. The audit covered four federal revenue-generating and 11 beneficiary agencies that were involved in the management of extractive industries funds. It also covered nine selected states including Akwa-Ibom, Bayelsa, Delta, Gombe, Imo, Kano, Nasarawa, Ondo, and Rivers. The beneficiary agencies include Niger Delta Development Commission; Tertiary Education Trust Fund; Petroleum Trust Development Fund; Petroleum Equalisation Funds; Ecological Fund and Stabilisation Fund. Others include the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority; Development of Natural Resources Fund; Excess Crude Account; Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board; and Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency. The NEITI report stated that the FIRS generated N13.48tn within the period under review with Petroleum Profit Tax accounting for N5.80tn (43.09 per cent), while VAT and other taxes accounted for 32 and 24 per cent respectively. The FIRS recorded the highest revenue collection of N5.02tn in 2018. NEITI said N8.82tn was generated by the NNPC within the period, as the breakdown showed that N4.55tn came from domestic crude sales, while export receipts accounted for N4.27tn. It further disclosed that N5.33tn was deducted at source for JV cash call and others, leaving the net amount of N3.49tn as transferred to Federation Account. “During the period under consideration, a total of N8.82tn was generated. However, only N3.49tn (39.55 per cent) was remitted to the Federation Account due to deductions at source by NNPC for JV cash calls. The deductions at source by the NNPC negate the principle of Federation Account,” NEITI’s report stated. From the report, DPR (now NUPRC) generated N3.53tn for the three years under review, with royalty payments accounting for N3.4tn (96.41 per cent). The agency, however, transferred N3.53tn to the Federation Account, as the audit established that the surplus of N6.72bn was as a result of unremitted receipts from the prior year. The Ministry of Mines and Steel Development generated N12.498bn within the three-year period, as the Mining Inspectorate Department contributed N6.43bn while Mining Cadastral Office accounted for N6.06bn. From the total revenue generated by the ministry, a sum of N7.56bn was shared with the three tiers of government in 2019.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com