Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, in Kaduna on Monday, donated N200 million to victims of banditry and other violent clashes in the state. According to Wike, who was in the state as part of his consultation to seek for the 2023 presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party, the donation was for the upkeep for the displaced persons in the state who had suffered attacks over the years. The governor, while addressing PDP members at the Secretariat of the party at Ungwan Sanu, Old NDA, Kaduna, lamented the situation residents of Kaduna state found themselves in, due to the activities of terrorists disturbing the state. Wike, while announcing the donation to support the victims of attacks in the state, noted that insecurity would be a thing of past when he becomes the next president of the country. He said, “I am here today to say that this country needs rescue. We came here to say we must not take sentiment to 2023 election. We came here to tell you that what PDP requires now is to get somebody who is courageous, who can withstand this party and win this election in 2023. “I am not here to tell you that I am just a mere presidential aspirant, I want to win election if you give me the ticket on 29 and 30 May, 2022. “It is no longer a story the situation our country found itself under APC. Take for example, with the state we are today, Kaduna state is one of the most peaceful state, people travel freely. No leader In the North will say that he does not have house in Kaduna state, people can leave Abuja 10:00pm in the night and come to Kaduna. “When I was minister, I come by road but today what is happening? Kaduna has lost its glory and it is because of the inefficiency of those in the government. Wike, who’s also a presidential aspirant of the PDP, said he was in the state to woo party delegates ahead of the party’s presidential primary. He, therefore, pleaded with the delegates to rally round him and give him 80 per cent of their votes, saying that at least, 60 out of the 78 delegates from the State should vote for him, while the rest rest 18 can be shared among other aspirants. In his response, a former Governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, said he would make Governor Wike President if he had the power as result of his contribution to survival of the party during its trying periods. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com