A former Governor of Cross River State and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Clement Ebri, shares his thoughts with ADA WODU on the party’s national convention, insecurity and other issues What are your legacies as a former governor of Cross River State? As a principle of life, I am given to making a feast out of crumbs. So, when I assumed office in January 1992, I did so with the firm belief that with appropriate leadership, a conducive environment can be created to make Cross River State an economic force to be reckoned with, regardless of the economic realities of the state at the time. My mission therefore was to provide the requisite leadership that will facilitate and create the impetus for development and economic growth. So, I put together a sterling performing team with a shared vision to work with me, and to God’s glory, we achieved some enduring successes. My development strategy was to deploy a systemic approach which will facilitate organic, sustainable economic growth and development, and we accomplished this across all sectors of the economy. In the agricultural sector, we revitalised our plantations and livestock to make them self-sustaining and economically viable. We laid the blue print for comprehensive rural road network and constructed approximately 1,075 kilometres of rural roads across the state through the DFRRI (Directorate of Food, Roads and Rural Infrastructure) programme. Our water goal was to ensure that every household in the state had access to potable water, and we started out by sinking boreholes in communities, revamping existing water schemes and inaugurating new ones. I also realised at the time that modern economies were knowledge and power-driven. So, we embarked on a campaign to ensure access to equitable and quality education, with special emphasis on science education at all levels, while pursuing a vigorous rural electrification programme that would bring electricity and its benefits for development to all LGAs in the state. We also reduced the housing deficit for civil servants in the state by a considerable margin through the construction of housing units and mortgage loans schemes, funded by state financial institutions. In summary, my administration’s policies provided veritable impetus for a burgeoning private sector, thus moving the state from being a civil service-dependent state to becoming more productive, entrepreneurial and private sector-driven. This enabled us to raise the IGR of the state from three per cent of total income when I assumed office in January 1992 to 30 per cent by November 1993, when my administration was truncated. Were you able to fulfill your vision for the state in spite of the brief spell? When I assumed office, I had an articulate development plan for the state, with time-bound deliverables spread across an initial 48-month time frame (or first four years). But as you know, my administration was aborted, after 22 months, less than half way into the initial planning cycle. Although I actualised virtually all that was planned within the first 24-month cycle, we didn’t have enough time to either bring some of our programmes to their logical conclusion or to start off those whose kick-off dates lay outside the threshold of the first 22 months. How did you feel when the Third Republic was cut short? As should be expected, I felt sad because I had a lot to offer the state, and came prepared with the right team to deliver on my campaign promises. Although we achieved a lot in such a short spell, going by my vision, we had only just begun. It is instructive to recall that at the time, there was no derivation and no allocation from oil. The state’s monthly allocation from the Federal Government was approximately N32m, while the entire state budget for the year was N1.3b, and we accomplished all that we did, without borrowing and without getting an overdraft from the banks. Nonetheless, I am grateful to God for the privilege He granted me to lead my state for that brief spell. What inspired your earlier aspiration to the position of national chairman of the All Progressives Congress? The short answer to that question is service, the desire to provide the much needed leadership to our great party, the All Progressives Congress. I had the motivation, the experience, knowledge and skills and importantly, the disposition to serve as the chairman of the APC. I came prepared to help the party chart the path for the emergence of a truly united, inclusive and great party in which every voice would count. I offered myself for service, willing to deploy my knowledge, skills and experience as chairman. Recall that in 1988, I was a member of the constituent assembly, and that I have been a director to several financial institutions. So, I had boardroom experience. Recall also that I had served as chairman of the Presidential Committee set up to review the 1999 Constitution (2000-2001), and also as National Chairman of the Progressive Peoples Alliance (January 2008 – August 2009). In these capacities, I developed a holistic vision of what constitutes the Nigerian state and estate along with an inclusive approach to the administration of complex organisations, such as political parties and others related to it. 2023 is approaching and only a few people in your party have declared interest to contest the governorship position in your state. Why is that so? You know that in virtually all spheres of life, timing is important, and politics is no exception. I would leave that to the would-be candidates. I believe they are bidding their time, or perhaps they know something that you do not know. For one, the debate on zoning has not been conclusively decided. But I am sure that at the appropriate time, the intending candidates would signify their interest to run. Bear in mind also that with the prevailing political climate of consensus candidacy, it could be that there’s a lot of back room work to be done before a public declaration is made. There appears to be division between the old and new members of the party, How can the differences be resolved? What may appear as division may just be the manifestation of the true dynamic of team formation. With new members joining the party, one should expect that there’ll be some areas of friction as new members adapt to their new environment even as the old members try to assimilate the points of positive value that the new members are bringing to the party. However, I think that at the leadership level, there should be sincerity of purpose as a deliberate strategy to help pull all our people together. There should be negotiation, dialogue, and a shared vision. People need to be heard and feel they’re being heard, otherwise apparent division which you described may persist. Although we won the recent election at Ogoja, the results went down to the wire. The elections were too close to call, and I believe we can do much better than that. What is your position on the raging debate about zoning of the governorship position in the state? I have no issues with zoning, so long as it is done without compromising merit, capacity, competence and integrity. We are at the crossroads and we needto put our best foot forward. While zoning is good for equity and trust, the qualities outlined above should however not be slaughtered on the altar of zoning. Are you satisfied with the quality of governance in the state? Having had the privilege and honour to have served as a governor, I can say that it is easier for me to appreciate some of the possible challenges of governance in the state. And I think that people should be careful when they criticise a man in whose shoes they have not walked. However, I also believe that all who aspire to such office must come prepared, having first evaluated the known problems and challenges and their capacity to address them. Indeed anyone who intends to build a tower must first sit down and calculate the cost to see if he or she has what it takes to complete the task. I believe the present government is doing its best within its limitations. But the people of the state expect more, they believe they deserve more. Whereas people can appreciate the challenges of the low state allocation, they nonetheless expect sincerity of purpose, consultation and a sense of being carried along in the governance process of the state. What are your expectations from the new National Working Committee of your party? As a party, we have unwittingly cast ourselves as being unappreciative of merit, performance pedigree and loyalty. I expect the NWC to reverse this trend, and prevent it from becoming a party norm. The APC has not done enough to encourage, motivate or reward merit and commitment, and this has caused many faithful party members to lose their trust in the party. The NWC has to rebuild trust in the party and trust amongst party membership, and it can do this by addressing as a matter of urgency the lack of internal democracy within the party. Take for example the just concluded party convention, which denied qualified candidates their rights to compete freely and fairly for party positions through an undemocratic imposition called consensus candidacy. Such impositions breed bad blood and distrust within the party. I think it was Benjamin Franklin who was credited with the saying that “a man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still.” I expect the NWC to not only pay lip service, but to deliberately right these aberrations in the party’s governance and practices. Party supremacy should not translate to imposition that binds the consciences of party men, and abridges their rights, where the party constitution doesn’t do so. Also, I expect the NWC to ensure that the administrative party structure comprising the BOT, caucus, and vital organs of the party must be seen to be functioning in accordance with our constitution. Ahead of 2023, the NWC must help re-position the party in order to pull together all our internal energies towards winning the hearts and the minds of the people, and ultimately their votes at the polls in 2023. Do you think the APC can form the government at the federal level in 2023? Yes, if we put our house in order, and if the party leadership shows sincerity of purpose borne out of responsiveness to the aspirations of the Nigerian people. Party records put the membership of APC at 41 million Nigerians. If this figure is true, then we need to mobilise and translate the figure to actual votes, and I believe this can be done if we show sincerity of purpose at the top. What is your view about zoning the presidency to the South in 2023? I think it is only fair and equitable to do so. We are a federation comprising federating units and zoning the presidency to the South in 2023 is perfectly alright as it will enable a proper sense of belonging among the federating units. However, the candidate of southern extraction must be chosen on merit, must be level-headed, without dictatorial traits, must be trusted across board, not impulsive or abrasive. Personally, I think that a very key quality that the candidate of choice must possess in addition to the foregoing is empathy. I will therefore recommend that he or she should not be someone who has remained in government/power over a protracted unbroken period, as this tends to numb politicians and makes them insensitive to the reality of the governed. I would prefer someone who having held political office, has also been out of power, and has thus experienced firsthand the frustrations of the governed. I believe such a candidate will be more accommodating and would run a more inclusive and responsive government. Some lawmakers were removed from their seats by the court for defecting to another party. What is your take on this? This practice (defection) has continued unchecked in our democracy until now. In the First Republic, it was referred to as “carpet crossing”. I am not a lawyer, and so, I’ll wait to see what the outcome in the legal tussles on the matter will be. However, I firmly believe that there should be hygiene in politics. Politicians should not be so blatant in their disrespect for the electorate. But like I said, I’ll leave that to the law courts to determine. I’ll like to point out however that during my tenure as governor in the Third Republic, we didn’t experience this. I recall that I appointed Dr. Emmanuel Nsan, who was not a member of my party (NRC), but was a member of the opposition SDP in the state, to head the Calabar City Development Authority. He did a good job and was never under any pressure or obligation to defect to the NRC. He remained in SDP. I made several other appointments like that, based on individual merit and competence. A Federal High Court in Abia State recently directed the Attorney General of the Federation to delete section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act. But the National Assembly is kicking against this. How would you react to this? I think this is simply a case of brazen abuse of the power of incumbency. It is sad that people find it hard to appreciate the transience of power and life itself for that matter. There should be a level playing field for all who fancy themselves able to win in a free, fair and transparent contest. The spate of killings, kidnappings and armed robbery has increased with no solution in sight. How would you have tackled insecurity if you were to be in power? The first thing to do will be to accept that the problem exists, and own the responsibility to eliminate the problem. Then do a dispassionate analysis to define the root causes, primary, secondary and presenting manifestation of the problem. With that in place, the necessary resources – human, machinery and equipment will be appropriately deployed to effectively tackle the problem using kinetic and non-kinetic approaches as may be necessary to address the root cause. I will employ a 360-degree Intel-driven approach that involves communities, state and non-state actors, with early warning and prompt response as an integral part of the strategy. It is clear that one of the root causes is youth unemployment with its attendant youth restiveness. The axiom that “idleness corrupts the virtues of men and the chastity of women” is very instructive in this regards. Also collaboration between the military, police, para-military and vigilante groups will be codified and coordinated for greater effectiveness. The local governments in the country are seeking political and financial autonomy amid disagreement with some governors. Did the local government in Cross River State enjoy financial autonomy during your time as governor? I believe that all politics is local, and as such, local governments being closest to the people, should be financially autonomous. To answer your question directly, yes, during my tenure as governor, local governments enjoyed financial autonomy. Their allocations were paid directly to them via the Federal Pay Office and we had no reason to tamper with it. During my time as governor, I recall that I even assisted the then Calabar Municipality, to pay their salaries. As far as I’m concerned, we should start to pay attention to elections at local government level and begin to accord the office of local government chairman its due respect. That way, seasoned and mature people will begin to take interest in competing in local government level elections. The local government areas should be allowed to manage their funds and resources. How would you rate the ninth National Assembly? I think the ninth Assembly is doing their best, but Nigerians believe they can do more, and thus expect better of them. They have done well with the Electoral Bill and Nigerians applaud them for that. But it is worrisome however that the Board of NDDC is yet to be inaugurated, two years after screening and clearing of members, and the National Assembly has not pulled its weight to ensure that the right thing is done. The Buhari regime would be leaving next year. Do you think promises by his regime have been fulfilled? To some extent the regime has tried. Let’s bear in mind that success ratings should be done on the basis of the magnitude of the problem and its elasticity. I believe there is still time for the government to end on a high note. It could start by plucking the low hanging fruits, like ensuring that the fuel queues disappear. If you recall the availability of petroleum products was one of the most noticeable initial pluses of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration in 2015. I believe the administration can regain its public approval rating if there is sincerity of purpose and the will to do so. You were the chairman of the panel that handled the Lagos State 2019 primary, where the current governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, won the primary. How were you able to manage the exercise amid serious controversies? Admittedly, there were initial hic-ups, which is not strange given the tension surrounding the primary. But this was amicably resolved. On this point, I think the best testimony to the success of the exercise was the then governor, (Akinwunmi) Ambode’s concession speech. There was also the claim that Ambode, who was the incumbent governor then, met with the panel in a hotel. What transpired during the meeting? To the best of my knowledge, no such meeting took place. The panel paid the then governor a courtesy call in his office upon our arrival as protocol demands. The meeting in his (Ambode) office was public knowledge as it should be. Some believe that Nigerians are more divided along ethnic lines now than ever before. What do you think the next President should do to unite the nation? Those who say so must have their parameters for testing the veracity or otherwise of their statements. The unity of this country is still work in progress, and successive governments will and should continue to work to further unite the country. Consequently, I think the next President of Nigeria should use all the powers vesting on him to reduce the pain, want, anger and frustration that so easily lead to conflicts. This can be done by making strategic appointments reflective of our status as a federation and our collective national aspirations. We hope that whichever government comes in, will continue to manage our diversity and spread infrastructure to ensure equitable development. The situation where a collective wrong is so entrenched in our body politic that it becomes an acceptable right should be avoided at all cost. It appears the clamour for self-determination among some ethnic groups has died down. What could be the reason for this development? Again I don’t know the parameters. But what we know is that a country as diverse as Nigeria will be prone to some of these proclivities. The challenge of leadership will always be how to effectively manage these tendencies. To address the second part of the question, I am not in a position to comment on what could be the reason for this. But straight off the bat, I can tell you that if people have a genuine sense of belonging and respect each other’s right to national aspiration, then these separatist, irredentist and balkanization agendas will find no justification whatsoever. This is another reason why we need a President who is nationalistic, cosmopolitan and forward looking. We definitely must face the reality sooner than later. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com