Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, a group of supporters of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, has called on him to contest for Nigeria’s president. The group, under the aegis of  Unified Northern Nigeria Youths’ Forum, said Emefiele could salvage Nigeria, adding that he could make hundreds of millionaires in his first term in office. The Convener of the UNNYF,  Mohammad  Danlami, said the group was made up of about 40 youth organisations from the North, revealing that Emefiele was from the South but North at heart. He said, “Let me call on the ruling All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party and other political parties in the country to choose Emefiele as consensus candidate owing to his qualities.” The group noted that the CBN boss had ignited business ventures in the region, citing the recently exhibited rice pyramids, which they said had a unique impact on the people. He said, “This is largely seen in the intervention programmes he initiated as the CBN governor that is mostly targeting the development of agriculture. He initiated several intervention programmes that have a greater impact on the North and Northerners. He is south by birth but North by heart. “The CBN governor needs to reason with us and bury his personal interest and contest for the betterment of Nigeria.” While commenting on the choice of  Emefiele, the group noted that poverty would be alleviated as well as youth restiveness and other social vices with him as president. “It is a fact that there exists a strong nexus between poverty, human security, national insecurity, and food insecurity,” he added. While urging stakeholders in Gombe. to work for the emergence of Emefiele, Danlami stated that the group saw hope, vision, commitment and development in the CBN governor.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com