The Social Democratic Party candidate for the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti State, Chief Segun Oni, on Saturday urged workers in the state not to lose hope despite allegedly celebrating May Day in near penury. Oni, who said that he shared in the workers’ pains, assured them of better days if they would allow him to hold power in trust for them by voting him as the next governor of the state in June.” The former governor, in his May Day message titled, “I feel your pains, Segun Oni tells Ekiti workers on May Day” by the Director of Media and Publicity of his campaign organisation, Jackson Adebayo, stated, “The situation has never been this bad in Ekiti State”. Oni told the workers, “I feel what you are passing through. I know this is an occasion that should naturally call for celebration, but for the fact that it is being celebrated in near penury by most of you. I believe that the sweat of the labourer should not be allowed to dry up before he/she gets paid. “But this is the situation where bad governance has landed us in our dear state. There is no longer respect for the dignity of labour. Today, I am appealing to you not to lose hope. I am promising you new days ahead if I am elected your governor. “As a matter of fact, the anguish and distrust between the labour and the current administration that led to the cancellation of the May Day celebration in the state last year, which has persisted, as well as grown worse will soon become a thing of the past. “All that is required for workers in Ekiti State to put paid to lack of payment of salaries as and when due, unpaid leave bonuses and other allowances, lack of fund for promotions as well as the enormous backlog of pension and gratuities is for you to give your power to me in trust. You know me, we have travelled this route together before. I will never disappoint you. “As I look on you with pity at this difficult period, I wish you long life and strength to endure the period, so that when next we are celebrating another holiday, it will be in comfort and happiness, God willing,” Oni stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com