The Oxford and Cambridge Club of Nigeria has said it is critical to continue building sustainable scholarship funds for indigent students across the country. Speaking during the election of new executives for OCCN, the new president, Mr Lanre Fatimilehin, said the club had continued to receive a lot of requests for financial support from students seeking to pursue degrees at the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge. Presenting his report at the 2022 Annual General Meeting held both virtually and live in Lagos, he said the club was in partnership with the Cambridge Commonwealth, European & International Trust to offer jointly-funded scholarships for students at the University of Cambridge. Fatimilehin, however, solicited financial support from members, adding that contributions would go a long way in assisting the students. “It will be wonderful if we are able to offer two grants of  £5, 000 to one student going to Oxford and another one going to Cambridge,” he stated. He added that £10,000 annually should not be beyond the reach of the membership of the Club. He said that although COVID-19 affected many of the club’s activities in 2020, in 2021 the Club was able to execute many of its goals. According to him, priorities for the new executive are increasing membership numbers and engagement. “Growth will come from leveraging platforms such as the annual Freshers’ Event to increase awareness about the club and track new members.   On the first Sunday in April, members and their guests will gather at the Lagos Motor Boat Club to view the 2022 edition of the Oxbridge Boat Race.” He acknowledged the support and invaluable contributions of Mr Phillip Asiodu, Prof. Bomi Ogedengbe, Mr Fela Akoni, Mr Demola Akinrele (SAN) and Mr Jonathan Millard. Other newly elected executives include vice president (Oxford), Mr Obiora Agbim; vice president (Cambridge), Mr Adeola Adenubi; honorary secretary, Ms Oyin Johnson; honorary treasurer, Mrs Ehimhen Okoh-Agunloye; membership secretary, Dr Onyeka Erobu; and social secretary, Mrs Ebun Awosika. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com