No fewer than 317 officers have been promoted to the rank of Inspector in Gombe, following the approval of the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba. Decorating the 317 officers at the officers’ mess on Saturday, during the monthly conference between the Commissioner of Police and Area Commanders and Divisional Police Officers, CP Ishola Babaita, urged them to reciprocate the promotion with improved service. The Commissioner of Police revealed that this was the highest in the history of promotion of rank and file in the command, urging beneficiaries to support the efforts of the police helmsman in transforming the system. According to him, “We want the morale of our officers to be gingered and to also know that the authorities are with them. “Wherever you work if there is no promotion you will be discouraged, when you are still marking time with three to five years haba, morale go low. But when at the due time you are been considered, other things will follow. “The total of 317 of our men have been promoted in Gombe. The Inspector General of Police has promised that this will be a continuous exercise and next year people that are qualified will be considered.” Announcing the donation of newly approved uniforms from the headquarters, the Commissioner stressed that they include; uniforms, dark grey, blue, camouflage boot, and beret. Babaita explained that the donation would go a long way in boosting the morale of officers towards improved service to country. “This will bring honour to our men, and it will also ensure that they dress properly to discharge their duties,” Babaita said. Fielding answers on measures put in place to forestall imitation of Police items by men of the underworld, Babaita said, “There is a print there written Nigeria Police Force, if it is not original, it can’t be original.” Also speaking, Nathaniel Kutere, one of the decorated officers attached to the Tumfure Division, lauded the efforts of police authorities in ensuring that they were promoted, assuring that they would do their best to justify the confidence. He said, “I want to thank the IGP for approving the promotion, CP for grooming us to qualify for this promotion. This promotion will motivate us to give our best.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com