The Delta State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps has deployed 2,418 personnel to provide water-tight security across Delta State before, during and after this year’s Easter celebrations. This is just as the Anambra State Command of the corps says it has deployed 1,977 personnel across the state to ensure safety during the celebration. The Delta State Commandant of the NSCDC, I. A. Akinsanya, while approving the deployment, disclosed that the personnel were drafted from the Tactical Squad, the Anti-Vandal Unit, the Agro-Rangers, Counter Terrorism Unit, the Rapid Respond Unit, Operations Department, the Sniper Combatant (female squad) and the Department of Intelligence and Investigation. While maintaining that the peace being witnessed in the state should not be taken for granted, the NSCDC boss directed all Area Commanders, Divisional Officers, Component Commanders and Squadron Leaders to supervise and monitor the deployed officers so that they operate within the extant laws and discharge their duty with professionalism in line with international best practices. He urged all Deltans to go about their legitimate business without fear of molestation advising that they should say something when they see something adding that their identity will never be disclosed. The Anambra State Command said the personnel have been deployed in worship centres, recreational centres and other areas where celebrations are billed to take place. In a statement on Monday, the command’s spokesperson, Edwin Okadigbo, was quoted as saying that the Commandant, Everestus Obiyo, ordered the deployment of officers in various strategic locations to ensure peace and order during the celebration. Okadigbo said, “Towards ensuring a hitch-free 2022 Easter celebrations, the state commandant of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Anambra State Command, has ordered the deployment of 1,977 officers and men of the command. “The men are drawn from Operations Department, Investigation and Intelligence Department, Rapid Response Squad, Counter Terrorism Unit, Special Female Squad, Chemical Biological Radioactive Nuclear and Energy unit. “Others are Counter Terrorism Unit, Disaster Management Unit, Medical Unit, Special Force, Agro Rangers Unit, Anti-Vandalism Unit and Critical National Assets and Infrastructure Protection Unit.” “The essence is for crime prevention and crowd control, to cover places of worships, recreation centres, venues of celebration and other public facilities to forestall any break down of law and order.” The command said it will be working in collaboration with other security agencies in the operation and has also put in place measures to forestall any possible breach of peace, before, during and after the celebration. The Benue State Sector Commander of Federal Road Safety Corps, Yakubu Mohammed, also on Monday said 513 personnel have been deployed in highways across the state ahead of the Easter celebration. The sector commander, who disclosed this in a chat with journalists in Makurdi explained that the number of personnel to be deployed excludes Special Marshalls. Mohammed also said the corps would set up mobile courts in 10 locations across the state to try traffic offenders. “We are deploying a total of 513 personnel across the state to ensure a hitch-free Easter celebration. This number excludes the special marshals that will join in ensuring safety on our roads,” he said. The sector commander further said the figure comprises of the nine units of FRSC attached to the command in the state. He warned drivers against overloading and appealed to passengers to add their voice in speaking against unnecessary overloading of vehicles. While speaking to journalists, Kwajafa blamed the spike in crime on youth indulgence in drugs, urging the public to assist the agency in intelligence gathering.