…Says Benue APC ready to wrest power from PDP A former Benue State Governor and national chairmanship aspirant at the March 26 national convention of the All Progressives Congress, Senator George Akume, on Tuesday in Abuja, said he had donated the N20m fees of his nomination and expression of interest forms to the party. Akume said this when he led a delegation from Benue State on a solidarity visit to the APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, at Buhari House, the party’s national secretariat. The Minister of Special Duties and Inter-governmental Affairs also noted that the Benue State chapter of the APC is now strong enough to displace the Peoples Democratic Party. Fielding questions from journalists as to whether or not he had been refunded the N20m for the nomination forms he purchased last month, Akume said, “The issue of directive did not occur whatsoever in our dinner with Mr President. We ate dinner with him, and he appealed to us to build a consensus as much as we could, and that was basically what we did. “It was not a directive, and you know who the president is; a democrat to the core. I know, and I recall what happened in the past when I was the governor; there was a war of difference between the way Mr President operates and the way we saw between 1999 and 2007. “The issue on money does not arise. I had willingly donated my own to the party and I believe others would do the same thing. We have this basic understanding: we have to support the present leadership of the party to succeed; that is what is important so that we will continue with the good work that Mr President is doing.” On the APC’s chances in next year’s governorship election in Benue State, he said: “We want to assure Nigerians, particularly the APC, and indeed the national chairman, that the little irritation in Benue State is going to be squarely addressed for the benefit of our party and for the benefit of our teaming supporters who look onto the APC as the only hope of the common man in Benue State and even at the national level. “So we are very confident that the APC Benue will come on stronger than can ever be imagined. We are doing very well, we have registered so much, so many members. We have registered those who are ready to vote and, therefore, Benue is ready to go.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com