Tributes have continued to pour in for gospel singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu, who passed away on Friday, April 8, 2022 at the age of 42. Nwachukwu had teamed up with another singer, Prospa Ochimana, to make the song, Ekwueme, which shot both of them into limelight in 2017. It was reported in some quarters that she died of throat cancer and had been on life support for about two months. There were unverified allegations that the deceased had issues with her marriage. Other gospel musicians and entertainers have continued to pay tributes to the late singer. Tope Alabi wrote on Instagram, “Good night, Osinachi Nwachukwu. It is painful you had to leave us now, but heaven is rejoicing for having you.” Another gospel singer, Frank Edwards, in a now deleted post on Instagram, wrote, “This sad news of minister, Osinachi Nwachukwu, is devastating. “So, that unreasonable human being finally put off a shining light. I won’t say much now, I will let the former NDDC director (Aunty Joy), who did everything possible to stop this from happening talks first, but it still happened. We tried to stop this.” He, however, did not explain what he meant. Amaka Okwuoha, aka Chioma Jesus, also wrote, “OSI’M, I am so heartbroken and still in disbelief.” Media personality, Daddy Freeze, who often criticises the excesses of some pastors, wrote, “Could this really be true? If it is, then (it) only confirms what I have been teaching all along. (When I say) leave a bad marriage, they will say I am the antichrist. If she had listened to me three years ago when I was shouting on every mountain and in every valley, she would be alive and well today.” Actress and co-founder of ROK TV Channels, Mary Njoku wrote, “Your pastor will not die with you when he (abusive husband) kills you. Your family and friends will blame you for leaving and when you are dead, blame you for staying. Run for your life. You deserve to be alive. Not all marriages are ordained by God. The God you serve cannot ordain your perpetual torture. Some spouses are demons in human form. Don’t let anyone confuse you with Bible quotes till he kills you. I am still shaken by the news of her death. I am angry.” Actor, Williams Uchemba, also had some words of advice for people in abusive marriages. He wrote on Instagram, “If you are being abused (domestic violence) and you take the case to your pastor or imam, and they ask you to go back to the house where the abuser is, change church, because that your (pastor/imam) needs therapy too.” Nwachukwu would have been 43 on November 12, 2022. Some of her popular songs are ‘God of Power’ (Ikem), ‘The Cry’ and ‘Jesus the Lord’. She was also featured by several other artistes. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com