The Code of Conduct Bureau says it is committed to eradicating corrupt practices within the public service. The Chairman of the Bureau, Prof. Muhammed Isah, gave the assurance at a one-day workshop organised for staff of the Federal Ministry of Education, on Wednesday, in Abuja. The workshop was held in consonance with assets declaration and code of conduct for public officers. Isah was represented by Prof. Samuel Ogundare, Federal Commissioner, Education and Advocacy Services at the bureau. He said that the bureau would continue to educate public officers on the importance of maintaining a high standard of morality in the conduct of government businesses. He said, in implementing its mandate, the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria provided the Bureau with legal powers to prosecute offenders. “It is our mandate to receive assets declaration by public officers, in line with the Fifth Schedule of the 1999 Constitution. “We are also committed to ensuring that public officers comply with the code of conduct expected of a public officer. That is why we are taking our time to go around different organisations to enlighten them on the need to abide by these codes. ”The codes are a set of moral principles or rules of behaviour that are generally accepted by a society or organisation. It helps to regulate the conduct of public officers, from the President to the lowest officer in the public service. “Our clients are not less than 10 million, given all the public officers we have in the federation, including those in the forces, paramilitary, local governments, state offices, as well as elected officers. “It is expected of them to see themselves as professionals – working to develop capacity and competence needed for his or her job with confidence and acceptable level of expertise,” he said. Mr Mohammed Bello, a participant from the Federal Ministry of Education, appreciated the bureau for the workshop, adding that the lessons learnt from the workshop would be passed down to his subordinates, as he also placed public service above self-interest. (NAN)