The medicine named above is one of the most frequently prescribed antibiotics in today’s Nigeria. It can be argued that most of the prescriptions are not even made by doctors or pharmacists but by people who are not even trained in the provision of health care. Some prescriptions are made by word of mouth from one friend to another who had previously used the medication. Sometimes, such usage has also depended on the advice of yet another friend. Nigeria is, therefore, one of a handful of abnormal countries where a medication as powerful as this can just be purchased across the counter for use in the treatment of a variety of conditions, particularly typhoid fever. To begin with, even the diagnosis of that perennially blamed disease for all manner of physical symptoms is overdone and often poorly made. As a result of the prevalence, without a doubt, of the disease itself in many of our deprived communities, people have come to associate the use of Ciprofloxacin with the treatment of typhoid fever. For such individuals, therefore, the antibiotic has become the Holy Grail in the treatment of typhoid fever. Needless to say, it is important to emphasize here that when people do genuinely have that dreadful disease, the diagnosis is often completely missed. Ciprofloxacin is called an antibiotic belonging to the vast class of drugs known as fluoroquinolones. This class also has such members as  Norfloxacin, Ofloxacin, Perfloxacin and even Nitrofuradantoin. It is used in the treatment of a wide variety of bacterial infections of the skin, the urinary system, the respiratory tract, bacterial gastroenteritis causing diarrhoea and vomiting, bone and joint infections and most commonly, in the Nigerian context, typhoid fever. In some conditions, it is considered better to add another antibiotic to it in order to boost the chances of them killing off the invading bacteria. Commonly, it is used in the treatment of ear and nose infections as well. Therefore, this medication comes in several formulations that enables it to be used to treat eye, ear and nose infections; it can be used as a white tablet or caplet and also as a drip for intravenous administration. It is not made to be used as an injection for use in the muscle because of the large volume of the drug that has to be injected. Antibiotics are often given in a way that they would kill off both gram positive and gram negative bacteria causing problems in the body. On its own, ciprofloxacin is a strong antibiotic and can be used alone. At some times, as we already said above, it can be used in combination with another antibiotic. The early members of this group of drugs were low-potency drugs that were mostly deployed in the treatment of urinary tract infection. Indeed, the ability to excrete them from the body through the urine was so good back then that they were used more as urinary antiseptics than proper antibiotics. But they are antibiotics and Ciprofloxacin among them has become one of the most famous members of the class in Nigeria at least. Once other members started to come along, the world of healthcare embraced their use with considerable excitement especially considering that Ciprofloxacin has a particularly effective activity against the gram negative bacteria. This group of organisms are frequently found in the intestinal tract, genitals and within the abdomen to treat abscesses and other conditions. It excels in situations of invasion by mixed bacteria where members of both groups are found. To the people out there who believe that this medicine is used only in the treatment of typhoid, here then is your answer. It does a lot more besides treating typhoid. And that is proven by the fact that in 2001, the first full year after the use was approved, the annual sales of this medication were in excess of two billion Euros. By the time the patent expired in 2004, and many generics appeared on the market, the original holders of the patent saw sales falling to just about 200 million Euros. This drug was originally introduced more than 40 years ago and gradually brought into mainstream use about seven years afterwards. It interferes with certain other drugs and even food to produce some undesirable effects and may even distort the absorption of this drug. When somebody is taking an antacid for example, they should do so either about two hours before using the antacid or some six hours afterwards. And when it is used in people who are on medications for the control of seizure disorders, the risk of experiencing a seizure may become worse when an NSAID (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug) is used concurrently. The association with antacids is not altogether a negative one because when a person has accidentally or deliberately taken an overdose of Ciprofloxacin, one of the reliable modalities of reducing the level of harmful exposure to its effects is to give the person a large dose of antacid to swallow. Formally, and in the hospital, the person is often given a gastric lavage to try and empty the stomach and thereby prevent any further absorption of the medicine. In addition, adequate amounts of fluids will be required both by mouth and intravenous infusion. Ciprofloxacin is marketed in various countries as Ciprotab, Cipro and Ciloxan and is commonly available in a 500mg dose. These are all simply called Ciprotab in Nigeria perhaps because one of the earliest brands of the medication came in that name. Many others have since joined from India, Egypt, Pakistan and Israel. It is also associated with a wide variety of side effects which ironically includes diarrhoea, vomiting and nausea. It is also known to cause hallucinations, constipation and certain types of nerve damage. In some people, there is a heightened risk of tendon rupture. In people who have myasthenia gravis, a disease in which there is already an existing level of muscle weakness, taking this drug makes it worse. It has a liquid form which in addition to the tablets is used for the treatment for exposure to anthrax. It is safe for use among mothers who are breast-feeding and it is used with caution in children when the infections they have are considered to be serious enough to warrant their usage. That is the case especially with the fear that this drug could disrupt the growth of the bones in a growing child and colour their teeth. It is classified by the World Health Organisation as a critically important medication. It is an important thing that this important medication is available in our country. However, it remains a challenge that practically anyone who has got the cash can obtain it by just asking for it. No prescription is required and people then go ahead to use it for anything they fancy. The consequences of having such an attitude to a good product is that some people do not use the medicine correctly and would often stop its use as soon as they feel better. These are the people most likely to breed the resistant bacteria that will become a nightmare in the healthcare industry as practitioners come to grips with increasing numbers of treatment failures with the use of the drug when bacterial resistance builds up. In America, there are warnings on the package of this medicine saying that there is an increased risk of suffering from inflammation of the tendons with its use and the spontaneous rupture of such tendons especially in people above 60 years. In Nigeria, there are no similar warnings and as we see every day, people just obtain the drug freely for their use. It is possible that like Covid-19, Nigerians are generally immune to such effects of this drug. If that is the case, it will be a new vista for productive research. Questions and answers Dear doctor, I will be 70 years old soon. In 2016, I was diagnosed with BPH (benign prostatic hyperplasia). I used catheters for almost two years. The doctors advised that I should have surgery but I declined. Fortunately, I no longer use catheters effectively since last December. No surgery either. I have been on the following BPH drugs such as Finasteride, Contiflo XL, Duodart and lately Prostacare recommended by my doctors. Recently, antibiotics such as Flagyl, Cipro 500mg, Garlic and others have also been prescribed. Between then and now, I still urinate frequently especially at night and this is what the above drugs were supposed to rectify. My question is what else can I do or take to stop urinating at night so that I can enjoy my sleep? Do I go for surgery if financially affordable? Will I continue to take the drugs till “thy kingdom come”? I feel reluctant to see the doctors (urologists) and they equally seem to not be interested in attending to me because I declined their advice for surgery hence I brought the matter to you for advice. I also recently experienced erectile dysfunction; is it due to the above mentioned drugs, age or both? What can I do or take to solve the ED? Kindly advise me sir. I am a regular of Sunday PUNCH. Thanks a lot.  0816xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your comments and your support. The above symptoms you have cannot resolve completely with medications alone and if you are in a position in which both you and your doctors seem to have lost confidence in yourselves, it is best to seek another opinion. It is important to know that your doctors are the ones who know how big your prostate has become which is why they offered you surgery. The prostate remains enlarged despite the medications you are taking now and will enlarge again once you stop taking them. The side effects of the medications plus your advanced age are responsible for your erectile dysfunction. You need to understand, therefore, that BPH is a disease of elderly men so that this operation is often seen in men of your age. There are established protocols for dealing with it. You should listen to your urologists who have your interest at heart and you should consider having the surgery done once you have the means. That will resolve most of the issues you have now. As for the use of these medicines, yes, you will have to use them till ‘kingdom come” once you do not take steps to deal definitively with your enlarged prostate. And until this is done, you will have to endure a cycle of frequent passage of urine, bladder infections and antibiotic use. Dear doctor, I have anxiety disorders, I’ve been experiencing head pressure, headaches, tingling sensations, chest pressure, and recently the right side of my face felt numb for a few minutes. Is this normal and what can I do?  Xxx@xxx.com Thank you very much for your question. It is instructive that you already know that some of your symptoms are related to some level of anxiety. These may also be mediated by fear or uncertainty. Sometimes, you may suffer from these because there are deep psychological factors as well. Therefore, there is nothing normal in any of these features. You will need to begin this quest with a visit to a physician who will examine you to be sure there are no physical causes of your condition before referring you to a psychologist or even a psychiatrist should they find that move to be necessary. Dear doctor, keep up with the good works via your articles. I am 20 years old plus and I had surgery to remove a lump in my right breast in December of 2020. In 2021, I still experienced pains there but then it stopped for a while. Since this year began, I have been seriously itching in that breast with redness developing maybe because of my complexion. Later, it looked as though my skin was peeling making it look like scales were falling off, (I think you will be able to understand this). I need your recommendation to stop the itching, clear the scar and to stop the scale-like surface. Thanks. xxx@xxx.com You do need to see the doctor or doctors who performed the operation. They will be in the best position to determine what is going on with your scar and recommend the necessary treatment.  That is the guaranteed way to have the most beneficial treatment for this condition. Since it appears to be a local skin inflammation, all you might require is a useful dermal cream you will have to use for a definite period of time. An immature scar could behave like this and in that situation, no specific treatment may be necessary. Also, a sensitive kind of skin can behave likewise. Good luck. Dear doctor, I am a 26 years old living in Kogi State. Please, does garlic get rid of pimples on the face and also make the face smooth? 0906xxxxxxx There are many properties claimed for garlic. It is a food condiment and therefore cannot harm you. Therefore, it is worth trying. Now, that being said, garlic has activities against bacteria and viruses. It also has antiseptic properties from a compound called Allicin. This substance helps to kill the bacteria that cause acne and it is believed to be able to reduce the swelling and inflammation associated with both pimples and acne. As a result, these effects could help your face receive more nutrients and acquire a smooth appearance. It is partly because of some of these properties that people mix garlic in hair products for steaming it. Dear doctor, may the Lord continue to bless you and empower you with his spirit as you discharge your duties to the community. Please sir, lately, I started having heaviness in my chest as if a stone has been placed on it. I do not have any other ailments except when my blood pressure goes up and I use my drug. Is there any reason to worry? I will be 70 next month. God bless you sir.        0803xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your prayers sir. There is nothing wrong with you I believe. What I think the problem is, is that you do not regularly take your blood pressure medications except when you find out that it is high. That is a knee-jerk reaction to a persistent condition and what you feel in your chest could be a side effect of the drug you are using. Whereas, if you were taking the medicine more regularly and more predictably, your chest would not behave like it is currently doing. You must, however, see your doctor for a proper evaluation. Dear doctor, I am a girl and I am 15 years old. I have a big tummy and because of that, I do not wear clothes that show my tummy. I have even tried exercising but it doesn’t work. Please tell me what to do.  0904xxxxxxx When you say that you have tried to exercise but that it does not work, it means that you have not yet tried hard enough. For exercise to help you lose weight, it needs to be intensive at your age and consistent. In addition to that, you must reduce the amount of food you eat. Do not eat between meals and do not take snacks except once in a week or so. If you can do all of that, you will see positive results in one month and definite changes in three months. Dear doctor, happy new year to you. It is only God that can reward you for the service you are rendering. I am 65 years old and diabetic. Recently, I have been experiencing a serious heart-burn. It happens when I take anything oily, peppery or acidic like lime or lemon. Sometimes, tea and bread or oats can trigger it. I get immediate relief if I take Gaviscon (double action). My drugs are Panfor and Exforge and sometimes, I take Tadalis as well. Please advise me. God bless you. 0803xxxxxxx Happy new year to you as well sir and thank you very much for your prayers. Taking Gaviscon is in order especially as it brings you swift relief. However, it is important to determine what this recent development is about and you will need to go to a hospital and have a simple test done to find out if you have got Helicobacter pylori in your stomach. If that test is positive, then this problem can be cured with a combination of medications and you could have no further need for the Gaviscon. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com