The Peoples Democratic Party governorship candidate in Ekiti State, Bisi Kolawole, has promised to tackle the security problem in the state headlong to make the state attractive to investors. He also pledged to restore confidence in people to return to the farms, adding that he will also reenact the stomach infrastructure policy of the state’s immediate former governor, Ayodele Fayose. Kolawole said creating the enabling environment for and attracting investment to the state would create job opportunities and raise its revenue to meet the needs for infrastructures development and other needs. The candidate, a former PDP state chairman, spoke in an interactive session with his supporters in Ado Ekiti in preparatory to the takeoff of a statewide political campaign. Kolawole urged them to continue to stress values that made the party tick as they attracted more supporters and followers to the party. He said, “I am seeking this position with a strong pedigree as a former legislator and former commissioner. I am going to be people-centric. All my activities will be centered around the people. If your people cannot cheer you as a governor, you are just a mere visitor, stranger, and expatriate. “I will create a security-conscious environment to restore confidence in our people to go back to the farms. Never again will Ekiti people be kidnapped on the roads or in the farms nor will they be sacked or killed in the farms. When there is security, investors will come to establish industries. Then, government revenue will increase. Our people will be employed.” Kolawole promised that if elected, his government would reengage workers laid off by the incumbent Governor Kayode Fayemi in Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti, and the state civil service The PDP candidate said that he would develop the stomach infrastructure policy of the Ayodele Fayose administration, saying, “It is a good policy. Our people must enjoy the dividends of democracy. Nothing stops a governor from giving out part of the food in the Government House to feed the commoners”. Kolawole added, “Some parts of the state, including Ekiti East, Gbonyin and Ekiti West have been in darkness for a decade. If Biodun Oyebanji, the APC candidate, who had been Secretary to the State Government could not solve the problem of electricity in his Ikogosi country home and Ipole, would he now be able to solve some of the problems confronting Ekiti?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com