The Kaduna State Police Command has apprehended six suspects in connection with the theft of a tanker loaded with 40,000 litres of petroleum products worth N6.2m in the state. This was contained in a statement by the state Command’s Public Relations Officer, Mohammad Jalige in Kaduna on Monday. According to Jalige, the Command received a complaint from one Bakura Bukar that he entrusted his truck with number plate No BAM 02 XA loaded with 40,000 litres of petrol valued at N6,208,000 to his driver for onward delivery from Lagos to Kaduna. He said following the breakdown of the truck as a result of flat tyres, three unidentified men in a sedan car attacked the driver and the “motor boy” and eventually made away with the truck to an unknown destination. However, acting on a tip-off, the police spokesman said, operatives attached to the command, swung into action and trailed the suspects to a filling station where the products were being dispensed where they arrested some of the suspects. The statement read, “On the 19th April, 2022 at about 1000hrs the Kaduna Police Command received a complaint through the Area Commander Jere Area Office to fact that the complainant one Bakura Bukar ‘M’ of Mararaban Jos, Kaduna on the 16th April, 2022 entrusted his truck with Reg.No BAM 02 XA loaded with 40,000 litres of PMS valued at six million two hundred and eight thousand naira (N6,208,000.00) to his driver for onward delivery from Lagos to Kaduna. “On the 18th April, 2022 at about 2300hrs at Issah U-turn along Abuja – Kaduna road, the driver had a flat tyre and have to pull off the road in order to replace the deflated tyre. “Three unknown persons came in a sedan car and attacked him and his motor boy. “They took and tied them in a nearby bush. The victims later struggled and free themselves and returned to the road and discovered that the truckload of PMS have been taken away to an unknown destination, hence the report.” It added, “With the strength of the report, the Commissioner of Police Kaduna Command ordered for a full scale investigation into the matter as detectives were immediately detailed and swung into action with a view to apprehending the culprits. “The team acted on intelligence and succeeded in arresting three suspects namely; Habibu Mohammed, Halilu Mohammed and Isa Mohammed in connection with the offences. “Further investigations revealed that two filling stations were used in disposing the stolen products. The operators of the said filling stations who are strong collaborators of the crime were equally apprehended namely; Isa Yusuf, Sutajo Lawal, and Stephen Habila. “The operatives pushed the process of investigation further and also recovered the operational vehicle of the criminals, one (1) Jackknife, and the stolen fuel truck as well as the PMS product. “Meanwhile, the suspects have since confessed to being a syndicate who are notorious for such activities and are currently assisting the process of investigation. “They will all be charged to court on completion of same. However, a deliberate effort by the Command is geared towards apprehending all the remaining syndicate members as well as their collaborators if any in order to prevent future occurrence.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com