The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control says Nigeria’s rules on face mask have not been completely abolished. The Director-General, Dr Ifedayo Adetifa, said this in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria on Friday in Abuja. Adetifa said the used of facemask indoors or in other high-risk settings such as in public transport was still recommended while the use in outdoor places was now discretionary in the country. He stated that the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19 was leveraging available evidence such as the continuous downward trend of COVID-19 positive case numbers in the country to revise the Travel Protocol. He said that the country had also implemented a four-tier consolidation phase of the COVID-19 pandemic response focused on continued surveillance, genomic sequencing, surge testing, and vaccination. “As vaccination coverage rises in countries, relaxation of COVID-19-related restrictions including mask mandates is increasing. “However, the recent COVID-19 surges in many countries have led to questions of whether face masks should be encouraged or required, and for how long. “Proper mask use reduces the probability of transmission between an individual who is infectious and one who is susceptible to infection and helps protect those with a high risk of infection and severe disease. “Example, the elderly and those with cardiovascular and other disease and particularly in environments with a high risk of transmission – indoors – and where there is crowding,” he stressed. He said there were increased cases of the virus in South Korea, Vietnam, Germany, Russia, Netherlands, Japan, United Kingdom, France, Italy, Turkey, Austria, Australia, Malaysia, Thailand, Switzerland, New Zealand and Chile. “In the past week, there has also been an increase in deaths in South Korea, Malaysia, and New Zealand. As long as there are cases elsewhere, Nigeria remains at risk. “From our travel testing, we see the UK and US as some of the countries with highest proportion of returning travellers with positive COVID-19 test results. “Yet, some of these countries like the UK have fully relaxed pre-departure or post-arrival tests for both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals. We cannot copy what countries do because of important differences,” Adetifa said.