The killing of some residents of Lade area of Omi Adio in the Ido Local Government Area of Oyo State by robbers has left residents in a doleful mood. The incident which claimed three lives and left two persons injured happened around 7pm on Friday March 25, when residents in the community were returning home from their workplaces. A member of the Okada Riders Association, Lade Unit, was not spared; he was shot dead by the robbers who invaded the community on motorcycles and raided Point of Sales agents from shop to shop. A gang of robbers in January invaded the area on motorcycles. But this time round, a 40-year-old PoS operator, Saheed Lawal, was shot dead at his residence by the armed hoodlums. The people in the area had yet to get over the shock of the January attack when hoodlums on motorcycles returned to the Ladeowo community and left blood, sorrow and tears after leaving the area. Initial reports noted that those killed were Okada riders who chased the fleeing robbers after their operation. But the claim was refuted by members of the okada riders association operating in the community. A former Chairman, Okada Riders at Ladeowo Junction in Omi Adio area, Mr Abel Aremu, said the victim, Idris Sharafadeen, who was riding a motorcycle with a passenger ran into the hoodlums who had successfully robbed some PoS agents and fleeing the area. He said, “He was not pursuing the robbers. We know the type of person he was. He would not even do that. I was at a junction when the incident happened. I was there with some other Okada riders and we heard a gunshot. We did not know it was a gunshot initially. “We earlier thought it was a tyre burst. We moved towards the direction of the sound with the aim of helping the vehicle owner. But when we got to the scene, we saw that the person sustained a gunshot injury. “The victim was an Okada rider and the passenger made efforts to rescue the rider but the robbers returned and shot at the passenger. The bullet only hit the motorcycle tyre and the rider and the motorcycle fell into a gutter.’’ Sharafadeen stated that the passenger ran to mobilise people to assist him to help the victim, adding that when they were doing that, the robbers re-emerged but fled when they saw the situation. “It was when the robbers had left that people could assist the shot Okada  rider. We joined them and took him to a hospital. When we got to the hospital, no doctor was around. The workers called the doctor for an emergency but before his arrival, the Okada rider had given up the ghost.” He further said that another victim was a taxi driver, noting that the victim was making a call on the telephone when the robbers saw him and probably thought he was calling the police. He affirmed that the man was shot dead by the rampaging hoodlums who unleashed terror on the people of the area that day. The Vice Chairman of the Okada riders Joseph Emmanuel, also told our correspondent that four persons were shot dead during the operation. He stated that a woman who was recuperating after sickness at home died of shock when she heard the repeated gunshots from the robbers. He said, “ One Okada  rider was shot dead, a taxi driver was also shot dead but a woman who  was recently discharged from hospital and was convalescing at home died of shock when the robbers started shooting. So, three persons died altogether but two of them died of gunshot injuries. “A man, who is known as Baba Ope was shot in the hand and a boy was shot in the leg. Two of them were taken to hospital for medical attention. No Okada rider chased the robbers.  Do you think any right thinking person will pursue hoodlums who are armed? People did not know details of what happened but only claimed they were there.’’ The mother of the slain Okada rider, Hajarat Sharafadeen, was inconsolable when our correspondent visited her residence where the 29-year-old resided before his death. The bereaved mother said her son died struggling to make it in life. He said Idris tried other jobs but returned to Ibadan when he did not record breakthroughs and decided to be riding Okada to make ends meet. She said, “I saw my son some minutes before he was shot dead. He brought a passenger to our area and I heard some people hailing him and calling him, Akuru, which is his nickname. I went out and waved him down after he dropped the passenger. I told him to give me money to prepare dinner. He told me he had N2,300 on him but that I should give him some minutes and would return to give me some money after he might have made more money. That was the last thing we discussed.” The woman added that she was still where she earlier sat when she heard a few minutes after that robbers had killed her son. She lamented that her son had yet to marry before the robbers ended his life fatally. “He learnt tailoring and completed it. He did ‘freedom’ (graduation) and I rented a shop for him but he was not making money from it so he travelled to Lagos and joined truck drivers. The truck he always followed had a fault and he returned to Ibadan and said he would start doing what his mates were doing at home. “Idris was a gentle and responsible young man but the robbers ended his life. He did not attack them. He didn’t pursue them. He was seeking his daily bread. I am sure that if he knew robbers were operating there, he would not have ridden to that area.” The mother said he was paying for the motorcycle he rode by instalments and stood as his guarantor to secure the motorcycle he rode to work with. Also, the 31-year-old elder brother of the slain rider, identified only as Jamiu, told our correspondent that a PoS agent, whose name he gave as Alfa, had become a regular victim of the hoodlums. He also appealed to the government to make security of the people in the community a priority. He said, “Robbers frequently raid Alfa’s PoS shop. They come frequently to steal money and kill. The robbery incident that claimed the life of my younger brother was the third one. Each time they came, they would shoot people after robbing him. We are tired of the situation. We can’t continue to record deaths.’’ Jamiu told our correspondent that when he returned home on the day of the incident, he met the door to their house shut and was told that robbers shot his brother for refusing to release his motorcycle to them. He said, “It was later I learnt that the robbers didn’t ask for his motorcycle but that they came to the area to rob PoS operators and shot him.’’ The gloomy looks of family members of the slain taxi driver, Sikiru Quadri, and the sympathisers who thronged the place when our correspondent visited were glaring. The 70-year-old mother of the victim, Saidat, was surrounded by mourners who came to sympathise with the family on the loss. With tears strolling down her face, the bereaved mother tried to narrate how her 32-year-old son was shot dead. But she could only weep. Sikiru’s elder sister however told Sunday PUNCH that the victim was not living in the area but only came to visit some friends because he grew up in the area. He said, “Sikiru was a barber but he was also driving a taxi to augment whatever he made from the barbing business. He took his taxi to a car wash in the station area. I was told that he was brought to the Lade community on a motorcycle. We did not even know that he was around the community when the incident happened. I called my people when I heard that   robbers were operating in the area. I also called him. I wanted to tell him that robbers were around and he should not come there but he did not pick the call. It was later that I heard that somebody was killed and someone told me that he saw Sikiru when he came to Lade and he wore an ankara. It was another person who said the person who was killed wore ankara.’’ She noted that some person later went to the scene and discovered that he was the one shot dead by the robbers. She added, “He was married and his children have been crying over his death. We were told that he was receiving a call when the robbers were passing and they shot him, thinking he was alerting the police that robbers were in the area.” Residents attack PoS kiosks There was a protest in the community against  operations of the PoS operators. The residents destroyed some PoS kiosks in some parts of the community. The angry residents said the PoS agents were the ones attracting robbers because the hoodlums knew they could get money from them. Many of the PoS operators have fled the area when our correspondent visited. A resident in the area, who identified himself as Tade, however, cautioned residents of the area, especially those with reasons to be indoors, stating that they would suffer if the operations of PoS agents were stopped in the area. He said, “There is no bank around the place. The closest bank is around Apata and that is far. At least one will spend N200 for transport to and fro Apata. But some will spend N400, especially those coming from inside Lade. “We consider it okay to be charged N200 on a N10,000 withdrawal or deposit. It saves us the stress of going to Apata or Dugbe. What we need from government is adequate security to protect our lives and property from the hoodlums that have seen PoS as fertile ground where they can harvest with little or no risks at all.” Another resident, a teacher, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the Microfinance bank at Omi Adio was forced to close because of robbery attacks. He also urged the government to ensure security in the area to save residents from incessant robbery attacks. The teacher said, “What is happening is pathetic. The robbers know that attacking a bank is a risky venture and they may lose their lives in the process so they have changed to attacking money agents who are defenceless citizens and especially those in remote places like Lade and other areas. “They know that they can make about N200,000 if they are able to attack between five  to 10 PoS agents. There is no PoS operator who doesn’t have money. So they are sure of getting money from them no matter how small. These criminals think ahead and strategise  until our security agents begin to map out strategies to frustrate the criminals. If this is not done, there may be no end in sight to the attacks on PoS agents and shops.” No police station or post in the area Some residents of the area who spoke with Sunday PUNCH called on the government to ensure the presence of security agents in the community. They said such would send a warning signal to the hoodlums who they said had made them easy targets. One of the PoS operators in the area who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of attack said that a police post or Amotekun post should be established in the area, adding that such would give residents the needed confidence to go about their business without let or hindrance. He said, “There is no police presence in the area. But policemen started patrolling Lade Junction immediately after the last attack but that has stopped now. We need a permanent presence of the police or Amotekun. We are at the mercy of hoodlums. “In January, one Saheed Lawal was shot dead inside his house. He went to pray and immediately he returned, robbers knocked at his door and he opened. They shot him dead immediately. They later went in to ask for money. His wife who obviously didn’t know that her husband had been killed gave them money and begged them not to kill anybody.’’ However, the state police spokesperson, Adewale Osifeso, told our correspondent that the command usually deployed its men to every nook and cranny of the state to prevent criminal activities. He said, “The Oyo State Police Command operates a comprehensive and robust security architecture. We have a routine deployment of dedicated operational and intelligence assets around the nook and cranny of the state to forestall any untoward situation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com