The Polish government said it allowed passage for over 2,000 Nigerians and millions of other refugees fleeing the Russia-Ukraine war. A statement on Wednesday, from the Embassy of Poland in Nigeria, titled: ‘Poland stands with Ukraine – the spirit of Polish solidarity reborn,’ said Poland has opened its borders to people fleeing the war since February 24. Poland explained that it went to great lengths and undertook every effort to ensure all the refugees received comprehensive assistance. The statement read, “Since February 24, Poland opened its borders to over 2 million people fleeing Ukraine from the Russian aggression. Although most refugees are obviously Ukrainian, there are also thousands of third-country nationals who found shelter in Poland. Polish authorities let in everyone, irrespective of nationality, race or creed. “Many of those who crossed the Ukrainian-Polish border were African nationals, including more than 2,000 Nigerians. “The government of Poland went to great lengths and undertook every effort to ensure all refugees received meaningful, effective and comprehensive assistance. “Meals were distributed at border crossings, the transport was provided to receptive points where further assistance and help were provided by local government authorities. Moreover, country legislation was amended to cater for the needs of refugees and facilitate the provision of assistance.” The embassy further said that the refugees were guaranteed free medical care, adding that Poland accepted and helped terminally ill refugees, the physically challenged and orphans. “Ukrainian children are given the opportunity to resume learning in Polish primary and secondary schools. “All Ukrainian citizens can apply for a Polish national identity number which entitles the holder to benefit from social welfare and medical care and many other privileges on a par with Polish citizens,” the statement noted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com