THE National Youth Service Corps on Monday inaugurated its North-Central Skill Acquisition Centre and the garment, bakery and water factories located in Keffi, Nasarawa State. The organisation said the development would enhance its plan to boost its Internally Generated Revenue. The garment factory was said to have been equipped with over 100 industrial sewing machines and other machines needed for the production of high-quality kit items. The water factory has three water packaging lines for the production of sachet water as well as pet and dispenser bottle water. Delivering his speech at the inauguration of the factories, Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State thanked the Director-General of the NYSC, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, for redefining and reinvigorating the agency. Sule said, “You have done wonderfully well. I have attended several of your events, one of which was the opportunity to visit the NYSC museum that you have established and without mincing words, just like the Emir of Lafia has mentioned, it doesn’t matter how many years, NYSC continues to remain. “You came in and redefined NYSC. You set up a museum, set up acquisition centrss all across the country and today, you are have been able to actually have NYSC now generating revenue and return the revenue to the federal government for the first time in the history of NYSC so you have indeed redefine this. lbrahim said the inauguration of the new factories had shown the commitment of the scheme in expanding its revenue generation platforms. “They will also serve as additional training avenues for Corps members enrol for relevant vocational skills under the SAED programme. This complex is also unique in the sense that it has the highest number of NYSC Factories located in the same place”, he said. A former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, thanked the DG for the project. He emphasised the need to train youths to be self sufficient, saying that government alone could not give job to everyone. The Emir of Lafia, Sidi Bage Muhammad, lauded the DG. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com