The Bauch State Police Command has confirmed that hoodlums attacked a send forth ceremony in the Gudum Sayawa area of the state and killed two people. The Command Public Relations Officer, Ahmed Wakil, disclosed this in a statement made available to journalists on Tuesday. He said that the send forth ceremony was organised by a retired Police officer on April 22nd for his daughter who was planning to get married but the hoodlums stormed the venue with machetes, knives, and other dangerous weapons and attacked guests. Wakil, a Superintendent of Police said: “During the week under review, the Command has fought tirelessly in raising the policing standard which has led to a significant milestone in the combat against crime and criminality. “Worthy of note is the successful operation that led to the arrest of suspected Hoodlums terrorizing Gudun Hausawa, Gudun Siyawa, and Gudun Fulani in the Bauchi metropolitan respectively. “On April 22nd, 2022, in a related development, sequel to the communal clash in Gudun Hausawa, that one Ezra Yari, a retired Police officer, organized a wedding send-forth for his daughter Halima Yari at Gudun Hausawa of area Bauchi metro. In the process, some thugs hijacked the occasion, entered his house using dangerous weapons like machetes, and knives, and in the process, injured some youths. “On receipt of the information, a team of detectives swiftly move to the scene and evacuated the injured persons to Specialist Hospital Bauchi, where two persons: Gift Felix (17), Male and Shalon Memdir (18) all of gudun hausawa were certified dead.” He said seven suspects were arrested in connection with the case saying that they are: Abdulrahman Isa (19), Buhari Hassan (26), Abubakar Yessaalu (15), Habibu Muazu (19), Jafar Haruna (30), Gaddafi Shayibu (21) and Umar Muazu (20), all males and residents of Gudun Fulani. He said that the exhibits recovered from the suspects include two sticks, one sharp knife (Gario), and one digging tool (matoni) adding that they confessed to the crime, after which they will be charged to court at the conclusion of the investigation accordingly. The police spokesman further said that operatives attached to the Command burst a gang of interstate armed robbery and car snatching suspects. He said three suspects including two dismissed cadet officers of the Nigeria Defence Academy who have been terrorizing residents of the Federal Capital Territory, Kaduna, Bauchi, and Kano States among others, were arrested at a hotel in Bauchi. “In line with our commitment to cracking down criminals, the command has made adequate use of intelligence gathering towards continuous maintenance of law and order and this has continued to yield positively. “Based on reliable In-tel that suspected criminal syndicates notorious for interstate armed robbery and car snatching, On April 1st, 2022 at about 8.30 am a high-profile criminal who has been terrorizing the FCT, Bauchi, Kano and Kaduna states among others. “The following suspects were arrested in a hotel rooms in Bauchi: Ado Musa, male (44) of Hema village, Biu, Borno State (Ring Leader), Mohammed Abdul-Aziz Sani, male (28) of No. 4 Faith Close, Mando, Kaduna. (a dismissed Cadet officer of 65 Regular Course, Nigeria Defense Academy (NDA) who joined the Nigerian Navy in 2017 and dismissed in November 2021) and Mustapha Garba Yaro, male (28) of Tanudu, Kofar Gadon Kaya, Kano. (a dismissed cadet officer of 65 Regular Course, NDA, Kaduna). “Findings revealed that on same day of their arrest at about 8.30 am, they had conspired among themselves to rob some innocent citizens within the Bauchi metro,” he stated. Exhibits recovered from them, according to him, include one service pistol, seven loaded live ammunition, one Jack Knife, one Army T-shirt, and a first aid box He said that upon interrogation, the suspects confessed to the crime and were revealed to have networks spread across various states. Wakil added that the investigation is ongoing after which the suspects will be charged to court for prosecution Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com