Adamawa State Governor, Umaru Fintiri, has urged the Muslims to utilise the holy month of Ramadan in increasing their acts of charity. Fintiri while congratulating Muslims and wishing them a peaceful Ramadan, also prayed to Allah to bestow his blessings on all Muslims, and make it a month of security, peace, and stability all over the world. Fintiri noted that Prophet Mohammed used to spend generously on the poor and the needy during this period, and therefore urged Muslims to emulate his good example and increase their acts of charity to mankind. He admonished Muslims to always remember those who are less privileged and reach out to them and also help the Government in confronting the challenges facing the nation. He expressed happiness that finally, this year’s Ramadan, will be without the strict restrictions which characterised previous rituals. “The improving COVID situation has brought optimism as the Ramadan Holy Month is upon us as we commence the Ramadan fast. I enjoin Muslims to increase their love for humanity, acts of charity, Kindness, and gratitude”. Governor Fintiri who spoke through a press release signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Humwashi Wonosikou, regretted that Nigeria has sadly witnessed the escalation of division and insecurity of recent. He urged the people to endeavour to work together and bring an end to that. “The Month of Ramadan is intended to teach Muslims how to live good and compassionate lives. It is a Month of sacrifice, abstinence, and above all, love. I solemnly pray that Almighty Allah continues to bestow his blessings and mercy on our beloved State and Country. Everyone must join hands to repair the fabric of love and oneness that bind the people together. Nigerians must close ranks and refuse to accommodate the machinations of those who speak to profit from their pains or widen the lines of division”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com