A yet-to-be-identified policeman serving at the state police command headquarters in Ikeja has gone into hiding after allegedly shooting two businessmen to death in the Iyana Ipaja area of Lagos State. The PUNCH gathered that the cop, alongside the victims, and other guests, gathered at a bar to celebrate a friend’s birthday. Our correspondent gathered that during the celebration the armed cop, who was said to be under the influence of alcohol, became overjoyed and suddenly opened fire to mark the celebration. A source said the cop could not maintain a firm hold of the gun because he was intoxicated, adding that the released bullets struck down the businessmen during the celebration. The source said, “Everything happened at a bar where they all gathered to celebrate a birthday party. The policeman was also there and he did a gun salute for his friend who was celebrating his birthday when the bullets killed the two victims. “It was because he was intoxicated; he didn’t hold the gun firmly when he pulled the trigger and instead of the gun facing up, it suddenly came down and the released bullets hit the victims. He fled after the incident on Sunday.” A post by Instablog9ja identified the victims as Chikere Obieshi, aka JB, and one Odinaka. The state Police Public Relations Officer, SP Benjamin Hundeyin, confirmed the incident, saying the policeman had been identified, adding that the state Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, had ordered an investigation into the incident. He said, “One policeman was involved in the incident. The policeman has been identified but he is not yet in our custody. We are bringing him into custody soon as the Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, has directed an investigation into the circumstances leading to that unfortunate incident.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com