The Department of State Services has raised the alarm that some criminal elements are planning to bomb critical government infrastructure, markets, religious and relaxation centres among others. The service said the criminal elements had joined forces to recreate the bombings that rocked many parts of the country before 2015. The alert was contained in a statement on Tuesday by the DSS Public Relations Officer, Peter Afunanya, titled, “Public alert on renewed bomb explosions”. He said the new plan was unconnected to its earlier alert that some persons and groups were planning to cause violence in the country. The statement read, “The Department of State Services hereby draws public attention to plans by criminal elements to return the country to the pre-2015 era reminiscent of IED attacks on soft and hard targets in parts of the country. “Though there are already reported cases of such incidents in some areas, the Service has uncovered a ploy by suspected criminal gangs to forge an alliance among themselves with a view to launching further attacks on critical infrastructure and other frequented public places like worship and relaxation centres, especially during and after the holidays and festive celebrations. The objective is to achieve some self-serving interests as well as cause fear among the citizenry. The Service, however, recalls its earlier warning that some groups and individuals were plotting to stoke violence in the country. ” Afunanya enjoined owners of religious centres, market and relaxation centres to take adequate measures to avert the attacks. The statement continued,”Following these, patrons, owners and managers of aforementioned public places are advised to be wary of this development and implement basic security measures to deter the threats. “While the Service is committed to the disruption of this trend and pattern of violent attacks, it will continue to partner with other security agencies to ensure that necessary drills are emplaced in order that public peace and order are not jeopardised. “To this end, residents are enjoined to go about their lawful businesses and share, with security and law enforcement agencies, useful information on the activities of criminals.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com