Olori Abidemi Ogunnusi is the widow of the late Baale of Onikoko in the Abeokuta South Local Government Area of Ogun State, Chief Oluwole Ogunnusi, who died recently after slumping while preaching on the pulpit at Evangelical Church Winning All, Onikoko. The widow speaks to DAUD OLATUNJI about the shocking incident Please introduce yourself. My name is Olori Abidemi Ogunnusi. I am the wife of Baale of Onikoko, Chief Oluwole Francis Ogunnusi, who died recently after slumping on the altar while preaching at Evangelical Church Winning All, Onikoko. Where were you when the incident happened? I was in the church. I was busy opening my own Bible too when I heard Reverend shout ‘Jesus!’. It was then I raised my head and saw what was happening. What was your reaction on seeing that? I was shocked. It’s like an unending movie in my life. I have always prayed that we both live long to reap the fruits of our labour, because we both toiled together, sadly, he left. But I can’t say his death was untimely, though it was sudden. He died just when he was supposed to be reaping the fruits of his labour, now that things are getting better for the entire family. It’s like a ‘season film’, it’s a shock to me and I pray God will take care of me, the children and the rest of the family members that he left behind. How old was he? He was 65 years old. How old are you? I am 58 years old. How long ago did you get married? It was just three days ago, while I was bathing, that it crossed my mind that by next year our marriage would be 30 years old. So, I can say it’s 29 years of marriage. By August this year, we would have been married for 29 years. How many children do you have? The marriage produced five children – three boys and two girls – but we lost one. How will you describe your late husband? My husband, Oluwole Francis Ogunnusi, was a very caring and loving husband with a heart of humility. He was open-minded; he would readily inconvenience himself to help others. That was the kind of person he was. Does the fact that his last moments were on the pulpit, preaching the gospel give you some form of consolation? Yes, because that has been his calling from the beginning. The reason he was asked to come and take up the traditional title was to evangelise to the people. And I thank God for that. In fact, from time to time, we host church revival in the front of our house. I bless the name of the Lord, for the way He took him. Being Christians, how did you feel when your husband was to be installed as the Baale of Onikoko? I must confess, I wasn’t happy because I thought it’s impossible to be a traditional ruler and not belong to an occult society. At the time, I actually prayed that God should not let the plan to make him a traditional ruler succeed.  But, as God would have it, it happened. In fact, on the day he was installed, I fasted and prayed throughout. You know all the traditional things they have to do. I fasted and prayed to God to uphold him and the family, since he had decided to take it the title. Initially, he told his younger brother to take up the position, but the family was against it. They insisted that my husband was the one entitled to the position and he must take it up. What was his occupation before his installation as a traditional ruler? He was a banker. I married him when he was a banker while I was working with NIPOST but, I am retired now. He was also into farming. On that fateful Sunday while you were preparing for the church service, did you notice any sign that gave a hint of what was ahead on that day? There was no sign. He was healthy and agile. Though I haven’t watched the clip (of the church service), I was in the church while he was praying and he exhibited no sign of tiredness or weakness. He paid a regular visit to his doctor and was even at the hospital the Thursday before and they didn’t say anything was wrong with him. Also, he cultivated the habit of exercising daily. Every morning, except Sundays because of church service, he and Reverend (Elisha Ogundiya) always exercised. He was said to be preaching against ritual killings for money and talking about death when he slumped. Do you think there is a spiritual dimension to his death? I don’t think his death was spiritual and if it was, to God be the glory. He died well; he died in active service to God. Shame unto anybody behind it. Has he been buried? No. The burial will come up next week Wednesday and Thursday. The Ijemo Christian Chiefs Fellowship will be coming on Wednesday for the wake while Thursday is for burial. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com