Nigerian table tennis legend, Funke Oshonaike, has revealed that she gives her kids mobile phones right from the age of 10. According to her, she also leaves them with babysitters and close friends whenever she goes out to represent the country at competitions. Posting on Facebook, Oshonaike said she doesn’t beat her children and will fight anyone who dares to beat them. She said, “Yes, I gave my kids their phones at the age of 10! I leave them with babysitters or with some close friends to help me check on them anytime I go to competitions to represent my country. “I don’t beat my kids and I will fight you if you dare. I am not a perfect mother but I am proud of myself and my mistakes because nobody is perfect. “For those of you perfect parents, especially you that have no kids yet or yours are still babies, well-done for criticising and judging other parents. “Parenting nowadays is not Moinmoin(sic). You can do your best to train your kids but you might still fail at last! So it takes the grace of God.” In an apparent reaction to the backlash received by the mother of a female student of Chrisland School seen in a viral sex tape, Oshonaike reminded the critics that they are also not perfect. “To all of you that have been calling the mother of the 11-year-old girl bad names, remember you’re not perfect too. “Are you always with your child 24hrs? Don’t you sometimes leave your child with a neighbour, babysitters, family or friends? “Do you know what the people you’re leaving your kids with are teaching them? Do you as a parent give your children enough time? “Stop being judgmental and learn from people’s mistakes. The last time I checked, children of pastors and imam are not always good children. Will you say then that it’s bad parenting? “You might be abusing another parent right now but remember that your own report card is coming out soon! Until then, stop the bullying. “Stop being abusive and judgmental. let’s bring out solutions and help people with problems. He who has no sin should cast the first stone. “My heart goes to the 11-year-old girl and her parents. May God help you out and may you find peace. #stopbeingjudgemental #stoptheabuse #help.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com