A member of the Ondo State House of Assembly, Mr Oluwole Ogunmolasuyi, saw the other side of his constituency as he was attacked over alleged poor performance. Ogunmolasuyi is an All Progressives Congress lawmaker representing the Owo Constituency 1 and is also the majority leader of the Assembly. The attack was revealed in a video shared on Wednesday by a Facebook user, Tosin Fapohunda II. The user wrote, “An Ondo State lawmaker was chased like a thief in broad daylight today by youths of his constituency over non-performance and absolute isolation from his constituency since he was voted in to represent them at the Ondo State House of Assembly. “Ondo State Majority Leader Honourable Ogunmolasuyi AKA West was chased away from his home town by youths in his constituency amidst imposition rumour and non performance.” In the 54-second video, some youths were seen chasing some politicians suspected to be with the lawmaker and his police escorts, while a male voice was heard in the background saying , “It will not better for you, it won’t be better ‘West’ it won’t be better for all of you , if you come back here again.” The lawmaker confirmed the incident, saying it happened last Sunday. He said, “We have five wards in my constituency and one of the wards is Iloro and I am from Igboroko, so that particular ward isn’t my ward, but one of the wards under my constituency. “There is an aspirant from that ward contesting under the opposition Peoples Democratic Party. I was told that he was the one that mobilised thugs to the scene, but I had already left. “I have checked the video several times; those guys I saw are not the people that can represent the good people of Owo. Owo has a lot of prominent people, even in Iloro precisely; they have a lot of prominent people. If they don’t want a representative, they should have a civilised way to approach it. Those people I saw are not the people who can speak for my community or constituency.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com