Edidiong Ikpoto The United States Department of State has said that the US consulate building to be constructed at Eko Atlantic City, Victoria Island, Lagos will inject at least $95m into the Nigerian economy over the course of its construction. In her remarks at the groundbreaking ceremony, Ambassador Mary Leonard expressed appreciation to the Federal Government and the Lagos State Government for their support. She said the project would further strengthen the bilateral relations between Nigeria and the US, while also contributing to the Nigerian economy. She said, “Our vision for this consulate campus is to create a facility that both honours the vibrant relationship between the United States and Nigeria and communicates the spirit of American democracy, transparency and openness. On her part, the Consul-General, Claire Pierangelo said, “Nigeria and the United States have a long-standing history of people-to-people engagement fostering bridges between our two nations. We look forward to the many accomplishments we will continue to achieve together in the future.” The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, described the planned new US consulate in Lagos as a consolidation of the deep ties between Nigeria and the US. “As many of you would be aware, the relationship between the United States and Nigeria is a long and very cherishable one spread across several areas including military, security, commerce, education, energy, youth empowerment and many other areas. “The United States has invested hundreds of millions of dollars in Nigeria and in Lagos State in particular. Just over a month ago, we opened the Kimberly-Clark (facility) for operations, which was a very big manufacturing complex in Ikorodu and I was very happy that the consulate-general and the whole team of the American embassy were in attendance.” Located on a 12.2-acre site in the rapidly developing Eko Atlantic City on Victoria Island, the new US Consulate General in Lagos will support diplomatic and commercial relations between the United States and Nigeria. It will provide US and Nigerian consulate employees with a safe, secure, sustainable and modern workplace. The construction project will take approximately five years, with completion expected in 2027. A statement on the US Department of State website on the project, read in part, “The new consulate construction project will directly benefit the Nigerian people.  Over the course of construction, an estimated $95m will be invested in the local economy through local subcontractors and suppliers. “Overall, the project will employ approximately 2,500 Nigerian citizens, including engineers, architects, artisans, construction workers, and administrative staff.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com