Talented comedian, comic actor and musician, Fagade Ademola, popularly known as Omobaba talks about the heartbreak of Nigeria missing out on the Qatar 2022 World Cup, his love for sports and what it’s like being an Arsenal fan and more in this interview with EBENEZER BAJELA You are one of the best comedians in the country, how will you rate your knowledge of sports? I cannot say 100 per cent because of late I am too busy trying to meet up with what our other colleagues in the sporting world which is a part of the entertainment are doing. Everybody is majorly focused on what they are doing but I still have a simple knowledge of how one or two things are going in the sporting world. While growing up which sport were you involved in? The funny thing is I was into football, basketball and table tennis majorly. Why did you abandon these for comedy? My intention was to be a professional basketball player and I pushed that until I was 11. I was always at the national stadium and music took a better part of me while I was playing football at the same time. Education for me was also important and while I was in school I was doing all these things. I was into music until I discovered the passion in me and I was setting up for my performance as a musician while my instrumentalists were getting ready, I had to start telling stories just to get the attention of the audience before we get ready for the show. I discovered that people laughed a lot even better than the anchor that was anchoring the show. Were you influenced by your parents to choose education over your basketball or football career? My parents never had any issue doing what I feel like doing but even as a young chap I knew education was very important even if I want to be a sportsman or a comedian. They both work hand in hand and sometimes it can be cumbersome to put both together. While you are trying to get to class for a lecture you may have a match to play and the educational system in Nigeria does not favour you to do both except you go to sports academies that are in tune with education and sports but if go to the regular university or secondary school the time for sport is like 10 per cent to 90 per cent. It was a decision that I had to take because you don’t want to fail and the truth is you still have the fear of the future that what if things don’t work with sports you can fall back on your education and that was my case here because my parents never said no. Almost every male child while growing up was involved in civil disobedience due to their love for sports. Did you find yourself in this category too? I had my couple of sneaking out to play football and coming back to get the cane. I had my own fair share of that until later that I discovered that the reason I get scolded for going out to play football was that I left other things undone, like cleaning the house or washing the plates. Back then you walked some distance to go and play ball unlike nowadays when kids rarely step outside the compound. Later when I discovered the trick of doing what you are asked to do first and then having the time to play football everything became fine. I will finish what I am supposed to do within 30 minutes and have the whole time to play football and it made me a better person because I don’t have to run away again instead I go to my parents and tell them I want to go and play football which they will allow me but will give me time to come back home. It took me time to know this but I have suffered to find out. Which was your favourite position as a footballer? My favourite position was playing as a supporting striker and at times I like to striker. But I prefer to play behind the striker more and I like scoring goals. Which club do you support now? (Reluctantly) This question ehn…but because I am still sincere I will say it’s Arsenal. Why were you reluctant to answer? I wasn’t so reluctant but I just got so angry within the space of one week that the Super Eagles and Arsenal disappointed when they were meant to do what was right. At this point now I come to put my health first and I will advise everybody to do the same because they need to understand that first, these boys are working for their money. I put myself in their position as a comedian which is to make people laugh; I get onto the stage, get paid off it and don’t make them laugh. How do I feel about it? It is the same way I feel the players who are paid millions and in dollars that are not delivering should feel because they have a conscience and if fact their own is even worse because they have more fans worldwide. I will never deny my club which is Arsenal and it is a shame that I cannot pick a club in Nigeria and that’s how bad football has gone in the country. At a time we are all looking at Enyimba but now it is a big shame that when you ask a Nigerian which club they mention, it is a club outside Nigeria that they first mention. I can’t imagine myself being born in the UK and I am not Nigerian and I will say my favourite club is Enyimba in Nigeria. So, I think a lot needs to be done to our league so we can associate with it. There are reports that Mikel Arteta could be sacked by the end of the season if he doesn’t finish in the Top 4. What is your take on this? I don’t think that is fair to him because I believe he needs more time. They are way better than how they began the season and he has proven that he can lead the team despite the fact that they are young. I just don’t like the fact that the players he feels are useless are going to other places and doing well. For example, Aubamayang and I don’t always believe in sacking coaches. What is your take on the Super Eagles? I just don’t like the way Austin Eguavoen left the job because I think he should have remained. I think we should just relieve everybody of their job including the people in the NFF because we can’t blame only the coach for our failure. At least they also employ the wrong coach and I think we should be fair in our judgment. How do you feel knowing Nigeria will not be at the World Cup in Qatar? I feel so sad because I don’t think people have realised what we lost as a country and not just as a football fan. In a country where people are complaining of economic hardship and what the World Cup could have done to ease part of the problem is way more than we think. If Nigeria had qualified a lot of private companies would be eager to associate with the Super Eagles and there will be an advertising agency that will get the job which is a plus for them. The agency will also get game villages across the country where people can gather and watch the tournament, what this means is there are job opportunities everywhere even for people like us who will entertain fans.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com