The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, has directed the redeployment of 46 senior officers in the capacity of Assistant Corps Marshals and Corps Commanders. The FRSC spokesperson, Bisi Kazeem, in a statement on Friday, said this was pursuant to the approval of the promotion of senior officers by the Federal Road Safety Commission and “the need to strategically reposition the Officers for optimal performance”. He noted that all the affected officers are expected to report to their new commands on or before Monday, 2 May, 2022. According to Bisi Kazeem, the redeployed senior Officers are Assistant Corps Marshal Chidi B Nkwonta, former Zonal commanding officer RS6HQ Portharcourt to take over as the Commandant Federal Road Safety Corps Command and Staff College, Udi, Enugu State; ACM Chukwuma N. Njoku, formerly Corps Commander Personnel under Admin and Human Resource Department at the national headquarters, to now head Manpower Development unit under Training Department, National Headquarters. Others are Ocheja Ameh, former Sector Commander Ekiti, now posted to become the Zonal Commanding Officer Enugu; UI Ojeamiren, former Deputy Commandant FRSC Academy Udi, now Zonal Commanding Officer Osogbo, while ACM Jonathan Aderole Owoade, the erstwhile Sector Commander Kwara, now heads Port Harcourt Zonal Command. The statement read in part, “10 states will now have new Sector Commanders as follows; Corps Commander (CC) Kaugama M. Kabo, former Sector Commander Sokoto now Sector Commander Yobe, while CC DY Dio fsi is to proceed from Yobe to take over as Adamawa State Sector Commander. In the same vein, CC YK Nadabo is to hand over the helm of affairs as CC LGA Station Office at the Operations department of the National headquarters and assume duty as the Sector Commander Sokoto state; while Borno state gets CC IU Boyi as the new Sector Commander. “Erstwhile Delta State Sector Commander, I Abubakar is now Benue state Sector Commander while Ubi Ushiet is to replace him as Delta State Sector Commander. Meanwhile, Joseph is to assume duty as the Sector Commander Ekiti State as FA Ogidan becomes Kwara State Sector Commander and SE Dawulung takes over the helm of affairs as Plateau State Sector Commander. Theman now becomes the Sector Commander Gombe State. “In addition, Uchechukwu I. Wihioka, former Corps Commander Admin in the FRSC Command and Staff College, is now Deputy Commandant Federal Road Safety Command Staff College, Corps Commander Joel I. Dagwa, the outgoing Registrar FRSC Academy, now appointed as the Deputy Camp Commandant FRSC Academy, while Corps Commander Shamsudeen A. Sale, former Sector Commander Nasarawa State, is now Corps Commander Motor Vehicle Administration, in the Headquarters. “DA Barde, Former Corps Commander Logistics under the Technical Service Department in the Headquarters is now the Corps Commander Armament under the Operations Department at the Headquarters, Sector Commander Gombe, Ishaku G. Ibrahim, now Corps Commander National Road Safety Partnership FRSC Headquarters, and Solomon T. Agure psc, former Sector Commander Kogi, now heads Local Government Station Office under the department of Operations, FRSC Headquarters. “More Corps Commanders were also redeployed including Ebenezer P. Guar, former Head of Policy Unit of Policy Research and Statistics Department to now head Corps Provost in the National Headquarters, and Olusola M. Ibirongbe former Corps Commander Cash Management Office under the Finance and Account Office, now Corps Commander Finance and Account Unit under the Finance and Account Department. “Arising from the need to keep the redeployed Officers on their toes, the Corps Marshal implored the Officers to remain steadfast in their commitment and dedication to duties and to share in the FRSC vision of making Nigerian roads safer for all motorists. “Oyeyemi further enjoined them to play a pivotal role to ensure that they contribute their quota in enhancing the safety of lives and properties of all road users.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com