RECENT official data showing a 129.10 per cent rise in its import bill demonstrates Nigeria’s failure to diversify its economy and its unsustainable dependency on imports. Reports from the Central Bank of Nigeria and the National Bureau of Statistics detailing how the value of imports rose from N8.73 trillion in 2016 to N20.84 trillion in 2021, highlighted the country’s precarious financial situation. This coincides dangerously with falling revenues, an exchange rate crisis, job losses and production cutbacks. Again, it is necessary to remind the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to take extraordinary bold measures to save the economy. Though the regime repeatedly lauds itself, the evidence of collapse and deprivation are inescapable. Food insecurity has worsened. The CBN said food imports exceeded exports by N2.23 trillion in just 12 months. Its report on utilisation of foreign exchange by sector showed that the Federal Government spent $2.71 billion on food imports from January to December 2021, a 44.92 per cent increase from the $1.87 billion spent in 2020. Import dependency is defined as “the economic characteristic of a country that cannot produce enough goods and services to sustain its citizens and must depend on importing the majority of its forms of sustenance.” Experts say rising imports distort a country’s balance of trade and undermine its currency, impacting negatively on economic performance and GDP growth. Food insecurity worsens the situation, and exposes the population to mass poverty. According to the US-based Observatory of Economic Complexity, while the country exported $42.4 billion goods in 2020, it spent $52 billion on imports. Statista put Nigeria’s trade deficit at $19.76 billion in 2020. Clearly, the country of 211 million people, over 90 million of them adjudged to be living in poverty, is heading towards disaster. Buhari, like his predecessors, pays lip service to export diversification and ending the food-dependency. Things have to change. Nigeria is on the ropes. Apart from the fallout from the global COVID-19 pandemic, poor choices have combined with extremely poor governance, insecurity and a distorted administrative structure that kills initiative and productivity, to guarantee mass poverty and import dependency. Bizarrely, not only is the country dependent on machinery, parts and technology imports, it spends humongous sums importing what it can cheaply produce. A major producer of crude oil and gas, it nevertheless spent $7.75 billion importing refined petroleum in 2020, said OEC. Unashamedly, the parliament has just approved N4 trillion for imported petrol subsidies this year. Once food self-sufficient, Nigeria imported N2.1 trillion worth of food January to September 2021, added the NBS. It said between 2020 and 2021, the value of food and agricultural products was 140.47 percent. Major food imports include wheat, crude palm oil; and palm oil poultry, garri, blade, soup and toothpicks that can all be cheaply produced locally. The federal and state governments must change this sordid story. Unemployment has reached an unsustainable level at 33.3 percent, and 55 percent among the youths. Battling sharply declining revenues and mounting debts, while the federal spends 90 percent of its revenue servicing debts, the states cannot fund basic social services; both tiers borrow to finance capital projects and pay salaries.  Urgently, they need to devise effective policies to boost local production of food and goods for export. This requires sound policies, purposeful leadership and effective implementation. First, the government should pluck the ‘low hanging fruits’ of privatisation and asset sales, and liberalisation of critical sectors. This would transit the economy into a private sector-led one, attract local and foreign direct investment, free public revenues for investment in education, health and critical infrastructure, and boost production and job creation. Especially, target self-sufficiency in petroleum refining; privatise the Ajaokuta Steel, concession airports, seaport operations and railways. Next, reform the foreign exchange market to arrest the naira’s free fall; a degraded national currency in an import-dependent economy fuels inflation, cripples domestic production and spreads poverty. There should be a strong coordination between the fiscal policy, and monetary policy authorities to tame interest rates, facilitate exports, savings and investments. Until the 36 states transform from parasitic cost centres to self-sustaining productive units, Nigeria cannot escape dependency and mass poverty. The states should formulate liberalising economic policies to attract investment, promote agriculture, mining, manufacturing, rural infrastructure, micro, small and medium enterprises. It was the defunct autonomous regions that guaranteed food self-sufficiency and exports in the First Republic. Nigeria’s global No.1 position in groundnut production was primarily driven by the Northern Region; the Eastern Region led the world in palm produce; the Western Region in cocoa; and the Mid-West relied on rubber. Two other areas need urgent fixing: insecurity has to be put down. Current efforts are failing largely because of the single policing system, incompetence, corruption and collusion. Without further delay, states should establish and deploy well-armed, trained and equipped local security agencies to complement the federal agencies. The power conundrum has to be resolved. This is an emergency. The Federal Government should adopt drastic measures; though electricity power is unwisely on the exclusive legislative list, states should immediately take advantage of the federal forbearance granted long ago to attract investment in generation, regional transmission and distribution in their domains. The eastern ports should be opened up and the shameful bedlam at the Lagos ports fixed urgently. It has become a disincentive for businesses, forcing many importers and exporters to use ports in neighbouring countries. Emergent economies succeed by targeting exports and massive infusion of FDI to climb out of underdevelopment. With its human resource, market and potential in the sub-region, experts say that Nigeria should aim to be like the Asian Tigers – South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong – and Japan, China and Malaysia. It should implement large-scale agriculture, boost trade export, educational reforms, establishment of heavy and hi-tech industries, with limited budget deficits and limited external debt to become an export-led economy, creating jobs and eradicating poverty. Urgently, Buhari and the state governors should provide the necessary leadership to achieve these objectives.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com