The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has assured citizens that his administration would utilise education and technology to transform the state into a 21st century city. According to a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, Sanwo-Olu made this promise during the inauguration of a $250m hyperscale data centre by Kasi Cloud Limited in Lekki Peninsula, Lagos. Sanwo-Olu said the data centre will create jobs, attract additional investment and deliver high-speed internet access that will be transformational for emerging and existing digital ecosystems. He said, “On our part as a state government, we are deeply committed to the rapid transformation of the Lekki corridor, as well as every other industrial hub in the state. We are demonstrating this commitment through policies and interventions designed to improve the business environment, to reform critical government institutions and systems and to unlock new levels of innovative thinking among our people, especially our youth. “We realise that the people of Lagos are the most formidable assets that we have. They are the ones who will write the narrative of this megacity now and into the future. We must educate and upskill them, to prepare them for the rapidly evolving working environment of the 21st century. We want to use education and technology as a tool to be able to create a 21st Century Lagos that we all dream and talk about. “The economic impact that digital infrastructure improvement has on nation-building cannot be overemphasised. The siting of the new infrastructure in this part of Lagos is also not by accident. This is the fastest-growing corridor of the state, home to several large-scale industrial, manufacturing and logistics investments.” In his address, the Chief Executive Officer of Kasi Cloud Limited, Mr Johnson Agogbua, said the data centre by his organisation will create jobs opportunity and investment in the community and commended the Sanwo-Olu administration for its commitment to technology and innovation development in Lagos State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com