The Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, has said leaders and members of the Peoples Democratic Party will rally behind whoever emerges as the party’s presidential candidate after the party’s primary election. The governor said all stakeholders in the party would support whoever wins the ticket of the party and also work together with the person to rescue Nigeria. The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Taiwo Adisa,  in a statement, quoted Makinde to have said this in Ibadan on Thursday when Akwa Ibom State Governor and presidential aspirant on the platform of the PDP, Mr Udom Emmanuel, met with party delegates from the South-West geopolitical zone. He said that the party had left the old order whereby delegates would be ignored by aspirants who would only seek godfathers’ endorsements. Makinde had earlier been screened by the PDP Governorship Screening Committee for the South-West geopolitical zone headed by a former Governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Makarfi. The seven-member screening committee had also screened other PDP governorship aspirants across Oyo, Ogun and Lagos states, at the South-West PDP Zonal Office in  Ibadan, Oyo State Capital. He said, “This exercise is geared towards strengthening our internal democracy. Otherwise, if it were to follow the old order, you won’t even come to meet the delegates. You will go somewhere while some godfathers will endorse you and that will be all. But this is not the situation today. “I really want to appreciate our leaders, delegates and everyone who has come in here. I can tell you that we have made a lot of sacrifices to get here. Even in Oyo State, the delegates from Irepo LGA would have travelled for five hours to get here. “This is PDP and after we have chosen the flagbearer, we are also still going to work together to rescue Nigeria. We will support whoever God has decided to give to us at this moment.” “The good thing here is, that we have so many qualified individuals within the PDP. My brother, others will come and at the end of the day, I believe the will of God is going to be done for Nigeria, our country.” While addressing the delegates, Emmanuel solicited their support, noting that he has the capacity and the prerequisite knowledge to turn around the dwindling fortunes of the country. He declared that the next Nigerian president should be capable of lifting its economy from the morass, adding that as a governor who has demonstrated capacity at the sub-national level, Nigerians should trust him to do well as president. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com