A maritime expert has said that the greatest challenge inhibiting the efficiency of the Standards Oraganisation of Nigeria is the agency’s lack of regulatory control over shipping lines. A former president of the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders, Eugene Nweke, in a chat with our correspondent in Lagos, argued that even with the introduction of the single window, the influx of substandard good had persisted. He stressed the need to tackle factors promoting the shipping of substandard products from the root. “The SON knows too well that its greatest challenge stems from its lack of regulatory control over the shipping lines, which it needs to checkmate them publicly. Pointing at the Single Window, I can bet you that even with the evolution of a single window, the influx of substandard products will persist, except we tackle the factors promoting the shipping of substandard products from the root.” Nweke said that Nigeria seemed to be a haven for international shipping lines to change their postures. “The Nigeria shipping environment is one that accommodates foreign shipping lines, of which many collude, fronting politicians by proxy, especially those that fall short of international practices cum compromises. Nigeria seems a haven for foreign shipping lines to change their international postures and turn a national shipping line through the instrument of a registered national association. You may begin to appreciate the ongoing high degree of extortion in the shipping industry.” He advised SON to work with the Nigeria Customs Service to fashion out a Container Security Initiative. “So many Nigerians had expected that the SON, other than fault the Customs Nigeria Integrated Customs Information System 11 as the cause of its non-achievement of desired quality regulatory objectives, should partner with the Customs and fashion out a CSI as obtain in other importing climes.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com