The House of Representatives’ Committee on Privatisation and Commercialisation has invited the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, to appear before it on Tuesday (today) to explain the delay in the approval of the expired leases/concessions by the Nigerian Ports Authority. The committee, which is chaired by Ibrahim Makama, alleged that the delay might cause the Federal Government to lose investments worth up to $400m. The Federal Ministry of Transportation, in a letter dated March 3, 2022, informed the committee that an inter-ministerial committee set up by the Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, had completed its assignment and submitted its report. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Ports Authority said five of the leases expired in April, May, and November, 2021, respectively, and prior to the expirations and in line with the provisions of the terms of the Agreement Article (2.2), parties indicated their interest and it had completed the processes and forwarded same to the minister for approval on June 10, 2020. The minister had approved the request for renewal on December 17, 2020, but directed that the renewal process should be driven by an inter-ministerial committee, which has equally concluded its assignment and submitted its report to Amaechi but the supplemental agreements for the renewal had yet to be executed. The companies are ENL Consortium, Apapa Port, Terminal C & D, $143m; Port & Cargo Handling Services, Tin Can Terminal C, $120m; Josephdam Port Services, Tin Can Terminal A, $100m; and Associated Maritime Services, Warri New Port, $2.4m.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com