Cross River State Governor Prof. Ben Ayade Wednesday presented brand new vehicles to newly appointed judges in the state, saying they “deserve a better life”. The governor, in a brief ceremony at the Governor’s Office open field handed over the keys of the vehicles to the State Chief Judge, Justice Akon Ikpeme. This was contained in a statement by the governor’s spokesperson, Christian Ita, titled ‘Ayade presents vehicles to Cross River judges, pledges improved welfare’. According to the governor, I have seen that the Nigerian judiciary is a dependable arm of government, an arm of government that gives hope to the common man, an arm of government that dispenses justice. I’m here to make a presentation of vehicles that befit the status of our judicial officers. Speaking further, the governor told Justice Ikpeme that the presentation of the vehicles afforded him another opportunity to thank the judiciary for dispensing justice without fear or favour. He said, “I’m particularly happy and I’m using this opportunity to express my gratitude to the Nigerian judiciary for standing on the side of the law, by standing with the truth. “Against this background, the people of Cross River state want to show appreciation to the judiciary. On behalf of the government and people of Cross River state, I hereby present these jeeps and cars to you” Responding, Ikpeme commended the governor for the gesture and pledged the judiciary’s commitment to justice delivery. “Your Excellency, with joy, on behalf of the judiciary, I receive the keys to these brand new vehicles. I want to say that on behalf of the judiciary, I appreciate this gesture. “We have new judges and you have thought and deemed it fit to give them these cars. We thank you very much and on our side, we will continue to work for the betterment of the state as far as justice delivery is concerned,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com