A lady in Ebonyi State, Miss Michael Helen, has been lauded for calling off her wedding over alleged assault and maltreatment by her fiancé. PUNCH Metro reports that the wedding was slated for Saturday, April 16, 2022. She explained that she took the decision because her fiancé was physically abusing her. In a post on her Facebook page with the name, ‘Ada Uburu,’ Helen expressed disappointment in the behaviour of her fiance, whom she met in secondary school. She stated, “This was my secondary school classmate who I thought I knew to an extent. On December 28, 2020, he did the 1st and 2nd stages in my family marriage list which bride price happened to be on the 2nd stage which he paid. After he paid my bride price, he started maltreating me. “2021 was hell for me that at some point I left home. After everything, we settled around November 2021 and he promised he would never beat me again. But still, nothing changed. “This is my reason why I am calling off the traditional marriage (Igba Nkwu) and white wedding ceremony between me and David.” While noting that physical abuse was not part of the agreement between them, Helen said she had been through a lot since the beatings started. She wrote, “This Saturday should have been my traditional and white wedding ceremony day. I am supposed to be happy, but I am not. “For a couple of months now, I have been going through a lot. “I have been in a toxic relationship for over a year now. I am aware that this may be a shock to many people, especially people from my hometown. “My supposed husband hits and abuses me in any slightest provocation just small misunderstanding without minding what condition I am into.” She said she was cancelling the wedding because, “I have chosen me and I will not live my entire life facing domestic violence. “My supposed husband is full of rage, beating me with his belt, stick, broom is his daily routine. “Many a times he had lifted his hammer on me and this Monday last week just because of little misunderstanding he beat me mercilessly and in the process of it he rushed into his mother’s kitchen for a cutlass. “When I noticed he’s going for a weapon, I locked the door behind him which he forcefully opened, both his mother and sisters and some neighbours were begging him not to cut me with the cutlass. With all these things and more I am fed up.” Helen apologised to her family members and friends for any inconvenience her decision might cause them. “But I will not end up with a man who always promises that if I didn’t kill him, that he will kill me. I am still suffering from unstoppable headache I sustained from the head injury he gave me 3 weeks ago,” she said. She said the paid bride price would be returned, as she urged everyone to respect her decision. The Facebook post, which she wrote on Wednesday around 7.45pm, had generated over 16,000 likes, 10,000 comments and 5,800 shares by 7pm on Thursday. Some of those who responded commended her courage. One Nomthandazo Kutiwano Segale wrote, “I applaud you for choosing life, moreover your life. May God heal and mend your broken pieces together again. “At the right time the Lord will make your paths cross with the one He intends for you as your companion…” Another Facebook user, Ruth Kachi Godwin, said,” What happened to Osinachi, the gospel singer, should be a great lesson to we women, any man that beats his lady is not yet a complete human being, some men are really evil and wicked.” Another user, Comfort Maduka, wrote, “I love you sweetie u did well, congratulations for calling it off, you just saved yourself from early grave.” Efforts by our correspondent to get the reaction of the fiancé failed. One of the contacts on the wedding invitation card confirmed the suspension of the event in a text to our correspondent, saying, “The post is true. She made the post herself.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com