With Bitcoin (BTC) selling at $43,000, Polygon (MATIC) being down to $1.48, and XRP (XRP) at $0.77, the cryptocurrency market is showing today how some coins can be volatile and precipitate suddenly, taking down investor’s capitals and profits. On the opposite side of the crypto-spectrum, Seesaw Protocol (SSW) has risen by +3244% since its inception in January and it is sitting at the apex of a huge golden era, possibly replacing Bitcoin as the new “digital-gold” in cryptocurrency. What side are you on? The day has finally come and what a day to be an investor of Seesaw Protocol (SSW)! With the entire market down, Seesaw Protocol’s launch is bringing delight to the cryptocurrency industry. As analysts were anticipating, the launch today has generated a surge in demand and SSW utility token value, catapulting the protocol to the “best-cryptocurrency to invest in” list. As SSW presale smashed all previous records it is now registered in crypto-presale history alongside Filecoin (FIL) and Ethereum (ETH) presale, all three having made millions in returns to investors around the globe. Reading this you might think that it is now too late to start investing in the new cryptocurrency and start injecting into your wallet extra cash for extra personal wealth. That is wrong. As records show, after a presale, when a token goes live on the markets and starts its trading journey, the possibilities for investors are almost endless in terms of returns – again, Ethereum (ETH) is a clear example of that. So, with a huge growth of +70% in a month and a possible return of 35% on the initial investments this April, there is still plenty of opportunities to return incredible and jaw-dropping profits with this next-generation protocol. Start today, invest in the next “crypto-gold” and make a profit by Sunday! Polygon (MATIC) The price of MATIC has fallen as a result of a network-wide problem. Polygon’s network was down, and Ethereum‘s entire blockchain scaling solution was affected. Polygon (MATIC) started as a network for scalability, but it quickly expanded into the multipurpose ecosystem we all know and utilise today. Polygon has gained a lot of attention in a short time but it now struggling to keep up, losing 15% in 7 days of trade. Polygon (previously known as MATIC Network), was created in 2017 with the goal of competing with and outpacing the Ethereum Blockchain in terms of speed and cost. MATIC, the protocol’s native token, first appeared on Binance Launchpad and is now the driving force behind the Polygon ecosystem as a whole. MATIC is currently down -0.70% in 24h XRP (XRP) Ripple‘s condition is exacerbated by the uncertainty of today’s markets. Selling pressure for XRP today as the network’s value has fallen below the 2022 volume control. It’s been a rough few days for the XRP price following what appears to be the latest flash-crash. There is a good chance that the token will fail to rebound from this decline. While the bulls would benefit from a swift comeback, it is unclear whether or not this will occur. As long as buyers unite and push the XRP price to the range high of $0.91, investors should anticipate XRP to make keep profiting from it. If things go really well, the rise could even continue to the $1 mark. However, for the moment XRP is down -8.36% in 7 days of trade.  KEYWORDS: Seesaw Protocol, SSW, Polygon, MATIC, XRP, Wealth, Ethereum, ETH, Ripple For More Information on Seesaw Protocol: Presale: https://presale1.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol