MultiChoice Nigeria says it has appointed Doris Ohanugo as its new Executive Head for DStv Media Sales. A statement by the company says Ohanugo is a seasoned sales professional with over 20 years of experience in the broadcast/media industry in various areas, including customer service, marketing, sales, and sponsorship. In her new role, she is expected to drive media sales using her years of experience and knowledge of the advertising space. The statement further describes Ohanugo as an accomplished professional whose years of experience in the broadcast/media industry in Nigeria will impact the company’s bottom line. The statement reads in part; “With her over 20 years’ experience in sales, marketing and strategy; Doris has, over the years, contributed immensely to the business, by driving successful marketing and sales initiatives and innovative solutions to delight clients and brands. We are confident that her deep experience and skills will continue to drive our teams and business towards meeting and exceeding our strategic goals” the statement says. According to the statement, Ohanugo joined MultiChoice in 2012 as the Sponsorship Manager, DStv Media Sales, and was later promoted to the position of Regional Sales Manager, a role she occupied until her recent appointment as the Executive Head, DStv Media Sales. She has handled numerous projects, including Nigerian Idol – Seasons 1&2, FIFA World Cup –Germany 2006 & South Africa 2010, The English Premier League 2007-2012 seasons, amongst others. Ohanugo holds bachelor’s and master’s degrees in History and Strategic Studies from the University of Lagos, professional certifications from Lagos Business School, Pan Atlantic University, and professional certification from the Gordon School of Business Science, University of Pretoria, South Africa. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com