The West African Management Development Institutes Network has said there is a need for Chief Executive Officers to establish quality assurance programme design and implementation in Management Development Institutes across West Africa. The President, WAMDEVIN, Prof. Alexander Yonly, said this during a webinar series themed, ‘Enhancing Quality Assurance in programme design and implementation for chief executives and top management staff of MDI.’ He explained that the move would help CEOs create strategies for continuous quality in programmes and establish guidelines for quality-related information systems in all programmes. Yonly, who was represented at the event by the Executive Secretary, Dr Kolawole Olowe, restated that the 21st century demands that MDls constantly ensure best practices in total quality management. He said, “This will adequately position them to become useful and relevant think-tanks to their various governments who are expecting the MDIs to deliver maximally.” On his part, Prof. Peter Okebukola, in his presentation asserted that the practical steps to ensure quality in MDls delivery system involve securing a virtual space for their MDl training, setting up the site for online delivery, and the application of a blended approach to training programmes. A United Kingdom-based consultant, Mrs Patricia Ivbijaro-Erinfolami, noted that when establishing a viable quality system, CEOs and senior management staff should define roles to be played by groups. She said a strategic quality system requires open communication and genuine commitment to the attainment of the goals of the organisation. Ivbijaro-Erinfolami stated further that in addition to establishing priorities and providing resources to accomplish required activities, management must lead by example in all aspects of learning, training, and development. In her closing remarks, Dr Bamidele Akinyemi, added that MDIs need to carefully consider how to migrate their knowledge-based courses to virtual. She advised that there should be a review of the operations of MDIs to ensure customer satisfaction in the attainment of an organisation’s goals.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com