The war in Ukraine had seen about 13 million people leave the country as Russia was still on the offensive.  Attempts by international organisations to push for peace had yet to see success following the attack on Ukraine during the visit by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres. Here are the latest developments in the war in Ukraine: -Missile hits Odessa airport- A Russian missile destroyed the runway at Odessa airport in southern Ukraine but there were no victims, the regional governor Maxim Marchenko, said on his Telegram account. – Civilian group leaving Mariupol – A group of 20 civilians were leaving the Azovstal steelworks, where the last Ukrainian troops were holed up in the Black Sea port of Mariupol, the soldiers there said. – Russian plane enters Swedish air space: Stockholm – A Russian reconnaissance plane briefly violated Sweden’s airspace, Swedish defence officials said, as the Scandinavian country pondered a bid for the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation membership after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. – Ukrainians freed in prisoner swap – Fourteen Ukrainians including a pregnant soldier had been freed in the latest prisoner exchange with Russian forces, Ukraine said, without revealing the number of Russians returned to Moscow. The exchange of seven military personnel and seven civilians included a soldier who was five months pregnant, Deputy Prime Minister, Iryna Vereshchuk, announced on Telegram. – More bodies found near Bucha – The bodies of three men shot in the head and with their hands tied had been found in a pit near Bucha, a town close to Kyiv, police said. There were also traces of torture, according to the statement. Bucha had become synonymous with allegations of Russian war crimes since dozens of bodies were first discovered there in early April. -France to intensify aid- French President Emmanuel Macron says France will “intensify” its supply of military and humanitarian support following a conversation with his Ukrainian counterpart, Volodymyr Zelensky. – Kharkiv shelled again – Ukraine’s second city Kharkiv was hit by multiple Russian shellings, though President Zelensky said Ukrainian forces were making “tactical successes” in the region. One person was killed and five injured, Kharkiv’s regional military administration said on Telegram. – Germany to ‘reconsider’ Schroeder’s perks – The German government would consider withdrawing perks given to ex-chancellor Gerhard Schroeder because of his close ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin, Germany’s finance minister said. – 13 million uprooted – More than 5.4 million Ukrainians had fled their country since Russia invaded two months ago, with tens of thousands joining their ranks every day, the United Nations said. Beyond the refugees, the International Organisation for Migration estimated more than 7.7 million people had been displaced within Ukraine, meaning that more than 13 million people overall had been uprooted by the conflict. – Angela Jolie visits Lviv – Hollywood star Angelina Jolie makes a surprise appearance in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv where she met displaced people. Jolie is a UN High Commissioner for Refugees special envoy, but it was not known if she was visiting the country in that capacity. AFP