THE Multinational Joint Task Force forces said it had killed no fewer than 10 Islamic State in West Africa Province’s commanders in the past few weeks. The task force, which comprises troops from Nigeria, Niger and Cameroon, said it had, through the Operation Lake Sanity, attacked the hideouts of the terrorists and cleared the areas. In a statement on Sunday by the Chief of Military Public Information Headquarters, MNJTF, Colonel Muhammad Dole, said the force carried out the operations through airstrikes. The statement was titled ‘Operation Lake Sanity makes inroad into terrorists enclaves in the Lake Chad region.’ He said, “The dogged troops operating under the shared aspiration of the MNJTF made gradual but unprecedented incursions into the insurgents’ dens. “Some of the areas cleared include Zanari, Arina, Woje, which served as a major fabrication workshop, Asagar, Larki and Garere. Other areas cleared include Kerenoa, Wurje, Arege, Abadam, Doron Lelewa, Kolaram, and several other locations around the Islands. “Within this operation, well over a hundred terrorists have been neutralised, including over 10 top commanders following intelligence-driven lethal airstrikes in the Lake Chad islands. Some of the commanders include Abubakar Dan Buduma, Abubakar Shuwa, Abu Ali and Abu Jubrilla among others.” He added that sophisticated weapons were either destroyed or captured, including a 105 mm artillery piece, several canoes/boats, motorcycles, bicycles, other terrorists’ equipment, and several Improvised Explosive Devices making factories and bunkers were destroyed. Dole also said a significant number of innocent citizens mostly women and children, held captive by the terrorists were rescued. However, he said the terrorists have IEDs planted, which had resulted in the death of three soldiers and 18 injured. Dole said that the frustrated criminal, BHT/ISWAP, has resorted to indiscriminately laying IEDs and using Vehicle Borne Explosive Devices attacks. One pattern noticed in the operation is that the criminals hastily withdraw and avoid contacting the approaching troops. He said, “They instead rely on suicide vehicle-borne attacks. About four of such attacks have targeted the determined troops who have not been deterred. Sadly, 18 soldiers, including an officer, have been wounded in these attacks and have been evacuated to various military medical facilities for treatment.” In comparison, three soldiers and one member of the CJTF paid the supreme sacrifice.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com