Remo Stars recovered from a nervy start to defeat visiting Dakkada 4-1 on match-day 24 of the Nigerian Professional Football League. It was a win that manager Gbenga Ogunbote believes has positioned his side to achieve their season’s objective. He praised the players for scoring the highest goals return this season. “The boys showed tremendous spirit in the match and I’m most impressed,” Ogunbote said. “We will continue our run in the league. Our aspiration is to finish well and we are on course.” Following the win, the Sky Blues moved into third place on the NPFL log with 40 points, two points ahead of Enugu Rangers, who lost at Niger Tornadoes. The midweek clash had the Sky Blues continue their search for a continental ticket, while the visitors looked to stay clear of the drop zone. But after what looked like a very even first half, it was a different Remo that emerged in the second stanza. The home team took the lead in the 33rd minute through Flying Eagles invitee Tolulope Ojo, who curled in a brilliant shot after he was setup by Dayo Ojo. The celebrations that greeted the opening goal was hardly over when the visitors equalised through Etido Dan. Another quick strike from Qudus Akanni from long range helped Ogunbote’s side settle in early as the visitors played catch-up. Andy Okpe increased the lead just before the hour mark as Dakkada failed to deal with a long throw into their box, as the lanky striker easily headed into the top corner. Sikiru Alimi finished the game off at the death with a sumptuous goal. The striker continued his impressive goals return since his return to the league. “It was poor second half that cost us the game. We could not replicate our performance in the first half and that cost us the match. We will have to go back and strategise ahead of our next match against Nasarawa United. It’s another away game and we have to put in our best,” Dakkada manager, Umar Danlami, said. Remo Stars next travel to Jos to tackle title-chasing Plateau United.