Boko Haram terrorists on Wednesday attacked Geidam town, in Yobe State. They killed 10 people in a local beer parlour popularly known as Kwari on the outskirts of the town before proceeding to kill another youth living in the quarters of the technical school located in the town. The terrorists arrived the town on foot around 10pm, killed their victims before setting ablaze the quarters of their victims in the technical school. According to sources in Damaturu, troops of the Nigerian military had information of the impending attack by the insurgents and laid ambush for them. But the terrorists were said to have used a different route to get to the town. “The Boko Haram fighters used to come through a particular route known to everyone, including the military. On this occasion, troops heard about the plan to attack Geidam, so they went and laid ambush at the route, but in a twist of events, the terrorists refused to use that route; rather, they parked their motorcycles far away in the bush and trekked into the town. “They also left their guns in the bush and used knives to slaughter the 10 people in Kwari beer parlour located some distance from the town,” Abdullahi Hassan told The PUNCH. According to another source, the insurgents killed the young man registering SIM cards in the town because they disagreed with him. “The boy they killed at the quarters of the technical school registers SIM cards in the town. “There was a time the terrorists came for him to register SIM packs for them, but the boy refused because he knew them to be Boko Haram terrorists. Angrily, they told him that they would come for him,” Gambo Modu disclosed to The PUNCH, adding that they killed the victim and set ablaze the staff quarters he lived in. Geidam is the hometown of the immediate past Governor of Yobe State, Ibrahim Geidam. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com