Men of the Anambra State Police Command have foiled an attack on the Nteje police divisional headquarters in the Oyi Local Government Area of the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that the police killed one of the attackers during a gun battle. It was learnt that the gunmen, who invaded the police station, were repelled by the police, who launched a counterattack. The state police spokesperson, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, said the gunmen attacked the facility around 3am on Thursday. He stated that the state Commissioner of Police, Echeng Echeng, led the operation that foiled the attack, adding that a rifle and some ammunition, including charms, were recovered from the hoodlums. He said, “The Anambra State Police Command, led by the CP, Echeng Echeng, today (Thursday) around 3am, foiled an attack by gunmen at the Nteje police divisional headquarters at Oyi LGA. The operatives recovered one type O6 rifle, one magazine and 53 live ammunition of 5.56mm and charms. “Echeng led the crack squad while responding to a distress call, as the station came under attack by the deadly gang. The police operatives decisively dealt with the assailants. “During the gun duel, one of the gunmen was neutralised and due to the superior fire of the police operatives, the assailants fled the scene. The station was secured and all police operatives and arms were intact. “The CP, while reiterating that the command would not relent in delivering on its mandate of protecting lives and property, commended the officers and men of the command for their perseverance and efforts to weed out all criminal elements in the state.” There have been a series of attacks on police facilities in the state. On Tuesday, a police station in Ogbaru was attacked and four policemen killed.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com