The forthcoming FESTAC Africa 2022 event is going to boost intra-Africa trade, arts, culture, tourism and travel, literature and poets, music, food, and fashion, as well as other businesses across the continent, organisers of the programme have stated. Holding in Zanzibar, Tanzania from May 22 to 29, 2022, the FESTAC Africa 2022 -Destination Zanzibar- aims to also unite African countries rather than divide the nations on the continent, according to a statement issued by the organisers. The statement read in part, “We curated FESTAC AFRICA 2022 – Destination Zanzibar to offer you an experience of every touch-point of culture that includes art, culture, heritage, music, talent discovery trade, tourism, hospitality, travel, manufacturing, literature, storytelling and writing. As expected, a festival is not a festival without food, fashion and music. “One will ask why a festival of arts and culture would encompass so many components as we have structured the upcoming event. It is important we are reminded that times have also changed and therefore we cannot ignore the business aspect intertwined in our culture. “Traditionally, trade was a major component of culture and whether it was gold traded with art, or coins or other, trade has always been a huge component of culture.” The organisers stated that FESTAC Africa was intentionally curated to amplify intra-Africa trade, hence the reason for the planned exhibition during the festival. “The exhibition is designed to showcase the richness of our continent through a ‘proudly made in Africa Expo’, which we are pleased to extend an invitation to all countries in Africa to participate and proudly showcase what Africa can offer to the rest of the world,” they stated. The organisers urged African countries to use this link to register for FESTAC Africa 2022:  https://inspireafricaevents.glueup.com/event/festac-africa-2022-destination-zanzibar-44756/ They described the Island of Zanzibar as being gracious and thanked the government of Zanzibar for accepting FESTAC Africa 2022 to be inaugurated in Zanzibar. “Zanzibar as its known by many is the spice island situated in Tanzania. This beautiful island in Africa is yet to be showcased to the world and we are proud to be associated with it. An Island of peaceful, warm and friendly people and a wonderful cross-road of culture and religion, with abundant richness in art and history,” they stated. The statement added, “The line-up of our distinguished guests include former Presidents of various African nations, ministers, ambassadors of various foreign missions, two African Noble Prize winners in Literature, women in powerful positions, chairpersons, leaders of organisations, corporations, NGOs, various key associations and many more. “We invite you to come and share in our richness and become part of FESTAC Africa 2022 – Destination Zanzibar, as we usher a new dawn in Africa from May 22 – 29, 2022.  Our array of exciting programmes includes a five-day exhibition, a three-day business conference bringing some of the top corporate leaders and government officials to share the abundant opportunities in Zanzibar, Tanzania and Africa. “A one-day golf on Africa Day, extending a day of fun to the executives or avid golfers just looking for a day out to unwind; 300 exhibitors of ‘proudly Made-in-Africa,’ international buyers and so much more.” The organisers stated that the event would deliver optimal value for each and every exhibitor, business, organisations, attendees, and everyone associated with FESTAC Africa. They stated. “We therefore, call on the private and public sectors to join hands and support FESTAC estac Africa as we aim to make this an annual event. Your support will mean a successful Festac Africa festival from one year to the next. “This can only be achieved with your support. Zanzibar will be buzzing during this period, a great place to connect with people on the continent and others in the Diaspora.” The statement quoted the Chairman, FESCTA Africa, Yinka Abioye, as saying, “FESTAC Africa is a platform for unlocking conversations around our similarities, differences, culture, heritage, networking, trade and bringing people together to drive intra-Africa economy and boost it when we start having open and candid conversations.” The organisers stated that FESTAC Africa could be followed on Facebook:             https://www.facebook.com/FestacAfrica; Twitter: https://twitter.com/FESTACAFRICA; LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/in/festacafrica; Instagram:                https://www.instagram.com/festacafrica/; and YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCRHhU5vLUxEkj8rbttw8ncw; https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zwPP2YAFzOs On the history of the festival, the organisers said, “The history of Festac stems back in the early 1960, and its richness echoes respect from the forefathers of Africa in the early 1960 when the young African leaders then were trying to rescue Africa from colonialism. “The first FESTAC (1st Festival Mondial Des Arts Negres) took place in 1966 in Dakar, Senegal.  This event was one that was supposed to be held every two years, however, perhaps at the peak of independence and other priorities, less focus was placed on this most valuable festival “Eleven years later in 1977, Nigeria hosted the second Festac (Second World Black and African Festival of Arts and Culture) which attracted over 72 countries, and more than 16,000 people from all over the world.  Nigeria FESTAC was so big that a mini-city was built by the government to host the event.  Till today Festac City in Nigeria remains a beneficiary of 1977 FESTAC” They added, “It is now exactly 45 years later, and you would question why Africa has not hosted another ‘Festac’.  Well like 1966, even lesser priority has since been placed on this festival which was aimed to bind and bring Africans from all over the world together to celebrate art, culture, heritage and the people we are, our identity. “ The organisers recognised the strategic partners including Zanzibar Association of Tourism Investors, Zanzibar National Chamber of Commerce, Hotels Association of Zanzibar, and Zanzibar Commission for Tourism, who had been instrumental in making the festival come to live. “We have so much lined up for you (participants) over the seven days and you do not want to miss out a day of this exciting once in a life time opportunity,” they stated in the statement. The statement added, “The week-long festival will deliver the best curated experiences ever. We are working closely with the local businesses, associations, and community leaders to ensure the best of Zanzibar products and services are also showcased and given a platform to connect with international audience. “We look forward to hosting you in Zanzibar.  The success of Africa is in our collective hands. When we connect and work together to develop and promote Africa we will start to see this change demonstrated in our economies as sales and trade increase.” The organisers also took the opportunity to appreciate its partners including ZATO, ZATI, ZNCC, HAZ, Zanzibar Commission for Tourism, and the Ministry for Tourism Zanzibar, for joining hands thus far and for believing in Festac Africa. The Chairman, ZATO, Hassan Ali Mzee, was quoted as saying, “Festac Africa is coming to Zanzibar at the right time to create opportunities for our people from grassroot levels and to help drive economic boost for Zanzibar from tourism, business and also create awareness of our beautiful island. “With so much to offer our people, this is an event we must all participate and show support as Africans.  Being an annual event it will change the lives of many who will be involved.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com