Singer and EME record label boss, Bankole Wellington, popularly known as Banky W, has instructed music producer, Samklef, to demand his royalties from Wizkid. Samklef had earlier asked Banky W to give him his royalties for producing Wizkid’s hit song ‘Pakurumo’, which was recorded when the singer was with EME. In his latest response, Banky W has asked Samklef to reach out to Wizkid concerning the royalties, as he denied being a part of a royalty split sheet, which Samklef presented as evidence. In the royalty split sheet shared by Samklef, composers of the song were written as Wizkid and one Steve Michaels. Samklef had claimed that his name was replaced with that of Steve Michaels and has questioned Banky W’s involvement in the matter. Banky W, however, made it clear to Samklef that he didn’t know who Steve Michaels was and also had no gain in the royalties as his name and EME were absent from the sheet. In his latest post, Samklef shared a screenshot of his conversation with Banky W where the latter asked Samklef to take up his royalty claims with Wizkid and Sony, whom Wizkid signed a contract with after leaving EME. Banky W told Samklef, “I don’t know who that is, guy! Wiz submitted the royalty split sheet himself. That’s why you don’t see me or EME there anywhere. “You need to take this up with Wiz/Sony/whoever else is listed. I’ve never ever taken a dime from this or been in control of them. It’s all people from their side who are administering it. “EME has absolutely zero involvement/control/influence there. We are not involved. The people who are, are listed on the royalty splits. Direct your anger at them, not me.” In the caption, Samklef said, “Banky W has instructed me to reach out to Wizkid. I believe everything will be resolved in peace.” This came shortly after Samklef claimed that Banky W assured him of receiving his royalties. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com