Former President of the Senate, BukolaSaraki; Sokoto State Governor and Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party Governors’ Forum, Aminu Tambuwal; and his Bauchi State counterpart, Bala Mohammed, on Monday, held a consultative meeting with the Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri. Saraki while speaking with journalists at the end of the meeting in Government House, Yenagoa, confirmed the consensus-building on who will emerge as the party’s flag bearer for the 2023 presidential election was working. The immediate past Senate president who is a presidential aspirant on the platform of the PDP said they were also working to hold consultations with other aspirants from the party. He said, “The consensus is working. We are prepared to meet all of the (presidential) aspirants; all of the aspirants are going to meet as a body. “I know that there are moves already, some of the aspirants are also meeting amongst themselves. But the eventual thing is for all of the aspirants to meet. I think it’s easier when you are trying to reach consensus to start in blocs.” Saraki noted that Nigeria is in terrible shape despite the propaganda of the ruling All Progressives Congress and it is only the PDP that could rescue the country and provide the right direction for citizens. He, however, stressed that the PDP needed to be united in presenting a common front to wrest power from the APC in 2023. The former Kwara State governor said he, Tambuwal and Bala Mohammed, believed that although they had individual interests, “the interest of Nigeria is far greater than individual interest.” Saraki said the consultative meeting with Diri and other critical stakeholders of the party was geared towards consolidating the consensus-building and strengthening the unity of the party. “We have come to seek his (Diri’s) support in this approach to the 2023 presidential elections and 2022 presidential primaries of the PDP. He has spoken very well and we feel very encouraged by his words. “Our belief now is all about fixing and repairing this country. The job is enormous, a herculean task that not one person can do. Let us start now by building consensus to ensure the PDP will make Nigeria a better place. Also speaking, Governor Diri commended Saraki, Tambuwal and Bala Mohammed for the move, adding “that there is no other way forward than the unity of purpose of the PDP.” Diri said, “We must realise that, first, we are an opposition party. We are not a party in government and we cannot afford to factionalise and fractionalise our party by way of individual ambitions.” The Bayelsa Governor said the state chapter of the PDP was prepared to work assiduously for the unity of the party and its quest to take over the reins of governance to give Nigerians quality leadership and dividends of democracy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com