Following the directive of the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, that all political appointees who are vying for elective positions ahead of the 2023 general election should resign, the state Commissioner for Information, Mr Donald Ojogo, has tendered his resignation letter. Ojogo resigned his appointment from Akeredolu’s cabinet a few hours after the governor gave the directive on Tuesday. In a letter addressed to the governor, the former commissioner expressed appreciation to the governor for the opportunity to serve in his government. The letter read, “I write to inform you of my resignation from the Cabinet of Ondo State Government as Commissioner with effect from Thursday, 14 April 2022. “As already observed in the public domain, I had, after due consultations, indicated interest to run for the position of House of Representatives to represent the good people of my Federal Constituency (Ilaje/Ese-Odo) on the platform of the All Progressives Congress. “Mr Governor Sir, working under you over those years has been excitingly wonderful just as the experience, knowledge and indeed, morals garnered along this path have combined to mould an enthralling peep into life as a whole. Your inspiring courage is legendary; but your compass on fairness, sincerity of purpose and honesty are uncommon attributes of a politician. “These are enduring virtues available for whoever had a working encounter with you to deploy as beaconed in the journey of life. Above all, I am more than excited and pleased to be counted among your varied degrees of Multi-level team of subordinates, associates, and acquaintances who contributed their modest quota while you piloted the affairs of the sunshine state. “We shall all live to witness posterity’s positive side that you led us to provide good governance aside from re-defining Ondo’s infrastructural gap. As I take my leave to soldier on, please accept as always, Mr Governor, not just the assurances of my highest regards. The journey of political bonding has just commenced.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com