TWO events this month held at the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, succinctly demonstrated the feckless nature of Nigeria’s state governors. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo hosted some All Progressives Congress governors at the Presidential Villa to inform them of his 2023 presidential ambition. Among the 12 governors present at the meeting was Kaduna Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, whose state has been overrun by terrorists in recent times. A day later, a former governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu, also met with some governors in Abuja, to seek support for his presidential bid. Present again was el-Rufai alongside his Plateau counterpart, Simon Lalong; Mai Mala Buni of Yobe, and Hope Uzodimma of Imo. Notably, these are governors whose states have been under the siege of terrorists, bandits, gunmen, among others. While they frolicked in Abuja, gracing inconsequential unofficial events, blood flowed in their states, scores of people being killed, hundreds more kidnapped, property torched and thousands displaced. Their junkets reveal the prevailing poor quality of governance. Unfeeling, and disconnected from the harrowing pains of victims of insecurity in their states, many governors imprudently frequently abandon the people on flimsy grounds. Yet, they are designated as the chief security officers of their states. Leadership entails mourning with the led when they are bereaved, and standing with them when under attack. It was certainly inappropriate for el-Rufai to leave Kaduna during ceaseless terrorist attacks, with many lives lost and scores still being held captive, to attend private political meetings in Abuja. It was disappointing coming from the usually perceptive el-Rufai who has taken a strong, realistic posture against terrorists. Surely, meetings to announce the personal electoral ambitions of politicians ought not to draw away the chief executive of a state from home at time of crisis. Nigerians were shocked to see Lalong in Abuja attending a political meeting shortly after terrorists invaded the Kanam Local Government Area of Plateau State, killing over 100 residents and displacing about 6,000 others in five agrarian communities. This is irresponsible. Elsewhere, responsible leaders attending crucial international summits rush back when their people are killed or displaced in their domain. The Chairman of Kanam LGA, Dayabu Garga, depicted the horror: “I was present when we did mass burial of 106 killed and we are still picking more dead bodies in the farmland.” But while the people mourned, their governor was politicking in Abuja! In March, while terrorists continued their ransacking of Niger State, abducting hundreds of schoolchildren and killing scores of others, Governor Sani Bello had other priorities. He went to Abuja to contest the APC caretaker chairmanship seat with Buni of Yobe State. Buni’s case is repugnant. Despite Yobe being in the vortex of the 12-year-old Boko Haram Islamist insurgency, he has been accused of perpetual dereliction of duty by governing the Boko Haram-ravaged North-East state from the FCT. Since June 2020 when he was named APC caretaker chairman, he has been engrossed more in party affairs than in leading his traumatised people. Also constantly grandstanding on the national stage, active on the lecture circuit and basking in the post of the chairman of the informal Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Kayode Fayemi leaves the people of Ekiti State to contend with the siege of armed robbers, kidnappers and killer Fulani herdsmen, who defy the anti-open grazing law that his predecessor midwifed and enforced. Uzodimma, whose state is under the ferocious attacks of ‘unknown gunmen,’ is often away from Imo, regularly popping up in Abuja even while civilians and security men are being killed, homes and offices torched. Absenteeism by unsympathetic governors cuts across party lines. For 87 consecutive days till March 19, 2020, Taraba State Governor, Darius Ishaku, was allegedly AWOL. While he governed from Abuja ostensibly for health reasons, perennial herdsmen invasion, and communal violence convulsed the North-East state. Former Zamfara State Governor, Abdulaziz Yari, was widely berated for frequently travelling out of the North-West state during his tenure. It was on his careless, inept watch that banditry birthed, and spread, engulfing the entire North-West and North-Central today. Nigeria’s imperial governors must be restrained. Many of them degrade governance and leave their states ungoverned when they go globe-trotting at public expense by refusing to transmit power to the deputy governors as the constitution requires. Two exceptions are noteworthy; Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, and his immediate predecessor, Kashim Shettima, have demonstrated responsive leadership, providing succour, presence and empathy with their beleaguered people who have borne the major brunt of Islamic insurgency. Unlike their fickle colleagues, they identify physically with victims, the internally displaced persons and the security personnel defending against terrorists. Governor Samuel Ortom has also been standing with Benue State people against ferocious Fulani herdsmen rapine. Governors should know that their first responsibility is the security of lives and properties in the states where they were elected. Absentee governors are an unbearable burden. The state Houses of Assembly must drop their rubberstamp pose, query absentee governors and take their oversight functions more seriously. Nigerians, through peaceful agitation, should demand that governors lead from the front, stay back and take actions to advance the economy, housing, education, and health and security of their states. They should demand the immediate creation of state and regional security agencies, trained, armed, and well-funded. Governors should roll out policies to promote agriculture, mining, manufacturing, crafts, ICT and MSMEs. They should make their states attractive for investments by providing basic infrastructure, investing in health, education, and skills acquisition. Provision of basic rural infrastructure should be a priority. Governors chasing presidential ambition should first make an impression at home. Bill Clinton, Xi Jinping, Rodrigo Duterte and Narendra Modi rode on the back of their sterling performances as states/provincial chief executives to lead the United States, China, the Philippines and India, respectively. They succeeded to national leadership by hands-on leadership at home, not by abandoning their people to strut on the national stage while their homes burned. Nigeria’s governors should also be responsive and accountable. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com