The Nasarawa State Police Command says it has arrested the suspected killers of an official of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, Paul Okon Anwana. Our correspondent gathered that the late Anwana was killed on April 18, 2022, when the suspected criminals who claimed to be commercial motorcyclists stormed his residence in the Karu Local Government Area of the state and used several weapons on him until he died. Parading the suspects on Thursday in Lafia, the Commissioner of Police, CP Adesina Soyemi, explained that the suspects also planned to set ablaze, the residence of the victim, but they were arrested by police officers attached to the anti-cultism unit of the command before being able to execute the plan. He said, “A distress call was received that commercial motorcyclists were attacking a National Drug Law Enforcement Agency personnel who was identified as Paul Okon Anwana and they were about to set his residence ablaze. “Upon receipt of the information, the Divisional Police officer, New Karu Division, Anti-cultism unit and Crack team led by the Assistant Commissioner of Police in charge of operations, swiftly mobilised to the scene where the victim was found in the pool of his blood. “He was rushed to the hospital by the police where the doctor confirmed him dead. “Reacting to the ugly development, a manhunt for the perpetrators of the act was launched. Consequently, via painstaking investigation, twenty-one suspects who actively participated in the lynching of the victim to death were arrested.” CP Soyemi mentioned the names of the suspects to include Mansur Ishaq, 30 years, Adamu Ado, 22 years, Kamala Abdulrahaman, 15 years, Murtala Salisu, 15 years, Salisu Lawal, 37 years, Anas Ibrahim, 19 years, Imrana Ibrahim 26 years, Zayanu Usman, 35 years, Abdulahi Lawal 22 years, among others. He noted that stones, metals, and other hard objects used in the commission of the offence were recovered as exhibits, adding that the suspects had made useful statements that would help to conduct a proper investigation into the matter. While parading other suspects arrested for various crimes across the 13 Local Government Areas of the state, CP Soyemi warned criminal elements to desist from terrorising the state and be good citizens as the police would not fail to arrest and prosecute anyone found wanting. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com