The Dein of Agbor kingdom, Ika South Local Government Area, Delta State, HRM Benjamin Keagborekuzi 1, has advised the All Progressives Congress, and the Peoples Democratic Party members to guard against bitter rivalry and bloodshed in the build-up to the 2023 general election. The monarch gave the advice when Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, who was in Agbor for the chieftains of the APC for the grand reception in honour of the National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Felix Morka, paid him a courtesy visit at his palace. He noted Nigerians were in dire need of good leadership that would revive the country’s dwindling economy and not guns and bloodshed. He said: “Please, both parties, remember that we are all one people that have friends that cut across both parties. Both ways, PDP members are not your enemies, and APC members are not your enemies. Please let’s take Nigeria to the next level; let’s take Nigeria forward. “At the end of the day, what we are looking for is peace; what we are looking for is development. I know that we can have it. If the United States of America has decided that its largest consulate that they are going to build in the world is going to be in Nigeria, it means that throughout all the turbulence, the USA has confidence in Nigeria. “We must bring back peace because it is that peace we will use to invigorate and bring business back to this country, which we desperately need right now. “Whether the APC or PDP, we want to take the country forward; but we don’t need guns, we don’t need the violence. Please bring in your brainpower to take this country to the next level.” On his part, Omo-Agege said his declaration for the state governorship seat in 2023 last Thursday, had rattled the PDP. In his remarks, Morka appreciated the people of Ika federal constituency for organising the reception in his honour and commended Omo-Agege, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, several sons and daughters of the Ika ethnic nationality, and others ensure the success at the APC national convention last month. “People simply focus on the distractions, they frame the issues in advancing their own self-interest but the fact of the matter is that in every sector you look at, this party and the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari has moved us a quantum leap forward from where we were in 2015. That’s incontrovertible. “Now as the National Publicity Secretary of APC, my job which I intend to do with a lot of vigor, enthusiasm, and candour is to lead evidence-based arguments and facts to our people so they can see the reality. People are paraphrasing this government in an unfair way. “But my role now will be to go out there and tell our story and retake the public space for our party and prepare us properly for what is to come which is the general elections, come 2023. So, I am ready to speak, that is the job I have been given to the best of my ability.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com