A Court of Appeal in Kano on Wednesday set aside the judgment of a Federal High Court which discharged and acquitted a Kano governorship aspirant, Abdulsalam Zaura, popularly known as A.A. Zaura. Zaura was prosecuted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on a-five-count before the Federal High Court in Kano. The commission accused Zaura of defrauding a Kuwaiti national by obtaining $1.32m on the pretext that he was in the business of building properties in Dubai, Kuwait and other Arab countries. On June 9, 2020, Justice Lewis Allagoa found the defendant not guilty and discharged him on all counts. Dissatisfied with the judgment of the lower court, the prosecution counsel, Musa Isah, approached the Court of Appeal to overturn the judgment of the lower court. The three-man panel of judges of the Court of Appeal, in a unanimous decision delivered by Justice Abdullahi Bayero, set aside the judgment of the Federal High Court. Bayero ordered a fresh re-trial of the defendant by a different judge other than Justice Allagoa. The point of argument in the appeal was that the accused person was absent when the judgment was delivered, and based on several judgments of the Supreme Court, serving as a precedent, it was held that an accused person must be present in court throughout his trial. It was in that regard that the Court of Appeal found merit in the appeal and upheld the same accordingly. “Having determined the issue in favour of the appellant, the appeal succeeded. The judgment of the lower court in suit number FHCK/CR2018/ FRN against Abdulsalam Abdulkarim, which was delivered on June 9, 2020, is hereby set aside.” Justice Bayero ordered that the case be reverted to the Federal High Court for a fresh beginning. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com