ONE of the saddest realities of modern times is the fact that water – which is given freely and abundantly by the Creator – is now becoming a scarce commodity. Yet, the problem is not its availability. It is everywhere. The challenge is that it has become unreachable even in plain sight. You can see but you cannot touch. You can touch but you cannot taste. You can taste but you cannot swallow. As the saying goes, water, water everywhere and not a drop to drink. Interestingly, one of the major reasons that clean water is becoming elusive is due to our own daily activities. We use and pollute it. We consume and never think about helping Mother Nature to put her water back in use through the natural water cycle. We have this tendency to treat water the same way we treat other resources in our environment – take, make, consume and waste. This is what is called a linear economy. Remarkably, it is more noticeable in a less-developed society like ours. And here, there are more natural resources to play around with. But the danger is that if we continue wasting them, sooner than later, the chicken will come home to roost. This is why it is gladdening that we have joined the world to adopt and mainstream the circulatory concept. According to the African Circular Economy Network, a circular economy is an alternative to a traditional linear economy (make, use, dispose) in which resources are kept in use for as long as possible, maximum value is extracted from them whilst in use, then materials are recovered and products are regenerated at the end of each life. The ACEN argues that Africa has been using circular principles for generations. So, as new business models and technologies emerge, the opportunities for agriculture, manufacturing and waste management can be harnessed to improve livelihoods and reduce poverty. Last week, the organisation kicked off a six-part water webinar series with a view to applying a circular economy to the water sector in Nigeria, themed, “Maximising the value of water in our systems through circularity.” I agree with the ACEN that in order to build a restorative African economy that generates well-being and prosperity inclusive of all its people through new forms of economic production and consumption which maintain and regenerate its environmental resources, we must first of all “secure the water flow.” The water situation in Nigeria is alarming. The rapid increase in population across the regions is not matched by improved water infrastructure. Even the little we have is getting polluted by the day. To worsen it all, there is no ambition on the part of the government to ramp up investments in the sector. The separation of responsibilities is not helping matters. The Federal Government is responsible for the nation’s water resources. The state governments shoulder the task of urban water supply. The local governments and communities are expected to attend to the rural water supply. This calibrated format for water supply has engendered a simmering water emergency in our nation. The citizens are now left to cater for their own water needs and, because the resource is highly essential, they go for it by any necessary means. Hence, nobody thinks about sustainability or circularity. This is why we need to start the conversation today. Rethinking urban water through circular economy and resilience lenses offers an opportunity to transform the urban water sector and deliver water supply and sanitation services in a more sustainable, inclusive, efficient and resilient way. In a circular economy, the full value of water – as a service, an input to processes, a source of energy and a carrier of nutrients and other materials – is recognised and captured. The three key outcomes to be achieved are: Deliver resilient and inclusive services; design out waste and pollution; preserve and regenerate natural systems. For instance, the current Federal Government’s efforts at ending open defecation in Nigeria must factor in circularity, for it to be sustainable. Water, sanitation and hygiene straddle two sectors – the water and the environment. But, the water component is critical. Perhaps, this is why the Clean Nigeria Campaign is domiciled in the Federal Ministry of Water Resources. The truth is that there can be no end to open defecation without access to water. Indeed, many people resort to open defecation because they lack water. The modern water closet infrastructure is highly water-dependent, existing in areas with little or no water supply conduit, especially in institutions like schools, hospitals, government offices and public buildings. But this challenge can be tackled head-on through circularity. Right from the concept and design phase, circular economy principles will not only add value but will effectively create opportunities for innovation and entrepreneurship. This is happening in other climes like Israel, where urban sewage is hundred per cent recycled. Nigeria must adopt these emerging principles in order to be a regional leader, and to help her citizens do away with the “bore-hole mentality” which threatens our resilience against climate change. Groundwater resources provide millions of gallons of water per day to over 78 million rural citizens and other users also exist in the country. Most of the people in rural communities in Nigeria have entrenched dependence on wells and boreholes for the provision of rural water supplies. Many of the country’s lakes, rivers and streams receive wastewater discharges that create enormous environmental and public-health problems. Several factors including nutrients, sediments and other pollutants from point sources and nonpoint sources, airborne pollutants, contaminated sediments and physical or habitat degradation are causing the impairment of Nigerian rivers, streams and lakes. Many of the rivers receive huge quantities of untreated effluents and solid wastes that contain substances that are harmful to humans and the ecosystem. There is hope in the circular economy, a model that supports the need to eliminate the concept of waste and that all systems should be designed so that we do not generate waste or negative externalities in the first place. According to Kemi Ajakaiye, Nigeria Chapter Lead of the African Circular Economy Network, the 3-tier government as the policymakers hold core responsibilities in areas that are key for the circular economy in the water sector. They can facilitate and enable circular innovation and shape water planning and development. By synergising their roles, they become promoters, facilitators and enablers of a circular economy for the sector. Policy recommendations and related actions should be implemented as a shared responsibility across a wide range of actors. “The disjuncture between evidence-based information and inclusive stakeholders’ engagement and policy formulation from experience limits the chances of getting the desired results from policy interventions. In transitioning circular strategies, the government needs to collaborate with private institutions (businesses, start-ups and investors) to set up a circular system for all the water assets in the country,” she explained. Furthermore, we need also to mainstream the conversation at the academic level. Much of the circular economy literature deals with only manufactured goods. Its applications to the more elusive concept of water needs to be attuned. For example, nearly 10 tons of water are consumed in the irrigation of the cotton used to produce a pair of jeans, with further contamination of process water to transform and dye the fabric. If we ensure a fully closed loop in our economic and resource consumption systems, we would include contamination issues and buffers to safeguard a healthier and safer environment for humans and wildlife. What we need to do is to keep track of the water associated with what we do and what we consume. In particular, borrowing from the sustainable development concepts of safeguarding usage for later generations, a circular economy integrates normative concepts to prevent pollution and indirect impacts that go beyond evaluations of water consumptions in litres and pints.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com