WHITEFIELD Foundation, Coca-Cola Foundation, Sterling One Foundation and some other partners said they have trained and empowered over 60,000 youths and women across the country. A statement say this was to contribute to the economy and improve the lot of youths. The statement said the beneficiaries included over 20,000 youths in Kano alone, noting that the programme was aimed to aid wealth creation and contribute positively to the economy. The executing partner, Whitefield Foundation, also disbursed over N30m in financial grants to the top 1,000 beneficiaries from every states in Nigeria through Sterling Bank, the statement said. It said the project was a three-month skill acquisition programme across Nigeria using a hybrid approach of a digital and physical mode of delivery to penetrate the hinterland despite the spate of insecurity in the country. The statement, said the physical training sessions in Kano State were held in five different centres with participants drawn from all the 44 local government areas, while the digital was delivered through collaboration with the Kano State Ministry of Youth and Sports. In total, 20,567 residents of Kano State benefited from the skills acquisition programme. “To ensure the self-reliance of the beneficiaries, the Whitefield Foundation partnered with Coca-Cola Foundation, Sterling One Foundation, and other parties under the EQUIP programme to empower 60,000 youths and women across Nigeria with employability, entrepreneurship, vocational, and financial literacy skills,” the statement said. It said the EQUIP 60,000 project was an innovative hybrid approach to empowerment to address the unemployment gap. According to the statement, the programme focused on helping to achieve five of the SDG goals, including zero hunger, no poverty, gender equality, decent work, economic growth, and partnerships to achieve the goals. It added that the strategic partnership was also supported by Sterling Bank, the official banking partner of the project, Kano State Ministry for Youths and Sports, MSME Africa, and the Capstone.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com