Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, a special prayer is to be held on Thursday, April 28, for the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress and presidential aspirant, Bola Tinubu, in Mecca. The PUNCH gathered that the session tagged ‘Special Tawaf for Asiwaju’ would commence at 12 noon with participants wearing their ihram (sacred dress of Muslim pilgrims) attire. In a copy of the invitation card obtained by The PUNCH on Tuesday evening, participants are expected to converge on the King Abdulaziz Gate, Saudi Arabia. Tawaf refers to encircling the Ka’abah seven times in an anti-clockwise direction as part of Umrah or Hajj while supplicating. “The session is to commence by 12 noon and would be conducted around Kaabah at the centre of Islam’s most important mosque, the Masjid al-Haram in Mecca, Saudi Arabia. “Participants are to wear the ihram attire and congregate at the King Abdulaziz Gate. “The Tawaf is expected to be attended by some Islamic scholars and political leaders from Nigeria, including the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa,” a statement from the Chief Press Secretary to the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Eromosele Ebhomele, said. The statement made available to our correspondent was titled, “2023 election: Special Tawaf To Hold In Mecca For Tinubu”. Obasa was quoted as saying the event was also to thank God for the former governor of Lagos ahead of the presidential election. According to Obasa, all those expected to partake in the Tawaf have the faith that God would ensure peaceful electioneering and victory for Tinubu. “We have come to seek the favour of Allah and His blessings for Asiwaju in the coming election. We are not testing Allah’s will and power but soliciting His blessings, support and anointing because Allah is sufficient for us. “We are doing this in support of Asiwaju’s presidential ambition. “Having consulted widely and across the country, we strongly believe that every other thing required for the success of the election and victory for Asiwaju are in the hand of Almighty Allah,” the Speaker said while urging other Muslims and well-meaning Nigerians to join the session. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com