THE People’s Republic of China has recorded an unparalleled rate of economic and infrastructure growth ever seen in history. The UK’s Independent Newspaper described China as the greatest boom on earth. China’s GDP measured in terms of purchasing power per person increased by 9.3% in the ’80s and 9.8% in 2015. By 2012, the income per capita of the Chinese rose from $500 to $1000. The economic growth in China has been accompanied by a phenomenal reduction in the poverty level. The World Bank has declared that absolute poverty has virtually been eliminated in China and there is significant improvement in the quality of life of the Chinese. According to a renowned global economist, Nicholas Stern, infant mortality rate in China has reduced drastically from 41 per 1000 births to 10 per 1000 births. The World Bank states that life expectancy at birth in China is 75 years, adult literacy is 91% and literacy among women is 87%. The above statistics are mind-blowing and revolutionary and can be better termed as the Chinese miracle. One core element of China’s economic miracle is decentralisation. Though centrally governed, it allows autonomy to the regions. The dictatorship tendency is only at the centre while the provinces are encouraged to be democratic with periodic elections. The Chinese economic development model may be described as a market economy with socialist goals. The Chinese government itself describes the development model as socialist model with Chinese characteristics. The Chinese development model is distinguished by four basic strategies. First, the Chinese government focused on the bottom-top approach. They emphasised growing the rural areas by focusing on the household responsibility system. That is the adaptation of the traditional agricultural organisation pattern based on family ownership of farms. This process involved a change in land ownership from a pattern of collectivisation to one of restoration of the rights to land by families. Second is the learning and evolutionary approach. The Chinese government realised that central control over the entire development process would be counterproductive. They, however, encouraged decentralisation of the development process. This led to the development and emergence of township and village enterprises across the country. At first, they were created on an experimental basis and were later adopted nationally and consolidated. Third, the Chinese realised that change occurs in a zig-zag fashion rather than in a linear manner. This realisation was reflected in the flexibility, which the Chinese exhibited in the introduction of market forces, e.g at the beginning, they resisted the external pressure to introduce privatisation instead they reformed the state-owned enterprises and made them profit-oriented. They encouraged the SOEs to continue to provide social security and social welfare payments to the workers. Lastly, in order to maintain the Chinese social structure—fearing that the economic growth could destabilise the Chinese social structure—the government decided to place emphasis on the mobilisation of social capital of the Chinese people by encouraging the participation of all people, especially the poor, in the process of learning and implementation of the development programmes. This led to the building of roads and provision of pipe-borne water; these were carried out through voluntary labour by rural communities and with funding from the government. The Chinese miracle occurred despite the fact that at the national level, the political system is a dictatorship. It was possible to achieve economic growth because democratic elements and institutions were permitted to thrive in the provinces and counties and were given the freedom to experiment. It’s important to note that the Chinese national character (hardworking, self-reliant, reflective and unobtrusive) provided an important cultural basis for the rapid economic growth. So what’s the role of foreign capital (finance, technology and expertise) in the domestic economy? Unfortunately, African states, including Nigeria, have tended to place a large premium on foreign capital as the engine of growth. Specifically, there is a general belief amongst African political leaders that without a significant inflow of FDI, there will be no economic growth. The New Economic Partnership for African Development estimates that to attain a growth rate of 7% per annum, Africa needs an inflow of foreign capital to the tune of $64bn per annum. An opposing view holds that Africa can grow at a rapid rate economically by relying mainly on Domestic Investment Capital. According to Chester Crocker and Paul Taylor, Africa receives in terms of FDI, the sum of $12bn per annum… that out of the $100bn worth of foreign investment, reaching out to the underdeveloped world, Africa as a whole gets no more than 3% of $100bn. Truth be told, African nations can mobilise up to 16.5% of their GDP in domestic investment and, with an additional effort, African countries can mobilise in terms of domestic savings and investments up to $63-69bn, which is even more than what she needs from outside and higher than what she gets as FDI—$12bn. At this juncture, permit me to digress a little by drawing an analysis between China and India with regards to the role of foreign capital vis-a-vis domestic investment in the domestic economy. The rapid economic growth China experienced from 1978 was due to the mobilisation of social and organisational capital and also the attraction of FDI. Much of the FDI came in from China in the diaspora, especially native Chinese in Taiwan, Macau and Hong Kong. China relies heavily on foreign capital for its rapid growth. To achieve the phenomenal growth rate of 9% per annum. China makes an investment of 43% of its GDP, much of this from foreign capital. China has developed its economy by huge domestic investments, which has buoyed the economy to the extent that surplus is used to invest externally. China today dominates most of Asia’s economy and Africa also. She is today the second-best economy in the world and yet a socialist state. By contrast, India makes investments of about 22% of its GDP and achieved an annual growth rate of 6%. The second major reason why China attracts a lot of FDI, much more than India or any other developing nation, is because of its large market. 70% of urban Chinese dwellers earn between $2000 and $7000 per capita. This implies that China has a large middle class,  in contrast, India has a small group of very high earning urban dwellers. Thus, the larger the market, the greater the foreign investment. Today, major industrial companies in the world are more deeply established in China than anywhere else in the world. People will always follow where the money is. The Chinese government encourages China’s provinces to compete with one another for FDI. In contrast, the constituent states of India are not encouraged to compete, thus, the more reason why China is more developed than India. Another important reason is the Chinese superiority in the development of human capital and the mobilisation of social capital. In terms of the development of human capital, the emphasis in India is the creation of a pool of “technical wizards.” In China, the emphasis was on the provision of sound and solid elementary education. China has the policy of embedding the state in the society, that is, the citizens are carried along in national development. They encourage citizenship participation, especially in rural communities in the planning and execution of development programmes. In conclusion, with all that China has done, she’s indeed worth emulating. The results are unparalleled and revolutionary. Developing nations like Nigeria should take a cue from the Chinese model of development. It’s important to note that as a nation, our peculiarities differ from that of China, thus we cannot copy every one of their principles hook, line and sinker. We should rather pick certain relevant policies of the Chinese that are in line with our peculiarities such beneficial policies include decentralisation of governance (economic restructure) where autonomy is given to the states to enable them to develop at their own pace. The feeding bottle federalism we are practising is a misnomer, outdated and a clog at the wheel of development; a bottom-top approach (where development is not about artefacts and infrastructures but about the people) and a national character (which should be changed from corruption to integrity, hard work, accountability, resilient, self-reliant). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com