THE Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, has condemned the increasing spate of attacks in police formations in some states of the federation. The IG was speaking on Tuesday, in Lokoja, during a sensitisation campaign on the Police Public Complaint Committee organised by the Ministry of Police Affairs for the North-Central zone. Baba charged officers to redouble their efforts in providing adequate security of lives and property to Nigerians, and solicited the support and cooperation of the citizens to achieve the feat. He noted that the essence of the sensitisation campaign was to enable stakeholders to interact with a view to resolving areas of difference that would enhance the productivity of the police officers in carrying out their duties diligently without infringing on the rights of the citizens. The IG, who was represented by the Assistant Inspector-General of Police (Zone 8), Edeh Ayuba, said the force was a creation of the 1999 Constitution and saddled with the responsibility of protecting and providing adequate security for the people of the country. He commended the Minister of Police Affairs, Mohammed Dingyadi, for creating a platform through which the sensitisation campaign could effectively reach stakeholders across the country. The police chief, however, lamented the recent mayhem unleashed on some police officers in some states, noting that the sensitisation campaign programme would put an end to such attacks. He charged officers and men of the force to always discharge their duties within the ambient of the law in order to protect the image of the force. He continued by saying that many Nigerians were ignorant of the law, and appealed to them to acquaint themselves with necessary laws in order not to be arrested by the police. In his welcome address, the Director of Planning and Statistics, Ibrahim Bello, who represented the Permanent Secretary, Temitope Fashedemi, described police responsibility as enormous and required the support and cooperation of every citizen to enable them to perform their duties creditably. He charged the police on transparency and accountability, assuring that revamping the PPCC, domiciled in the Ministry of Police Affairs, would go a long way to address issues that caused misunderstanding between the public and the police officers on duty. He noted that the sensitisation campaign programme would create a better understanding between the people and the force. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com