An All Progressives Congress support group in Balyesa concluded a prayer and fasting programme on Sunday in Yenagoa. The programme was aimed at seeking God’s intervention in the unity of Nigeria and the success of the party at the 2023 polls. The programme, organised at the instance of the Pastor Reuben Initiative for Good Leadership and Accountability, attracted members of the APC support groups from the eight local government areas in Bayelsa. Addressing the close of the programme, an APC chieftain and Chairman, Advisory Council of the PRIFGLA, Honourable Stephen Ogullah, harped on unity amongst leaders of the APC in Bayelsa. He noted that harmony among party stalwarts like Chief Timipre Sylva, Chief David Lyon and Senator Heineken Lokpobiri was crucial for the success of the party at the polls. Sylva is a former governor of Bayelsa, and currently the Minister of State, Petroleum Resources. Lyon was declared the winner at the 2019 governorship election in Bayelsa, but a day to his swearing-in, his election was invalidated by the Supreme Court. Lokpobiri was Minister of State for Agriculture in the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (Retd.)’s first tenure in office. Ogallah noted that it was only when the three APC leaders and their counterparts united as one family that the APC would reclaim the governorship seat in Bayelsa and win all state and National Assembly seats. He said that the loss of the governorship seat by a Supreme Court verdict after winning in a landslide in 2019 made the prayer and fasting session incumbent on the APC in the state. The chairman emphasised the importance of good leadership at all levels, adding that accountability bred good leadership. He enjoined those trading in blackmail, backbiting and name-calling to desist from the vices in the interest of peace. He noted that the council had recorded huge successes in uniting the leaders, adding that there was light at the end of the tunnel. Also speaking, the founder of PRIFGLA, Pastor Reuben, said that the fasting and prayer programme was convened to seek the face of God in uniting the leaders of the party to rediscover its winning ways. Reuben stated that it was the love he had for the party that prompted him to establish the Initiative, adding that the APC was ready to retain power at the centre and take over all elective positions in Bayelsa. The Director-General of the Initiative, Dr Solomon David, said that the programme was determined to achieve the mission of galvanising support for the APC to win all seats in the 2023 elections. David noted that the party leaders had realised the need to work in unison and were ready to make the necessary sacrifice to ensure victory for the APC at the state and national levels. NAN