After initial denial, the Lagos State Government on Thursday appointed ex-chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers in the state, Musiliu Ayinde Akinsanya aka MC Oluomo, as the Chairman of the newly constituted Parks Management Committee. Also appointed alongside 23 others including former Commissioner of Police in the state, AIG Hakeem Odumosu (rtd) as the Government Liaison Officer. The Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, made this known in a statement titled, ‘Parks Management Committee’. The PUNCH had earlier reported that following the crisis rocking the union, Akinsanya pulled out in March after his suspension by the national leadership of the NURTW. He also asked Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to take over the running of all parks and garages in the state till peace returned to the union. Sanwo-Olu later suspended the activities of NURTW from all parks and garages with immediate effect and set up a committee to take control of the parks and garages but he was yet to do so after one month. The NURTW had also been suspended in Ondo, Oyo and some other South-West states due to intractable leadership crises. According to a 2021 report by the International Centre for Investigative Report, the Lagos chapter of NURTW generates about N123.08bn annually, which could service the annual budget of Nasarawa, Niger, and Yobe states put together. Parks Management Committee The Lagos State Government has set up a committee to oversee the affairs of all motor parks and garages in the state. This is in fulfillment of the Government’s promise to ensure that events in the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) are not allowed to threaten law and order. The Government has, therefore, exercised its constitutional powers to ensure that no vacuum, which can disrupt the peace of our dear state,is allowed to exist in the parks. This is a duty we owe all Lagosians and visitors.” Members of the committee, who have been selected following consultations with stakeholders in the sector, are: 1. Mr. Hakeem Odumosu (AIG Rtd) – Government Liaison Officer
2. Alh Musiliu Ayinde Akinsanya – Chairman
3. Alh Sulyman B. Ojora – (Deputy Chairman )
4. Dr. Taiwo Olufemi Salaam (Secretary)
5. Comrade Olayiwola Lemboye
6. Alh Mustapha Adekunle
7. Alh Ganiyu Shittu
8. Alh Mukaila Runsewe
9. Alh Sulyman Yusuf
10. Alh Mufutau Mutiu
11. Alh Yinka Hassan
12. Alh Sunday Ogunleye
13. Alh Moshood Omojowa
14. Alh Ismaila Aigoro
15. Alh Ibrahim Yusuf. O
16. Alh Akeem Tijani
17. Mrs Omolabake Adelakun
18. Comrade Kazeem Hassan
19. Alh Wasiu Amole
20. Alh Ganiyu Ayinde
21. Anthony Adeyinka Adeboye
22. John Victor Owolabi
23. Saburi Salami
24. Ibrahim Onitiju
25. Odusanya Gbenga Members of the committee are to report to the Ministry of Transportation,
Alausa Secretariat, Ikeja. The Government on March 10 suspended NURTW operations in all parks and garages, following the tension sparked by some events in the union. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com