The ruling party All Progressives Congress on Sunday in Abuja urged Nigerians to use the Easter period to rededicate themselves to making society better. In its Easter message signed late Sunday by the National Publicity Secretary of the Party, Felix Morka, the APC enjoined Nigerians to imbibe values of compassion, humility, selflessness, responsibility and kindness in their private spaces, communities and other public engagements. The statement was titled ‘Easter: Welfare of Nigerians, our priority – APC’. It read in part, “Our great party urges all patriotic and well-meaning Nigerians, irrespective of religious affiliations, to use the occasion of Easter to rededicate themselves to making our society a better place for us all. “The Easter season provides us an excellent opportunity to foster closer relationships with family, friends and people around us. We enjoin Nigerians to imbibe values of compassion, humility, selflessness, responsibility and kindness in our private spaces, communities and other public engagements. Indeed, tolerance and peaceful co-existence remain the bedrock on which our collective aspiration for social, economic and political advancement must stand. The governing party also noted that its administration is decidedly committed to the good and well-being of Nigerians. It promised to continue to expand the implementation of people-centered programmes to provide increased jobs and gainful opportunities, strengthen and diversify the economy; vastly improve the security of lives and property, complete ongoing projects and upgrade our transport infrastructure, and other social investments designed to uplift the poor and other economically-disadvantaged fellow citizens, “As we celebrate, we implore Nigerians to pray for, and work towards, sustained peace, unity and security in our land. And May the Risen Christ bless and protect our troops as they fight in valiant defense of our cherished fundamental freedoms. “APC wishes all Nigerians a wonderful Easter celebration,” the party said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com