Following the water scarcity in Kano, the State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, has directed the Rural Water Supply Agency to immediately swing into action and come up with the precise number of broken down boreholes for immediate government’s intervention. The order is contained in a statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Abba Anwar, on Sunday. According to Anwar, the governor gave the order during a special meeting with critical stakeholders at the Government House, Kano on Saturday night. Ganduje, who was represented by his Deputy, Dr Nasiru Gawuna, said the meeting was part of the renewed effort to overhaul the water supply system in the state, particularly within the eight metropolitan local government areas. The governor stated, “RUWASA was also directed to take an inventory of specific areas across the 44 local government areas that need boreholes, bearing in mind some implications of rampant boreholes to the environment. “Distribution of water in tanks to some specific locations within the metropolitan local government areas by the state government in collaboration with the eight local councils was also considered as one of the immediate solutions, particularly in the spirit of the Holy Month of Ramadan.” He said the meeting had identified some major challenges interrupting water supply. They include cable theft by some vandals, epileptic and insufficient power supply, some unpatriotic activities taking place in Kano and Challawa rivers and the nonchalant attitudes of some water consumers, among others. The governor ordered for an immediate and critical evaluation of the collaboration between the state government and France, through French Development on Water Project, a multi-million dollar intervention project which was aimed at ameliorating the problems associated with water supply and management in the state, with a global and modern touch. When the project took off, the state government assured that it would take care of all the major setbacks in the industry.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com