It’s a hard one to bear for families of four children electrocuted by a cable which fell on a container used as a shop in Ile Oluji community, headquarters of the Ile-Oluji/Oke-Igbo Local Government Area of Ondo State. It was gathered that the victims were playing inside the shop, believed to be under high tension wires which cut suddenly and fell on the metal container. The incident claimed the lives of the children but one was said to be in a critical condition at a hospital. Two of the children were said to be in the town to spend holiday with their uncle whose wife is the owner of the ill-fated container. The deceased are Samuel Akinfisoye, Motunrayo Akinyemiju, Jesutofunmi Akinyemiju and Adebiyi Adebowale aged between nine and 14 years. There were arguments and counter-arguments on the placement of the containers under high tension wires.  The senator representing Ondo South Senatorial District, Nicholas Tofowomo, called for thorough investigation into the incident, saying justice must be served. A survivor narrated that she sat on a plank inside the shop when the wire fell on the container and others were electrocuted. She said, “We were playing in the container shop and suddenly, electricity was restored. We shouted ‘up NEPA.’ We heard a spark and we ran out of the shop, not knowing that the wire had cut and fell on my mummy’s container. “As we ran out of the container, the wire trapped our legs and we could not walk again. I sat on a plank close to me, but the remaining children started shaking and vomiting blood. I shouted for help and people came around to rescue us and we were rushed to the General Hospital, Ile-Oluji.’’ Also, owner of the container, Mrs Ronke Adebiyi, whose child was among the victims, said efforts to revive the children at the hospital were futile as the oxygen at the hospital was not sufficient to save them. Adebiyi stated, “In the evening, I received a call that my shop was burning. I ran down to check on my children. On getting there, I saw people gathered and I kept asking, “Where are my children.’’ Later, one of them, Blessing, ran out of the shop, but others lay on the floor. They were rushed to a hospital, but there was no sufficient oxygen they could use for the five of them. They later died. But the case of the sixth child was not critical as she can walk and talk. “The remaining two were taken to the Trauma Centre, Ondo, for treatment. One has been discharged, but the second child has been referred to the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital, Ile-Ife, Osun State, for treatment. Two out of the four children are my sister-in-law’s daughters. They came for a holiday.’’ Her husband, Chief Olumide Adebiyi, who was worst hit by the incident, having lost a child and two nieces to the incident, said he was not interested in pursuing justice over the incident. He stated that he had surrendered everything to God. He said, “I was at my place of work at Ayetoro when they called me on the phone. They asked me to come back home urgently. I became worried and asked the person that called me to tell me the truth regarding what happened. I insisted and the person broke the news to me that my children were in the mortuary. “I fainted immediately. It was when I was revived that I got to know where I was. On getting to Ile-Oluji, I saw a crowd of sympathisers. In fact, I almost died of shock. Personally, it was a sad incident for me. Out of the four children that died, one is my biological child and two are my nieces. “They came to spend the holiday with my family in Ile-Oluji. They always spent their holidays with me because their father is not around and their mother is a nurse and lives in Ore.  During holidays, they would come to Ile-Oluji and after the holidays, they would return. My first child was also affected as parts of his body were burnt. He was affected when he was trying to rescue the children. He tried to rescue them but when the fire became overwhelming, he ran out.” The 50-year-old timber contractor said his family was not blameworthy, adding that the container was placed under high tension wire out of ignorance without warning from the government for them to remove it. He stated, “I will not say we are to neither blame nor the government. I believe God who gave us the children understands everything. I cannot fight the government or my community. I have surrendered everything to God almighty. He understands everything and I also believe that God will compensate our family. “The wire has been there for a long time but no one told us to remove it. Even the town planning officials of the government came to inspect the place and they did not tell us to remove it. We thought it was safe for the container.  Officials of the Benin Electrical Distribution Company do come there to collect money from us and go .They never told us to vacate the place.” Adebiyi also noted that he was not ready to seek justice, saying he had left justice for God. He stated, “People have been coming to console the family. The government, police and BEDC officials came, the monarch of Ile Oluji sent a delegation and many others had visited us to condole with us over the incident. What else do I want? The youth wanted to protest but I told them not to. I don’t want a crisis to erupt over the incident.” Reacting to the incident, the Corporate Affairs Manager, BEDC, Ondo State, Mr Michael Barnabas, said the incident was fatal, stating that the container was illegally under the high tension wire. Barnabas said, “Sadly, we received information about the electrocution of four children within our network in Ile-Oluji due to an 11kv line that snapped. As a company, we condole with the families of the children because life is sacred and should not end prematurely this way. “According to information available to us, the children were in an iron container shop that was directly under an 11kv line that snapped which led to their electrocution when they had contact with the wire. The deaths would have been avoidable if there was nothing within the 11meters right of way statutorily required for such a line. “While we don’t have the powers to relocate people directly living or trading under our electricity lines. We shall be brutal in disconnecting such customers from the public power supply and ensure they never have access to it again which would probably lead to them relocating voluntarily out of harm’s way. By this, we believe we can prevent future occurrence of similar sad incidents.’’  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com