TotalEnergies Upstream Companies in Nigeria and its partners, NNPC/NAPIMS, have inaugurated the Malaria Prevention Awareness Campaign at the Ojodu Local Council Development Area in Lagos State. In his address at the programme, the Managing Director, TotalEnergies Upstream Companies in Nigeria, Mike Sangster, said the 2022 awareness campaign against malaria was vital for not just Nigeria but Africa. Sangster, who was represented by the company’s General Manager, Corporate Social Responsibility, Kenechi Esomeju, said, “According to the World Health Organisation, malaria ‘infects more than 500 million people each year and kills more than one million people’”. “The WHO Malaria Fact Sheet published on April 6, 2022, shows that globally, there were 241 million malaria cases and 627,000 malaria deaths in 2020. “Africa continues to carry a disproportionately high share of the global malaria burden, making the region home to 95 per cent of malaria cases and 96 per cent of malaria deaths.” He added, “This is why TotalEnergies is in the fight to prevent and eradicate malaria.” Sangster stated that the theme for the 2022 anti-malaria campaign was “Advance Equity, Build Resilience, End Malaria”. “Our effort at socially investing and educating the community on the dangers of malaria and the importance of a clean environment to eliminate the scourge of this disease play an important role in the advancement of an equitable society,” the TotalEnergies boss stated. He noted that over the years, through the oil firm’s regular interventions focused on prevention, it had been resilient in this pursuit. “In our efforts at tackling the disease, we have joined forces with stakeholders, several organisations and government agencies in many states in Nigeria,” Sangster stated. He added, “Today, working with NIBUCAA on this project, we have donated 1,000 long-lasting insecticides treated nets and encouraged refuse collection and disposal and the clearing of drainages. “We urge residents to work towards sustaining these actions and to use the mosquito nets properly, to ensure a malaria-free environment and community.” Sangster stated that this year’s campaign was brought to the Ojodu Council Local Development Area of Ikeja, Lagos State, as the objective was to create awareness of the severity of malaria, how the disease was contracted, how it could be prevented and the importance of hygiene in the prevention and fight against malaria. He said the goal of TotalEnergies and its partners was s to ensure a malaria-free environment in the Ojodu community and by extension Lagos State. “TotalEnergies is committed to the promotion of good health and wellbeing, and this aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal number 3 which seeks to ensure healthy lives, through the realisation of various targets, including ending the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and other diseases by 2030,” he stated. Sangster added, “Achieving this goal starts with me and you! With the cooperation of everyone, we can indeed ‘Advance Equity, Build Resilience and End Malaria’ We encourage and welcome more collaborations with other private sector players.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com