A sociopolitical group under the aegis of the Isoko/Urhobo Unity Forum in collaboration with the Youth Arise and friends on Monday purchased and presented a governorship nomination form for a businessman and leading aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chris Iyovwaye, in Delta State. The ceremony which took place in Warri, Warri South Local Government Council Area of Delta State featured a march past by members of the group who chanted solidarity songs from the main entrance to the NPA Estate along Airport Road in the metropolis, before the formal presentation. Speaking while handing over the governorship form to the businessman on behalf of the group, a PDP chieftain in the State, Chief Hope Erute, noted that Iyovwaye is the group’s choice for the 2023 governorship election. Chief Erute said, “It is with implicit confidence that these groups have made on Chris Iyovwaye that has moved us to purchase the form for the governorship. The support is ordinary. The support is fundamental. “Today, on behalf of Isoko/Urhobo Unity Forum and the Friends of Chris Iyovwaye all over Delta State, we present this form to you to run for the 2023 governorship race”. In his acceptance speech, the governorship hopeful who was flanked by his wife and members of his family expressed gratitude to the group for the gesture done to him. Iyovwaye said he was “profoundly grateful for this kind of gesture”. According to him, it is not all the time that you see it that people will come together and say, look we are going to purchase this form for you. “I will be eternally grateful. On behalf of my family, I want to say we are grateful. By the special grace of God, we believe that Osadebe House is sure for us. The grace of God will take us there. By the time we get there, by reason of the programmes we have set already, we believe that things will begin to happen for Delta State. “Delta needs a governor that understands the environment. Delta needs a governor that understands the people. And by the time you know it, everything will begin to work for good,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com