A Kano State governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Redemption Party, Gali Sule, has said that the two major political parties in the country, the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party, have failed Nigerians. Sule, who made the disclosure during a press conference on Tuesday in Kano, stressed the need for change, progress and development in the country. He said Nigerians had given all the major political parties in the country the opportunity to transform the nation for the better, but they failed woefully. “Instead of the common man to heave a sigh of relief through their leadership, he continuously drifts into a big pit without sign that it will abate one day,” he said. Sule said the reason why he chose to go on premature retirement was due to the rate of dilapidation and retrogressive tendencies in the civil service. He said, “After critical assessment and analysis of the civil service, I came to the conclusion that since the system won’t allow one to correct the anomalies while in active service for one to bring all the necessary changes, I decided to tender my resignation and join the PRP where I am contesting for the governorship seat. Sule, currently the President of Kano State Science Secondary School Students Association, said there was corruption everywhere in the land as well as unemployment and insecurity that permeated across the nooks and cranny of the state. He expressed optimism that the PRP would do everything possible to bring back its emancipatory policies so that all the economic and social ills bedevilling the state and the country at large would be squarely addressed. He revealed that there was the urgent need for a total revolution on the existing markets in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com