Gunmen have killed an Abakaliki, Ebonyi State-based businessman, Issac Chukwu, a week to his wedding. PUNCH Metro gathered that Chukwu, who traded in provisions, was killed by suspected assassins in Abakaliki on Monday night. Chukwu, who was popularly known as Ochudo, hailed from Enyibichiri Alike community, in the Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. He had concluded arrangements for his wedding to his fiancée, Favour Chioma, who was with him when the gunmen attacked and killed him. A relative said Chukwu was shot at night after closing one of his shops as he made to enter his car. “He had a shop at International Market, where he sold provisions. He owned another joint on Chukwuma Ofeke Street, Ameke Aba. “The incident, according to his fiancée, happened around 9pm when they closed shop and were about to enter their vehicle. “Some boys accosted them, shot in the air and ordered the guy to lie down. They then shot him three times, collected his wife’s phone and left,” the source said. The pre-wedding pictures of the couple have since gone viral on social media. Also, the wedding invitation shows that the traditional wedding was to take place on April 21 at his fiancée’s father’s compound in Amaiyima Ekpelu, Ikwo. The white wedding was slated for April 23 at the Pastoral Centre, Mile 50, Abakaliki, with reception at the International Conference Centre, Abakaliki, the state capital. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mrs Loveth Odah, confirmed the incident. She, however, said the police were awaiting details of the incident from the victim’s family. She said, “As I speak to you now, we don’t even know where the dead body was deposited. It’s when the police see the body that we will ascertain what really happened to him. You should know that this incident took place on April 10 and people reported on April 11. “Today (Wednesday), the deceased’s landlord, who lives in the Ishielu area, came and reported and said tenants told him that a fellow tenant was killed. So, we have not heard from the deceased’s family to commence full investigation into what really happened.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com