IN Nigeria, we regularly accept unsound arguments because we overlook the devil in the details. Sometimes lawmakers too accept unsound arguments because of sentiment and fear of  “do me, I do you” dispositions that aren’t uncommon in those chambers. I imagine these were the reasons senators approved the federalisation of more paramilitary entities called Hunters’ Council and Peace Corps. Otherwise, it beats one’s imagination how anyone would consider making hunters or other paramilitary entities Federal Government’s business. These entities can operate under state and local governments closer to the grassroots where more hands are really needed. Note that a few years ago the Steve Oronsaye Presidential Panel looked into how to reduce burdens on the Federal Government. Many agencies duplicate one another’s tasks, a malaise lawmakers themselves have rightly identified, and since the Federal Government doesn’t have limitless funds some agencies were recommended to be merged or scrapped. Oronsanye’s report has yet to be implemented; now the Federal Government finds it difficult to adequately fund these agencies. Moreover, agitations to reduce burden on the Federal Government and give more responsibilities to sub-national units are ongoing. Recently, lawmakers identified some areas and the bills on these have been sent to state legislators for approval. As this is happening, the Senate plans to hang more burdens on the Federal Government by adopting some privately-formed paramilitary bodies. Moreover, the president received the report of the Revenue Mobilisation and Allocation Commission recently. In it, more funds are to be given to states and the local government areas. It means if the new formula is approved, there’s less funds for the Federal Government to take on extra load such as new paramilitary bodies. Meanwhile, the private individuals who set up the Peace Corps say they want to ameliorate the current state of insecurity. The reality though is that these guys’ interloping presence would only push up the number of people put in uniform as well as the funds expended by the Federal Government to keep them.  New paramilitary bodies that take orders from Abuja like the Nigerian Police can do no new magic going by the current circumstances on ground. They’ll only bloat the already bloated security bill of the Federal Government without any real impacts in our localities. Federalising these paramilitary entities makes no sound security sense. Why do states clamour for state police?  Part of the reason is the contradiction involved where a state governor is the Chief Security Officer but the Police Chief in his state is answerable to Abuja. The difficulties experienced in this arrangement have been lamented by the governors; they see their people killed by bandits but they can’t order police chiefs to move at the rate they desire. It’s been a frustrating situation for governors.  Placing more paramilitary entities under the Federal Government doesn’t resolve this, rather it adds to the problem. The Federal Government doesn’t even solely fund the three armed forces and the police. These security entities put pressure on state governments to support them with logistics. The Federal Government too organises special intervention fund collection programmes for them to have the funds they need. Still,  the armed forces told the lawmakers lately that they needed more funds. In the face of this, some want to hang more paramilitary bodies on the Federal Government’s neck. State governors should make it known that  they wouldn’t accept it. They shouldn’t tolerate new generals of some new paramilitary entities, who sit in Abuja, only to post men to their states; men who would then ask state governors to provide logistics for them as the police and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps do. It’s because of the difficulties in the current arrangement that the president allowed state governors in the South to set up local security outfits. The other day, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State purchased 100 vehicles for the Amotekun security outfit. With Amotekun, owned and operated at this grassroots level, some states have experienced better security. Other governors in the South have been doing what Makinde did, even as they also assist the Federal Government-owned army and the police. States assist but they don’t get value for their money. If they did, some governors in the North wouldn’t have threatened to import mercenaries to fight bandits in their respective states. That’s how dire the situation is; but now an unarmed privately-formed paramilitary body makes the unsound argument that it will be a solution. Do some people think security matters are the same thing as children playing in the park? Now, there’s that argument that youth are given employment under the Hunters’ Council and Peace Corps. But must these paramilitary entities and the youth they employ be under the control of the Federal Government? They can operate at the state and LGA levels where they will add more value to security at the grassroots. Here,  governors too will get better value for any funds they expend on such bodies because they have some control over them. Lawmakers have already acknowledged that the centralisation of our security architecture isn’t working. Why should some centralise it more? In any case, if this is all about creating employment, state governments are already doing this with the youth they put in all manner of paramilitary uniforms. For instance, Governor Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State inaugurated a paramilitary outfit for security purposes this month. Kaduna State has its uniformed outfit too in the form of the Kaduna State Traffic Law Enforcement Authority and it can set up the equivalent of Amotekun if it so wishes.  The youth in these states were the ones given employment in such paramilitary entities, therefore, making states adopt the youth that Peace Corps claims it employs will make better security sense. As things stand, lawmakers pass bills that set up new Federal Government-owned academic institutions in their states. Meanwhile, the Federal Government hasn’t fully funded the existing institutions. Some private individuals set up their Hunters’ Council and Peace Corp and they want the Federal Government to foot the bill as well. This is lawlessness; I’m surprised that some lawmakers put their stamps on it. When this one passes, someone again will get up tomorrow, put some youth in uniform and use the same blackmailing argument of giving employment to youth to make the Federal Government adopt his entity. Where will the cycle end? . What makes these private individuals think the government must pick the bill for whatever they set up? In the past, I stated reasons we shouldn’t give the Federal Government more responsibilities to struggle with in the name of the Peace Corps. Top officers of the Peace Corps called me, rudely told me that I was an “uneducated person” and generally threw insults like touts do in motor parks. That’s the level of the quality of these guys.  They can’t stand other people’s view in a matter in which all of us are stakeholders but they want to be generals of federalised security outfits. The burden these extra loads become for the Federal Government will be for every  Nigerian to carry, so I urge the vibrant and forward-looking honourable members of the House of Reps to stop the new bills in their chamber. In the past, the President, General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), rightly said adoption of Peace Corps by the Federal Government would duplicate tasks and that, in any case, the Federal Government didn’t have the funds to take care of its existing security entities. The security situation in the country indicates that adding more paramilitary bodies to the existing ones under the Federal Government will amount to mere number addition, rather than an improved strategic security effectiveness. I think we can add more to the police force and the army if numbers are what we think we need. I urge the president to stick to his initial position, reject the bills and advise lawmakers to take them to their states where youth can be given jobs under paramilitary entities such as Amotekun that any governor may wish to establish.  The president may also choose to discuss the matter at the Council of State meeting. There, governors who don’t want more powers given to the Federal Government in any guise will certainly deal the final blow to any new bills that promote centralisation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com