THE Federal government has called for stakeholder collaboration to improve the management and effective utilisation of the country’s groundwater resources It said such collaboration was vital as it would ensure that the nation’s groundwater did not deplete. This came as stakeholders raised concerns over the loss of about 10 billion cubic meters of groundwater across the country within a period of 20 years. Speaking in Abuja at the World Water Day and Women’s Day celebrations organised by Females in Water, Sanitation and Hygiene, the Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, said groundwater was not an infinite resource. He said the resource could be depleted by the abstraction of more water from aquifers than was being recharged by rain or snow. Adamu decried the over-abstraction of groundwater by humans, stressing that climate variability had been increasing the pressure on groundwater resources. This, he said, was affecting an estimated 60 per cent of the Nigerian population that depended on groundwater for their main drinking source. He also stated that over 70 per cent of the people living in rural communities who depended on groundwater for survival were equally affected. Adamu stated that all hands must be on deck to acknowledge and mitigate pressures from exploitation, contamination and climate change on Nigeria’s groundwater. The minister said there was therefore the need for the Federal Ministry of Water Resources to work closely with stakeholders such as FEMinWASH, state water agencies, river basins and development partners to use groundwater in a sustainable way. The Director-General, Water Research Institute, Emmanuel Adama, said a research carried out to assess Nigeria’s groundwater level in 1995 showed that the water level was at 50 billion cubic meter. “But when they carried out the same study in 2015 the water level was at 40 billion cubic meter,” he stated. He said there was a need for proper management of the country’s groundwater resources through the use of dams to recharge the aquifers and an integrated way of recycling the water. Meanwhile, the Convener, Network of Female Professionals of WASH in Nigeria and Diaspora, Boluwaji Onabolu, said the inauguration of the training tagged, ‘Generation Transformer,’ was a 100 per cent fully sponsored scheme to be carried out by the National Water Research Institute. She said the scheme would improve the sustainability of water infrastructure in Nigeria as the programme would train operators in the sector including plumbers on how to fix water infrastructure such as boreholes, among others.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com