The All Progressives Grand Alliance has insisted that the Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, will not back out of his decision to nip in the bud all forms of criminalities in the state. This is as the party assured Anambra residents that the governor is against criminality and criminal elements in the interest of the people. The party said the criminal elements are only dwelling in “self-deceit” with their recent “hit and run” tactics and the governor cannot be frightened by their “cowardice attacks”. Addressing journalists in Awka, on Saturday, the National Coordinator, APGA Media Warriors Forum, Chinedu Obigwe, said Soludo was not fighting the Indigenous People of Biafra, but rather collaborating with the group and other security agencies to eradicate all forms of criminality for the good of ndi Anambra. Obigwe noted that the security of lives and properties is the bedrock of sustainable development, hence the reason the governor is determined to nip insecurity in the bud in Anambra, adding that there is no going back until victory over the heartless criminals is actualised. He said, “Those behind the insecurity in Anambra state are not freedom fighters because freedom fighters don’t indulge in the suppression and oppression of those they are fighting for their freedom. “Ndi Anambra should understand that Soludo is fighting for their liberation from the hands of wicked criminals. “As for the governor, he will not rest on his oars until he achieves his desire of entrenching security of lives and properties in the state.” The party added that the main target of the state government is to turn Anambra to a liveable and prosperous homeland, saying this can only be achieved by making sure that the state is secure for investors and the people. It, therefore, called for the continued support of the people in the fight against criminality and enemies of the state. “On Friday, the criminals that are being uprooted from the state, foolishly embarked on a mission of shooting at Isuofia area to frighten the good people of that community. “Those behind this coward attack should have considered that the state governor is resolute to rid the state of such evil and such coward attack will not have any effect,” the party added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com