The Rotary Club of Port Harcourt Passport, District 9141, said it trained 253 persons, including women and youths of the Obuama community in Degema Local Government Area of Rivers State on different skills. The two-month training in Obuama was in partnership with Rotary e-Club Hamburg Connect (Germany), District 1890. The beneficiaries completed the training in bead-making, snail farming, poultry and catfish farming. Speaking while inspecting some of the products in Obuama, the President, Rotary Club of Port Harcourt, Passport, Preba Babalola, said the skills acquisition training for the 253 beneficiaries cost $30,000. “Rotary Club spent About $30,000 for this project. We embarked on this project in Obuama because people in rural needs such economic empowerment more than those in urban areas. “My club and our partner are excited over this project. For the trainees, they’ve been given skill, they should hold on to it and also train other people,” she stated.’’ Also, the Project Chair of the club, Anthony Chime, said it was exciting to see people get empowered through skills. On his part, the Supervisor, Monitoring and Evaluation of the training, Mr Timothy Gillis-Harry, who gave a breakdown of the project, commended the club for embarking on the project to empower the people in Obuama. “It is a welcome development that after COVID-19 Rotary Club of Port Harcourt, Passport, in partnership with e-club Hamburg Connect brought this laudable project to our community. “These people are being trained free of charge in catfish farming. We have 70 women and youths; we have 40 in poultry, 33 in bead-making and 110 in snail farming,” Gillis-Harry stated. A trainer and resource person in bead-making, Mrs Bridget Alalibo, said the training began since February 2022, adding that the trainees will be given certificates to show that they have acquired skills in bead -making.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com