THE Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Sunday, assured residents that his administration would ensure that the Blue and Red Rail project is completed in the last quarter of this year. The governor gave the assurance during an inspection of the ongoing Blue project in the state from National Arts Theatre Station to Mile 2 station, noting that his administration was committed to finishing the rail projects. He said, “We started our journey from the National Arts Theatre. We were on tracks from Orile-Iganmu to Alaba station and to Mile 2 station and we were all taken around the stations which we call concourse. We are happy that the contractors are working seven days a week. “The Blue and Red Rail lines commence operation by the last quarter of 2022 and the first quarter of 2023. The major aspect, apart from the Marina station, is a sea crossing from Eko Bridge to join the outer Marina. They have to finish it in about three months. By the time we will be coming back in July, the concrete construction should have been completed. It will just be finishing inside the train stations and the terminal buildings. I am also happy that additional trains we have purchased. “We will be going to China in May or June just to have a look. Based on the promises that we gave you, the red and the blue lines, we have a lot to clean up and a lot of retooling and fencing, we are on track and more importantly, the third rail which is the power tracks and it will be done and I am happy you have been able to go on the journey with us. It was an experience that I believe will be with you for a very long time.” Sanwo-Olu added that the rail would be powered by electricity and there would be a need for citizens to be enlightened on it. “The next major activity on the blue line is what we called the third rail. The rail is powered, it will be activated on this rail track. The blue, for emphasis, will be running on an Electric Multiple Unit which is an electric motor vehicle, so they need to have power on the rail tracks. “So that is where we have to have a lot of advocacy and information onto the citizens, especially where the Orile station up to Mile 2. They are at the ground level which is electric. We have wired off all the alignments but our citizens have started breaking the wires, we will go back for enforcement,” he added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com