Nigeria’s technology-driven Credit Rating Agency, DataPro, has partnered with ModeFinance, the first European fin-tech rating agency. It is said that the credit risk management tool would help companies to navigate today’s complex credit risk management terrain and fasten the process of making related information available to corporate organisations. Speaking during a media briefing to announce the launch of the app, named Tigran-for-DataPro, and the partnership, the Managing Director, DataPro, Abimbola Adeseyoju, said the volume of information and analysis credit rating agencies contend with had made technology a necessity. He said, “When it comes to credit rating, the quantum of information, data and statistics analysts have to contend with daily to arrive at informed inferences is enough to overwhelm anybody. New technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Blockchain and Data Analytics have thus helped tremendously to fasten the processes and make them more efficient. “When the opportunity, therefore, presented itself in the last quarter of 2021 to partner with Modefinance, Europe’s first FinTech Rating Agency we welcomed it with both hands. This product is one of necessity for our economy in order to overcome some of the challenges associated with credit risk management.” Adeseyoju, who disclosed the importance of access to credit facilities to any economy, believed the synergy would revolutionise and modernise credit risk analysis and management practice. Speaking at the launch virtually, the Chief Executive Officer, Mode Finance, Mattia Ciprian, said, “The credit market needs more and more fast evaluations with high accuracy. At Modefinance, we are engaged on a daily basis in supporting organisations all over the world, with a greater focus on the African continent.” The Chief Rating Officer, DataPro Limited, Oladele Adeoye, said, “We recognise that credit decision-making needs to be effective and efficient. This has become necessary today, as customers are looking forward to speedy, convenient, and cost-effective services from providers. A technology that can assist financial institutions and corporate bodies whose businesses run on credit to make informed decisions, therefore, becomes essential.” The Chief Executive Officer, Mode Finance International, Cristian Giacomini, said, “We are fully committed to transferring our know-how, generating added value for the Nigerian economy, and creating a domestic legacy in the credit risk management industry. Our technological innovations in big data, artificial intelligence, data analytics, and machine learning are all paving the way for MSMEs to have access to better financial services.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com