A yet-to-be-identified driver has crushed an official of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, Jamiu Issa, to death in the Lekki-Ajah area of the state. A statement by the spokesperson for the agency, Olumide Filade, confirmed the development to our correspondent on Wednesday. Filade said the driver was driving against traffic when he rammed into Issa, who wanted to apprehend him for the traffic offense. He added that Isa was rushed to the hospital where he was confirmed dead. The statement read, “The driver of a green Toyota Sienna vehicle, with number plate, FST 901 AR, knocked down and run over a LASTMA official, Jamiu Issa, who was later confirmed dead, on April 19, 2022. “The late Issa was said to have approached and accosted the Sienna vehicle driver who was driving against the direction of flow of traffic, facing oncoming vehicles from Chevron towards the Conservation Toll Plaza. “It was reported that Issa was knocked down and run over by the traffic law offender. Issa’s colleague at the scene of the event quickly put a call through to the zonal head while some good Samaritans/eyewitnesses pursued the escaping Sienna driver to the Chevron Waterfront area where he was eventually apprehended and taken first to Ilasan police station, and eventually to Ajiwe police station, under which jurisdiction the event happened for proper investigation. “Also, according to other eyewitnesses’ accounts, the Sienna driver also knocked down another person while trying to escape from the scene before the driver was apprehended. “At the same time that the above scenario was going on, the fatally injured Issa was rushed to the Lagos Island General Hospital where it was confirmed that he was brought in dead. His remains have been deposited at the morgue of same hospital.” Filade said the General Manager, LASTMA, Bolaji Oreagba, commiserated with the family of the deceased officer, adding that those who refused all entreaties to desist from assaulting and injuring government officials, would be made to face the full wrath of the law. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com