Of the 870 National Youths Service Corps members of 2021 Batch “A”, Stream II, nine corps members will be repeating the service year for cases of abscondment from service. According to the State Coordinator of NYSC, Jingi Denis, during the passing out parade of the stream, the measure is in line with the NYSC rules and regulations. He added that one corps member will be receiving State Honours Award “in recognition of his outstanding performance during his stay in Abia state”, while five others will be receiving commendation certificates. He informed the outgoing corps members that their respect for the oath they took during their induction ceremony and the landmark they made during their stay in the state will continue to be in the books of record in the state. Denis urged them not to fear the unknown labour market as the service has empowered them through skills acquisition while in the camp to become business owners. In his address, the Chairman, NYSC State Governing Board, and Commissioner for Youth Development, Charles Esonu enjoined the corps members not to regard their end of service year as the end of service to mankind, urging them also to “believe in Nigeria and cherish its corporate existence as a peaceful nation”. Addressing the corps members, the state governor, Okezie Ikpeazu urged them “do not engage in activities that will undermine the noble ideas the society has bestowed on you for participating in the NYSC scheme”, hence being good ambassadors of their immediate families and resource materials for national unity and integration. Represented by the secretary to the State Government, SSG Barr Chris Ezem, the governor assured that his government will continue to assist the scheme “within available resources in the provision of basic amenities for its operation”. He urged them not to “join evil forces and enemies of progress to undermine our nationhood”. Victor Akpan Etim from Akwa Ibom was the recipient of the State Honours Award. He is a graduate of Civil Engineering from the Federal Polytechnic, Nekede, Imo State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com