Soft drink Pepsi has announced sponsorship support for the second DStv Premium Golf Day, which holds at the Ikeja Golf Club April 23. This was disclosed in a statement released in Lagos Monday by the event’s organisers. According to Flykite Productions, the event organisers, over 100 golfers from golf clubs across the country, which will be selected from over 500 registrants, will participate at the event, where golfers will play with only four clubs and a putter and winners will emerge via a stroke play format. Flykite Productions added that the first prize at the event was a business class flight ticket to Dubai for a weekend at a five-star hotel, while the second prize was a business class ticket to Kigali, Rwanda, also for a weekend stay at a five-star hotel. The third prize is a weekend stay at a five-star hotel in Lagos. Mr. Akin Areola, Chairman, DStv Premium Golf Day Organising Committee, said, “We are delighted that these corporate giants, DStv and Pepsi, are supporting this event. It is a bold sign that they are committed to the development of sports in general and golf in particular. It also indicates that they are committed to the promotion of healthy living and are shining examples that other corporate organisations should follow. DStv and Pepsi, it is important to say, have always been prominent supporters of various sports in the country.” Giving reasons for DStv’s sponsorship of the event, Tope Osunkeye, Head of Marketing, MultiChoice Nigeria, said, “We are delighted to be involved in this event with Ikeja Golf Club. We believe that our involvement will further strengthen our relationship with our Premium subscribers as well as those who love and play the game. We understand that golf tournaments provide enormous thrill for our DStv Premium subscribers through some of the most important games. It is the reason we are providing this sponsorship support.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com