Kolade Olawoyin is the Managing Director of Procare Limited. He tells TOFARATI IGE about his business What is your educational background? I attended Baptist Secondary School, Liberty Road, Ibadan, before I proceeded to the Oladipo Alayande School of Science. I went on to study Urban and Regional Planning at the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology in Ogbomoso, Oyo State. Do you have any corporate work experience? The only times I have had any corporate work experience was after my university education and I was waiting to undergo the National Youth Service Corps. I taught at a school in Ogbomoso for about four months. During my service year, I was posted to a school– Success International School in Ondo State. When and how did you venture into the business you are doing? I started this business about six years ago. After NYSC, I learnt photography in Lagos. I made up my mind I was not going to look for any white collar job. However, I had to drop photography, because that is not where my passion lies. I switched to blogging and digital marketing. I was really doing well with that but at the same time, I was scared. I just thought that if the Internet stopped working, (there would be a problem). I needed something would last forever. I was thinking of something bigger, so I left Lagos for Ibadan, praying to God to show me my way. One day, I went to a printing press in the Mokola area of Ibadan to print some documents. While discussing with someone I met there, I realised that I had interest in printing. On that fateful day, a woman sent me a message, asking if I designed logos. I responded that I could. I then contacted an older colleague, Mr John Oladele, and he agreed to train me (in graphic designing). We later went to meet the woman with a quotation, and she paid the third day after our meeting. I was amazed because I did not know one could make such ‘cool cash’ from printing and branding. After that, I continued my training with Mr Oladele for about a year. After that, I started my own business and registered it. Things were not easy initially. As a matter of fact, it was quite difficult for about two years of standing alone. What services does your business offer? We offer printing and branding services. We also import certain things such as metal tags, hand tags and wrist bands from China. What motivated you to start your own business? I wanted to be on my own because I believed that would enable me help others. I am passionate about adding value to the society, and I am doing that already by reducing the rate of unemployment in the country in my own little way. How much was your initial capital, and how did you raise it? I actually started the business with zero naira. There was nobody to help or assist me, except God. I was an apprentice and literally had nothing to start with, except my faith in the Almighty. I got my first job from someone I met randomly. It was from that little money I managed to get an apartment. What is the difference between you and others in your line of business? We strongly believe in what we do and we give our jobs a touch of professionalism by paying attention, even to the smallest details. What major challenges have you faced in this business? There have been two major challenges. One of them is in the aspect of delivery of goods. The second challenge, which we are gradually overcoming, is the trust factor. Because of what Internet fraudsters have done to some people in the past, we had to convince clients that we were reliable and not fraudsters. As time went on, they have begun to believe in us. People who come through referrals trust us 100 per cent. How do you find customers? We get our customers mostly online, especially on Instagram and Whatsapp. We also get a lot of referrals because our jobs speak for us. I have lost count of the referrals we get on a daily basis. How do you advertise the business? I personally believe that no business can ‘work’ without promotion. As a result of that, we constantly do adverts on social media. We also erect billboards in some major cities. Have you ever thought of quitting and starting something else? I have never thought of quitting. I believe so much that the brand has a bright future by the grace of God. What future do you envisage for your business? The aim is to become a major agency that attends to the printing and branding needs of individuals and companies. What kind of support did you receive from your family and friends when you started the business? When I started, my parents did not support me. My father wanted me to have a white collar job, but I never wanted that. I stood my ground because I believed so much in what I wanted. I could remember my dad asking if I could build a house and own a car with ‘this printing job’? I just smiled. Today, I have a testimony. In due course, they later supported me with prayers, which I consider to be worth more than gold. What do you have to say to young people who want to go into your type of business? It takes a gradual process for one to succeed. Rome was not built in day. How do you handle difficult customers? We disagree to agree. We try as much as possible to settle the difficult part and make it work. Though it has not always been easy, we have not done badly in that regard. How many employees do you have? I have about 15 employees.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com