One of the rescued Chibok schoolgirls, Hassana Adamu, has cried out over the failure of the Federal Government to extend the special treatment and privileges her colleagues were enjoying to her. Adamu regained her freedom about eight years after she was abducted alongside 276 Chibok schoolgirls by Boko Haram fighters. “I want the government to assist me with good things; I want to go back to school and to have a better life,” she told the BBC in an interview. Adamu was 18 when she and her colleagues were abducted on April 14, 2014. She and two of her former classmates were finally reunited with their families in January, bringing the total number of girls freed so far to more than 100. Between 2016 and 2018, three Chibok girls were found or rescued in the Sambisa forest hideout of Boko Haram by the military, while 103 were freed following negotiations between the government and the militants. Their return home was followed by global fanfare and they were also ferried to Abuja where they met with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). For several months, the girls were kept in government accommodation at a Ministry of Women Affairs facility in Abuja, where they were put through a government-sponsored rehabilitation programme that included medical and psychological care. They were provided free clothes and gadgets such as laptops and phones, and also received visits from international dignitaries, such as Nobel-Prize winning Pakistani activist Malala Yousafzai, who was shot in the head by the Taliban. Thereafter, they were sent to begin a specially designed programme at the American University of Nigeria in Yola, Adamawa State on full government scholarships. More than four years later, the government is still sponsoring the Chibok girls who have chosen to remain at the AUN. But Adamu lamented that she did not benefit from the scholarship. She said, “The girls in the school are the ones who told me how the government is taking care of them. They told me how they stayed in Abuja before they were sent to school. “Is it because we stayed so long or because we were already married? Maybe that is why the government does not want to take care of us.” Adamu, who had two children for a Boko Haram fighter stated, “It was not a real marriage. I want a better life for myself and my children. I am never going back to him.” Adamu believes that she is entitled to the same opportunities as her classmates and she wants to be included in the scholarship scheme at the AUN. “It worries me so much because we started the suffering together but the other girls have become like American people while I am at home taking care of babies,” she said. Two other Chibok girls, Ruth Ngaladar and Halima Ali Maiyanga, also parted ways with their husbands. The chairman of the missing girls’ parents association, Yakubu Nkeki, expressed worries that the government’s loss of interest in the Chibok girls could mean that the 109 still missing may never be reunited with their families, even if they are or can be rescued.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com