A former Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, said on Tuesday that Nigeria is bleeding as result of the spate of killings across country. The All Progressives Congress’ national leader urged all and sundry to join hands in the fight against banditry in the land. This is as the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, said Nigeria was at crossroads and needed to take a difficult decision to pick a leader, in 2023 that would lead Nigeria out of sundry challenges. Tinubu, who was in Kaduna on a condolence visit over the recent terror attack on an Abuja-Kaduna bound train, donated N50million to assist the state government to rehabilitate and care for wellbeing of victims. The APC national leader said, “I’m here to sympathise with Governor Nasir El-Rufai and the people of the state over the train attack. It’s a national disaster. It’s a blow to all of us. “Nigeria bleeds. We need to fight terrorism with all we have. I understand some people were killed while some others are missing. It is frustrating. “We will assist Gov. El-Rufai on the rehabilitation of the victims. The governor is a symbol of our unity. Once in a while, we still remember the first stanza of our old national anthem- although tongues and tribes may differ, but in brotherhood we stand. “If enemies of peace and progress think they can deter us as a nation, we must together stand against them and say no.” In his response, El-Rufai commended Tinubu for cancelling his 70th birthday colloquium as a mark of honour for the victims of the attack. The governor said, “This visit pre-empted my planned visit to Asiwaju to thank him for solidarity with people of Kaduna for cancelling his colloquium the day it was to take place. “This gesture by Asiwaju is a show of powerful leadership, empathy and concern for the lives and property of Nigerians. It is unprecedented in our history in Nigeria. “The government and people of Kaduna State will never forget this gesture. We are very grateful to you for service, sacrifice and commitment to the unity and that of our country. “We appreciate your call for people to contribute to enable us to rehabilitate the victims of this tragedy. “We are aware of your aspiration to be President of this country, we look forward to further engagement so that we can progress that aspiration. “Nigeria is at crossroads, critical crossroads, and we must take very difficult decisions to get the right leaders that would take us out of the multiple quagmires that we are going through.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com