A pan-African development finance institution exclusively dedicated to housing finance in Africa, Shelter Afrique, has successfully completed its debut N46bn ($110.7m) Series 1 fixed rate senior unsecured bond issuance in Nigeria’s capital market under its N200bn ($481.3m) bond issuance programme. The firm disclosed during an event in Lagos that the dual-tranche bond issuance was 60.7 per cent oversubscribed with the order book peaking at N64.3bn ($154.6m), enabling Shelter Afrique to exercise the ‘green shoe’ option and raise an additional N6bn ($14.4m) more than the original N40bn plan ($96.3m). On the back of an AA rating from GCR Ratings and an A+ rating from Agusto& Co, the bond issuance attracted participation from a diverse range of institutional investors, including pension funds, banks, and insurance companies. The oversubscription rate demonstrates investors’ confidence in Shelter Afrique’s mandate to enable housing development in Africa, coupled with the institution’s strong management team, business strategy and credit profile. The five-year Tranche A bonds was priced at 13.00 per cent and the seven-year Tranche B bonds priced at 13.25 per cent. The tenors of the bonds aligned with the institution’s housing finance strategy and long-term plans in Nigeria. “Shelter Afrique will use the bond proceeds to fund mass housing development by tier 1 real estate developers, and to provide lines of credit,” it said. It disclosed that FDSH Capital Limited acted as the lead issuing house while ARM Securities Limited, FCMB Capital Markets Limited and United Capital Plc acted as joint issuing houses to the bond issuance. Other professional parties include Aluko & Oyebode and Banwo & Ighodalo who acted as solicitors to the issue/issuer and solicitors to the trustee respectively. United Capital Trustees Limited and CardinalStone Registrars Limited acted as the trustee and registrar respectively. The receiving banks include FSDH Merchant Bank Limited, Stanbic IBTC Plc and United Bank for Africa Plc. Announcing the result, Shelter Afrique’s acting Managing Director, Kingsley Muwowo, said, “This is the first time Shelter Afrique is tapping the Nigerian debt capital market and the positive market reception is a clear indication of investor confidence in our long-term value proposition for the Nigerian housing market. “We would like to assure our investors that we shall put the proceeds of the bond issue into good use that will ensure that more value is created for them.” Muwowo said the issuance of the naira-denominated bonds reflects the organisation’s desire to focus on tailor-made, long-term funding solutions for the provision of affordable and adequate housing in Nigeria and across Africa. He also noted that the volatile foreign exchange rate regimes in most member countries is one of the major challenges of financing affordable and decent housing in Africa.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com