Pacegate Energy and Resources Limited has restated the need for advanced corrosion control in the oil and gas industry. In line with its commitment to engage stakeholders on advancing technological growth in the Nigerian oil and gas industry, PEARL has partnered with Canadian Energy Solutions, Jacam Catalyst and Polaris Bank. Corrosion is one of the major challenges faced by oil and gas industries all over the world. This has made corrosion control or management a major factor to consider before setting up any firm that will transport products via pipelines, and it has been a vital discourse amongst relevant stakeholders in the Nigerian oil and gas industry. According to the General Manager of Pacegate Energy & Resources Limited, Franklin Oranusih, “PEARL was established to solve industrial challenges through innovative solutions and partnerships. Corrosion is one of the major challenges encountered in the oilfield. Experts deal with water and other corrosive components of crude while working with mild steel pipes and tanks. “It affects the operations of large corporations and affects the oil and gas sector of Nigeria. It is, therefore, necessary to embrace available methods to monitor and control it. This partnership and webinar series demonstrate our commitment to it, and we are delighted to lead the conversations.” He noted that to ensure smooth and uninterrupted flow of oil and gas to the end users, it was imperative for the field operators, pipeline engineers, and designers to be corrosion-conscious as the lines and their component fittings would undergo material degradations due to corrosion. “In order to avoid corrosion menace and maintain safe and reliable pipeline infrastructure, substantial research efforts should be devoted to implementing pipeline leak detection and localisation using different approaches. We are happy to bring together experts and thought leaders in the industry to dialogue and exchange ideas on how to solve the threat posed by corrosion and proffer a lasting mitigation and prevention plan.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com