The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency on Sunday said it intercepted 101 parcels of cocaine concealed in eight children’s duvet at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos State. The agency’s spokesman, Femi Babafemi, in a statement titled, ‘NDLEA intercepts 101 parcels of cocaine in children duvets at Lagos airport,’ said the illicit drug was brought into the country by a 52-year-old Brazilian returnee, Akudirinwa Uchenna. Babafemi said the suspect was arrested on Saturday, April 9, at the D-Arrival Hall of the Lagos airport upon his return from Sao Paulo, Brazil, via Doha, aboard a Qatar airline flight. According to him, the 101 parcels of the Class A drug with a gross weight of 13.2 kilogramme were recovered from his check-in bag. The statement read, “During preliminary interview, Uchenna, who claimed to be a carpenter, confessed that he was to be paid N5m for trafficking the drug after successfully delivering the consignment in Lagos.” It added, “In a related development, big pellets of skunk concealed in detergent containers have been intercepted at the Akanu Ibiam Internastional Airport, Enugu. A 37-year-old South African returnee, Ezekwesili Afamefune, brought in the consignment weighing 730grams aboard an Ethiopian airline flight from Johannesburg, South Africa, via Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. “In Edo State, a 24-year-old drug dealer, Christian John, was arrested by NDLEA operatives in Egbeta, Ovia North East LGA, for selling assorted illicit drugs which include sachets of drugged Milo beverage, cannabis sativa, swinol and tramadol tablets, while in Zamfara State, one Chibuzor Uba, 30, was arrested on Friday, April 8, with 1,955 ampules of pentazocine at the Kaura Namoda area of Zamfara State. “In Ondo State, a drug dealer who produces and sells skuchies, Oluwaseun Agboola, 25, was arrested on Thursday, April 7, at his Igoba, Second Gate, Akure residence where 73 bottles of skuchies weighing 77kg stocked in his kitchen were recovered. Skuchies are usually a mixture of tramadol, cannabis sativa, codeine, black currant (popularly called Zobo) and water. “In Lagos, an early morning raid in the notorious Akala, Mushin area of the state, on Saturday, April 9, led to the seizure of 746.25 kilogrammes of cannabis.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com