In this interview with Mid-Week Entertainment, popular Fuji artiste, Akorede Okunola, aka Saheed Osupa, revealed the reason behind his decision to return to school to study political science at the University of Ibadan Recently, you announced that you bagged a degree from the University of Ibadan. What inspired the move despite your massive achievement in the entertainment industry? Firstly, I thank the Almighty God for His grace over my life, family and fans all over the world. My going back to school was not accidental as it still goes with my mother’s wish for me. I have always desired to seek more knowledge by going back to school. Meanwhile, I also want to prove to the world that musicians, particularly Fuji artistes, can fit into any setting and organisation. Truly, I have achieved a lot as a music entertainer, but I need to still equip myself the more, while also preparing for the future. It was also announced that you majored in Political Science. Why Political Science? Do you have any plans to join politics in future? My love for good governance made me choose Political Science. As an artiste who sings a lot about leadership and philosophy, I believe studying such a course would enhance my knowledge. I currently don’t have any plan to go into politics, but let’s see what the future holds. What does sitting down in classrooms to listen to lecturers passing down knowledge to you and your colleagues feel like? It feels normal to me. Moreover, I have always been a student. When I say a student, I mean I love listening to people and being in the midst of intellectuals. So, when I went to the University of Ibadan, I saw myself being in the midst of intellectuals to learn and impart. What challenges did you experience while trying to become a graduate? Well, some of the challenges include being in public without security; bringing myself to that level of being a student. But, the most challenging is cancelling some of my paid shows for tests and examinations which I had prepared myself for. You are one of the leading lights in the Fuji music industry and there is barely a week that you don’t have important engagements. How were you able to cope with your studies despite your busy schedules? As  I said earlier, I have prepared myself before getting the admission and I never allowed anything to distract me from achieving my aim. What were the significant lessons you learnt in your relentless pursuit to be educated? I’ve learnt that every step is an experience and no knowledge is wasted. How has being educated affected your life and business as a renowned Fuji artiste? It has shaped me in many ways: from my career as a musician, businessman and to how to manage people. I just can’t name it all. Aside from being a successful artiste, what were you lacking that influenced you to pursue academic achievement? I was not lacking anything. I just wanted to prove to the world that there’s nothing or profession that Fuji artistes cannot fit into. In the process of achieving your academic pursuit, did you have doubts that you might never complete the programme? If you had doubts, what kept you going? From the start, I never envisaged anything could occur or stop me from achieving this, but along the line when it started affecting my paid shows, I started having doubts. However, my determination to achieve the dream kept pushing me. Can you share an important experience that you may never forget during your academic pursuits? Ha! I would like to keep that for now. What message do you have for your fans who have been inspired by your music and recent academic achievements? All I can tell them is to be focused, and never believe in any shortcut to success. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com