The Nigerian Air Force on Wednesday said it has instituted a probe into the air crash that occurred on Tuesday, which led to the death of two of its personnel. This is just as some security experts, in separate interviews with The PUNCH, raised the alarm over the spate of military aircraft crashes in the country, describing the development as problematic and embarrassing. The PUNCH had reported that two persons died when a NAF training aircraft crashed in Kaduna on Tuesday. In a statement by Director of Public Relation and Information, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, the Air Force said a board had been constituted to investigate the cause of the crash. Gabkwet quoted the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, as promising to ensure thorough investigation into the incident when he visited Kaduna to commiserate with families, friends, and colleagues of the two pilots, Flight Lieutenant Abubakar Alkali and Flight Lieutenant Elijah Karatu, who lost their lives in the accident. The statement read, “Air Marshal Amao had constituted an Accident Investigation Board upon receiving the sad news of the crash yesterday (Tuesday) to determine the immediate and remote causes of the crash. “While at Kaduna earlier today (Wednesday), he assured the officers, airmen, and airwomen of 401 Flying Training School that all measures would be emplaced to avert a similar occurrence in the future. “He also reminded them of the need to remain steadfast and be focused on their assigned roles and responsibilities, given the arduous task before the NAF and other security agencies to rid the Northwest and the entire nation of all criminal elements.” Frequent military aircraft crashes dangerous for Nigeria –Experts Meanwhile, a security expert, Kabiru Adamu, said the incessant crashes involving military jets, if unchecked, could deplete the strength and morale of military personnel. He said, “The consequences are huge on our assets and humans when we don’t even have enough and lose them. Given the number of elements we are dealing with, we have fewer capabilities to address the challenges anytime we lose assets like that. Secondly, there are the moral or physiological consequences of such a disaster. Others may be uncomfortable about flying, and their families would be worried. As we are dealing with a multitude of challenges, we want the morale of our men to be high.” He said lack of maintenance could be responsible for the crashes, adding that only investigation could determine the true causes. Another security expert, Timothy Avele, said the situation was becoming embarrassing, urging the authorities to do all within their reach to address the situation. On his part, Jackson Ojo said, “When a disturbing situation like this happens, you can’t rule out the possibility of sabotage. The consequence of this is that the people will no longer respect the strength of our military. “If this continues unchecked, smaller countries like Chad and Niger can challenge us to war; even the terrorists we are waging war against may capitalise on this. This is an insult, and the Nigerian Security is becoming a laughing stock among the comity of nations.” Meanwhile, family members of Flt-Lt. Alkali, one of the Air Force pilots who died in the Tuesday crash, said the incident had left them devastated. Some of them who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria in Kaduna on Wednesday said despite losing a great son, they had taken solace in the fact that “God gives, God takes.” An uncle to the deceased, Alhaji Sulaiman Dauda, said Alkali was a fine officer, always involved in serving his fatherland. He said, “Akali is a fine officer, always in the service of his fatherland; a great son to us; we are devastated. “But we take consolation in the fact that God gives, God takes, and fortunately, we belong to a family that emphasises the fear of God. “The kind of life he lived was very encouraging, and we have accepted it (incident) as being ordained by God.” Also, Brig-Gen Umar Alkali, elder brother of the deceased, told NAN that although the tragedy was painful, no person on earth would live beyond his or her time, as ordained by God. “I am the eldest brother to Abubakar: our father died when he was just two years, so he grew up knowing me as a father; it is a sad happening, but we all know that death is inevitable,” he said. Late Alkali was buried on Tuesday at the Kawo Cemetery in Kaduna after funeral prayer was conducted at the Kaduna Air Force Base Central Mosque.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com