At a tender age, Emmanuel Chamberlain had already exhibited signs of becoming a footballer. Thus, at only eight, his father enrolled him in a football academy to help hone his skills Now 14, Chamberlain currently plays for Horobo FC in Alimosho, Lagos State. He believes his passion for football is somewhat innate as no one can explain why he is so talented. “I started playing football as early as I can remember and everyone said I was good at it. My parents have been in support of my dream to become a professional footballer, represent Nigeria and play for one of the biggest clubs in the world,” Emmanuel told PUNCH Sports Extra. “I am an attacking midfielder, quick with the ball and tricky as well. I have played in several competitions and my philosophy is that with hard work and dedication, I can get to the top of the sport I love and achieve my dreams.” Like every young Nigerian, he is also a follower of good football and believes Real Madrid’s philosophy is the best. “I am a fan of Madrid and I believe they play the best kind of football. I love every team Cristiano Ronaldo plays for, which means that once in a while I get to support Manchester United, but Madrid is my first love.” Chamberlain has had to combine education and football and admits it’s not an easy task combining both. “It’s not easy combining both, but the moment you strike a balance, everything will go on smoothly. My parents told me football was secondary while education was primary, so, I have no option than to ensure that I succeeded in doing both.” Emmanuel says his role model is Cristiano Ronaldo on the international scene but his favourite Nigerian footballer is Alex Iwobi and although the Nigerian is not known for his scoring abilities, he is endeared to his playmaking abilities. “Cristiano Ronalo is my all-time favourite footballer because I think he is the best player that has ever kicked a ball. While I was growing up everyone called me ‘Baby Ronaldo’ because I knew all his tricks and I would always demonstrate them on the pitch. “I am also a big fan of Alex Iwobi. Although he does not score so many goals, I love and admire the way he works with the ball and how he controls the midfield when playing for Nigeria. “Passing the ball accurately is one of my best qualities and I love people who have mastered the art.” Chamberlain Ayas, Emmanuel’s father, told our correspondent that at first he didn’t want his son to be involved in football, saying he wanted him to focus on his education. But his son’s zeal and passion for the game made Ayas have a rethink. “As an African parent, the first thing I wanted for him was to further his education just like his siblings because I didn’t have the same opportunity they have now. I’m not educated, so, I want all my children to be educated. But when I saw his zeal, I couldn’t say no,” Ayas told PUNCH Sports Extra. “I didn’t make it compulsory for him to play football, but when I saw the passion he showed and everyone talking about how good he was, I told my wife that he could go on and practice. I also enrolled him in an academy, bought him boots and everything needed to start his journey. “As much as I want him to succeed in football, there must be a Plan B and that’s why I told him to go to school.” As much as he wants to become a footballer, Emmanuel says should he get to the university, his hope is to one day become an accountant. “Accountancy is what I’ll like to study when I get to the university. I love calculations and I think I can also succeed as an accountant,” Emmanuel added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com