The Bible Society of Nigeria has said it will distribute free copies of the Bible on National Bible Day which would hold on May 5, 2022. The day, set aside to celebrate the gift of the Bible to Christendom and humanity at large, will enable Nigerians to reflect on and imbibe the values prescribed by the Holy Book. The Manager, Media and Public Relations, BSN, Benjamin Mordi, disclosed this in a statement made available to journalists on Wednesday. The statement read in part, “The BSN will also use the day to distribute free copies of the Bible to schools and individuals across the country. This is to reiterate the society’s belief in the Bible as the solution to man’s problems, vices, and challenges, especially when its values are imbibed by the youth who are the future of the nation. “According to the General Secretary/Chief Executive Officer, BSN, Pastor Samuel Sanusi, our socio-economic and security challenges as a nation will be greatly reduced if people adopt and live by prescribed biblical principles in all human relations.” “Pastor Sanusi opines that if the global community could celebrate Workers’ Day, Independence Day, Water Day, Literacy Day, and other days, set aside to be remembered, it will be ideal to also use a day to celebrate the Bible, a gift from God to humanity and pray for the wellbeing of the nation. “The BSN is a not-for-profit interdenominational Christian organisation that translates the Bible into local languages, publishes, and distributes the Scriptures, as well as raises funds for Bible work and execution of life-transforming programmes that help people engage with the Word of God. So far, BSN has translated the full Bible in 26 Nigerian Languages, while Bible translation/revision is ongoing in 10 Nigerian Languages. It costs the organisation a minimum of N120m to achieve a Bible translation project if completed in 12 years.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com