Legal luminary and founder of the Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti, Chief Afe Babalola, has expressed disappointment with critics of his call for an interim government after the tenure of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), to pave the way for the drafting of a new constitution. Babalola lamented that those who were supposed to be engrossed with finding a new workable model of development for the country were faulting his suggestion, which he described as patriotic and targeted at finding a lasting solution to the challenges plaguing the nation. The senior lawyer, who spoke on Friday during the maiden ABUAD inaugural lecture delivered by Prof Samuel Igbatayo, said his call for the postponement of the 2023 general elections and setting up of an interim government for a period of six months to chart a new course for the country was in the best interest of Nigerians. He said his position was not in any way opposed to the nation’s democratic processes, adding that the idea of an interim national government had evolved over time and was being practised in some developed countries facing issues similar to those facing Nigeria at present. Babalola said, “Out of about 6,000 persons who have commented, 90 per cent, particularly the young people, the poor people and those who are looking for work, supported my view. I am happy about that because those are the people I am working for. “Section 14 of the Constitution states clearly that the primary duty of the government is the protection of lives and property, and the welfare of the people. Unfortunately, the constitution is not made by either you or me. The preamble of the constitution says it was made by us, whereas, it was made by the military and that is why it is a nullity.” He described the interim government as “a child of necessity urgently needed to serve as a veritable launch pad to a new Nigeria where the government’s actions and decisions will be guided by provisions of a new autochthonous legal framework that will replace the military-imposed 1999 Constitution.” Babalola, who said his suggestion remained a very good antidote to rescue the country from the current impasse, stated, “The lawmakers are the ones that will set up the interim government and not Buhari. There can be no other way out; if they fail to agree with me, then we are jinxed. “Today, life has become unbearable; you are unsafe on the road, you are unsafe in the farm and you are unsafe in your house. Those who are governing us owe us a duty to look into these. I am happy that the House of Representatives has noted this. “I have been complaining about this constitution since 2001, but those who are benefiting from it will not allow the enactment of a new constitution. That is why I said that before you go, set up an interim government; if you can’t do it, allow others to do it so that we can have a new set of people who will make the country great again.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com