Gospel singer, Aduke Gold, has said she usually feels very happy whenever people tell her how her songs had an impact on their lives. In an interview with Sunday Scoop, she noted that a man once told her that he was on the verge of committing suicide when she listened to one of her songs. She said, “My notable achievements are not much. Whenever my songs heal people in the spiritual and physical realm, I consider those to be my greatest achievements. “A man once called me and said he was on the verge of committing suicide, but when he heard my song, Nitori Ogo, he went back to work and he now has a piece of land, which he had been dreaming of having for over 15 years. He concluded by saying, ‘Thank you so much for not allowing me to die in my prime’.” Gold, who started her career with live performances, maintained that she likes both live performances and singing along to her songs when ministering. She said, “I love doing both because when we are out there (on stage), it is not all about performing with a band. Sometimes, I like singing along to my songs with my fans. I also appreciate other people’s songs that have to do with my emotions and spiritual life.” Speaking on the challenges she faces as a gospel singer, she said, “The first challenge is finance. If one has money, one’s career can grow faster. We need sponsors that will not become shylocks, because I have once been a victim of bad managers and promoters. “Also, the issue of working with members of the opposite sex could be quite daunting. We could also have issues with people that love us to the extreme. We have to make them understand that you can love us but there must be boundaries. Also, there is a problem with people who only pray for us with their lips but don’t wish us well in their hearts. Even in churches, people look down on us because we are not that big yet.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com