The Akwa Ibom State Commissioner of Police, Andrew Amiengheme, has announced the deployment of 1,336 officers and men to beef up security during the Easter celebration in the state. This was contained in a statement on Friday by the command’s Public Relations Officer, Odiko Macdon, made available to our correspondent in Uyo. “To provide an enabling environment for the celebration, the Commissioner of Police, Andrew Amiengheme, has deployed a total of 1,336 officers to beef up security state-wide, especially in churches, recreation centres, motor parks as well as traffic control,” the statement read in part. The CP, while felicitating with the government and the people, particularly the Christian community on the occasion of Easter, urged them to continue to be law-abiding and report criminal elements intending to truncate the prevailing peace in the state. He assured the residents and visitors that the command would continue to put in place strategies to enhance the security of the state. Similarly, the state command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps said it had deployed about 1,000 of its personnel to beef up security in the state during and after the Easter celebration. It also constituted teams to patrol strategic places of activities within the state such as churches, parks, malls and recreational centres, among others. A statement by the Public Relations Officer of the command, DSC Ekerete Friday, made available to our correspondent on Thursday said the personnel were drawn from the armed squad, Agro Ranger, counter terrorism squad, special female squad, anti-vandal units and the department of intelligence operations to mount the identified hotspots within the state. The statement read in part, “To achieve a hitch-free Easter celebrations, the Akwa Ibom State Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Abidemi Majekodunmi, has deployed 1,000 personnel to beef up security in the state all through the Easter period and beyond. “The deployment is a proactive measure to ensure that the peace enjoyed in the state is sustained all through the Easter festivities. “Patrol teams have been constituted to patrol various identified hotspots within the state. Majekodunmi has also directed all area commanders, divisional officers and heads of tactical squads to ensure effective policing of their immediate environment, paying attention to public places, worship centres and institutions.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com