•Tweeps call for his suspension Leke Adeboye, the son of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, slammed erring pastors of the church, calling them ‘goats’ for preaching their sermons after the G.O. had finished speaking and preaching. This generated outrage on social media as many condemned the statement while some others called for his suspension. Usually, first Sunday of every month, parishes of the RCCG are linked up with the National Headquarters of the church, where the G.O. would deliver a sermon – expected to be the only sermon of the day. Meanwhile, some parish pastors often do a follow-up preaching after the G.O’s. Reacting to such a move, Pastor Leke took to his Instagram account and referred to the RCCG pastors who preached their messages after the G.O. had preached his sermon as ‘goats’. “Why would you go and preach another sermon after Daddy G.O. had just finished speaking and preaching. “You are not a son, you are a goat, sir. Next Thanksgiving Service, just do an altar call, then thanksgiving,” Leke posted. Tweeps bemoaned this statement, called it rude and others demanded his suspension by the RCCG. “#rccg should suspend Leke Adeboye for calling ordained pastors #GOAT. What a gut,” @ollynetworker said. “That’s very rude of you, Leke Adeboye! You are the goat here,” @Joanna8214 tweeted. @TomisinAmokeoja said, “Two wrongs don’t make a right, Leke Adeboye calling pastors goat was way overboard. Really leaves much to be desired. Always been controversial though. I wonder how he would have reacted if he was the G.O.” A tweep, @CeciliaOkoroma, said that such a statement was not nice and unexpected from a man of God. “This is simply not too nice a statement from ‘man of God’ and in particular, son of G.O RCCG,” she tweeted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com