The Middle Belt Forum has decried the rising level of killings in the North-Central region, describing the loss of lives and properties in the area in the last few years as a genocide worse than what was witnessed during the Civil War. The President of the forum, Pogu Bitrus, who stated this while reacting to the recent massacre of 95 persons in Plateau and Benue states, warned that with the current state of lawlessness in different parts of the country, Nigeria could witness the emergence of warlords similar to the situation in Somalia. No fewer than 70 people were killed when gunmen attacked Kanam and Wase communities in Plateau on Sunday while 25 people were killed in the Guma and Tiortyu local government areas of Benue on Monday. The killing drew condemnation from different parts of the country, with some members of the House of Representatives calling for the sacking or resignation of the National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (retd.), and the Minister of Defence, Maj. Gen. Bashir Magashi (retd.). But while speaking with one of our correspondents, Bitrus said, “It is an unfortunate development at a time when we thought things would ease up. After those massacres some two, three years ago, this thing (killing) is rearing its head again. It is unacceptable. “Whether it is in Taraba, on the Plateau, or in Benue, where people, including traditional rulers, were massacred, or in Southern Kaduna, no life should be lost. Even during the Civil War we did lose this number of people.” He lamented that the wanton attacks by terrorists on citizens and government infrastructure showed that the Federal Government had failed in its responsibility to protect the lives of Nigerians, adding that terrorists had become a “parallel government”. …forum groans, seeks int’l community’s support Meanwhile, the forum in a statement on Friday raised the alarm over what it described as the return of bloodshed in Southern Kaduna, Southern Kebbi, Niger, Plateau and Benue states that have led to loss of lives. While passing a vote of no confidence on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for failing to secure the country, the forum pleaded with the international community to beam their searchlight “on the horrendous massacre of the Middle Belt people being carried out under the watch of President Buhari.” The National President of the forum, Dr Pogu Bitrus, in a statement in Abuja, feared that the killings might worsen as the 2023 general elections approaches. The statement partly read, “In the three attacks on Plateau, Kaduna and Benue that took place within 24 hours, no fewer than 117 lives were lost, including 12 military personnel. It is instructive that as the 2023 campaigns gather momentum, the intensity of these attacks is set to increase, with the sole purpose of annihilating communities of the Middle Belt by the invaders. “The Forum completely aligns with the position of the Benue State Governor, His Excellency, Dr. Samuel Ortom who has declared that our besieged communities must rise up to the challenges of the time and defend their lives and property. “We call on the international community to beam its searchlight on the horrendous massacres of the Middle Belt peoples being carried out under the watch of President Buhari. The refusal of the government to deal with perpetrators of these recurring killings reveals its complicity in the gale of bloodshed shredding the Middle Belt region. “The Middle Belt region has lost faith in the capacity of President Buhari to secure the lives and property of Nigerians. We call on our peoples to be alert and use whatever is available to them to stand firm and resist these bloodthirsty invaders. We call on our communities to be security conscious as they celebrate Easter. We must never allow ourselves to be caught unawares by those inflicting all forms of barbarities and threatening our existential survival.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com