The vibrant entertainment industry in the country has witnessed a harvest of deaths in recent times. While some of the deceased were advanced in age, some could be said to be in their prime when they were snatched by the cold hands of death. Saturday Beats takes a look at some of the deaths that have depleted the entertainment industry in recent times Osinachi Nwachukwu Popular gospel singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu, died on April 8, 2022, at the age of 42 and many are still mourning her loss. Nwachukwu shot into the limelight with the hit gospel song, ‘Ekwueme’, which she was featured on by Prospa Ochimana. The ‘Ekwueme’ singer was confirmed dead at an Abuja hospital after reportedly being on life support for some time. It was alleged that she was a victim of domestic violence, and her husband, Peter Nwachukwu, is said to be in police custody. Before her death, Osinachi featured in several gospel songs such as ‘Nara Ekele’, and ‘You no dey use me Play’. Her last song, ‘Ikem (God of Power)’ was released in November 2021. Iyanda Sawaba Veteran fuji singer, Iyanda Sawaba, popularly known as Easy Sawaba, died in the early hours of Wednesday, April 6, 2022. Sawaba passed on at the age 71 at the University College Hospital, Ibadan, Oyo State, where he was receiving treatment for a brief illness. The musician was said to have collapsed two weeks prior when he was returning from a party. In the 1970s and 1980s, Sawaba was a force to reckon with in fuji music. He had more than 22 albums, which included ‘Suru’, ‘Igbo Odaju’, ‘Pata Olokun’, ‘Ayetoto’ and ‘Oroseniwo’ from the stables of the old Adetunji Records (Babalaje Records) owned by the late Olubadan of Ibadanland, Saliu Adetunji. Sawaba became even more popular with his leading role among the then younger generation of fuji musicians who supported the late fuji icon, Sikiru Ayinde (Barrister), when the supremacy rivalry between the former and Kollington Ayinla was red hot. Sawaba was later signed to the Keji Okunowo-led defunct Sony Music in 1992 where he released another successful album titled ‘Message’, which was produced by Laolu Akins. His last known album released in 2018 is titled ‘Correction’. Dejo Tunfulu Comic actor, Kunle Adetokunbo, popularly called Dejo Tunfulu, died in the morning of Friday, April 1, 2022, barely two months to his 50th birthday. The deceased had his first television appearance in 1987 in the drama series, ‘Apere Ijongbon’ by the Kolawole International Theatre Group. He shot into limelight for his role in the movie, ‘Omo Oran’, featuring veteran actor, Fatai Adetayo (Lalude). Shade Taylor Actress, Shade Taylor, popularly known as Oluweri Magbojo, died on Monday, March 1, 2022, in the United Kingdom. The actress died at the age of 59, though the cause of her death remains unclear. Some of the notable movies she featured in were ‘Oluweri Magbojo’ and ‘Omo Alhaja’. Lari Williams Another veteran actor, Lari Williams, died on Sunday, February, 27, 2022, in his Ikom, Cross River State. He was 81 years old. Reports had it that he had battled ill health for some time before his death. He was the inaugural president of the Actors’ Guild of Nigeria and the guild and other associations organised a ‘Night of Tributes and Performances’ in his honour on Friday, April 15, 2022. Romanus Amuta Popularly known as ‘Natty’ in the popular soap opera, ‘New Masquarade’, Romanus Amuta died on February 9, 2022, at the age of 79 after a protracted illness. Some of the movies he acted in were ‘Eagle Bride’, ‘Lion Finger’, and ‘Ijele’. Tafa Oloyede Actor, John Adewuni, popularly known as Tafa Oloyede, died at the age of 69 on Tuesday, February, 1 2022, after a brief illness. The actor featured in numerous movies including ‘Jaiyesimi’ ‘Ayanmo’ ‘Ekuro Oloja’ and ‘Akanji Oniposi’. Sam Obiago Veteran actor, Sam Obiago, popularly known as Daddy Sam, died on December 23, 2021, at the age of 50. He was reported to have been ill and was rushed to the hospital where he gave the ghost. Some of the movies the late Obiago featured in were ‘Tears of a King’, ‘Royal Appointment’, and ‘Blood Brothers’. Baba Suwe Born Babatunde Omidina on August 22, 1958, the legendary thespian was an actor and comedian. Omidina began acting in 1971 but came into the limelight after he featured in a movie titled, Omolasan. He became even more popular after he featured in the movie, Iru Esin, produced by Ebun Oloyede, aka Olaiya Igwe, in 1997. However, the comic actor was involved in a major controversy when he was arrested by the Nigeria Drug Law Enforcement Agency at the Muritala Muhammed Airport, Lagos, on the allegation that he was attempting to smuggle cocaine out of the country. After spending days in the custody of the anti-drug agency, no illicit substance was found on his person. In subsequent interviews, Baba Suwe claimed that the incident affected his health, career and fortunes. According to him, because of that incident, he lost many business deals and many people refused to associate or work with him. The actor was said to have suffered a partial stroke before his death on November 22, 2021.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com