A tech-based firm, Fastclaim Solutions Limited, has unveiled its new mobile app aimed at helping policy owners and insurance companies accelerate the process of lodging and responding to claims based on their various insurance policies. Speaking at the launch of the app in Lagos on Friday, the Chairman of the company, Effiong Akpan, said the idea behind Fastclaim mobile app was to address some of the fundamental issues bedevilling the insurance sector. He said the app would significantly address the challenges associated with making claims and also responding to these claims with the urgency conventionally demanded by insurance policyholders. Akpan said, “Fastclaim solutions looked at the insurance industry, which we all know has not been able to take its rightful place within the economy and even in the financial space. In other climes of the world insurance companies own banks but in our situation banks own insurance companies. “So that tells you something is not quite right. The question is why? Why is insurance not taking its rightful place? There are a lot of issues, but what we can zero in on right now is the issue of claims and the perception of the public that insurance companies normally do not pay claims, or even when they pay, they don’t pay on time, or that the process is too tedious. So, with issues like that, there is a tendency that everybody just says ‘let me take and manage my risk myself” and hopes that nothing happens. “That has been one of the major issues bedevilling the insurance industry. So, as a very forward-looking company, we sat down and looked at it and said, how can we help? And we came up with a platform called fastclaim mobile app, which is meant to address part of those issues by making sure there is a platform in the industry that will lead to a more efficient way of managing claims and those issues that I talked about.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com