THE killing of over 120 persons and abduction of scores of others across the country in recent weeks has again reinforced the imperative of recalibrating the campaign against insurgents and other terrorists. Despite massive funding for security, deployment of soldiers and numerous task forces, the country is descending deeper into criminality and becoming more fragile by the day. Urgently, new and more effective strategies have to be adopted to halt the slide into state failure. The audacious attack on the Kaduna-Abuja train at Katari in Kaduna, on March 28, by terrorists had already demonstrated the existential threat facing the country. Eight persons died and 26 were injured in the attack. No fewer than 68 others are still being held captive by the daredevils who have threatened to slaughter them if ransom is not paid. Killings and abductions occur frequently, especially in the North, perpetrated by terrorists of diverse hues – Islamic jihadists, Fulani herders and ‘bandits’/kidnappers. The Federal Government must devise new strategies that emphasise intelligence-led operations. This must include a comprehensive and integrated cohesive, coordinated approach. A recent report showed that over 700 soldiers were slaughtered by terrorists within the past 18 months. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees says the violence in the Lake Chad Basin has dislocated 3.3 million people, including over 300,000 Nigerian refugees who fled to neighbouring countries, and some 2.2 million in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states. Regrettably, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and his security team have bungled the fight against terrorism. Stakeholders in the various regions too have not been able to agree on a common course of action. More than two years after the Northern Governors Forum resolved to set up a standing committee on security in the North, nothing concrete has been done. The governors of the five South-East states have similarly failed to fully concretise the Ebubeagu regional security outfit initiative. They should all wake up. Apparently, Nigeria’s state governors value politics over the security of lives and property. Governor of terror-stricken Kaduna, Nasir el-Rufai, has come under fire for threatening to engage mercenaries. This statement riled Nigerians who believe the governors have failed in their duty to the citizens. Rather than waste funds on mercenaries, the governors should set up well-funded state security agencies and also work for a North-West regional security network to complement the federal police and the armed forces. Protecting the borders is also critical. A country with unattended, porous borders cannot safeguard its territorial integrity and its people. The regime’s nonchalant attitude is evident in its failure to implement the e-border project mooted over four years ago. Approved by the Federal Executive Council, the N52-billion project was meant to cover 86 border control posts, comprising six mega-control posts, 16 medium control posts and 64 mini-control posts. The project comes with a battery of high definition video surveillance cameras. Consequently, terrorists, smugglers and other unsavoury elements continue to invade the country at will. This is unacceptable and should be addressed. Instructively, the anti-insurgency campaign lacks organisational structure, coordination, bite and lasting efficacy. With no distinguishable authority in charge, there is poor coordination among the services, duplication of efforts resulting in waste of funds, men and materials. For effective coordination, the war should be overseen by an overall commander. The structure must incorporate horizontal, as well as vertical coordination and cooperation at every level to ensure effective managerial and operational coordination, particularly where bureaucratic capabilities overlap. Overall responsibility must reside in the coordinator who derives his authority directly from the President. The United States reorganised its armed forces into a regional command structure to allow direct presidential control over the field commanders. The National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, lacks effective coordinating authority as seen in his complaint that the past service chiefs bypassed him. The US also established the Department (Ministry) of Homeland Security to coordinate national security in the aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Terrorists should be denied free rein in the ungoverned or lightly governed areas where they currently insert themselves as de facto governing authorities. Winning the hearts and minds of the people should entail driving the terrorists out and providing effective governance; security, social services and permanent presence. Terror groups cannot survive without some degree of public sympathy and support. Eroding that support base should be paramount. The government is losing ground because the intelligence services are inefficient and politicised. Yet, the war has to be intelligence-driven. Reliable, timely intelligence collection, analysis and dissemination and sharing are absolutely necessary. The State Security Service should be reformed and refocused from regime protection to its core mandate of securing the country. Technology deployment, infiltration and targeted elimination of terrorist leaders should be a priority. Surveillance and armed drones should be employed. One intelligence report observed, “Armed UAVs are a good option to add to Nigeria’s military arsenal as are several force multipliers. These are particularly important given the multiple theatres of conflict the military is engaged and the fact that it is spread thinly.” Security services should track, block and disrupt the criminals’ logistics and financial flows. Terrorists, their financiers and abettors should be put on trial. The quirky, ill-defined and politically-motivated “amnesty” for so-called “repentant terrorists” should be halted. Criminals, murderers should be made to face the full wrath of the law. It is their victims that should be rehabilitated. The US Centre for Contemporary Conflict at the Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, recommends that all counter-strategies must contain psychological programmes, diplomacy, intelligence, military force, covert special operations, law enforcement, protective security, emergency crisis management and reconstruction assistance. The military should adopt these measures. The focus should be on neutralising present and future threats. Given the country’s dire situation, Buhari should take charge, replace incompetent security chiefs and ensure effective coordination. Without further delay, the state governors must take responsibility for the safety of their people by establishing, funding, arming and equipping state, regional and local security agencies.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com