A presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, has promised to hand over power to youths if elected president of the country. He said this during a meeting with leaders of over 200 support groups and the leadership of TeeCom across the country in Abuja, according to a press statement signed by National Publicity Secretary, Atiku Support Organisation, Dr Victor Moses. The statement was titled, ‘Atiku to work more with the youth and transit power to young generation says Atiku Support Organisation’. Atiku expressed delight that more young people were now participating in politics, adding that he would mentor the young generation and hand over his political structure to them. The former Vice-President was quoted as saying, “I will mentor you and hand over power to you. “I would like to work more with young people because young people are more agile, creative, and conversant with contemporary opportunities and challenges. “Our administration is going to be a transition of power from the senior generation to a younger generation.” Atiku Support Organisation, however, urged youths to support the presidential aspirant, saying they would have more opportunities under him. The statement said, “His Excellency, Alh. Atiku Abubakar’s unreserved, passionate and unrepentant desire and commitment to work with the youth and hand over power to young Nigerians is a sure pathway to youth inclusiveness and the right direction towards building a modern Nigeria. “His public and open commitment, the first of its kind in Nigeria’s political history to transmit power to the younger generation places his head and shoulders above all other aspirants seeking to govern Nigeria in 2023. “A look at his antecedents clearly proves that his promises are not mere political rhetoric as he is known for raising young people into leadership positions. Many of his mentees are today serving as governors, senators, reps, ministers and in many other capacities. “For decades, the youth, who are paying the ultimate price of the APC-General Muhammadu Buhari-led maladministration of Nigeria have been abandoned in the scheme of things in Nigeria. The truth is that no nation can develop without inclusiveness and productive youth. His Excellency, Alh. Atiku Abubakar promised to change the dynamic by working with more young people to enhance opportunities and productivity. “We, therefore, call on all young Nigerians, delegates and non-delegates to rally around His Excellency, Alh. Atiku Abubakar to clinch victory as the PDP Presidential flag bearer in the forthcoming primary and return elected as the President of the federal republic of Nigeria in the 2023 presidential elections.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com