The newly-installed Head of Kakura Community in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State, Isiaku Madaki, was on Sunday murdered by yet-to-be-identified gunmen. The PUNCH gathered that Madaki’s murder sparked off a reprisal attack on a Fulani settlement in the area where 14 others were feared dead. A resident who identified himself as Baban David disclosed that the deceased was installed as the community head on Saturday. He said, “We all gathered in his residence earlier in the day (Saturday) to rejoice with him over his appointment. We were shocked when in the early hours of today (Sunday), we began to hear gunshots. “We were afraid and could not come out of our houses. Later, we were told that the gunmen had killed him in the presence of his wife and family. “We found his dead body lying on the ground. His wife told us the gunmen broke into their residence and shot him. They did not take anything, neither did they abduct anybody.” On his part, Mallam Buhari explained that early in the morning, the natives surrounded the Fulani settlement and asked them to leave the area, describing them as “hypocrites.” Buhari said while they were leaving the area, they were attacked and some of them killed. “On our way out of the village, we counted four corpses. Later on the bush path, they were the dead bodies of ten others littered on the ground,” he added. Meanwhile, policemen were said to have been deployed in the community to maintain law and order. Even as normalcy had returned to the community, most residents had fled the area for fear of the unknown. Neither the state government nor the state police command had reacted to the incident as of the time of filing this report. The command’s Public Relations Officer, Mohammed Jalige, did not take the calls put across to his telephone as it indicated that his line was busy and there was no response to the text sent by our correspondent either.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com