The Federal Capital Territory Police Command on Thursday said an autopsy test was being conducted on the remains of late Dunamis International Church lead singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu. A police source told our correspondent that the autopsy, which should have been done on Wednesday, was delayed because of the absence of some family members, adding that the process started on Thursday at the National Hospital Abuja, where she died. The source said, “You know there have been speculations about her death. The husband is insisting that he died due to an illness. The autopsy was not done yesterday (Wednesday) because everyone had to be represented before they commence, but some people were absent, that was why they couldn’t do it. It is in stages, but I call tell you that the process commenced today.” The FCT Police Public Relations Officer, Josephine Adeh, confirmed the development. “The autopsy is part of the investigation,” she added. The late Osinachi died on Friday at 42. A popular singer, Frank Edwards, had in a live Instagram video accused Osinachi’s husband, Peter, of maltreating and beating her. The Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, while quoting the children of the deceased, also said Osinachi was beaten by her husband. On Sunday, PUNCH Metro reported that Peter was arrested and detained at the Lugbe Police Division after the younger brother of the deceased reported the matter. Meanwhile, the Senate has urged the police and all relevant law enforcement agencies to investigate Osinachi’s death and give the family justice. The Senate said the lives of all citizens must be accounted for by those in authority. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, made the call in his remarks moments before the Senate held a minute silence in honour of the deceased. While coming under Order 42 of the Senate Standing Orders on Personal Explanation, Senator Ifeanyi Ubah (Anambra South), drew the attention of the chamber to the death of the singer. Reacting to the widely reported news, the Senate President said, “The authorities should investigate the death of this citizen; the life of every citizen must matter. This is one death too many.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com