The West African Examinations Council has said it will cancel the entire results of any candidate proven to have been involved in malpractices. A communiqué issued at the end of the 73rd meeting of the Nigeria Examinations Committee of WAEC and made available to The PUNCH on Monday added that the committee approved that centres involved in mass cheating be derecognised. The communiqué read in part, “The committee authorised that the entire results of candidates proven to have been involved in malpractice cases which attract the penalty of Cancellation of Entire Results be cancelled, while subject results of candidates proven to have been involved in malpractice cases which attract the penalty of Cancellation of Subject Results be similarly cancelled. “Furthermore, some candidates will also suffer other sanctions such as being barred from sitting the council’s examinations for two years. “The committee also approved that centres involved in mass cheating be derecognised. Some Supervisors that were found wanting in the discharge of their examination duties will be formally reported to their employers and blacklisted while some Invigilators will also be reported to the appropriate authorities for disciplinary action. It added that the resolutions of the committee would be implemented without delay and the affected candidates and examination centres would be duly informed by the Council. “However, the results of candidates who were exonerated by the Committee will be released without further delay,” it read in part. The NEC also condemned the actions of some state governments and stakeholders questioning the sanctions meted on erring candidates, schools and persons involved in examination malpractice. It added, “The committee resolved as follows, every attempt to intimidate and harass the WAEC in the course of executing its mandate is condemnable and stands condemned; “WAEC should be allowed to continue with the job of providing quality assessment to the Nigerian child without any hindrance; “WAEC should continue to sanction examination malpractice, no matter whose ox is gored.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com