Some Nigerians have taken to Twitter on Friday to protest the prolonged strike action embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities. The ASUU strike which has now entered two months has not been met with a positive response from the Federal Government. The PUNCH gathered some of the tweets by Nigerians who protested the worrying situation and called for an end to the strike action. Below are some of the tweets gathered: @Jessekyng said, “#ASUU and #FG, end this strike for Christ’s sake, we ask for total reformation, restoration, and transformation of this country not by suffering the innocent varsities students. “After graduating from school and seeking a job, you are the same people who complain of age limits.” “Even if ASUU is planning to end their Strike, they should remember another Obstacle is there waiting, NASU & SSANU has just extended their strike by another one month which will take effect from April 24th. “Great Nigeria students, we are on a long ride, we are just starting,” @Gugumedia_ tweeted. “We don’t have a nation ruled by those who have the interest of their electorates at heart, Nigeria is just a country guided by vicious and nefarious politicians. I really want to leave this country, our education sector is nothing to write home about. #EndASUUStrikeNow,” @EmmanuelApara1 said. Another tweep, @CrownprinceCom2, said, “I know one day our voices would be heard by the Federal Government. Show your likes uncountable.” “We won’t keep mute. Just retweet, #EndASUUStrikeNow #EndASUUStrike,” @Royalprincecube tweeted. “Here is a newspaper of November 26, 1981, with the big story, “ASUU May Call off Strike”. This was 41years years ago and Nigeria is still on this Israelite journey. #EndASUUStrikeNow,” a user, @abdulltwits, said, posting a newspaper. “Can they end the #ASUU strike? When they don’t even study in Nigeria, they don’t believe in Nigeria’s system of education (They invite engineers, doctors, and lawyers) for their selfish interests. They don’t use our projects as means of solving socio-economic cum political problems. #EndASUUStrikeNow,” @Stevoolala tweeted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com