Nollywood comic actor, Kunle Adetokunbo, popularly called Dejo Tunfulu, died on Friday morning months to his 50th birthday. The actor died in an undisclosed Lagos hospital after a brief illness. His colleagues, including the President of the Theatre Arts and Motion Pictures Practitioners Association of Nigeria, Bolaji Amusan, confirmed his demise. The Nigerian entertainment sphere, particularly the Yoruba genre, has been thrown into mourning following the news of his death on Friday morning. Here are the five things to know about the comic actor: Background The actor was born on the 31st of May, 1972 in Idumota, Lagos Island area of Lagos State. He hails from Ikija area of Abeokuta in Ogun State. Education The late Adetokunbo attended the Ansar-Ud-Deen primary school at Lagos Island and obtained his First School Leaving Certificate. Also, he obtained his School Certificate at the Dolphin High School, Ebute Elefun, Lagos Island. Furthermore, he attended the Modern Way Nigeria School of Printing where he obtained a certificate in printing. First TV appearance The deceased got his first television appearance in 1987 in the drama series “Apere Ijongbon” by the Kolawole International Theatre Group. Nickname He got his popular nickname as “Dejo Tunfulu” through his comic roles in movies, where he was often cast as a stammerer. Acting career He joined a school drama club where he started horning his trade and featured in some stage plays in the early 1980s. In 1987, he joined Akuko Gagara Theatre Group and Kolawole International Theatre Group to learn the trade. However, his proximity to stars like Fausat Balogun (Madam Saje) and Kayode Olasehinde (Baba Ajirebi) in his early years also helped his acting career. He shot into limelight for his role in the movie titled: “Omo Oran”, featuring the veteran actor Fatai Adetayo (Lalude). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com