Eavesdropper hopes no one would come with any illogical submission that a regime is fighting corruption when in reality it is feeding it. Most times, Eavesdropper tends to ask why Nigeria appears to be so helpless amid its abundant resources and manpower? Why does it have strong men but battles weak institutions? Why is it that the actions of its leaders tend towards hurting the country? Many whys but they appear rhetorical because there are obviously no answers. Those who the law agreed looted were diligently prosecuted. But the best we could do was to find a way to turn them into heroes and ask them to go and sin no more. Eavesdropper has yet to understand the rationality in this action and the message being preached at this time. Little wonder the country is the way it is with poor ideas and sickening submissions from overfed individuals whose pastime is to defend the most ridiculous acts. Is this the way to tell the youth to embrace hard work when actions they see every day preach the opposite. No one should be surprised by the way the youth continue to shun decorum. One thing that should be understood is that a man cannot be exhibiting tardiness and hope that his children will do otherwise. The leaders operate as if the country is not part of the rest of the world and as if the citizens don’t matter. Most of the youth who participated in the #EndSARS protests against police brutality were treated as scoundrels and those who stole the people’s commonwealth celebrated. This is gross injustice and totally sickening. As expected, the loose talkers would say anything to justify this brazen absurdity. Must we be so shameless and wear it as a badge of honour? The country belongs to all and no one should use archaic actions to turn the country to a global joke. Eavesdropper is of the opinion that many of the terrible behaviours which people exhibit are copied from society. No one acts in a vacuum without prior knowledge or witnessing of similar acts. There are many people in the country who are victims of injustice. They got punished for what they didn’t do. These are some of those who deserve true healing. Only for the rich The presidential nomination and expression of interest forms pegged at N100m by the ruling party has left tongues wagging. Rightly so, Eavesdropper also thinks that it clearly indicates that it has edged out some persons out of the contest, especially those not buoyant enough to pay the money. Abi, if you want to contest the presidency and have no N100m, the ambition itself has been dead on arrival. Eavesdropper also knows that this situation can breed corruption because you didn’t expect people to cough up that much and not recoup it. This is what some have rightly called investment. The party should generate money from individuals, donations and other legal sources rather than technically excluding some persons from the race. In this situation, it is doubtful if anyone who genuinely desires to contribute his or her quota to national building but lacks the huge amount would do anything to raise such an amount. It’s a clear way of saying that aspiration for the position is for some individuals and not anyone who is a Nigerian. Or is it a style of saying any youth interested in contesting the presidency on the platform of the party cannot be too young to page the money. In fact, it’s not going to be accepted by anyone to suggest that it’s not compulsory for aspirants to desire the party and that there are other political parties to approach. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com