The United States chapter of the All Progressives Congress has called on governments at all levels to intensify efforts in tackling insecurity. The National Chairman of APC USA, Prof. Adesegun Labinjo; and the National Publicity Secretary, Prof. Francis Onukwuli, said this in a statement on Monday titled, ‘APC-USA Congratulates Adamu, Omisore and Others’. The statement read in part, “APC USA condemns the continuing terrorist attacks and the killing of innocent Nigerians across the country. The chapter called on the governments at all levels to do more to protect the lives and properties of the citizens.
APC-USA expressed its readiness to help the country’s military and other security agencies with technological equipment to detect, fight, capture and kill the terrorists.” It also congratulated Senator Abdullahi Adamu and Senator Omisore for emerging as the National Chairman of APC and the National Secretary respectively. The chapter said that Senator Adamu has everything that would take to further unite the party, move the party forward and lead the party to victory in the coming elections. It expressed satisfaction with the consensus process that produced most of the officers of the party including Adamu and Omisore. “The chapter acknowledged the peaceful conduct of the convention and commended the aspirants to the various party offices that conceded for sacrificing their individual ambitions and aspirations for the collective interest of the party. “The APC-USA Chapter said that it was the same spirit of sacrifice that the party’s founding fathers had that gave birth to APC and the main reason for the 2015 victory. The chapter said that the party is again on the right path and on course to win the 2023 presidential election,” the statement further read. The chapter called on the leadership and the entire members of APC to take advantage of the momentum that the party gained from the convention and carry it to the various party primaries that are ahead of the party, especially the presidential primary.