Wisdom Macaulay, an elder brother to actress, Annie Idibia, has apologised to his sister over allegations he levelled against her earlier in the week. In a video posted on his Instagram handle on Saturday and monitored by Sunday Scoop, Wisdom said, “I want to use this opportunity to apologise to my sister, Annie Macaulay-Idibia, to her husband and the entire Idibia family. I also want to apologise to my mother, my wife and my in-laws. I am deeply sorry for my outburst some days back. I want to use this opportunity to reach out to Annie’s colleagues to plead with her to find a place in her heart to forgive me. My sister is not on drugs; neither am I. I have been undergoing depression, and I am deeply sorry. Thanks to all the people that have reached out to me from all over the world and those around me that have given me support and strength in this troubling time.” Recall that earlier in the week, Wisdom had posted a video, accusing veteran singer, 2Baba’s wife of abusing him and using illicit drugs. He had said, “I am crying out for help at this moment because my life is being threatened. I have been working with my sister for sometime but she never pays me my dues. She would rather turn me to her slave. Some weeks back, her husband sent me some money that I had been begging him for years. The money was not so much but I used it to settle my home. I have a wife from Imo State and I am yet to pay her bride price because I don’t have money. Annie introduced me to hard drugs. She is a drug addict. She takes it every day and is so violent. She fights everybody.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com