An aspirant seeking to represent Ondo East and West Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Mr. Olumbe Akinkugbe, has stressed the need for people with strong values, sound intellectual capacity, and sincerity of purpose to be elected into leadership positions in the 2023 election. Akinkugbe, in a statement on Sunday, said he was contesting the 2023 election to provide effective leadership in his constituency. He said, “Having served in the government of Mr Oluwarotimi Akeredolu in the last five years, I have had a front-row seat to governance at the state level. As such, I have identified where I can be of additional value to the wonderful people of Ondo and Nigeria as a whole. “My time in government has shown me we need more people with strong values, sound intellectual capacity, and sincerity of purpose at the helm of affairs in this country. For this reason, I have decided to run for office, to provide credible representation to my people in Ondo, and to attract much-needed development to them. “My words are my bond; I will always do what I say or promise; I’m different from traditional politicians who make bogus promises to deceive their constituents just to get elected only to abandon them afterward.” Akinkugbe added that the five pillars of his legislative agenda include reforming labor laws, promoting stem education, resource control, gender equity, and constructive cannabis laws. “Nigeria’s labour laws are either outdated or ineffective. They provide very little protection for the average Nigerian worker and that has to change. I will be proposing legislation that prioritises the welfare of the average Nigerian worker, protects them from bad employers, and provides them with a safety net. “It is rather sad that our women in Nigeria are treated unfairly. Women in Nigeria deserve better representation in parliament and cabinet positions both at the state and federal levels. “I will make it a priority to champion some of the gender bills already in the National Assembly to ensure that they get passed,” he said.