The Delta State Police Command has arrested some suspected robbers, a serial car snatcher, among other suspects in different parts of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bright Edafe, disclosed this on Tuesday in Asaba, the state capital. He said, “On Easter Sunday, information got to the command that a group of suspected cultists and armed robbers were hibernating at the Eloke Hotel in Issele Azagba, being their meeting point before carrying out their operations. Intelligence further revealed that the syndicate monitor to know if the police are closing up on them and that whenever they suspect anything, they throw their guns from the window of the hotel and run away. “Operatives of the State Anti-Cult Unit raided the said hideout and arrested four suspects: Ogbuokwu Trust, 23; Augustine Solomon, 20; Edebatu Gideon, and Kingsley Okolie, 20. Two locally-made cut-to-size guns and four live cartridges were recovered from them.” The PPRO said the command also arrested a 57-year-old serial car snatcher. According to him, on Easter Sunday, the command received a distress call from a motorist that his Toyota Camry car was snatched around 2pm in Otu-Jeremi community of Ughelli South LGA. Edafe said information was disseminated through the command’s control room to all Divisional Police Officers and patrol teams to be on the lookout with a view to recovering the vehicle. Consequently, on Monday 18, 2022 around 6.30pm, the anti-crime patrol of the Ogwashi-Uku Police Station, while on a routine stop-and-search duty along the Kwale/Ogwashi-Uku Expressway by Olloh-Ogwashi community intercepted the said Toyota Camry. The police spokesperson said the occupant, who happened to be the driver of the vehicle, upon sighting the police, abandoned the car and took to his heels. “The team went after the suspect and caught up with him. The suspect, Mkohol Iligh, 57, was arrested. “The suspect stated that one CY, who stays in Warri, gave him the car to be delivered to another person in Asaba. Investigation is ongoing with a view to arresting all the suspects involved,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com