Angry residents on Wednesday stormed the Plateau State Government House located at the Little Rayfield in Jos to protest killings by gunmen in different parts of the state. The protesters comprising hundreds of youths, women and ethnic nationality groups, including the Christian Association of Nigeria were seen displaying placards with various inscriptions. They expressed frustration at the failure of the federal and state governments to stop incessant attacks and killings in the state. Some of the inscriptions on the placards read ‘Our wives, husbands, children and girls are being killed or raped’, “Where are the Plateau elders?’, ‘102 villages in Plateau grabbed by Fulani herdsmen’, and ‘The GOC must go’ among others. In the early hours of last Sunday, 10 persons were confirmed dead while 19 others sustained injuries after gunmen attacked celebrants at a cultural festival in the Bassa Local Government Area of the state. The incident occurred as the people of Irigwe ethnic nationality of the state were celebrating ‘Zerreci’, an annual festival meant to usher in the rainy/farming season when the gunmen stormed the ritual ground at Chando Zerreci community, killing the victims. Two days after the attack on the celebrants, the gunmen suspected to be herdsmen attacked another community in the neighbouring Ariri village killing three persons and one other. The protest on Wednesday to the Government House over the incessant killings in the state was not the first time such was witnessed under Governor Simon Lalong’s administration. In August last year, more than 15 corpses were dumped at the gate of the Plateau State Government House by protesters in the aftermath of a night attack by gunmen on Yelwan Zangam, a community inhabited by the Anaguta ethnic group in the outskirt of Jos, the state capital, which left over 30 people dead. The Governor had imposed a 24-hour curfew in some parts of the state to prevent the situation from escalating and promised to pursue, arrest and deal with those who perpetrated the act Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com