SOME State governors have called on Nigerians to continue to promote unity and peace as they join Christians all over the world to celebrate Easter. Ekiti State Governor and Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi, while congratulating Christians in the state, urged them to use the period to pray for the peaceful conduct of the governorship election. The governor, in his Easter message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Olayinka Oyebode, on Saturday, titled, ‘Fayemi felicitates Christians at Easter,’ said, “Easter season is a period of sober reflection, which lessons should be imbibed and reflected on at all times. Such fundamental values would go a long way in promoting and strengthening the foundation of love, peace, harmony, and progress in the country. “We must see this period as a time that presents us the viable opportunity to reflect on how we can help to steer our nation back on the road to peace, stability, and prosperity by living peacefully with fellow citizens.” In his Easter message, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State called on Christians to pray for the socio-economic and political rejuvenation of Nigeria to stem insecurity, and the political and economic challenges plaguing the country. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, in Asaba, Okowa, who advised Christians to remain vigilant, reminded them of the sacrifices of Jesus Christ for mankind and urged them to return to God in full supplication for a rebirth of Nigeria. “I call on the Christian faithful to go to God in prayer to heal our country from insecurity and economic challenges. As Christians, we must reflect on the importance of Easter in our daily living, not only with other Christians but with people of other religious beliefs. Let me urge Nigerians to extend the spiritual benefits of the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, which include love, peace, justice, sacrifice and kindness to one another, especially in these trying times. “As Christians, it is incumbent on us to continue to uphold the principles of our faith as they relate to honesty, justice, integrity, accountability, compassion, selflessness, and the pursuit of the common good for our nation. I also urge that as we celebrate Easter, let us be vigilant and security conscious in our environment and report all suspicious movements to security agencies.” On his part, the Governor of Bayelsa State, Mr Douye Diri, called on Nigerians to rededicate themselves to the lessons of Easter as exemplified by the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Diri, in his Easter message on Saturday, said this should manifest in peaceful co-existence and demonstration of love among the people to preserve unity in society. He noted that though Nigeria was going through tough times, Easter was not a period of despair but a season to renew hope for a better future for the country. He added, “Our country is going through challenging times at the moment. Easter is, therefore, a time not to despair but a season to renew hope of a better future for Nigeria and Bayelsa in particular. This is the faith of our Prosperity Administration. We are, therefore, focused on our developmental agenda for our state.” Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, congratulated the Christian community and called on residents to reunite and promote self-discipline, sacrifice, forgiveness, and commitment to God. In a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye, on Saturday, the governor called on Nigerians to take advantage of the period to seek God’s favour for the country and to reunite against all forces of evil seeking to tear the country apart and terrorise its people with violence and economic sabotage. “That this Easter period coincides with the Muslim month of Ramadan – in which self-discipline and increased virtues are seriously encouraged – is, in fact, a signal to the faith communities to unite, speak, act and pray in one accord for a greater Nigeria. Let us come together to fight all forces of evil that work against peace and development,” Abdulrazaq said. Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party has advised Nigerians not to resign to despondency in the face of life-discounting experiences, but to reinforce their determination to unite and use their votes to give the nation a new lease of life in 2023. In its message, the PDP also urged Nigerians to use Easter, which marks the resurrection of Jesus Christ, to rekindle their hope for a brighter future and a national rebirth. The party made the call in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Debo Ologunagba, in Abuja on Saturday. The party further advised all compatriots to bolster unity, love, and care for one another as they collectively resolve to rescue and rebuild the nation. Also, a former President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki, appealed to all Nigerians, irrespective of their religious beliefs, to pray for peace, unity, protection of lives of the people, and the future of the country. Saraki, in a statement issued by his media office in Abuja, stated that the Easter celebration which also coincides with Ramadan, was a critical intersection of Nigeria’s two major religions.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com