An Akwa Ibom State High Court sitting in Ikot Ekpene has sentenced a 31-year-old man, Nsikak Udofia, to death for armed robbery and life imprisonment for raping a 16-year-old pupil. Udofia wept in the courtroom when the judgement was read and begged the judge to show him mercy. Udofia, who hails from Utu Edem Usung in the Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area of the state, was convicted by Justice Augustine Odokwo, after finding him guilty of robbery and rape. The convict, a secondary school dropout, and others now at large were said to have “robbed a cobbler, one Gabriel Akpan Victor, of his torch, two knives, a roll of black thread, two palm slippers, and a cash sum of N2,350 while on his way home from work on December 31, 2017.” Three weeks after, the convict was also said to have raped a 16-year-old SS2 pupil in an uncompleted building in Utu Edem Usung, Ikot Ekpene, on January 21, 2018. Delivering the judgement which lasted two hours, Justice Odokwo found the accused guilty of the two-count charge punishable under Section 1(1) of Robbery and Firearms Special Provisions Act, Laws of the Federation and Section 367 of the Criminal Code, Cap 38, Laws of Akwa Ibom State, 2000. The court held that the prosecutor had proven beyond reasonable doubt that the accused person committed the offences. In the first count charge of robbery, Justice Odokwo sentenced Udofia to death by hanging, praying to God to have mercy on his soul. In the second count charge of rape, the court held that Udofia shall serve a life sentence in Ikot Ekpene Correctional Centre, adding that “the sentence is to run consecutively as the offence of rape is prevalent in Ikot Ekpene.” He also ordered the court’s clerk to keep in her safe custody the exhibits pending appeal, if any, and return them to the parties that tendered the exhibits if, after the period allowed for appeal, no notice of appeal is filed. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com