The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union has decried the worsening insecurity across the Southern part of Kaduna State. The union specifically described the attacks being perpetuated by suspected herdsmen on some Chawai Chiefdom villages in the Kauru Local Government Area of the state as “horrendous.” The union’s National President, Jonathan Asake, while addressing a press conference in Kaduna on Thursday, said heavily armed suspects on Monday, April 25, 2022, raided some communities in Kamaru ward, in the Chawai Chiefdom of Kauru LG, killing no fewer than 25 persons, including a 102-year-old native of the area. Asake stated that the attackers operated for over three hours unhindered, killing, maiming and destroying property, adding that the continued deteriorating security situation in the state is worrisome. He identified those killed during the attacks on Chawai community to include, Daniel Sunday (47); Andrew John (27); Ariko Adi (28); Jummai Thomas (87); Monday Gani (29); John Amah (52) and a retired civil servant, David Amah (63). Others are Malu David (31); Moris Kure (53); Ravo Agah (61) and Sati Ringo (39). No fewer than 52 houses were said to have been razed  after the village was looted of foodstuffs and animals, among others. He added that several houses were razed, while livestock and foodstuff were destroyed by the hoodlums who invaded some of the villages in large numbers on motorbikes. He added that about 200,000 persons had been displaced while 148 communities had been taken over by the terrorists with no assistance from the government, adding that with the current increasing wave of insecurity in Southern Kaduna, it is clear that the state is “under siege.” He noted that the latest attacks on the Kauru LGA was just one of the series of attacks that had been waged against Southern Kaduna communities since January this year, adding that “in January 2022, Kurmin Masara and surrounding communities were attacked, resulting in the death of 16 persons while 38 houses were razed down by these killer Fulani herdsmen. On February 2, 2022, Zamandabo was attacked, resulting in the death of one person and destruction of 15 houses.” Asake said in Kajuru LGA communities, between January 4, 2022, and April 12, 2022; not less than 38 persons were killed across 40 communities, and about 200 abducted for ransom, saying that most of the communities were forced to cough out millions of naira without any intervention from the government. Meanwhile, the SOKAPU boss noted that most of the villages in Chikun LGA had been sacked, with scores killed and hundreds kidnapped, and the villages destroyed, saying that thousands of these displaced people are living under dehumanising conditions in various internally displaced persons camps. According to him, in Mararaban Rido, Chikun LGA, and a suburb of Kaduna city, no less than 12 kidnapping incidents had been reported between January and April 2022, with scores abducted whose whereabouts are still unknown, pointing out that no fewer than seven lives had been snuffed out by these deadly bandits. Bandits abduct village head, others, demand cigarettes as ransom Meanwhile, the Village Head of Rijana in Kachia Local Government Area of Kaduna State, Ayuba Dakolo, has been abducted by bandits. It was learnt that the monarch was abducted and taken away to an unknown destination alongside unspecified numbers of farmers. The incident happened at around Chikwale in the same LGA. A source told The PUNCH on Thursday that the bandits had reached out to the families of the victims, demanding cigarettes and gallons of petrol as ransom. He said the bandits threatened to kill the village head if they failed to supply the items requested. Neither the state government nor the state police command has confirmed the incident. The command’s spokesman, ASP Mohammad Jaligo did not take our correspondent’s calls when he attempted to get his reaction. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com