Three persons were feared dead on Sunday when crisis broke out in Offa, Offa Local Government Area of Kwara State, between hoodlums and men of the Nigerian Navy. The PUNCH gathered that the crisis, which initially started between a group known as Omo Isale Offa and some louts in the town, led to the killing of a man. At the same time, some buildings around the Olofa Way were vandalised during the fight. It was further gathered that the crisis continued on Sunday morning when another person was allegedly killed among the hoodlums. Following the disruption of peace in the town, men of the Nigerian Navy resident in the town were called in to ensure peace. It was also gathered that another person was allegedly shot dead in the ensuing melee. Following the crisis, the management of the Federal Polytechnic, Offa had warned its staff members and Students, to curtail their movement to some areas of the town. In a statement signed by the institution’s Director of Information, Public Relations and Protocols, Olayinka Iroye, staff members and students were advised not to go to Popo, Oja-Ale and Olofa’s Palace area of the town. “Report received now indicates clashes between some youths and military personnel around Popo, Oja-Ale and Olofa’s palace areas. “Staff members and students are, therefore, advised to shun those areas or preferably stay at home. “Please be security conscious and stay safe,” the statement said. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Ajayi Okasanmi SP, in a statement, confirmed that two men were killed in the clash. Okasanmi, who said there was threat to peace and security in the town said, “Public disturbance experienced today April 24, 2022 at about 11:30hrs, when some suspected gangsters from Isale Offa and Oja-ale areas both in Offa clashed. “Before the arrival of policemen dispatched to the scene, two of the clashing gangsters named Samad Adeyemi ‘m’ aged 21yrs of Isale Offa and one Abdulahi Mohammed ‘m’ aged 20yrs of Ojale have been shot dead. “Investigation into the matter is, however, in progress. The Commissioner of Police, Kwara State Police Command, CP Tuesday Assayomo, has stationed men from the command’s Tactical Units, conventional police teams and operatives from the intelligence department to monitor the situation and ensure no further breakdown of law and order is allowed. “Kwara State Police Command wishes to allay the fears of members of the public, especially the people of Offa and its environs, that peace has been restored in the ancient city; the public members are, therefore, advised to go about their normal lawful daily endeavours. “Members of the public are advised to make information about negative activities within their environment available to the police through the following phone numbers, 08125275046 & 07032069501, please.” Meanwhile, a prominent Islamic Cleric in Offa who did not want his name in print, told The PUNCH on Sunday,  that Ramadan preaching, which had commenced since the beginning of Ramadan, had been suspended. “We have been told to, henceforth, stop holding our usual night preaching (Waasi), which has been ongoing since the commencement of the Ramadan pending the time that the crisis will subside,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com