Singer, Tolulope Ajayi, aka T-Classic, has said that singer, Peter Okoye, popularly known as Mr P; actress, Omotola Jalade-Ekehinde; and comedian, Anita Asuoha, aka Real Warri Pikin, gave him immense support as he battled depression. Recall that the artiste was quite emotional when a social media follower called him a ‘struggling artiste’ during an Instagram Live session during the week. In an interview with Sunday Scoop, he said, “People should understand that entertainers are human beings too. I got upset over the guy’s comment because he was comparing me to some of my contemporaries in the industry. These artistes whom people compare me with are signed to big record labels, yet we are contemporaries and I get the same accolades as they do. I am going through a lot of family issues, and it is getting me depressed. My dad stopped working in 2015 and he is also treating an ailment. “My mum is a pastor; so since then, the family’s burden has been on me. I have been the one taking care of my parents and siblings. I pay their school fees and other bills, and I’m just 24 years old. I just want to do everything to make my family happy and good. It has been really tough for me. I don’t have any godfather. I do things myself with the support of my friends. I am not signed to any record label; and there is no one sponsoring me. I only have a recording deal with Sony Music, and I appreciate them. I talked to Mr P about my depression. He asked me to come over, and we spent some time together. He gave me some advice and he has been supportive ever since. “Omotola Jalade-Ekehinde and Real Warri Pikin have also been of great help. Omotola and her family have always been by my side. She connected me with her son who is a producer, and we usually spend time together. Real Warri Pikin also calls to check up on me and pray for me. I was depressed to a point where I was hearing voices in my head, and I was actually thinking of dying to escape the pain. I am very grateful to my fans who stream my songs and watch my videos. “They make me feel good and loved despite what I am going through. I am not arrogant. I have reached out to many of these big artistes but they are usually busy. I cannot blame them because they also have their personal projects (at hand). Some don’t even respond to my messages. “Although there are cliques in the industry, I relate with everyone equally. I released a song titled, Dangerous, earlier in the week, and I have been worried about promoting it because it is expensive to do that. I am working on producing a video for the song but I have been given a bill of over N10m.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com