A governorship aspirant in Rivers State, Tonye Princewill, has alleged that some yet-to-be-identified gunmen invaded his home, ransacked it and removed his Close-Circuit Television hard drive. He said the gunmen who invaded his GRA residence in Port Harcourt during the early hours of Friday searched rooms suspected to be his own. The development is coming exactly four days after Princewill declared his intention to contest the governorship election in the state come 2023 under the platform of the All Progressives Congress. Confirming the incident in a statement on Friday, Princewill described the invasion as an “assassination attempt”, adding that he was clearly the “target”. While linking the incident to the forthcoming elections, the governorship hopeful said the assailants took nothing except the CCTV recorder hard drive which indicated that he was a “target for elimination”. The statement read,” I can confirm that in the early hours of this morning my house was broken into. “The target was clearly me, as the intruders headed straight for what they thought was my room, broke in, and met my absence. Nothing of value was taken, except the hard drive of the CCTV recorder, which leads me to conclude, that they had only one objective. My elimination. “I want to thank God that the devil is a liar and His children will always be protected. Thankfully I am well and nobody in my household was hurt. “But this is a stark reminder that the 2023 political season has started and those who can not win on the field will seek other ways to attain power. It may have worked in the past, but not here and not now.” He said rather than be deterred by the incident, he would be more committed to a cause he believes in. “We are clearly a threat to someone. That person and their group of persons will soon be exposed. In the meantime, I ask for your prayers and your support, and some privacy. “Any additional detail we have will be released to you via the security agencies. Let them do their jobs. Men from the security agencies are currently on the scene and I have every confidence that justice will be done,” Princewill added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com