THE Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency has collaborated with the Nigeria Bottling Company to tackle plastic pollution across the state. The General Manager of LASEPA, Dr Dolapo Fasawe, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday. Fasawe was quoted to have said this when she received the donation of 200 multiple-use bottles from NBC on behalf of the agency in Ikeja, adding that the fight against plastic pollution is a collective responsibility. She said, “I appreciate the gesture by NBC, makers of Coca-Cola, for supporting the agency’s initiative to tackle plastic pollution by donating 200 multiple-use bottles. There is the need to encourage reusable materials as well as promoting recycling and turning of waste to wealth. Recyclers can come and partner with us in the fight against plastic pollution, these plastics are raw materials and can be recycled into new useful products in exchange of cash rewards. “Several initiatives and measures have been introduced to curb single-use plastics in the state, therefore, all hands must be on the deck to guarantee quality health for the citizenry and drastic reduction in avoidable loss of lives caused by polluted environment.” The Director, Public Affairs, Communication and Sustainability, Coca-Cola Nigeria, Amaka Onyemelukwe, expressed the organisation’s readiness to partner the agency on recycling. “It is our commitment that we will ensure that bottles are recycling-friendly as this creates better values and can be recycled into another. We are going to move with other stakeholders and LASEPA has demonstrated to be a great environmentally-friendly organisation “The bottles you see here today are our own little contributions to the re-use pillar that the General Manager is championing because we want each and every one at LASEPA team to have a reusable bottles and the re-use pillar will be a reality,” she said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com