The All Progressives Grand Alliance has declared a 50 per cent reduction of its nomination fees for women and youths, to ease the burden of electioneering expenses and equally make elective posts more accessible to them, ahead of the 2023 polls. The Ebonyi State Chairman of the Party, Mr Ricky Okorouka, said this in Uburu, Ohaozara Local Government Area on Wednesday during the party’s meeting with the ward chairmen in the area. On nomination fees reduction for women and youths, the chairman said that the cut would equally favour persons with disabilities. He also said the meeting was to welcome new members who had decamped from other political parties, adding that so far, the party had received over 90, 000 new members, and reiterated the party’s readiness to wrest power from the ruling party in the state. ”Yes, our party is gender-sensitive. We have already given a 50 per cent discount on our nomination form and expression of interest for women, youths, as well as people with disability. “The reduction is made from the national and this is the way we encourage women and we have been receiving new members from the 171 wards of Ebonyi,’’ Okorouka added. Among those received was a female aspirant for Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Mrs Amaka Engene, who is also the founder of a Non-Governmental Organisation called ‘Amaka’s Foundation.’ Eugene donated four motorcycles and some cash to APGA’s ward chairmen in the area, stressing that her move to join politics was to liberate women of the grassroots in the area. In her words, “Yes, I donated the motorcycles to encourage members of the party, the ward chairmen, especially during the campaign. I have promised to give out 12 more motorcycles to youth leaders, women and secretaries. “They are to use the motorcycles to preach the gospel of peace and to reconnect people to the most progressive party around the Eastern part of the country,” she stated. Eugene decried women’s apathy in Nigerian politics and goaded them to be courageous. “I urge the women out there to be courageous; they should stop seeing politics as a game of men. We can do it and do it much better in politics,” she beckoned. Earlier, APGA’s Youth Leader in Ebonyi, Mr Ene-Odii Ogbonna, commended all the newly-received members and noted that the party was on the move to take over the government house come 2023. Ogbonna tasked the youth with peaceful campaigns and reiterated the party’s readiness to support candidates with capacity without selfish interest. (NAN)