The Board of Directors of Red Star Express Plc has announced the appointment of Mr. Auwalu Badamasi Babura, the incumbent Executive Director, Finance and Administration, as the new Managing Director. The appointment takes effect on April 1, 2022, according to a statement by the company over the weekend. With this appointment, Babura, will replace the current CEO, Dr. Sola Obabori, whose tenure came to an end on March 31st, 2022, in line with Red Star’s succession planning process. Also, the current Divisional Managing Director, Red Star Logistics, Mr. Charles Ejekam, was also announced by the Board as the new Executive Director, Sales & Marketing. Both appointments are effective April 1, 2022. “The appointment is a demonstration of astute succession planning, follows the end of the tenure of its current executive management team that included the incumbent Executive Director, Sales & Marketing, Mr. Victor Ukwat whose retirement also takes effect on March 31, 2022.” Babura, the new MD/CEO, is a listing member of the Nigerian Stock Exchange and an accomplished, innovative, and result-oriented financial expert, with proven track records of managing organisational resources and delivering sustainable financial results. With unique competencies in finance and strategic customer management, Auwalu joined Red Star Express in 1994 and has served in various capacities, leading teams in finance, internal control and processes management, credit management, and administration. He holds a first degree in Accounting (B.Sc.) from Bayero University Kano, an MBA in Business Administration (MBA) from the Lagos State University, and a Mini MBA from London School of Business and Finance. Mr.  Ejekam was the Divisional Managing Director of Red Star Logistics, a subsidiary of Red Star Express Plc. from April 2019 and also served as the Divisional Managing Director of Red Star Express -another subsidiary of Red Star Express Plc. – from April 2016 to March 2019. He began his working career in Red Star Express as a Commercial Executive in year 2000, and has, at various points, handled responsibilities in territorial management, key accounts management, marketing, brand & public relations, and regional management roles in Lagos and Abuja. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Political Science from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, and a Masters Degree in Public & International Affairs from the University of Lagos. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com