The Governor of Delta State, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, has congratulated the Olu of Warri, Ogiame Atuwatse III, on his 38th birthday anniversary describing the monarch as “one of the foremost respected traditional rulers and man of peace with discerning leadership qualities.” This was contained in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, in Asaba, on Saturday morning. According to the Governor, “Ogiame Atuwatse III is a leading light, a role model and eminent custodian of the culture and traditions of the Iwere people”. The Governor lauded the traditional ruler for his contribution to peace and growth of Warri Kingdom and Delta State since he assumed the ancient throne of his forebears. The statement read in part, “On behalf of my family, the government and people of Delta, I congratulate you, Your Royal Majesty, Ogiame Atuwatse III, Olu of Warri Kingdom, on the occasion of your 38th birth anniversary. “As a government, we have enjoyed your invaluable support in many aspects and it is my belief that you will continue to make your domain a model of peace and unity. “In spite of initial hitches, Warri Kingdom has, under your royal watch, witnessed phenomenal transformation in terms of peace and development. “As a revered traditional ruler in our state and country, you have remained a peace builder, a beacon of light and a symbol of humility and excellence in leadership. “The government appreciates your royal carriage and approach to issues and I thank you immensely for your contributions toward the attainment of the Stronger Delta vision of our administration”. Governor Okowa prayed to God to bless the monarch with longer life and wisdom to enable him to continue with his service to the kingdom, state and humanity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com