A presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, has decried the spate of killings, dehumanisation and suffering the citizens are currently going through in the country, saying Nigerians are suffering and need uncommon help. The presidential hopeful said he did not belong to the category of aspirants, who were stage-managing their intentions to run for the presidency for the sole aim of exploiting Nigerians, adding that he was competent, equipped and genuinely poised to become the nation’s President next year. Ohuabunwa, who is the immediate past President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, stated this in a statement by his Media Office on Thursday after he submitted his expression of interest and the presidential forms to the PDP in Abuja. He stated, “I’m the most serious aspirant in the PDP so far. I have been with the delegates of the entire 36 states of Nigeria, meeting with them one-on-one for the second time. You can ask the PDP faithful across the states and they will tell you. “Nigerians can’t be running away. We need to take back our country. Nigerians are running away from kidnapping, abduction, armed robbery and ritualists. This shouldn’t be happening, and so, we need to confront these things and then take back our country.” “In my little rank as a civilian youth, and not paraphernalia, I have been able to go round the country to see the suffering of the people, to sympathise with them and encourage them. Nigerians are suffering. “I have interacted with many Nigerians. I understand what their feelings are. I know what they are going through. And they are not happy that they are being forcefully made to go through these ugly experiences. So, my chances of clinching the PDP ticket are as high as any.” He added, “My chances are very high. So, the question of whether the aspirants are currently 14 or 18 in number is not the issue. Of course, by the end of the day, water will definitely find its course. It’s noble for anybody to express intention to serve his or her nation, as long as that intention is not borne out of exploitation or not billed for taking up appointment by the end of the day. “If you really have the motivation, that’s fine. Becoming the president of a country is not a job you just wake one morning and you start making noise about. It must be something you must have thought about over many months and years with the conviction that you have a vision, the appropriate enlightenment, the competence, the character and the courage to be able to play the role. “And taking up the role effectively is as a result of successful previous experiences. So, I believe I’m equipped; I believe I’m competent and I believe I have the character to serve Nigerians as their president.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com