CONSTRUCTION workers with Quemecs Nigeria Limited, the original contractors of the Ring Road 2 project in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, have appealed to the state governor, Udom Emmanuel, to pay the outstanding balance owed the company to enable it pay the entitlements of workers. A subcontractor with Quemecs Nigeria Limited, Isaac Ibanga, who made the appeal on behalf of others, while speaking to our correspondent in Uyo on Sunday, stated that despite their plea, the state government had yet to pay the outstanding balance owed the company. Recall that the government last year revoked the contract with Quemecs and re-awarded same to an indigenous construction firm, Hensek Integrated company Limited, leaving an outstanding balance of about N596.48m due to be paid to the first construction firm. Ibanga, who represents Sikak Nigeria Limited, lamented that the government’s refusal to pay the outstanding balance had caused untold hardship, as about four of the contractors had died, while some had been bedridden as a result of their inability to meet the demand of their various creditors. He said, “Some contractors borrowed money from the bank, some borrowed from associations and individuals to execute the contract hoping they will be paid, but up till date nothing has been done. “The situation has caused frustration and untold hardship. About four of our members have died while some of them are in the hospital, yet the government has refused to pay.” The Project Manager, Quemecs Nigeria Limited, Stephen Oluyemi, said the state government had yet to pay the company the outstanding balance of N596.48m, which would have enabled the firm to pay the suppliers and sub-contractors. He said, “The truth is that we owe the indigenes, subcontractors, and suppliers a huge amount of money. They have been writing to us but the issue is that we have not been paid the money by the state government. “The work since three years ago was about 70 per cent completed until COVID-19 came and the government did not pay and since then we’ve been expecting payment. On February 2021, what rather came was a letter of termination and they re-awarded the contract to another company, since then we’ve not received  our outstanding balance.” Efforts to speak with the state Commissioner of Works and Fire Service, Eno Ibanga, were not successful as of the time of filing this report. He did not pick up calls to his phone and did not respond to a message sent to him on the matter.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com