The Akwa Ibom State Government said it had resolved the communal crisis that erupted on Tuesday, April 19, 2022, between the Ilaje (Yoruba) settlers and the indigenes of Ibeno, in Ibeno Local Government Area of the state. This was contained in a statement on Wednesday by the Press Secretary to the deputy governor of the state, Ekikere Umoh. According to the statement the development was announced by the deputy governor, Moses Ekpo, in Uyo, after meeting with the Chairman of the Ibeno Local Government Area, High Chief William Mkpah, the representative of the Paramount Ruler of Ibeno, Okutinyang H. Inyang, the Village Heads of the three villages and leaders of Ibeno and Ilaje fishermen. The statement added that the Ilaje fishermen and their host have agreed to bury their differences and that those displaced have agreed to return to their homes as the government had commenced the distribution of relief materials to those affected in the crisis. “Ibeno and Ilaje fishermen at the Ibeno Fishing Settlement where hostilities erupted last week, leading to the death of only one person and destruction of property have agreed to return to their homes. “Their leaders have also agreed to end the crises and for their people to continue to live in peace at the Fishing Settlement.  The two sides will on Friday this week sign a Memorandum of Understanding. “The Deputy Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr Moses Ekpo, whose office also has oversight over disaster and emergency matters in the state, announced this in Uyo after meeting with the Chairman of the Ibeno Local Government Area, High Chief William Mkpah, the representative of the Paramount Ruler of Ibeno, Chief Okutinyang H. Inyang, the Village Heads of the three villages and leaders of Ibeno and (Ilaje) Yoruba fishermen. “The meeting was also attended by the Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Welfare, Dr Ini Adiakpan, senior law enforcement and security officials. “The Deputy Governor directed the leadership of the Ibeno Local Government Council to ensure the safe return of those who fled the Fishing Settlement in the wake of the crises, in order to forestall severe humanitarian crises. “The Government has already sent relief materials comprising food items, mosquito nets, blankets and clothing to be distributed to the affected fishermen and their families who are in temporary camps in Eket. The State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Welfare is already taking care of two women who gave birth in one of the camps yesterday,” the statement read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com