The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, on Thursday, handed over the defunct Edo College of Education, Ekiadolor, to the Federal Government. He urged the government to rename the citadel of learning after the executive secretary of the defunct Petroleum Trust Fund and one-time Commissioner for Education in old Bendel State, Chief Tayo Akpata. Obaseki handed over the institution to the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, reassuring them that his administration would sustain investment in technical and vocational education in the state. The governor said, “The only thing we ask for is that the school be named after one of our visionary commissioners for education, Tayo Akpata, who transformed our education landscape. “The name of this school needs to reflect one of our great heroes who helped us to transform education in Midwest states as at that time. “For us sir, we’re hoping that you will make this school a school of excellence to train teachers in technical subjects. That is the reason why we are willing to give the Federal Government this institution.” He continued: “The federal government has been helping us through the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) in developing some of these schools. So, this federal college of education, technical, is going to help us in the revolution that we seek to achieve in our educational system in Edo. “We have no regrets. If we have to give you more, we will. Even though the federal government now owns this school, we will still support you. We will provide security, build the road infrastructure and provide other infrastructure that we can assist you with.” “On that note, I want to formally hand over this school, which was previously owned by the Edo State Government to the Federal Government for the purpose of establishing and running a federal college of education that will train teachers on technical subjects,” he stated. On his part, Adamu, who was represented by the Executive Secretary, National Commission for Colleges of Education, Prof. Paulinus Okwelle, urged the state government’s support in the areas of security, funding, laboratory, and scholarships to deserving students. In his contribution, the Chairman, Governing Council, Prof. Samuel Aduwa-Ogiegbaen, said that the college would help young men and women to be self-reliant and prepare for the modern world of work. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com