The Northern Elders Forum, on Sunday, distanced itself from the consensus arrangement for the presidential aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party, saying its chairman, Prof Ango Abdullahi, is on his own. The organisation said Abdullahi was free to undertake any lawful activity as a citizen while genuine misinterpretations of his role were understandable. The NEF stated that it was not affiliated to any political party or aspirant, and was strongly committed to the creation of a level playing field which would allow the emergence of the best leaders in the 2023 elections. The NEF, led by Ango Abdullahi, had on Friday, endorsed a former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, and Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, as the consensus aspirants ahead of the 2023 presidential primaries of the PDP based on certain criteria. Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State and another aspirant, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, were said to have rejected the decision, claiming it was not based on the principle of equity and transparency. The NEF Director (Publicity and Advocacy), Dr Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, in a statement issued on Sunday on the outcome of PDP consensus arrangement, said the action taken by Abdullahi was in his personal capacity. He stated, “It has become necessary to address the impression created in party by mischief and in part by genuine confusion over the role of the NEF convener in the efforts to create consensus among the four aspirants for the Presidential ticket of the PDP. “The idea to attempt to engineer a consensus among the aspirants was that of the aspirants themselves. “Governors Aminu Tambuwal and Bala Mohammed; former Senate President,  Bukola Saraki, and Malalm Mohammed Hayatudeen had informed former President Badamasi Babangida of their intentions, and requested elderly intervention and advice in the event that their efforts failed to produce a consensus. “President Babangida, in turn, requested Prof Ango Abdullahi in his individual capacity to design and manage a process that could improve a consensus agreement among the four aspirants. “Prof Ango Abdullahi concluded that assignment and released a detailed report and recommendation, signing it in his individual capacity. “It is important to make clear that the entire process did not involve the NEF as a group, and is not a product of the group. “Prof Ango Abdullahi is free to undertake any lawful activity as a citizen, and genuine misinterpretations of his role are understandable. “The NEF is not affiliated to any political party or aspirant, and is strongly committed to the creation of a level playing field which will allow the emergence of the best leaders in the 2023 elections. It has also remained consistent in its conviction that all parts of the country should play their parts freely, unhindered by restrictions which offend principles of inclusion and fairness. The Forum believes the North has excellent candidates whose fate should be left to party delegates and voters to decide. “The Forum remains united behind the protection and projection of the interests of the North and Nigeria, and will play its role as it has done whenever circumstances demand.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com