THE Lagos State Government has expressed its readiness to upgrade the computer systems (applications) in all the Ministries, Departments and Agencies of the state. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Science and Technology, Olayinka Fashola, disclosed this on Tuesday during a stakeholders’ workshop on the system upgrade project in Alausa, Ikeja. She said, “As part of the digital transformation in Lagos State, the Ministry of Science and Technology is set to produce an upgrade of the existing systems that will enhance efficiency and effectiveness in public service. “We will be upgrading our human resource system with the creation of online performance, online management and leave platform and an e-pay slip in partnership with our Information Technology partner, Soft Alliance. “These changes will be effected in every Ministry, Department and Agency of the state and over the next period of days and weeks, implementation teams from the ministry and Soft Alliance will be visiting MDAs to update staff on these processes.” The Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Mr Samuel Egube, explained that the upgrade would ensure transparency in public service. “The idea behind the upgrade is to ensure that the level of transparency and accountability continue to improve and this is why we are investing in the Oracle upgrade because with it comes processed work flow, electronic and digital signature to ensure that files can be easily tracked,” he said. The Managing Director of Soft Alliance Limited, Dr. Bisi Aina, noted that the state’s system has been upgraded twice since inception and there is a need to integrate all the various applications to promote a single source of truth and optimize the application architecture in Lagos State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com