Youths at Kajola Community in the Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State on Sunday took to the streets to protest against the death of three persons in the community, including the community head. It was gathered that the incident happened at a police checkpoint along the Benin-Ore-Sagamu Expressway on Saturday evening. The deceased, according to a source, were David Olowofeyekun, Gbenga Abayomi, and Kola Akinduro, the head of the village. They were said to be on a motorcycle when the policemen accosted them to demand a bribe. The source explained that the refusal of the deceased to offer a bribe led to an argument between them and they were asked to park. While on the road, a Hilux van hit them and they died on the spot. During the protest, it was gathered that the protesters dumped the three corpses at the Police Divisional Headquarters in Kajola. The protesters chanted a series of solidarity songs to register their grievances. They also declared that they did not want to see police officers in the community again. They alleged that the policemen in the community were fond of extorting and harassing the residents of the areas at checkpoints. The source said, “They (the policemen) stopped the deceased at a checkpoint on Saturday evening, and while trying to halt an oncoming Hilux van, the driver maneuvered to dodge the police and ran into the motorcycle. “The Hilux driver crushed the three victims on the motorcycle where they were parking at the instruction of the police officer.” The source added that it took the intervention of the state’s Commissioner of Police, Mr. Oyeyemi Oyediran, and other security chiefs in the state who arrived at the village on Sunday morning to calm and appeal to the angry youths. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mrs. Funmilayo Odunlami, however, said the deceased flouted traffic law and in the process had an accident. Odunlami stated, “It was not due to the recklessness of the police officers, they rode against traffic and had an accident. So, there was no way the police could be reckless in a situation whereby there is a route to take and they took another one.  It was an oncoming vehicle that they collided with and killed them. The Chairman of Odigbo Local Government, Mrs. Margaret Akinsuroju, said the angry youths and bereaved families had given peace a chance while the corpses had been removed from the police station to be buried by the relatives of the deceased. “Immediately I heard it yesterday, I started mobilising the police so that they could maintain peace so that there would not be a breakdown of peace and orderliness,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com