Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State on Tuesday announced the appointment of Alhaji Muntari Lawal as the Acting Secretary to the Government of the State. A terse statement by Governor’s Director-General, New Media, Al-Amin Isa, on Tuesday evening said the appointment was with immediate effect. The statement read, “His Excellency the Executive Governor of Katsina State, Rt. Hon. Aminu Bello Masari, Dallatun Katsina, Mutawallen Hausa, has approved the appointment of Alhaji Muntari Lawal as the Acting Secretary to the Government of the State with immediate effect. ” The PUNCH reports that the former Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Mustapha Inuwa, had on 15, April 2022, resigned his appointment, attributing his decision to his desire to contest in the 2023 Governorship race. Inuwa’s resignation was made public last Thursday by his media spokesman, Alhaji Abdullahi Yar’adua. Ya’radua explained that the former SSG’s decision to resign “followed his desire to contest in the forthcoming gubernatorial election under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC).” “In the resignation letter he wrote to His Excellency, the Governor of Katsina State Rt. Hon. Aminu Bello Masari, CFR, Dr. Mustapha Inuwa expressed his profound gratitude for the singular honour and privilege given to him by the Governor in 2015 to date. “That, he said had given him the opportunity to offer his humble and modest contributions in serving the Governor, Government, and good people of Katsina State in that capacity.” The statement added that the former SSG prayed to Almighty Allah to further strengthen the Governor Masarl- led Administration in the last lap of its final tenure. Dr Inuwa also reportedly thanked the entire people of the State for their continued support and cooperation being extended to him as well as the APC government in the State. The statement revealed that Governor Masari had accepted the resignation with effect from 15, April 2022 in a letter that read in parts “I hereby wish to refer to your letter No. SGKT/ADM/PER/1775/VOL: II/44 dated 15th April, 2022 in which you forwarded your resignation of appointment as Secretary to the Government of the State with effect from 15th April, 2022. “As a result of the above, I wish to inform you that I have accepted your resignation with effect from 15, April 2022.”