The Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, has said that the state is not yet considered as one of the oil-producing sub-nationals in Nigeria. Soludo said this while interacting with the team of the Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project, a World Bank assisted project, in Awka. The NEWMAP team was in the state to inspect what the erosion monitoring agency had done in the past 10 years. The immediate past administration of Governor Willie Obiano, in 2021, received approval of the Presidency to be recognised as an oil-producing state. In a letter addressed to Obiano on August 24, 2021, and signed by its Secretary, Revenue Mobilization and Fiscal Commission Secretary, under the Presidency, Mr. M B. Shehu, the Commission approved the attribution of about 11 oil wells to Anambra State. The oil wells include Nzam 1, Alo 1, Ogbu 1, Ameshi 1,2,3,4 and Enyie 1,2,3,4. But Soludo, who was represented by his Deputy, Mr. Onyekachukwu Ibezim, at the interaction, made it clear that the state was yet to be fully assented among oil producing state in the country. On the NEWMAP project in the state, the governor said Anambra State had paid her counterpart funds to the tune of N700m. He explained that for now, Anambra State was cash-strapped and managing the little fund at its disposal. He said, “The N700m counterpart funds paid by the state government show that we recognised the part you have played in Anambra State. “Initially, the state had 960 gully erosion sites, but with the NEWMAP effort, it has reduced to 947 after the successful completion of eight sites and five near-completion in some of the most affected communities. While commending the Work Bank for assisting the state in controlling the ravaging erosion menace through the NEWMAP, the governor noted that the menace had been a source of hindrance to development in the state. The Taskforce Team Leader of NEWMAP Nigeria, Dr. Joy Agene, said the team was in Anambra State for the 2022 NEWMAP AF-ICRM Conference in Awka, for the inspection of the projects done so far in the state and to have a face-face interaction with beneficiaries in communities. She said NEWMAP had been in Anambra State for 10 years and was expected to complete her mission in June 2022.  Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com