The Learning Innovation Academy, Lekki, Lagos, has called for the empowerment of youths and adults with special needs. Speaking at the unveiling of TLIA, the executive director, Mrs Bolanle Adewole, explained that there was a need to move away from advocacy to the empowerment of special needs persons. “There is a lot of inclusion already going on. We are moving away from advocacy to empowerment. We already know the signs, we need to empower them to be gainfully employed,” Adewole said. She added that TLIA was an initiative of The Learning Place Centre in partnership with Sustainability School Lagos, saying it was being set up in collaboration with Pan Atlantic University’s Enterprise Development and Yemisi Shyllon Museum of Art. “It proposes to be an institute of creativity in the arts, science, and technology, for talented youth living with special needs. “The Academy will affiliate and cooperate with other innovation hubs worldwide, including the public, private sectors and development agencies. It will provide a safe, open and creative space where youth can hone in on their skills and learn how to lead a productive life with their different abilities,” she said. She added that TLIA emanated from the need for post-secondary occupational learning that is focused on individuals with unique abilities. Wife of the Governor of Lagos State, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, commended the focus of the institute, adding that  the Centre would synergise with other innovation hubs globally to help the younger generation fulfil the dream of bridging the gap between innate skills and positive outcomes that would be beneficial to Nigeria and Africa She said, “It is instructive and commendable that the focus of the Centre is to serve as an institute of creativity in the arts, science and technology for talented youth living with special needs. “Without sounding immodest, there is no question about the fact that Africa and Nigeria, in particular, is blessed with a bunch of talented youth who are ready to positively unleash their skills to address the myriads of challenges confronting us as a people.” Similarly, the Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folasade  Adefisayo, said, “I am excited, we will add more to the 31 inclusive primary schools in Lagos. “The government of Sanwo-Olu is supportive, that is why we have physically impaired teachers in our schools too.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com