Fresh facts have emerged over the recent attack by suspected terrorists in Kanam Local Government Area of Plateau State which left over 106 persons dead and several houses destroyed. Some of the survivors who fled their homes to Dengi, the council headquarters to seek refuge spoke with Saturday PUNCH on Friday One of the survivors simply identified as Alhaji Jamilu, who said he lost seven of his relatives during the attack, disclosed that the people living in the affected communities knew about the impending attacks before the terrorists invaded the villages “I can tell you that we know why the terrorists attacked and killed our people because before now, the bandits used to collect ransom or tax of N1m and in some cases, N2m from the people living the communities and that has been going on for long with resistance from the people. “For them (terrorists), the resistance is an injustice which must be redressed. Then early this month of April, they wrote a letter, asking their fellow Fulani kinsmen living with us to vacate the communities and gave them 14 days to do that. “With that instruction we knew something was wrong but we did not know it would come in the form of attack. The 14-day ultimatum given for the people to vacate the communities expired on April 8, but nothing happened. “So, our people continued with their normal businesses. But on the second day of the expiration of the ultimatum being April 10, the bandits mobilised themselves and rode on motor bikes and attacked our people “. Another survivor, who gave his name Kamal, however gave a different version on why they were attacked by the bandits. Kamal, who also lost one of his brothers in the attack, said, “What I know is that this recent attack on our people has its roots on the misunderstanding between the native dwellers and the Fulani over charges on farmlands. Before now, the Fulani had complained that our people used to charge them higher before they are allowed to use the farmland while the natives collect small amount of money from their own people. This issue which they consider as injustice has been a source of tension in the communities which has remained unresolved until attacks.” The PUNCH had reported that suspected terrorists invaded about seven communities in Kanam and Wase  LGAs on Sunday and shot at anyone they saw, which led to the killing of over 100 persons. Some of the affected communities included Kukawa, Gyambawu, Dungur, Kyaram, Yelwa, Dadda, Wanka, Shuwaka, Gwammadaji, and Dadin Kowa, among others. Meanwhile, Plateau state Governor Simon Lalong, on Friday visited Kanam and Wase Local Government Areas over the recent killings. The governor began his visit at the Palace of the Emir of Kanam, HRH Muhammdu Babangida Muazu where he condoled with him over the unfortunate development. The Emir thanked the governor for the visit and said that the people have been devastated over the mass killings which have no provocation or any justification because his people are peace loving and only pursuing their livelihoods, basically farming and trading. Lalong described the incident as regrettable and unfortunate, urging the people not to be dismayed as the Government is doing everything possible to arrest those behind the attacks and ensure that the sad incident does not occur again.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com