THE Niger Delta Power Holding Company has signed an agreement with Kaida Community in the Federal Capital Territory for the provision of a solar power cabin system by the NDPHC for the community. Kaida, a small community with about 250 homes, is completely shut out of electricity supply from the national grid, despite being located in the Federal Capital Territory. The Executive Director, Generation, NDPHC, Kassim Abdullahi, said the power firm was working with Sun Africa on the development of renewable energy projects both on-grid and off-grid, adding that this would unlock about one gigawatts of electricity to Nigerians. A statement from the NDPHC in Abuja stated that the signing of the Memorandum of Agreement between the power firm and the community was a prerequisite for obtaining a permit from the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission for the provision of power that was less than 100KW to the community. The Managing Director, NDPHC, Chiedu Ugbo, said the 27.6KW solar cabin system was donated to NDPHC by Sun Africa, a United States firm. The power firm stated that the solar cabin system would provide electricity to 50 homes with an average of four occupants when deployed. It stated that the project could be expanded and noted that such expansion would depend on how well Kaida Community would take care of the project. An official of Sun Africa stated, Peter Mauriv, was quoted as saying, “We are aware that this project would not service every household in Kaida, it is simply going to illustrate the impact it makes and to show the importance of expanding the project in Kaida and to other parts of the country. “The big advantage of renewable energy, specifically solar power is that it is robust and reliable.” He stated that in addition to providing electricity, the project had the potential to create jobs, and provide water and other opportunities for residents of the community. The NDPHC further stated that a 22KVA generator would also be provided for the community as a backup to support the solar cabin system. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com