NO fewer than 80 private and public buildings were destroyed by a rainstorm which wreaked havoc in the Igbaja community in the Ifelodun Local Government Area of Kwara State on Friday night. Affected buildings included the ECWA Demonstration Primary School; ECWA Theological Seminary; Divisional Police Headquarters, Igbaja and Mosunka-Ire where a number of houses were also affected. The state government sent a high-powered delegation to the area on Monday to sympathise with the victims of the rainstorm. The delegation, led by the Secretary to the state government, Prof Mamman Jubril, which visited the palace of Elese of Igbaja said Governor AbdulRahman  AbdulRazaq shared in the grief of the community and would offer its modest support for the victims. Jubril stated, “It is not a palatable situation and that is why Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has sent us here to commiserate with our people. “The incident was a natural disaster. We cannot control it but we need to console our people. They should see it as a test of faith.” The secretary assured the victims that the state government would offer assistance to help cushion the adverse effects of the rainstorm. “Our coming here is one of the ways the state government will intervene in assisting the victims by firstly sympathising with them and offering assistance to cushion the adverse effects of the rainstorm. We pray that such won’t recur here or elsewhere,” he added. Responding, the Elese of Igbaja, Oba Ahmed Babalola (Arepo III), applauded the governor for sympathising with the town and ready to assist the victims. The monarch stated, “We are very grateful to the governor for sending this delegation to us at this period. We thank him for remembering us. We also remember him always. May God Almighty grant his heart desires. “We admit that the incident is a natural disaster and it happened at a time when there’s paucity of funds everywhere. Though I am aware some victims have started repairing their property and some individual houses, we seek government’s intervention in ameliorating their sufferings.” Other places visited by the delegation included ECWA Demonstration Primary School; ECWA Theological Seminary; Divisional Police Headquarters Igbaja and Mosunka-ire. One of the victims, Mr Johnson Folaranmi, expressed sadness over the ugly incident and sought the support of government and well-meaning individuals. He stated, “The rainstorm occurred three days ago at about 11 o’clock in the night. We were panicking and embarrassed. We have never witnessed such a rainstorm before. “The rainstorm came in another dimension, but we thank God that no life was lost. My wife, children, visitors and I came out unhurt. The government has risen up to intervene and assist the poor. I am a retiree from Ifelodun Local Government and I believe in the mercy of God. We await the assistance of the government, organisations and well-meaning individuals.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com