When the history of the 2023 elections is written, it may well be noted as the election that involved more maneuvering, more intrigues and more surprises than any other anywhere in the world. Shakespeare would have been inspired. Indeed, were it not for what is at stake, Nigerians could well sit back, follow the twists and turns, and be entertained. If not entertained, at least be awed by what the political mind can conjure. Were Shakespeare to write one of his political plays on this election, he might struggle to decide whether to make it a tragedy, a comedy or an outright farce. It probably would depend on what actually happens in 2023.Will it be said that all’s well that ends well, or will there be a more fervent tenor to the question, “To be or not to be?” In either case, Shakespeare would probably pivot this drama around the dilemma facing the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari’s (retd) regarding his many political debts. One doesn’t become president without accruing such debts. Buhari just happens to have amassed a lot more than usual. As a result, he may well be the most conflicted outgoing president ever with regard to backing a successor. He is besieged by a horde of APC presidential candidates who are in essence political debt collectors. For one thing, that’s a cogent explanation of the anomaly of Goodluck Jonathan’s probable APC candidacy and Buhari’s apparent nod to it. At the time this article was submitted, Jonathan was still playing coy, as they all do. Yet his consultations and statements point decidedly to a pending declaration of candidacy. After Buhari’s victory in 2015, he feared nothing more than the prospect of Jonathan refusing to concede. In other words, he feared that Jonathan might do what he did in 2007 and 2011 after losing elections, that is, instigate bloodshed. Buhari knew too well that Niger Delta militants were fuming that two of Nigeria’s major ethnic groups had ganged up against a native son. He knew too well that Jonathan could have easily exploited that incendiary sentiment and made life difficult for his administration. Rather, Jonathan took the high road. Despite some qualms he had about the conduct of the elections, he called Buhari to concede even before the tallies were finalised. As Jonathan recalls in his political autobiography, My Transition Hours, Buhari was ecstatic to hear from him. Any wonder that Buhari would at least tacitly endorse the candidacy of the man he so vitriolically demonised while campaigning for the presidency. Any wonder that that man would aspire to represent the party that unseated him, the party that includes so many of the people who betrayed and abandoned him. Buhari is also indebted to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. He stuck with Buhari even when there appeared to be no reason to. At the peak of Buhari’s ethnocentric policies and mass killings by Fulani herdsmen, Osinbajo was under pressure to resign. After ignoring the pressure for some time, he issued a terse statement that even he had his limit of tolerance. For a congenial fellow, he couldn’t have given a sterner public warning to Buhari. In the end though, he maintained his loyalty to the man who took him from his law practice and church ministry and made him vice president. For that loyalty, Buhari owes him. Perhaps, Nigeria as a whole. Osinbajo’s continued presence in the government may have served as a soothing balm even as he was lambasted for doing so. Osinbajo apparently had this in mind when he said recently that it would be “an injustice” if he didn’t run for president. As to Bola Tinubu, Buhari’s debt to him bears no rehashing here. We could say the same for Rotimi Amaechi, who reportedly bankrolled Buhari’s 2015 presidential campaign. Though Buhari rewarded Amaechi by appointing him to head the revenue-rich Ministry of Transportation, that’s apparently not enough. But enough about Buhari’s political debt as a pivot in this drama. Let’s turn to the drama itself, especially the storylines that would make for an entertaining farce. Before the 2015 elections, Amaechi and then speaker of the House Aminu Tambuwal defected from the PDP to the APC and Jonathan’s people turned their fury against them. At some point, then Rivers State Governor Amaechi was pleading for his life. Then in 2019, Amaechi returned triumphantly to Port Harcourt to lead the war dance during the APC’s rally there. Now, that Jonathan seems intent to join him at the APC, they both may be doing the war dance together soon. Meanwhile, Tambuwal has returned to the PDP and is vying for the position that Jonathan once had. One doesn’t have to be a gifted playwright to turn these goings on into an engaging drama or bemusing comedy. Patience Jonathan, the erstwhile irrepressible first lady, must be nodding at it all. Amidst the political storm swirling around her husband in the months leading up to the 2015 elections, the exasperated Dame Patience declared, “There is God-o.” That instantly became fodder for jokes. But guess who is laughing now. The Prophet Patience, of course. Talking of the first lady, how about Aisha Buhari’s ground-breaking hosting of APC presidential candidates for some serious talk? She issued the call and quite a few candidates answered. Aisha was apparently filling the void that her husband’s hands-off stance has created. Shakespeare would certainly play up this event as a scene in the drama. He would portray the candidates as tripping over each other suppliantly making their cases for succeeding Aisha’s husband. Meanwhile, the first lady’s cherubic stare—through fashionable glasses—would pan from one candidate to another. Some time ago, I declared in this column that Aisha is the most politically astute first lady Nigeria has had since Maryam Babangida. With this singular act, I now place her second to none. And I must add that she is also the most politically audacious. The playwright of this drama would be remiss to not touch on the sophistry of those who oppose zoning. Like ancient Greek sophists, they seem to believe that they can determine the reality of everything through arguments. Here’s an example by Senator Dayo Adeyeye, chairman of the South West Agenda for Asiwaju 2023. “The zoning rotation of the presidency in Nigeria is between North and South; nothing more than that. There is no micro-zoning to any geopolitical zone,” Adeyeye told The PUNCH in an interview. This is the ultimate in cynical rhetoric, the kind of argument that politicians use to delude the people. Rotating among electoral precincts would constitute micro-zoning, but not among the six geopolitical regions that were created for that purpose. Alas, in the drama of politics, even the most disingenuous argument would seem to be tenable. By the way, Adeyeye’s organisation is abbreviated SWAGA. At a time when prudence and humility are sorely needed in the presidency, it is quite an unfortunate acronym. But then it all adds to the intrigue of this drama. Thankfully, it is a drama in which the audience doesn’t just have to watch and hope. It has much say-so in its resolution.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com