…say Atiku, Saraki, Tambuwal, others against zoning lack conscience. A former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar; Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, and other politicians who were kicking against the zoning of the Presidency to the South-East lacked conscience and could not be trusted, Igbo Elders Consultative Forum said on Tuesday. According to them, it was ridiculous and hypocritical of the politicians, including a former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, to promote power-shift to the North in 2015 and then turn around to demonise zoning ahead of the 2023 general election. The Chairman of the IECF and former governor of Anambra State, Chief Chukwuemeka Ezeife, said these in Abuja during a condolence visit of Igbo leaders of thought and traditional rulers, following the demise of his wife, Njideka, whose burial had been scheduled for April 20, 2022. He said God has decreed that the next President of Nigeria would come from Igbo land. The ex-governor insisted that an Igbo man must succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), after his second tenure elapses in 2023. Ezeife said, “Everything (in the country) is a comprehensive failure, including our leadership and the politicians. The political parties are not serious about zoning and power rotation, because the conscience is dead; justice, equity and fairness are far fetched. This is what is wrong with us. “God knows it and has decreed that the next President of Nigeria will come from Igbo land. The problem now is how to allow God’s destiny to manifest for Nigeria.” Ezeife also said that the socio-economic situation in Nigeria had been worsened by the failure to successfully tackle corruption in the country which, according to him, would have placed the nation on the path of progress. “Comprehensive corruption has taken over. That is why in security, progress, power supply and welfare, we are taking giant steps backwards. “The resources God gave us is not for nothing. It is for us to generate development and become a superpower, and from that make every African proud, and with dignity,” he said. The IECF, however, said that despite the current realities in the country, a new Nigeria was possible. “For so long, Nigerian man has been messing up the design of the creator, but God is taking over. A new Nigeria is coming and will be led by someone from the South East. Only an Igbo man will be president after Buhari,” Ezeife said. Earlier, the Secretary of Ime-Obi Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof. Charles Nwekeaku, lauded the contributions of the Ezeife family to the restoration of Nigerian democracy. He said that Ezeife and his late wife risked their lives when they joined forces with other compatriots in the National Democratic Coalition to chase out the military and pursue the restoration of late Moshood Abiola’s presidential mandate. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com