Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong says he has not endorsed any candidate for the governorship or any political office in the forthcoming general elections. Lalong, who spoke on Monday while addressing an APC Stakeholders meeting in Jos, said contrary to insinuations from different quarters, he was yet to endorse any aspirants contesting offices. “I have not adopted or anointed any aspirant for governor or any other office. While very suitable members of our party have indicated interest to vie for different offices, we are carrying out consultations with all key stakeholders to ensure that at the end of the day, the best persons emerge to fly our party’s flag. “When such time comes, we will make it public and not hide it. I am praying that God will guide all of us to make a choice that is in the best interest of the people, state, and nation”. Lalong also said the party will continue to encourage members to build consensus from the grassroots and build healthy competition among aspirants, and their supporters before, during, and after the elections. He said though all the aspirants will be given a level playing field to test their popularity and acceptance, only one person will emerge for any office. The governor also cautioned against negative campaigns by aspirants and their supporters, saying such could end up being counterproductive for the APC. Lalong also thanked the APC members for their support and sacrifices, particularly during the last bye-elections in which the party won one and lost one. He assured that the ongoing projects such as the British America Flyover, Legacy Projects, and the Jos main market billed to commence soon will be completed before the end of this administration. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com