Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State on Saturday engaged with leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party in Lagos State to boost his aspiration for the 2023 presidency. According to him, the drive for industrialization in Lagos State would jump-start the economy of Nigeria. While calling for “a special status for Lagos”, Emmanuel promised that if elected President of Nigeria, he would “pursue policies that will make the Lagos economy blossom.” Emmanuel stormed Lagos as part of his consultation and mobilisation tour of PDP chapters. The governor who visited Lagos PDP leader, Chief Olabode George, and other PDP leaders to solicit their support for his ambition, was accompanied by a former governor of Benue State, Senator Gabriel Suswan; his Campaign Manager,
Col. Habib Shuaibu (retd.), Commissioner for Information in Akwa Ibom State, Ini Ememobong. Emmanuel said the development of Lagos’s economy would have a multiplier effect on the economy of the nation because Lagos as the former federal capital deserved good federal attention like its counterparts across the globe. He said, “A coastal transportation system for Lagos will further expand the economic prosperity, not only of Lagos, but Nigeria as a whole. “Industrialization drive for Lagos will jump-start Nigeria’s economy and strengthen the Naira.” While commending George for his nationalism, he said that only a competent leadership could resolve the complex problems confronting the country. He said the next President should have a great understanding of the economy. Emmanuel explained, “the need for professionals to go into politics to fix the country.” The governor promised to stimulate the private sector for economic growth. He also spoke about how he had governed Akwa Ibom and established Ibom Airline, which has acquired the reputation of being the best airline in the country. According to him, there can only be good governance when things are done rightly. While calling on the PDP to settle for tested contenders, Emmanuel said he had attracted direct foreign investment by creating a conducive enabling environment in Akwa Ibom, adding that Akwa Ibom is next to Lagos on the list of foreign direct investments in Nigeria. The governor said the country should rekindle hope about a brighter future to stem the brain drain syndrome among youths. Emmanuel described himself as a man of immense capacity and integrity, promising to “strengthen the Naira through an economic revival that will reposition the country.” He maintained that Lagos was critical to the economic growth of Nigeria. George, who welcomed the governor and his team, spoke on the importance of Lagos as a commercial hub and a hospitable centre for all. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com