The Federal Government has expressed readiness to release its counterpart funding for the proposed Regional Maritime Development Bank. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, while speaking in Abuja on Wednesday when he hosted the Secretary-General of the Maritime Organization of West and Central Africa, Dr. Paul Adalikwu, said Nigeria would gladly identify with the project, noting that efforts would be activated to secure an official accommodation space for the bank in Abuja. Amaechi, who promised to reach out to the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, urged other member states to come forward with their financial contributions. “We will be glad to put our resources down for the bank as soon as you are ready. We will just instruct them in Lagos to release the funds for you. We are also ready to provide accommodation for the bank and we look forward to other states making their contributions. We wouldn’t want our money to be tied down.” Speaking earlier, the MOWCA SG, who led an incubation committee comprising Cameroon and Congo Brazzaville representatives, thanked the Nigerian government for supporting his candidacy. He also thanked Nigeria for the payment of its arrears which had supported MOWCA in meeting some of its obligations to member states and employees. Adalikwu said that eight countries had signed up for the charter with an interim board put in place. He told the minister that the mandate for Nigeria to host the bank had been in place for 10 years but activities for its creation were kick-started by Amaechi when he became Minister of Transportation. The MOWCA SG added that steps had been taken to make the organisation vibrant and fulfill its mandates. He said, “An organogram has been created with every employee schedule of duties duly specified.” He disclosed that some of the employees he met on the ground were inexperienced with inadequate education to man the offices they occupied and that communication had been activated with member states to nominate qualified persons that would help the organisation to run smoothly and efficiently. Prof Gerard Messina, a representative of the Cameroonian Transport Minister, told Amaechi that his country was convinced of the ability of Nigeria and Adalikwu to strengthen the organization. The head of Congo Brazzaville delegation during the MOWCA visit also described MOWCA under Adalikwu, within a short period, as an organisation with a proper sense of direction. The Federal Government had, in 2020, said that Nigeria would proceed with the RMDB project if only two-thirds of member states would accept the decision reached by the Maritime Organization of West and Central Africa. Member countries of the MOWCA, having identified the major deficit in the development of indigenous participation in the regional maritime sector and associated value chain, agreed to establish a maritime bank focused on the growth and development in West and Central Africa with a view to raising debt and equity capital of $850m and $150m respectively. The proposed bank’s headquarters and presidency have been ceded to Nigeria by the 25 countries that make up the MOWCA. The organisation had, via a resolution at a regional maritime development bank’s annual general session, said the intention was to establish a maritime bank that cuts across West Africa and Central Africa. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com