Crisis has rocked the Lagos4Lagos Movement over N100 million allegedly given to one of the movement’s leaders, Sunday Ajayi, by a presidential aspirant. Although Ajayi denied collecting any money, he was “sacked” by the Lead Visioner of Lagos4Lagos, Olajide Adediran, popularly known as Jandor. The Lagos4Lagos Movement, a splinter group with the ruling All Progressives Congress, had in January 2022 joined the Peoples Democratic Party over the alleged imposition of candidates by the ruling party. Despite Ajayi’s denial, the Director of Communications and Strategy for the movement, Seun Soyinka, insisted that Ajayi remained “sacked”. The PUNCH gathered that leaders of the group are divided over the development, with some claiming that there was no proof for the allegation. While speaking to our correspondent on the telephone, Soyinka said, “He has been sacked. He is sacked because of the gift and many other things. He had been holding meetings with APC and rallying our members for APC. He can’t claim he did not collect any money.” When asked that Ajani denied collecting N100 million, Soyinka replied, “He won’t accept collecting money. Do you expect him to confirm or show you the bank details? In politics, do they transfer money for such a purpose? “But why is he doing everything that he has been doing despite all entreaties. Elders of the movement had visited him. He just stopped coming to work and we are wondering what happened to him. He didn’t have any conversation with our leaders. He just started to call people and told them that they are going to APC.” In his response, Ajayi threatened to sue the leader of the movement, Jandor, for accusing him of being paid N100 million. A copy of the statement issued by Ajayi read, “My attention has been drawn to a malicious statement by Abdul-Azeez Olajide Adediran (Jandor) claiming that I collected N100 million. “Ordinarily, I wouldn’t have dignified a man whose life has been shrouded in controversy with an answer, but for the benefit of the general public and the undiscerning members of the movement. “For the records, I, Hon. Prince Sunday Ajayi, withdrew from the activities of Lagos4Lagos because of the questionable character and draconian lifestyle of Jandor. For someone to accuse me of collecting money from a man I have not spoken to or interacted with in the last three years shows the level of insanity and shallowness of a confused human being. “I am indeed grateful that I saw this coming as I was warned severally that Jandor had an ugly past which he has guarded jealously and usually fights anyone who would oppose his style and actions. “I dare Jandor to show proof of receipt of such transaction, failure upon which I will have no choice but to institute legal action against him. “For clarity, Jandor’s latest action is borne out of the frustration he has met in his fruitless quest to get a PDP ticket that was already placed out of his reach from the word go. “It’s better for him to come out clean on how his arrogant lifestyle has led 70 per cent of the movement to leave Lagos4Lagos. Lagos PDP should be careful of him if they intend to get any credibility.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com