Nigerians are set to enjoy cheaper Internet services after Google said its Equiano subsea cable would reduce the retail cost of Internet prices by 21 per cent after its full deployment. The company disclosed this as also announced the landing of its Equiano subsea cable in conjunction with its cable landing partner, WIOCC, in Lagos on Thursday. The firm added that its cable would increase Internet speed by six-folds and penetration by six per cent while boosting Gross Domestic Product by $10.1bn in 2025 and creating 1.6 million jobs within the same time period. It said the cable would save 2.8 million tonnes of CO2 emissions per annum when fully operational. According to it, the Equiano cable starts in Portugal in Western Europe, running more than 12,000km along the West Coast of Africa and initially lands in Lomé, Togo; Lagos, Nigeria; Swakopmund, Namibia; Rupert’s Bay, Saint Helena, and Melkbosstrand, South Africa. This, according to Google, will establish a valuable new high-capacity connection between Africa and Europe. Speaking at the event, the Director, Google West Africa, Juliet Ehimuan, said, “Google is committed to supporting Africa’s digital transformation and we are excited to see the impact of the landing of Equiano in Nigeria. “We have worked with established partners and in-country experts to guarantee that Equiano has the greatest potential effect in Nigeria and throughout Africa. “Equiano is set to make an enduring contribution towards the development of Nigeria’s communications infrastructure and today marks another major step in its development. We look forward to honouring our commitment to be part of Africa’s digital transformation.” The Chief Executive Officer of WIOCC, Chris Wood, added, “We are proud to have been selected by Google as the landing partner for the Equiano cable in Nigeria, landing the cable directly into the OADC Lagos data centre. From there it will be extended to other data centres across Lagos. “The Equiano cable will deliver improved Internet quality, speeds, and affordability to the people of Nigeria. However, for the benefits to be fully felt throughout Nigeria, hyper-scale connectivity needs to be extended from the Lagos area to the rest of the country. To make this happen, WIOCC is also deploying a comprehensive, hyper-scale national fibre network. “The network will go live in phases, starting in June and continuing through to the end of the year. When combined with the Equiano cable this network will deliver transformational benefits across the country.” “I am told that this new Equiano cable system, landing today, will deliver twenty times as much network capacity as any of the existing systems serving Nigeria.” While speaking at the event, the Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said the cable would deliver 20 times as much network capacity as any existing systems serving Nigeria. This, according to him, means faster Internet speeds, reduced cost, and greater access to individuals leading to the creation of jobs and economic growth. He said, “We say it often, that wherever Lagos goes, Nigeria and West Africa follow. With this in mind, as the government of Lagos State, we are more than ever determined to deliver on our promise to make and maintain Lagos as a safe, livable, innovative, and prosperous megacity. “This new cable system is the latest element in the transformation of our physical infrastructure landscape. It joins a host of new roads, bridges, jetties, factories, municipal and national rail lines, and so on, being delivered by our administration and a host of partners and stakeholders across public and private sectors.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com