The Katsina Local Government election holds today (Monday, April 11) with no fewer than 3,187,988 registered voters in the state expected to participate. The exercise is for the election of chairman for the 34 Local Government Areas of the state and 361 councillors for the Councils. The Chairman, Katsina State Independent Electoral Commission, Ibrahim Bako, confirmed the development on Sunday, shortly after inspecting the despatch of sensitive items to be used for the election to all the local government areas. He said the twelve political parties would be participating in the election, although only the All Progressives Congress and Peoples Democratic Party reportedly filled candidates for both the Chairmanship and Councillorship seats. According to Bako, adequate security arrangements had been put in place to ensure that the exercise was held in all the 34 councils. Bako added that about 10,000 ad hoc staff would be used for the exercise which would be carried out at 4,902 polling units in 361 wards across the state. The elections will hold from 8 a.m to 3 p.m. The state command of the Nigeria Police Force had earlier announced restrictions on vehicular movements within the state during the election period. A statement by the command spokesman, Gambo Isah, said adequate security had been made for the exercise. Governor Aminu Masari had also declared April 11, 2022, as a work-free day to enable civil servants and their families cast their votes in their various constituencies The governor’s directive was contained in a press statement signed by the Permanent Secretary, Administration Office of the Head of Civil Service, Alhaji Usman Isyaku. The KSIEC headquarters was bubbling with activities on Sunday afternoon with the presence of representatives of the twelve political parties, observers and security agencies.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com