Banks, markets and schools failed to open in Owerri and the other parts of Imo State on Monday. In Owerri, the state capital, major markets were shut as the effects of the sit-at-home order compounded by the resurgence of criminal activities in the state recently frightened the residents of the state. Also, no bank nor school opened on Monday as the major streets in Owerri were almost deserted as our correspondent monitored the development. “This is the worst sit-at-home order in Imo in the past six months. Everybody is afraid. Nobody took his or her child to school. Even artisans on the roadsides are sitting back home and we are afraid that we might be attacked if we open today,” a motor spare parts dealer, James, said. From bank road to Ikenegbu to Okigwe Road even than to Orji all in Owerri, no bank was open as few people trekked along the roads as cars drove by, occasionally. Even Ekeukwu Owerri and Relief markets which are the biggest marketplaces in Owerri were shadows of themselves on Monday. Government Boys secondary school, Owerri, was deserted even though the gate of the school was opened. It was the same situation at Imo Girls secondary school, Owerri, Comprehensive Secondary school, Orji, Ihitte Mbieri primary school, Orji town’s primary school and other schools our correspondent visited. Our correspondent recalled that the recent upsurge in the criminal activities may be connected to the Monday’s worst situation in the state. Just on Saturday, gunmen razed the country home of the state commissioner for Labour, Employment and Productivity, Ford Ozumba in Orsu and the Mbieri Divisional Police Headquarters, respectively. On Sunday, they torched the Orsu Local Government Area council headquarters, burning several vehicles. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com