Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, has mapped out plans to establish a full-fledged Film Village in Ile-Ife, Osun State. This was announced by the Chief Executive Officer of Adire Oodua Textile Hub and Executive Producer of the Ladire TV series, Princess Ronke Ademiluyi while delivering her welcome address at the premiere of ‘LADIRE’; a Television Series coined to promote the traditional Tie & Die (Adire) industry in furtherance of his promotion of the inherited Africa culture. Addressing the gathering after airing an episode of the movie at the Ile Oodua Palace of Ife, Ademiluyi revealed that the initiative is a product of the Ooni’s continuous quest for youth development and capacity building. A statement by Otunba Moses Olafare, the Director, Media & Public Affairs, Ooni’s Palace, quoting Ademiluyi further read, “Ladire was conceptualized by the Ooni to see how to do more for the youths through the entertainment industry while we promote the trade and skills of tie & die. “I am glad that our fathers, mothers, and others who came here to watch the premiere today showed love and support, and our partner Mr Adeleye Fabusoro of Rare Edge Media was able to turn the concept of the Ooni to a 60 episode TV series showing now on Africa Magic Yoruba.” Speaking on behalf of the Ooni, the Sooko Omoniyi of the Source, Sooko Kemade Elugbaju, lauded the cast and crew for a job well done, stressing that the production is of international standard. Speaking on behalf of other members of the crew, veteran actor Pa Peter Fatomilola thanked the audience for spending time to attend and watch the premiere, noting that what they just saw is the tip of the iceberg. Fatomilola said, “Measures are currently in place to get this all homes via various viewing channels including the DSTV, YouTube, and many more. When we finally get there, we look forward to seeing your support.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com