Adelegation from the 2 Division, Ibadan, Nigerian Army, on Tuesday, visited Pa David Adekunle, father of Adeyinka, who was tortured to death by some soldiers attached to the Ibodi Barracks in Osun State. Pa Adekunle, during an interview with PUNCH Metro, said the delegation had two army officers and a community leader from Ilesa, Osun State. PUNCH Metro had reported that the deceased and a friend, Solomon Ogundare, went to a relaxation spot in the Imo area of Ilesa on March 24. A disagreement broke out shortly after three soldiers, who were in mufti, begged the friends for drinks and they refused. As the altercation degenerated into a fracas, one of the military officers phoned the Ibodi barracks and soldiers stormed the area. While Adeyinka escaped from the scene, his friend was caught and taken to the barracks. The soldiers caught Adeyinka the next day when he went to the barracks in the company of his friend’s sister, Elizabeth Itunu, to secure the release of his vehicle and Ogundare. He died after being subjected to rounds of torture by the soldiers, who also reportedly forced him to eat his vomit. On what transpired during the visit, Pa Adekunle, who said the visitors confirmed the arrest of the errant soldiers, added that the Army delegation assured that justice would be served. “But they asked the eyewitness, who is a sister to Solomon Ogundare, who was also arrested and tortured along with the deceased, to write a report on what she witnessed and make it available to the Army in Ibadan,” he added. Meanwhile, the deceased’s family and the Osun State Police Command have embarked on plans to conduct an autopsy on the remains of the deceased. Adekunle said the police authorities in Osun were working with the family on the date the autopsy would be conducted. Efforts to ascertain the number of military men in detention over the matter and their identities, however, failed. The spokesperson for the 2 Division, Ibadan, Nigerian Army, Ikedichi Iweha, did not respond to enquiries from our correspondent. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com