The All Progressives Grand Alliance has said that the Anambra State Governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, remains the pride of the people of the state and the entire South-East. The party described those distracting him as cheap blackmailers whose actions are “tantamount to pouring water on a stone.” Addressing journalists in Awka, on Monday, the National Coordinator of APGA Media Warriors Forum, Mr Chinedu Obigwe, said Soludo remained focused on actualising his mission in the state and “armchair critics cannot stop him from doing that”. Obigwe said the people of the state are solidly behind the governor as all the steps he has taken so far are commendable. Obigwe said, “A smear campaign video produced against our beloved governor is currently trending online and I say it without any fear of contradiction that those behind the production of the senseless smear campaign video are enemies of progress. “Even before emerging the governor of Anambra State, Soludo is one of the Igbo leaders that defends the interest of the Igbo people whenever there is a need to do that.  His determination to end the senseless Monday sit-at-home is commendable. His blackmailers cannot be overseas and be igniting a fire in Anambra State and Igbo land at large.” The party added that Soludo was applying the kinetic and non-kinetic approach to resolve the issue of agitations in the region because of its devastating effect on the economy. Obigwe said the security of lives and property is top on the agenda of the state government because security is the bedrock of sustainable development. He said, “The governor is ready to do anything to solve the insecurity problem in Anambra State. The main thing Soludo wants to achieve is for peace and sanity to return to the state. He is not doing this alone but with the support of all the stakeholders in the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com