The Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency in Lagos State says it has shut down the Felobam Alpha Convalescent Home for operating beyond schedule. A statement by the Head, Public Affairs, HEFAMAA, Muyideen Uthman, confirmed the development on Thursday. The statement read, “The Executive Secretary of the agency, Dr. Abiola Idowu, disclosed this today (Thursday) in her office at the Tisco Plaza, Alausa, Ikeja after the day’s monitoring activities by the Monitoring and Inspection Unit of the agency. “The facility was shut down on Thursday, April 7, 2022 for non-compliance with the standards it was registered for and operating beyond the category of a nursing home. Convalescent or Nursing Homes are not permitted to perform surgeries” she said. Uthman stated that the team also found out that the facility had no qualified personnel as an auxiliary nurse was met at the time the monitors visited. He added, “She (Idowu) however revealed that the nursing officer has been referred to the Lagos State branch of the Nursing and Midwifery Council Committee for disciplinary action. “While sympathizing with the family of the deceased, the Executive Secretary called on members of the public to continue supporting and cooperating with the state government in its fight against quackery and illegal operation of facilities by reporting those behind such acts to the agency to safeguard the health and well-being of the citizenry. “She advised owners and operators of health facilities in the State to carry out their operations in accordance with the set standards to actualize the vision of the present administration in improving the quality of healthcare provisions to the citizens.” Meanwhile, the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, in a statement on Wednesday, said the nurse, Lawrence Omatule, who performed the surgery on Fatimah, who died shortly after the operation, was not a staff of the hospital.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com