The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has stressed the need for workplaces in the state to observe safety regulations and have health insurance schemes for employees. Sanwo-Olu stated this on Thursday during the Lagos State Occupational Safety and Health conference to commemorate the 2022 World Day for Safety and Health at work, on Victoria Island. He said, “Globally, a lot of injuries and accidents happen in workplaces and I believe this is what has increased the concern and demand for workplace safety and health. It is important for people to have a sense of security and assurance that whenever they leave their houses for their offices and places of work, they will return home safely to their families. “In Lagos, through the Lagos State Safety Commission, we are ensuring that every workplace observe standard global safety procedure and employers of labour are severely punished when these procedures are compromised. “Let me use this opportunity to emphasise the importance of health insurance scheme in the workplace. In the light of the global health issues that have occurred in the past few years, it has become imperative that every employer of labour provide a form of health insurance for employees to take care of health emergencies as well as regular health checkups.” The Director-General of the Lagos State Safety Commission, Mr Lanre Mojola, said the commission has been at the forefront of constructively engaging Ministries, Departments and Agencies, among others, to ensure a culture of safety across the state. “The vision of creating a safe and healthy work environment in Lagos can only be achieved through effective dialogue and active participation in the development, formulation, and revision of occupational safety and health frameworks, policies and strategies. “It is only when stakeholders are carried along in the development of safety management systems that they can effectively connect with such policy documents,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com