The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, has said that a text message sent to him by one of his spiritual daughters lifted him from “deep sorrow” caused by the death of his son, Dare, last May. The octogenarian preacher said the text message turned the tide following the death of his 42-year-old son in 2021, adding that God loves him despite the loss of his son. Adeboye spoke at the international headquarters of the church along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway during the April 2022 Holy Ghost Service of the church. Dare, the third child of 80-year-old Adeboye, died on May 4, 2021 in Eket, Akwa Ibom State, where he was based with his family. Married to Temiloluwa, the deceased was the Assistant Pastor in charge of Region (Youth) 35 before his death and father to three daughters. Speaking on the theme, ‘Signs and Wonders’, with Bible text from Isaiah 8:18 on Friday night, the elder Adeboye said children are proofs that God is a Miracle Worker, a Covenant-Keeper, a Burden-Bearer and the Defence of the Defenceless. According to him, God is a Carrier, who carries burden, sorrow and problems provided one has the disposition of a child. Adeboye said, “When I lost my son last year (2021), and I was deeply in sorrow, I got a text (message) from one of my (spiritual) daughters that suddenly turned the tide. What she wrote was simply this: Daddy, let God carry you.” “I’ve always said it and when I said it, people argue with me. God loves me more than anybody else. Do you agree? I know you won’t agree. When I tell you that God loves me more than anybody else; what do you reply?” he asked thousands of worshippers at the programme who also replied individually that God loves them more than any other person.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com