The Secretary to Ebonyi State Government and Coordinating Commissioner, Dr Kenneth Ugbala, has resigned from office to pursue his senatorial ambition. He disclosed this to journalists on Thursday, after a closed-door meeting with the Ebonyi State All Progressives Congress Working Committee, at the party secretariat in Abakaliki. Ugbala is aspiring to represent the Ebonyi Central Senatorial zone come 2023. “I’m here to consult with the state Working Committee of our party and seek their approval and support, to run for Senate come 2023 for the Ebonyi Central Senatorial District. You know that a political party is a platform through which you can come into leadership. And before any step is taken, it’s necessary to consult with the party leadership and seek their approval. That’s why I’m here,” he stated. Ugbala, who had served as senior special assistant as well as commissioner under Governor David Umahi’s administration before his elevation to secretary to state government, said he would ensure effective and efficient representation if elected Senator in 2023. He added, “I’m contesting to contribute my quota for efficient and effective representation and ensure accountability, and join hands with other leaders that the state is enthroning in 2023, to make sure we build and expand on what the present governor has done.” “I offer myself for this service for the interest of the masses.” On his resignation, Ugbala said he had the full knowledge of the new Electoral Law, and had taken all necessary steps to obey it, including tendering his resignation letter to the appropriate authority. He stated,”I know the Electoral Law very well and the law is very firm. You know when I was appointed, and for me to be here today, it means I have taken all the necessary steps, and you know I have a boss as he is the only one that can show you the necessary documents, not myself. “The office of the secretary to the state government, which I was occupying, is known for confidentiality. I’m not the one that will make my resignation letter public; it has reached the appropriate authority.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com