The former Governor of Anambra State and presidential aspirant under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Peter Obi, has appealed that the South-East region of the country should be allowed to produce the next President of the country. Obi stated this during a meeting with the delegates and other leaders of the party at the PDP secretariat in Abeokuta, Ogun State. He noted that for the sake of equity, justice and respect, a President of Igbo extraction must be allowed to rule the nation. The former governor while addressing the delegates and party leaders urged them not to allow money and sentiment to influence their voting at the primaries. Obi, who was accompanied by a former media aide to former president Goodluck Jonathan, Dr. Doyin Okupe, declared that Nigeria is in crisis and he remained the best candidate to take Nigeria out of the doldrums. He said, “Let me assure you that my commitment is to build a better Nigeria, my desperation is to see Nigeria better than it is today. We cannot continue the way Nigeria is today. “What we want to say is that a nation must be built on fairness, must be built on equity, must be built on respect for each other and we in the South-East are saying we too should be allowed to serve and I assure you that that opportunity will change Nigeria. “No country with 33 percent unemployment and 65 percent underemployment will survive. 60 percent of the unemployed and underemployed are among the youths, the most productive population of the country and at their young age are doing nothing. “Today, ours is owing to people pension, they don’t pay people gratuity. Our schools are closed, our universities have been closed now and nobody is saying anything. There are 15 million out-of-school children, and the drug prevalence among our youths today is the highest in the world. We must change the situation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com