Seven days after their appointment by the Nigeria Football Federation, some coaches have told The PUNCH that they were yet to be contacted by the federation, adding that they only read about their appointments on the pages of newspapers. On April 14, the NFF appointed several coaches, goalkeeper trainers and match analysts for the various national teams. Salisu Yusuf, former head coach of the Super Eagles B, who was banned for collecting money to field a player, was reappointed as head coach of the team and the U-23 (Olympics) team. Kennedy Boboye, Fatai Osho, Abubakar Bala Mohammed, Fidelis Ikechukwu, Eboboritse Uwejamomere, Ike Shorounmu, Suleiman Shuaibu, Ladan Bosso, Fatai Amao, Oladuni Oyekale, Jolomi Atune Alli, Baruwa Olatunji Abideen, , Nduka Ugbade, Ahmad Lawal Dankoli, Omoniyi Haruna Ilerika, Yemi Daniel, Mohammed Nasiru Isah, Finidi George, Usman Abdallah all made up the list of newly appointed coaches by the country’s football body. There was however a twist after some of the coaches told The PUNCH that they were yet to be contacted by the NFF despite the announcement. “As I speak to you, the NFF hasn’t contacted or told us that they have engaged our services to the national team, I only read about nit in the newspapers. We are just patient and waiting for them to do so,” one of the newly appointed coaches, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said. Another coach added, “I haven’t received any official letter from the federation or a call. “I saw it online as many did, but I’m waiting to be officially instated because I will be more than happy to serve my country. Pending when the letter arrives, I will not comment on the appointment.” Meanwhile, former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Ike Shorunmu, who was named as the goalkeepers trainer, declined comments on the issue. “Please I’m busy right now and will not be able to respond to your questions at the moment.” When our correspondent sent a text message to the NFF’s Director of Communications, Ademola Olajire, on the matter, he replied, “I was given the names to announce. Contacting them (coaches) is not my task.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com