Former presidential adviser and co-convener of the National Consultative Forum of Leaders of Conscience, Pat Utomi, has urged Nigerians to shun the All Progressives Congress and Peoples Democratic Party in the 2023 general elections. He said this at a press conference in Lagos on Friday. Utomi, who was a former member of APC and PDP, said the parties have failed Nigeria and should not be allowed to continue to rule. A copy of his remark read at the press conference read, “We must now forge a consensus and the national unity team an approach to governing during this season of a yet-to-be declared national emergency which poses an existential threat to all the parties notwithstanding. Now that the democratisation of misery from the spread of insecurity, poverty, and disease has become evident to both those who think they have cornered power and those who consider themselves victims of power. “Surely Afenifere, Arewa Consultative Forum and Ohaneze Ndigbo, Niger Delta People Congress and the Middle Belt forum can be consulted to nominate people into this unity government forum that can walk us through the evil forest of now. “Some of us involved in the process of building the political platform have been particularly kin on getting the emphasis right so that it becomes much more than an election contestation machine. We know that the trouble with PDP and APC is primarily that their sole purpose was to win elections and wrest power. They paid so little attention to how to govern and the results have come in. The chicken has come home to roost. In truth, it was just the continuation of a pattern. The previous chairmen of both PDP and APC Secondus and Oshiomole had been summarily shoved aside without due process in the contravention of the rule book play pattern in both parties. All this is in the face of longstanding criticism of the absence of internal democracy in the parties. The long-drawn painstaking efforts to construct an alternative political track are to avoid the errors of the APC and PDP and socialise interest into clearly values and ethics of the party and train all on the basic policy planks from the vision and grand and human development ideas of the platform party of the Third Force. We are therefore calling on Faith groups, and community leaders, Alumni associations to seek out the members of their community and bring them forward with a suggested position they should contest. “In the last few hours, Prof Wole Soyinka has spoken in despair about the politicians of APC and PDP.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com