•Anglican Communion bids Adebiyi farewell The Anglican Bishop of Ekiti Oke Diocese, Rev Olatunde Olubowale, on Friday, urged the Federal Government to fish out the terrorists troubling Nigeria before the 2023 general election and save citizens from undue pain and losses. Olubowale also appealed to politicians in Ekiti State to ensure that the governorship election billed for June was peaceful. The cleric spoke at St Peter’s Anglican Church, Osi Ekiti in the Ido/Osi Local Government Area of the state during the burial service for a retired Bishop of the Anglican Diocese of Lagos West, Rev Peter Adebiyi, who died on February 10, 2022, at the age of 78 years. The service attracted the clergy and the laity, sympathisers, friends, and family, who joined the people of Osi Ekiti to pay last respect to the retired bishop and social crusader. Olubowale, who said Bishop Adebiyi, if alive, would have come down to the state to sue for peace ahead of the governorship election, told politicians, “Make the election peaceful. Let Ekiti be governable. “I don’t want to have cause to run away from the Bishop’s Court to the bush. I don’t want to go and hide on top of a tree and ask people to bring food to me there. Let the election go peacefully.” The bishop, who queried what the Super Tucano jet and other equipment procured to combat insecurity in the country were, being used for, challenged the Federal Government to fish out terrorists and ensure that they were not preserved for the 2023 general elections. “Fish them out from wherever they are. They should not be preserved for the 2023 elections. No matter the name you call them – bandits, unknown gunmen, and others – fish them out and bring them to justice, they should not be kept for the 2023 elections,” he stated. The cleric described Adebiyi as a man of destiny, saying, “He was a great man who loved Jesus with all his mind and strength. He was great because he cared for and served the needs of others. He influenced this generation greatly and was committed to fighting to ensure that Nigeria was out of the woods.” The children of the late bishop at the service were Mr. and Mrs. Adeboye Adebiyi; Dr. and Mrs. Femi Fatile; Rev and Mrs. Adedayo Adebiyi; Dr. and Mrs. Fisayo Adebiyi; Rev Canon and Mrs. Tunji Adebiyi; Rev and Mrs. Bode Daramola; and Mr. and Mrs. Opeyemi Ajileye. In attendance were six Anglican archbishops, including the Archbishop of Ondo Province, Simeon Borokini, and no fewer than 26 bishops across denominations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com