Nigerian veteran singer, Innocent ‘2Baba’ Idibia, and his baby mama, Pero Adeniyi, on Tuesday celebrated their daughter, Ehikòwoichó, as the latter turned 16. Sharing pictures of the celebrant on his Instagram page, 2Baba expressed how rapidly his “little princess” blossomed into an “African Queen.” He wrote, “Feels like I just blinked and boom my little princess has grown into a very bright and beautiful young African Queen. Massive birthday blessings to you. “Ehikòwoichó (Gift from God/ God’s gift), I pray for continuous love, light guidance and wisdom for you, my beloved daughter.” On her Instagram page, the celebrant’s mother also wrote a lengthy epistle as she hailed her daughter and also prayed for her. Pero wrote, “Ehikowoicho Morolayo Oluwashemilogo, sixteen years ago you arrived on this planet, and our lives have never been the same. Here are my thoughts for you, today, as you celebrate your Sweet 16. “I am so proud of you. I love the woman you are on your way to becoming. I love your strength, your fortitude, your strong sense of right from wrong, and your belief in fairness and order. I love your fantastic humour as well as your sense of self. “I love that you challenge yourself, push yourself, work hard and are accomplishing so much through those qualities. I love your confidence and that independent nature of yours. I love your silliness and sense of fun. I love most of all that I get to be your mom and watch you grow and blossom into this person you are.” 2Baba and Pero have three children together, while the singer has two children each with his wife, Annie, and another baby mama, Sumbo Adeoye. Annie recently lamented that though she knew 2Baba first, her first child was the singer’s fifth. Crisis rocked the marriage last year when Annie accused 2Baba of having an affair with Pero when he travelled to the United States. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com