A pressure group, Coalition of Professional Women in Politics, on Wednesday, in Lagos, called for increased participation of female technocrats in politics. The group, in a statement by its convener, Mrs. Atinuke Owolabi, called on the government to recognise the role of professional women in nation-building by giving them more opportunities in politics to transform the nation’s leadership. Owolabi appealed to party stakeholders to support women who were courageous enough to vie for elective offices and allow technocrats to birth good governance in the nation. Owolabi said, “If more women are given the opportunities and tickets, they will bring hope back to the masses and the society will benefit more. “The vulnerable are the ones that go out to vote but they are the most hit in this economy. They are being neglected after their mandates have been gotten to attain political offices. “Women don’t have enough money to either purchase forms or campaign for elections but they are more compassionate about the society, and its people.” She said COPWIP was born out of the desire of professional women to actively participate in politics to ensure good governance. She added that COPWIP also had a mandate to position professional women as ambassadors of impactful and sustainable development through leadership training and empowerment programmes. “Investing in girls’ and women’s rights to political participation is a necessary step to achieving global gender equality and democratic governance. “This investment creates a ripple effect that will yield a positive result in the future. The time to act is now,” she said. Owolabi, a multi-award winner on social and professional impact, member of the Nigerian Society of Engineers, and a fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, stressed the need to bridge the gender gap in the nation’s polity. She promised that the group would ensure the restoration of Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s policy of quality education for all children while insisting that support for female political technocrats would impact the nation positively. She added that female technocrats had the ability to harmonise all segments of society and sectors to ensure all-around development and national growth. NAN