Ahead of the party primaries, the Arewa Coalition for Sustainable Governance has promised to mobilise votes for Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel if he gets the ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party. The organisation also said it had studied all aspirants who had signified interest to contest in all the parties and realised that Emmanuel was the only unifying factor in Nigeria. The CSGG which said this in a statement by its coordinator, Tukur Abdullahi, and Secretary, Ibrahim Bindawa, said Nigerians could no longer afford to continue to endure failed leadership, while God has blessed the country with arable land and resources. The group urged the PDP to consider the Akwa Ibom Governor as the flag bearer of the party in the forthcoming 2023 general elections. The statement read, “This is the time to speak out and mobilise voters to elect the right and focused leader with proven track records of performance in the area of governance who could resolve the complex problems confronting the country. “We are therefore glad to hear that when the Governor engaged with leaders of the PDP in Lagos State, it was resounding evidence that he is not only competent but also has vast knowledge about the economy and solutions to a plethora of problems militating against growth over the years. “We have always advocated for a President with a great understanding of the economy and detribalised Nigerian, who has demonstrated ability to unite Nigeria as well as hit the ground immediately elected. “After careful study of our problems as a group of concerned Nigerians, we equally discovered that there is an urgent need for professionals such as Akwa Ibom Governor to contest the highly exalted seat of President to fix the country. “This is part of many reasons we are calling on Nigerians across the 36 States of the federation to join our group to mobilise electorate during the forthcoming to vote Governor Udom Emmanuel as the next President come 2023.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com