THE Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Exchange Limited, Temi Popoola, has commended Access Holding Plc’s contribution to the Nigerian growth story and assured NGX’s commitment to collaborating with institutions driving growth in the Nigerian economy. He said this during the closing gong ceremony hosted by NGX to commemorate the Access Holdings’ successful restructuring into a holding company structure, and the listing of 35.545bn ordinary shares of Access Holdings Plc on NGX on Thursday. The chief executive officer noted that the Exchange was proud to be part of the progress that Access Holdings had successfully achieved over the past 20 years. He assured the stakeholders the company would find a worthy partner in the Exchange as it commenced its new journey. Speaking at the event, the Chairman, NGX, Mr Abubakar Mahmoud, congratulated the board of directors and executive management of Access Holdings and the parties to the transaction, Chapel Hill Denham Advisory Limited, Coronation Securities Limited, Aluko & Oyebode, and Africa Law Practice NG & Company. He said, “NGX has emerged from a recent restructuring and is better positioned to support our stakeholders in their quest to raise long-term capital. “The Exchange is better positioned to lead government advocacy efforts for listed companies, promote technology advancement and digital innovation for the capital market, and increase retail investor participation in the capital market aimed at building a market for the future and addressing the prevailing challenge of financial inclusion. “We welcome Access Holdings Plc to a renewed NGX and look forward to deepening our collaboration to develop and push for disruptive, out-of-the-box ideas financial products that will dimension the next curve for the capital market.” Delivering his remarks, Chairman, Access Holdings Plc, Mr Bababode Osunkoya, said, “The significance of this event as our first external engagement as Access Holdings Plc is not lost on us. “Access Holdings Plc is an evolutionary expression for us which signifies our moving away from what was known as Access Bank into a financial institution. “We acknowledge the impact of our collaboration with The Exchange over the years and we look forward to continuing this mutually beneficial partnership to take Nigeria and Africa to the world.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com