Two of the best performing cryptos of the last bull run were Dogecoin (DOGE) and Shiba Inu (SHIB). The canine meme coins made millions for a lot of crypto enthusiasts in the early months of 2021. A lot of the success was thanks to the public backing of Tesla founder Elon Musk. With every investor looking for the next big project to soar in price, there are many predicting that the newcomer, Acrana (ACR), could be the next millionaire maker. Dogecoin (DOGE) is the number one “meme coin” by market cap according to CoinGecko. Dogecoin (DOGE) was created as a joke and to mock Bitcoin (BTC). The coin’s unique dog was inspired by a very popular meme from the same time. Over the course of the decade, Dogecoin (DOGE) built up a loyal fan base through social media platforms such as Reddit but it was never considered a legitimate cryptocurrency. This all changed in 2021 when Elon Musk began publicly backing the coin stating that it will be the future of finance. The Tesla founder has even stated that you will be able to buy his revolutionary electric cars with DOGE too On January 1st 2021, You could have purchased Dogecoin (DOGE) for just $0.004. In the 5 months that followed and in the lead up to Elon Musk appearing on Saturday Night Live, you could have made your millions with the token increasing in price by over 18000% to $0.73 on May 8th. Shiba Inu (SHIB) took the popularity of Dogecoin (DOGE) and ran it even further. The coin saw a phenomenal 74 million% increase over certain periods of 2021. Meaning that if you had invested initially, you would have only needed to invest $2 to become a millionaire.  As one of the most volatile projects in the crypto space, Shiba Inu (SHIB) can be an interesting coin to hold. There have been times when it’s been up 100% and then the next day it’s right back down. The crypto tends to increase in price every time Elon Musk tweets a picture of his pet Shiba Inu, Floki. Both Dogecoin (DOGE) and Shiba Inu (SHIB) have made many millions of dollars for people over the last couple of years. The great thing about the crypto space is that the next big project to the moon is always just around the corner. Acrana (ACR) is a brand new cryptocurrency that exemplifies just how far the crypto space has progressed over the last few years. With many people falling out of love with the traditional banking system, crypto and more specifically, Acrana (ACR) are providing solutions and simplicity. Acrana (ACR) aims to support the growing popularity of decentralisation in the cryptocurrency market by allowing users to control the infrastructure they engage in by developing a worldwide virtual currency backed by crypto rather than the US dollar.  Acrana (ACR) will be a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) which means that the community and holders of the token will be able to vote on how to improve the project over the coming months. Users will be able to benefit from staking and bonding on the platform which will enable them to earn more ACR tokens to increase the value of their holdings. With the presale for Acrana (ACR) about to get underway, this could be the single best time to invest in the project. Looking back at the presales of Tezos (XTZ) and Filecoin (FIL) we can see that early investors made millions. If you’re looking for the next big crypto to explode like Dogecoin (DOGE) and Shiba Inu (SHIB) did then Acrana (ACR) could be the one to watch. Click here for more information: https://presale.acrana.io/ https://acrana.io/ https://t.me/ACRANAOFFICIAL https://twitter.com/acrana_io KEYWORDS: Dogecoin, DOGE, Shiba Inu, SHIB, Acrana, ACR, Elon Musk, millions, crypto