Mr  Olugbemi Malomo is the re-elected president and chairman-in-council of the Chartered Institute of Professional Printers of Nigeria. He has been passionate about the campaign to keep Nigerian printing jobs in Nigeria. In this interview with Edidiong Ikpoto, he shares his view on ways of strengthening the local printing industry INEC has repeatedly said that it does not print ballot papers abroad. Why is CIPPON insisting INEC must not take printing of ballot papers out of Nigeria? When people talk, it is always good to listen to what they are not saying and that is one habit I have developed as a Nigerian. The INEC Chairman is a professor, a very sound and a shrewd one too. He knows that he is carrying the burden of over 200 million Nigerians. He won’t leave anything to chance. He knows where every ballot paper is being printed. In fact, he approves where it is being printed. What INEC is implying is that they are not taking responsibility for printing it abroad. I think we must move beyond the rhetoric. Let me quickly digress to the issues we had with the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC). They are the major spenders, producing over 1.2 billion books annually in Nigeria. They have always claimed that they don’t award contracts to foreigners and it’s not part of their jurisdiction to determine where it shall be printed. This shows failure of government at its responsibility. We cannot build a  nation as if we are in a jungle where everyone does what they like. Nations are built on rules and regulations. When you see that things are not working, you make rules that make them work. The easy way out is for people to go out of Nigeria to print and each time we go abroad to print, we are inadvertently paying and sustaining the annual salaries of thousands of foreigners’ salaries, which bring peace and stability to their nation and render our people jobless. This is the root cause of insecurity. They have idle time and as they say, “the idle hand is the devil’s workshop.” Government should take responsibility and must be deliberate about empowering Nigerians. We acknowledge the fact that the chairman has elections to conduct, we acknowledge the fact that all of us should help him to conduct very successful elections and we should do what is scientific and practicable. The people taking those jobs abroad are not printers but mere contractors who don’t employ anybody nor buy diesel; they are portfolio contractors, and we should ask questions if those people are ghosts. We know our members and we know their capacity and we also know the few that are getting the ballot papers and when we audit, there is a very huge gap. It is not enough for the chairman to tell us that INEC is not contracting foreign printers. They should do more to empower Nigerian printers. Are you saying INEC should regulate printing so that the contractors will not take the job outside of Nigeria? INEC has absolutely no reason to patronise portfolio contractors, particularly for what can be done in Nigeria. The election is for the benefit of Nigerians. We have an astute Nigerian professor as the umpire, we are going to elect a Nigerian as president, why should we choose a foreigner to print our ballot paper after 60 years of independence? So, why are Nigerian printers being denied their own dividends of democracy when they have the capacity to do so? By the law that set up CIPPON, nobody can practise or earn income from printing without being registered by us. What we are saying is that INEC should obey the law. Portfolio contractors or brokers, if they must operate, should partner with local printers to print ballot papers in Nigeria. That’s the only middle point or compromise acceptable to us. We will call them out by way of litigation if we must, anyone not registered by the institute that is awarded ballot paper contracts. INEC has released guidelines for the elections, and you would expect that printers should be making moves to take the opportunity. What are printers doing now to ensure they play their roles effectively in the elections? I will answer that by talking about capacity. If I have assurance that I will get this job, the guidelines enable me to double or triple my capacity, but that is not the case. I am sure the electoral act, by default, has a cut-off time for printing of ballot papers and it’s about four weeks to the election. I am not sure I have clarity as to what it is now with the amendment. There are over 70 million voters across board and that is about 350 million ballot papers for the general elections within four to five weeks. If we have six months to the election and are awarded the contract, I can tell you authoritatively that some of our members can print over 10 million ballot papers in a week, some 5 million in a week, some others can do one million copies in a week. The onus is now on INEC to prequalify more across the geopolitical zones of Nigeria. Going to print ballot paper abroad at a period the global supply chain is challenged will certainly not address the logistic problem. Will the sharing of the printing of ballot papers across geopolitical zones not jeopardise the security of the ballot paper and frustrate the electioneering process? We are living in a world that is evolving, and what security are we talking about? The whole burden of the integrity of the election was on the ballot papers in the past but now the card reader has taken much of the burden such that only voters verified by the card readers can vote. Secondly with electronic transmission of result, the ballot paper now plays minimal role in the determination of the integrity of the elections, but that is not to say we cannot provide basic security. Even when ballot papers are printed abroad, the security can still be compromised in terms of the logistics. We can assure INEC that right from our press until it gets to INEC officials, the security cannot be compromised. Is CIPPON guaranteeing INEC of such security? One hundred percent guarantee! I am not going to share how we are going to do it but when we talk with INEC, we will show them scientific ways that will be seen by everybody. We print money here in Nigeria. The security starts with the design and then the factory. What we are going to do is to get the invisible features that the printers cannot even see. We can also cordon off the press for the period of five weeks that they are printing. This is still cheaper than printing abroad. Imagine the cost of cargo that will bring about 350 million ballot papers and how many planes will bring that to Nigeria. If for reasons of logistics and security, INEC decides to share the printing contract between foreign and local printers, will that be okay with CIPPON? There is absolutely no reason why ballot papers should be printed abroad. The challenges we had 30 years ago are not the same challenges we are having now. INEC only needs to prequalify more people and expand. There is still time to audit printers’ capacity and know what criteria to consider in choosing their printers. We need to have a paradigm shift from the way we were doing things before. Are there ways you think Federal Government can strengthen the printing industry and make it more profitable for practitioners? I expect that the government should begin to take responsibility. Look at paper, which is a three trillion naira industry, yet we have never in Nigeria used primary raw materials to produce paper. All we have been using is either pulp or secondary raw materials. A lot of people in Nigeria are now conducting research, but there is no single laboratory where the research can be done. One would expect that a CBN governor would be donating a laboratory that will aid research because if we succeed in producing paper locally, a lot of burden will be taken off the naira. Government also needs to be more proactive and do things that will trigger change and reactions. INEC, for instance, should invest in capacity locally and this will give all of us peace of mind.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com