Nigerian medical students and other escapee students who fled Ukraine during the height of the Russian aggression in the European country have been directed to commence studies online, Saturday PUNCH reports. Saturday PUNCH gathered that the medical students had also been granted waivers to have their practical medical lessons in hospitals in their countries of residence. A letter from the Karazin Kharkiv National University signed by the acting Director, International Education, Andrii Polivantsev and obtained by our correspondent partly reads, “Karazin Kharkiv National University informs you that all foreign students of all countries have classes online in spring semester 2021-2022 academic year and don’t have opportunity to take part in practical works due to the situation in Ukraine. “So, we ask local government officials to allow all international students of Ukrainian universities to go through practical work in local private or government hospitals as it depends on students’ courses in their countries. “The report on practical training at the homeland drawn up on the form of a medical institution that indicates the amount of acquired practical skills signed by a doctor, head of practice, will allow the university to enrol in practical training for students in spring semester 2021-2022 academic year.” Saturday PUNCH had earlier reported how the Russian aggression in Ukraine had led to a series of tension. The PUNCH had also reported how students in Ukraine who were of Nigerian descent had sent SOS messages to the government of Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd). At the beginning of Russia’s full-scale war on Ukraine, Nigerians were initially told to be responsible for their own safety and security, according to a statement by the Nigerian Embassy in Ukraine. However, following outrage from Nigerians, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and NiDCOM stepped in to begin preparations to provide safety to Nigerians who could find their way to neighbouring countries such as Poland, Hungary, and Romania. Coordinating with the embassies in those countries, Nigerians escaping the war were allowed safe passage after facing initial difficulty from border control. The National Assembly also called for the immediate evacuation of Nigerians stranded in Ukraine, prompting the Federal Government to partner with private airlines to begin evacuating them. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), approved over $8.5m for the evacuation of over 5,000 Nigerians stranded in Ukraine, most of whom were students. Following the evacuation from Ukraine, Onyeama had said that students who were evacuated would be able to continue their education in other European countries. Some of the students in separate interviews with this newspaper had expressed uncertainties over the continuation of their education which was put on hold as a result of the Russian aggression.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com