The Ogun State Police Command, on Monday, said it arrested nine suspected members of a kidnap syndicate terrorising members of the public on the Abeokuta – Ayetoro Road in the Abeokuta-North Local Government Area of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, said this in a statement made available to journalists. Oyeyemi said the suspects were arrested in their hideout at Abule Oba, along Ayetoro road in Abeokuta. The police spokesman added that they were arrested after two motorcycle riders, Hammed Taiwo and Kehinde Jimoh, who are their errand boys, were sighted in the Rounder area of the local government. According to Oyeyemi, the suspects were arrested following a credible intelligence gathered by policemen at Sabo/Ilupeju divisional headquarters. He explained that the arrest was successful as a result of the collaboration among the police, local hunters, So Safe Corps, Oodua People Congress, Vigilante, and Men of Amotekun Corps. He noted that some of their victims have identified them as their abductors. Oyeyemi said “The suspects; Hammed Taiwo, Kehinde Jimoh, Umar Sanda, Sanda Aliu, Ali Morandu, Usman Abubakar, Usman Mohammed, Umaru Ahmadu, and Umaru Momodu were arrested, following a credible intelligence gathered by policemen at Sabo/Ilupeju divisional headquarters, that Hammed Taiwo and Kehinde Jimoh who are errand okada riders to the kidnap syndicate were sighted somewhere in Rounder area of Abeokuta North local government. “Upon the information, the DPO Sabo/Ilupeju division, SP Mustapha Opawoye, quickly moblised his men and moved to the area, where the duo of Hammed Taiwo and Kehinde Jimoh were apprehended. “On interrogation, they confessed to being part of the syndicate, but their own role is to run errands and watch the environment to prevent law enforcement agents from getting to them unaware. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com