A 28-year-old man, one Clement Asuk, arrested for illegal possession of a cache of arms and ammunition in Borno State, has told the police how he received weapons from a lance corporal attached to Operation Hadin Kai in Maiduguri. Asuk said the weapons, including 126 anti-aircraft ammunition and four rocket-propelled grenades, were given to him to defend his community against members of the Indigenous People of Biafra in Cross River State, the News Agency of Nigeria reported on Friday. The Borno State Police Command arrested Asuk following credible information at the Kano motor park on Wednesday. The Public Relations Officer, Mr Kamilu Muhammed, said on Friday that the suspect was heading for the Akamkpa Local Government Area of Cross River when he was apprehended. Muhammed said the exhibit included 222 pieces of 7.62mm live ammunition, 517 pieces of 7.62mm by 51 live ammunition, 7.62mm by 39 live ammunition, and two empty AK-47 magazines. Other items included an application form into the Nigerian Navy, three teeth pieces, two small cartons of fish, one anti-aircraft ammunition belt, one wristwatch, five rings, three cowries, one Infinix mobile phone, and one charger. Also recovered was a charm. But Asuk claimed that he received the arms from Samuel on behalf of his uncle and urged the police to arrest them. “Samuel, who I knew through my uncle, Mr Joshua, gave me the arms to deliver to my community in the Akamkpa Local Government Area of Cross River, which is currently having communal clashes with members of IPOB. The IPOB is attacking the people because of a land issue and their not joining the IPOB insurrection. “The clash has existed for about three to four years now with lives and property lost. The last crisis occurred two months ago when many people were killed. I sell foodstuffs and commodities such as rice, beans, and pepper. I came here to only receive the items on behalf of my uncle. The police told me that they are working toward ensuring that they arrest Samuel and my uncle. I am hoping that they will be arrested because they are the owners of the arms and not me,” he added.