Deborah Tolu-Kolawole writes on the fight against Lassa fever in Nigeria amidst inaccessible health services, stagnating health workforce and dwindling COVID-19 cases While Nigeria, like most countries of the world, is gradually witnessing a decline in the number of daily COVID-19 cases, health officials are jolted by the outbreaks of Lassa fever in the country. The disease which has claimed more lives in 2022 than the last four years has proven itself as a huge burden to the nation’s health sector. Lassa fever, also known as Lassa hemorrhage, is a type of viral hemorrhagic fever caused by the Lassa virus and contracted through close contact with an infected animal, specifically the Mastomys rat species. According to the World Health Organisation, humans usually become infected with Lassa Virus through exposure to food or household items contaminated with urine or faeces of infected Mastomys rats. The disease, which according to the global health body, is endemic in the rodent population in parts of West Africa, mostly ravages during the dry season. “Lassa fever is known to be endemic in Benin, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mali, Sierra Leone, Togo and Nigeria. Person to person infection and laboratory transmission can also occur, particularly in healthcare settings in the absence of adequate infection, prevention and control measures. “80 per cent of people who become infected with Lassa fever have no symptoms. One in five infections result in severe organs such as the liver, spleen and kidneys”, the WHO said in a Lassa fever report. Despite being declared a public health emergency on January 29, 2019, and the alarming statistics of the recurring virus, nothing much has been done to change the narrative. While writing on the topic, “Infection pattern, case fatality rate and spread of Lassa virus in Nigeria”, Clement Ameh, Ezekiel Kogi et al observed that despite the dangerous nature of the disease, there  is scanty information on the seasonal pattern of infections and distribution of Lassa fever in Nigeria. They also noted that since the last outbreak of the disease in December 2016, there has been a gradual increase in the number of confirmed cases. They also noted with concern, the reports of consistent cases of the virus from Edo and Ondo states. “There is an annual increase in the number of LASV infections across the states in Nigeria. There is a need to heighten control strategies through the use of integrated approaches, ranging from vector control, health education and early diagnosis. “Infections increase at the onset of the dry season in November and decline till April when the wet season sets in. In Nigeria, the Federal Ministry of Health through the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control established a number of LF case management centres, often called treatment centres, to operate in association with specialist teaching hospitals in endemic states. “Despite the dangerous nature of this disease, there is scanty information on the seasonal pattern of infections and distribution of Lassa fever in Nigeria”. Official Lassa fever reports from the NCDC obtained by The PUNCH however confirmed the yearly increase in confirmed cases of the disease. In 2017, a total of 298 confirmed cases of the disease were reported according to analysis of the NCDC data. In 2018, there was a gradual increase in cases as the country reported a total of 528 cases. In 2019, the NCDC said it reported a total of 796 cases while the disease control centre confirmed a total of 1,165 cases during the height of the pandemic in 2020. In 2021, the country witnessed a surge in cases and deaths as no fewer than 4,654 suspected cases were reported alongside 102 deaths. So far in 2022, the NCDC said a total of 3,542 suspected cases and 127 deaths as of March 2022. The NCDC noted that of all confirmed cases, “67 per cent are from Ondo, Edo and Bauchi states.” Analysis by The PUNCH also revealed that health workers had not been spared from the ravaging disease as 51 health workers had been infected so far while 653 workers had been hospitalised. But an infectious diseases physician at the Federal Medical Centre, Abeokuta, Dr Ayanfe Omololu, said Nigeria needed more specialised health institutions to manage the epidemic. Omololu, in an interview with this newspaper, added that the facilities would also be useful in the management of cholera, yellow fever and other infectious diseases. Omololu, who is a member of the Nigerian Infectious Diseases Society, said, “Nigeria needs more health care institutions specialised in the management of not just Lassa fever, but all infectious diseases in general. This would greatly help in the management of epidemics like cholera, Lassa and yellow fever, which are quite endemic in our environment and have even led to very unnecessary deaths over the years, as well as in the management of pandemics like the current COVID-19 pandemic.” He also advised health workers to maintain a very high index of suspicion for any patient presenting with atypical symptoms, especially fever or unexplained bleeding while stressing the need for the provision of appropriate and adequate personal protective equipment at all times for health care workers to perform their duties safely. The Deputy Director, Institute of Viral Haemorrhagic Fever and Emergent Pathogens, Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital, Edo State, Dr Joseph Okoeguale, also said, “Less than two per cent of our patient’s load have co-infection; this is quite low but the recovery rate with good management is good. The two cases we have had this year have survived. “Lassa fever has been a major public health concern in the last one to two decades in Nigeria. It has occurred in annual outbreaks and in recent past, it is present all year round. “Efforts to stop the yearly outbreak through effective measures and counter-measures by international, national and local efforts have not stopped the yearly epidemics. Efforts in Lassa fever vaccine production is ongoing, some candidate vaccines have passed phase II of vaccine trials.” The expert added that the disease had continued to cause increasing morbidities and mortality with short and long-term consequences. “Coincidentally, the COVID-19 pandemic in recent past has presented before us a global profound public health threat which has impacted in lives of the citizens and economy. Many countries in West Africa are now doubling their efforts to manage the menace of this disease. In response, the NCDC stated that it had sent letters of awareness to states while adding that treatment centres had been set up in affected states. “Lassa fever initially presents like any other febrile disease such as malaria. its symptoms include fever, headache, sore throat, general body weakness, cough, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, muscle pains, chest pain and in severe cases, unexplainable bleeding from ears, eyes, nose, mouth and other body openings. “Healthcare workers should maintain a high index suspicion for Lassa fever. Any illness that has not responded to 48 hours use of anti-malaria or antibiotics should raise an index suspicion for Lassa fever “The time between an infection and appearance of symptoms of the disease is 6 to 21 days. Early diagnosis and treatment increase the chances of survival. “Lassa fever alert sent to states , the National Emergency Operations Centre response mode level 2 activated for effective multi-sectoral, multi-disciplinary coordination of 2022 Lassa fever outbreak response”. The spread of the disease is an indication of poor sanitation in the country and the parlous state of health facilities. The  WHO, in an advisory also stressed the importance of  promoting good “community hygiene” to discourage rodents from entering homes. “Effective measures include storing foodstuffs in rodent-proof containers, disposing of garbage far from the home, maintaining clean households, and keeping cats. “Because Mastomys rats are so abundant in endemic areas, it is not possible to eliminate them from the environment. Family members should always be careful to avoid contact with blood and body fluids while caring for sick persons. “In health-care settings, staff should also always apply standard infection prevention and control precautions when caring for patients, regardless of their presumed diagnosis. “These include basic hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene, use of personal protective equipment (to block splashes or other contacts with infected materials), safe injection practices, and safe burial practices. “Health-care workers caring for patients with suspected or confirmed Lassa fever should apply extra infection control measures to prevent contact with the patient’s blood and body fluids and contaminated surfaces or materials such as clothing and bedding. “When in close contact (within 1 metre) of patients with Lassa fever, health-care workers should wear face protection (a face shield or a medical mask and goggles), a clean, non-sterile long-sleeved gown, and gloves (sterile gloves for some procedures),” WHO said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com