TO commemorate its milestone, a leading value-added service aggregator, Creditswitch, has inaugurated a corporate social responsibility initiative in partnership with the Nigerian Correctional Service to mark its ninth anniversary. In the maiden edition of the CSR partnership with NCoS, Creditswitch, a player in the telecom and IT industry space in Nigeria  donated educational materials to the Lagos State Command headquarters of NCoS comprising laptops and books to inmates as well as sponsorship of twenty-two inmates for the 2022 Joint Admission and Matriculation Board examination. Speaking at the event, Enitan Kuton, the Head of marketing and communications, Creditswitch, Enitan Kuton, said “In line with our commitment towards positively contributing to communities where we operate, we have partnered with the Nigerian Correctional Service to commemorate our anniversary. “Our decision to partner with the Nigerian Correctional Service to provide educational support by sponsoring inmates that showed interest in writing JAMB and donating laptops and books is to help in fostering a system that effectively addresses the challenges confronting inmates which ultimately makes it difficult for them to secure gainful employment after their release, which makes them vulnerable to crime again,” Enitan said. Founded in 2013, Creditswitch has consistently invested in and provided the best value-added solutions to its business partners across all sectors of the economy by deploying technical infrastructure, expertise, and resources needed for these businesses to thrive. Chief Information Officer, Creditswitch, Michael Elue, was quoted as saying, “We want to support inmates to become responsible, law-abiding citizens who contribute positively to their communities upon release. This is part of delivering on our organization’s brand philosophy ‘to go the extra mile’. We are immensely proud to be associated with this noble initiative and we would like to encourage other organisations to join us in making a positive difference in the community, The Public Relations Officer and Chief Superintendent, NCS, Rotimi Oladokun, on behalf of the command thanked Creditswitch for the partnership with the service and the show of love and compassion to the inmates through their donation of educational materials and laptop computers to the NCS. The donation event was held at the Nigerian Correction Service office, Alagbon, Ikoyi Lagos.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com