•21 thugs also arrested with cutlasses, knives Detectives of the Bauchi State Police Command have arrested a 40-year old man in possession of an AK-47 Rifle, 20 rounds of 7.62mm caliber live ammunition, 31 cows, 28 sheep, and one dog. The suspect, Ahmadu Shuaibu, a resident of Bakin Ruwaji, Toro local government area of Bauchi state, was arrested by the detectives who were on routine patrol. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, Ahmed Wakil, stated this in a statement made available to journalists on Wednesday night. Wakil, a Superintendent of Police, said, “On the 15th March 2022 at about 8.00 am, the Command’s detectives, while on routine patrol around Nabordo area of Toro LGA, in a swift response, intercepted one Ahmadu Shuaibu alias Ruwaji, aged 40 years, of Bakin Ruwaji, Toro LGA. “Thorough investigation was made, and found in his possession were, one AK-47 Rifle, 20 rounds of 7.62mm caliber live ammunition, 31 cows and 28 sheep, and one dog. “During interrogation, the suspect confessed to have bought the prohibited firearm from one Ibrahim in Taraba state. “Investigation is ongoing, meanwhile, the suspect will be charged to court at the conclusion of the investigation.” Similarly, he said that the Rapid Response Squad of the Command led by its Commander, in a counteroffensive to the activities of thugs popularly called “Sara Suka” hoodlums, on April 4th, 2022 at Unguwar Hardo/Unguwar Mahaukata within the metropolis at about 9.15 pm, arrested 21 of them. He explained that the hoodlums inflicted injuries and caused damage to the properties of residents in the areas. According to him, the suspects arrested in connection to the crime are Usman Aliyu alias Walada, Hamza Yusuf alias Walke and Muslim Yakubu alias Tandu, all 20 years old, and residents of Yakubu wanka behind Zanwa. He said that, also arrested, were: Usaini musa alias ababba, Abdullahi idris alias Virus, Huzaifa Yakubu alias Babba, Usman Idris alias Dan Bala, Musa Alhassan alias Engineer, Abubakar A. Abubakar alias Uka, Abdullahi Musa alias Danfulani, Nasiru Sale alias Baba and Abubakar Isah alias Orji. He added that others were: Isma’ila Hassan alias Bature, Uzaifa Ibrahim alias Dan-nau, Yusuf Bala alias Ba-aske, Yakubu Musa alias Jahili, Sa’idu Ismail alias Nazifatu, Aliyu Abdullahi alias Ballu, Haruna Mohammed alias Maifachi, Haruna Adamu alias Baki, Sulaiman Idris alias Gandu and Umar Musa alias Kefas. Wakil, who said that exhibits recovered from the hoodlums were one Tecno handset, four Cutlasses, and two knives, pointed out that the Commissioner of Police directed that all the aforementioned suspects should be profiled and charged to court for prosecution. He said that Detectives of the Command while acting on credible intelligence, recovered some firearms and ammunition from some unnamed individuals. “On April 1st, 2022 at about 3.00 pm, the Command’s detectives acting on credible intelligence, mopped-up prohibited firearms from different individuals. “These include one AK 47 rifle, one SMG, one Pump action gun eagle, one G3 rifle, one locally made SMG, one Dane gun troy, one unserviceable Dane gun, 72 live ammunition, and five empty magazines. “The Command has further recovered the mopped-up firearms and ammunitions from different individuals in various areas within and outside the state,” he said. The Police Spokesman said that the Commissioner of Police, Umar Sanda, assured law-abiding citizens that the command, and other security agencies, would not relent on its oars and not spare any recalcitrant criminal(s) who refuses to go by the line of peace in the State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com