The Anambra State Government has constituted a 15-member Committee on Truth, Justice and Peace. The governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, had promised to set up the committee with a view to enabling the state government to interface and dialogue with various agitators and to allow peace to return to the region. This was contained in a statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Solo Chukwulobelu, and made available to journalists in Awka, on Wednesday. Accordig to the statement, the purpose of the committee is to seek a restorative justice approach for truth-telling or real facts, for the healing of the victims of the violence. It stated that the committee will account for the responsibility and accountability of the actors, conditional mercy for the repentant perpetrators, restitution for certain losses and rehabilitation of the perpetrators, for the overall aim of restoration of peace and justice as well as the promotion of development in the State, and the region/Nigeria. It added that given the cross-border nature of the conflict, the focus goes beyond Anambra, and possibly covers the entire South-East. It stated that specifically, “the terms of reference for the committee are to identify the remote and immediate causes of the agitations, restiveness, violence, and armed struggle in the South East since 1999. “Document victims/circumstances of death, brutality and incarceration. “Identify stakeholders and groups who have played critical roles in the agitations and conflicts, their roles, capabilities and demands. “Address any other issue(s) that may be germane to unravelling the extent of the crisis and charting the roadmap for the future. “Make recommendations for sustainable peace and security in Anambra state/South-East.” The statement added that the committee shall have a direct reporting line to the governor or his designee, and will be provided with administrative support. It pointed out that the committee shall be free to draw up the methodology to accomplish its assignment and shall conclude its work no later than six months from its inauguration “With its preliminary report due no later than two months after the sunset and the final report after two months of receiving feedback on the preliminary report from the government. The committee shall be inaugurated on a date to be communicated to its members,” it added. The members include Professor Chidi Odinkalu, Chairman; Ambassador Bianca Ojukwu, Member/Secretary; Dr. Joe Nwaorgu, member. Other members are Dr. Udenta Udenta, Dr. Uju Agomoh, Rev. Fr Jerome Madueke; Canon Dr. Okechukwu C. Obi-Okoye; Mr. Charles Oputa (Charly Boy); Dr. John Otu; Mr. Ngozi Odumuko; Ms Onyeka Onwenu; Dr. Joe Abah; Mr. Chukwuma Okpalaezeukwu; Mr. Sam Egwuatu and Prof. Joseph Ikechebelu. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com