THE Nigeria Labour Congress, Nigeria Union of Teachers and National Union of Local Government Employees, on Thursday protested against the misuse of LGs funds by governors, saying the third tier of government had become their pot of soup. The declaration came amidst calls for state Houses of Assembly in the country to pass the 44 Constitution Amendment Bills sent to them by the National Assembly. The NLC, NUT and NULGE, therefore, called on the Houses of Assembly to pass the Bills so that the LGs could be free from oppression. The PUNCH reported that the Clerk of the National Assembly, Amos Ojo, had on March 29, 2022, transmitted 44 Constitution Review Bills to the Clerks of the State Houses of Assembly for concurrence. The Bills require the approval of two-thirds of State Houses of Assembly to become laws. But speaking at a one-day stakeholders strategy session on advocacy for engaging the ongoing constitution amendment process organised by Partnership to Engage, Reform and Learn of the UK’s Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office, the first National Vice-President of NUT, Kayode Akosile, said most governors see the LG as their pot of soup, adding that they must support autonomy for the LGs. Akosile stated, “There is no development at the local government, that is why we are pushing for LG autonomy. Governors see LGs as their pot of soup. They want LG chairmen to be answerable to them. “We will join hands with the NULGE, NLC and others to ensure that LG autonomy is realised.” The NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, represented by the NLC Chairman, FCT chapter, Abubakar Yakub, said their stand on local government autonomy, independence of state Houses of Assembly and the judiciary remained unchanged. “LG autonomy, independence of legislature and of the judiciary is non-negotiable. All stakeholders must work hard and ensure that the constitutional amendment becomes a reality,” Yakub stated. The President of NULGE, Ambali Olatunji, said all hands must be on the deck to rescue Nigeria, adding that LG autonomy should be of paramount importance in the current constitutional amendment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com