MEMBERS of the Ghanaian Parliament watched as members of the House of Representatives exchanged words over lawmaker’s alleged misconduct during Wednesday plenary. The Ghanaian lawmakers visited the House to observe a plenary by their Nigerian counterparts. After the House suspended its rules to accommodate guests into the chamber, the Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Wase, who presided over the session, had earlier directed the Majority Leader, Alhassan Ado-Doguwa, to usher in their Ghanaian counterparts. As the proceedings got to Item 10 on the Order Paper, Wase skipped a motion sponsored by Serguis Ogun from Edo State, titled, ‘Call to investigate the invasion of the Federal High Court, Uyo, Akwa Ibom by personnel of the Nigeria Police Force’, and jumped to Item 11. While Ogun reminded the presiding officer that his motion is next, Wase, however, told him that he deliberately skipped the lawmaker’s motion because he broke a rule of the House which stated that no member should make a noise on the floor while proceedings were ongoing. Ogun disagreed, arguing that he was discussing his motion with his colleague. The lawmaker added that he was neither the first nor the only member to make a noise while plenary was ongoing. “My motion is the next listed, I’m here to take it. Mr Speaker, I know you have the power not to take it,” the lawmaker stated. The lawmaker apologised after being chided by the deputy speaker. The Majority Leader criticised Ogun’s utterances and called for sanctions. According to Ado-Doguwa, the lawmaker’s apology was unacceptable and must be called to order. He stated, “Just saying sorry won’t suffice. We have to call him to order. We have to invoke disciplinary measures. This is an institution, not a jungle. He must be called to order for speaking anyhow to the Speaker.” Wase, while accepting Ogun’s apology, said there was no need for sanctions. He advised lawmakers to always conduct themselves well, especially given the fact that they had colleagues visiting from another African country. The deputy speaker then called on Ogun to move his motion. In the motion, Ogun prayed the House to urge the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, to immediately produce the fleeing police officer and hand her over to the National Agency for Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons for prosecution. The lawmaker also prayed the House to mandate its Committee on Police Affairs to investigate the invasion of the Federal High Court sitting in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, by personnel of the Nigeria Police Force on Wednesday, February 16, 2022, to ensure that those who were complicit in the invasion face the full wrath of the law. The committee was to report to the House in four weeks for further legislative action. After Ogun moved the motion, the deputy speaker subjected its adoption to voice vote, but it was unanimously rejected.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com