Two people were killed and 11 abducted, while three people sustained gunshot injuries in Ungwan Bulus, Chikun Local Government Area, a suburb of Kaduna State, as terrorists invaded the community, wreaking havoc on its residents. The councillor representing Sabon Tasha Ward, Dauda Makama, confirmed to The PUNCH on Friday, that two persons were instantly shot dead, 11 persons kidnapped and three critically injured. According to him, the armed men had invaded the community Thursday evening at about 8 pm on foot and started shooting indiscriminately at the residents. He explained that the community had been experiencing such terror attacks for some time, noting that the Thursday attack was the fourth of its kind in recent times, although he claimed there were plans on the ground to beef up security measures in forestalling any future occurrence. A victim who pleaded anonymity disclosed to our correspondent, that five of his family members were kidnapped by the terror abductors and that no contact had yet been established. He said, ”I came in this morning and found out that the doors of my family members were open except for their 3-old-baby who was deeply asleep, which I took (her)”. “As I am talking to you we’re overwhelmed with security threats in this community; we have lost everything because of terrorists who have been attacking our community. “This is not the Kaduna we all crave for, we’re calling on the government to use its might in ensuring all the people kidnapped and rendered homeless should be returned in order to recover the sanity of the state. A resident of the area, Bulus Shemang, lamented that the troubled community was hopeless and devastated over the spate of attacks. “We are handicapped, and I’ve lost hope over everything that has been happening to us. The unfortunate thing was that the victims were left at their own mercy to treat themselves and find succour to their predicament.” Shemang decried. The State Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige did not respond to calls put forward to his phone number to confirm the incident as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com