FOLLOWING the crisis in the Ondo State branch of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, the state government has suspended activities of the union in the state while a management committee has been set up to oversee the affairs of public parks in the state. Members of the union last Thursday protested against the alleged interference of the state government in the affairs of the union. The protesters alleged that the state government was planning to impose the immediate past chairman of the union, Mr Jacob Adebo, for a second term in office. In a statement by the Press Secretary to the Deputy Governor, Mr Kenneth Odusola-Stevenson, on Sunday, the government said activities of the union in public parks had been suspended. The statement was titled ‘Ondo State Government sets up park management committee.’ According to the statement, the immediate former chairman of the union, Adebo was appointed the chairman of the committee while Mr Bayode Gbenga was named as the Secretary. The statement read, “Consequent upon protracted crisis in the National Union of Road Transport Workers operating in the public motor parks in Ondo State, the government has intervened by setting up Motor Park Management Committee to manage and administer all the public motor parks in the state. “The government noted the unfortunate unending crisis and litigation involving the union in court which has adversely affected activities in the public motor parks in the state. “The government therefore has decided to take over all the public motor parks in the state and set-up a committee to administer same. The union’s activities in public parks in the state are accordingly suspended.” NURTW suspends meetings, ticket sales in Lagos Meanwhile, the Lagos State Secretary of the NURTW, Oluwaseyi Bankole, has said meetings and sale of union tickets has been suspended in the state. Bankole, in a statement on Sunday, said the development was in line with the ban placed on union activities in the state. He added that no union member should make any payment at the council office in the state. Bankole said, “This directive is sequel to the ban placed on union activities in Lagos State by the state governor. Henceforth, no member of the union should make any payments whatsoever at any of the state council offices. “Also be informed that meetings are temporarily suspended, and any gathering whatsoever will not be allowed at the council’s premises. This is to avoid anyone being embarrassed or arrested by the security agencies as a result of flouting the order of the governor. “I will also advise our members to stop any payments of any form to avoid duplicate payments. The National Headquarters in Abuja and the Southwest office, Zone 2, in Osogbo, will communicate at the appropriate time when to make payments.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com