A former Minister of Power, Prof Barth Nnaji, on Sunday, declared his intention to contest the 2023 Enugu governorship seat under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party. Nnaji, made his intention known in a brief ceremony held at his country home, Umuode, in the Nkanu East Local Government Area of the state, when a New Enugu Coalition for Good Governance presented both expression of interest and nomination forms purchased to him. The coalition was led by a former governoship candidate in the state, Ekene Uzodinma. In his acceptance speech, Nnaji said: “I must thank the coalition who thought that I was qualified to embark on this journey and went ahead to buy forms for me. I am so grateful. It is difficult for anyone to be presented with this challenge and he says no. Especially when they have gone ahead to procure the form needed for the journey. I hereby accept.” He said that he wants to be governor so that he can add value to his state. “The previous speakers have said that the current administration has entrenched peace and there is no development without peace. This is why I want to contest. I want to add value. We have to work very hard to build our state. “There are many things in government but what we need is to give people the power to develop. We need to be able to attract foreign companies to build industries here. Enugu State is the capital of the South-East, let us become that. Let us see that we are able to advance. “I am coming into government to serve.  Anytime I come into government, it is about sacrifice. Sacrifice for the people. This is so we can lift our people.” He, however, said that it is the Governor of the state, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, who has the power to decide who would fly the flag of the party in the 2023 contest but expressed hope that he would be chosen by the governor. On his part, Ekene Uzodinma described Nnaji as the most qualified of all the governorship aspirants in the state. “I don’t personally believe in zoning. If you were from Nsukka, I would support you. If you were from any other zone, I would still support you. But thank God you are from Enugu East. “You are not coming out because of zoning but because you are the most qualified. In fact, Prof Nnaji should lead the entire South-East and not just Enugu State,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com