A group, Nigeria Patriotic Quest, has called on Nigerians to judge the Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele, by his concrete achievements instead of listening to political detractors. The group made this call in a statement signed by its coordinator, Ahmed Tijani, on Sunday, noting that Emefiele should not be blamed for the decline in the value of the Naira in recent years. He said, “The COVID-19 pandemic also dealt a heavy blow on the economy, this impacted the naira adversely due to the near drying-up of forex inflows from oil and non-oil sectors. We should give credit to Emefiele and his team at the CBN for how they managed the national economy at this very troubling time without it collapsing totally. “These efforts have manifested in the diverse and very innovative intervention programmes cutting across agriculture, industries, energy, infrastructure, etc. The way and manner Emefiele has managed to combine the traditional duties of the CBN with interventions in the major sectors of the economy are the reasons for our unflinching support for him to contest the presidency of Nigeria in 2023. We are staunch believers in his capacity, given the impact he has made in diverse areas of the economy. “We assert, with all sense of responsibility that without these critical interventions Nigeria will have been in a more precarious economic situation than we are now. Can we imagine if the right investments were not made in agriculture, especially rice, at the time it was made, how will we have been able to finance the rice armada from Thailand given the present situation of our economy?” Tijani added that Nigeria’s dependence on imported goods was responsible for the dwindled value of the country’s currency. “Another major factor affecting the value of the naira is the nation’s very poor industrial and productive base. We are an import-dependent economy, as we import most of our major consumer and industrial goods including food, toiletries, textiles, cars, machinery etc. This resulted in a very high demand for dollars in the face of ever-dwindling forex inflows. Of course, this also impacted the value of the naira negatively. “Finally, we implore all patriotic Nigerians to judge Emefiele by his concrete achievements as CBN Governor rather than listen to the discordant sounds from the echo chambers of detractors and political mercenaries,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com