The Federal Government spent N177.53bn on pension and gratuities in the second half of 2021. These were revealed by figures obtained from the Central Bank of Nigeria’s monthly economic report on Federal Government expenditure. It stated that N88.67bn was spent in the third quarter of 2021 while N88.86bn was spent in the fourth quarter of 2021. Recently, the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate in charge of the Defined Benefits Scheme under the Federal Government said it inherited pension liabilities totalling N129.48bn. This was disclosed in Lagos during a capacity workshop where a presentation titled ‘Parastatals Pension Department’ was delivered. In the presentation, PTAD said it inherited an estimated amount of N32.77bn, N28.96bn and N67.75bn owed pensioners of the Treasury Funded Parastatal, Ex-PHCN and defunct agencies. The directorate, however, said it had cleared almost all the pension liabilities and was ensuring that all outstanding arrears were taken care of. While ensuring that monthly pensions of the retirees were paid, it also said it had taken measures to bring integrity and validity to the pension system. In an interview with our correspondent, the Vice Chairman, Federal Concerned Pensioners, Yele Onidimu, lamented that the federal pensioners were still grappling with a lot of challenges. Onidimu said, “The challenges we are having is that of late payment of our monthly pension. They come so late and when they come, it is like not everybody is getting the money at the same time. “So the issue of making payment is what we have been asking and dragging the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate to work on.” He added, “One other thing is about our arrears. They have promised to give us 24 months arrears payment. Up till now, they have been delaying. “They have three months outstanding that they have not paid. This is supposed to have been  paid us by end of first quarter which ended in March, but up till now, we have not received the three months balance.” He expressed worry that many retirees were still not being paid gratuity and pensions, noting that retirees should live comfortably with what the government was paying them. “We have been submitting many complaints to PTAD but we still have many pensioners that we have not been able to get on payroll,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com