THE General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye has charged the Redeemer’s College of Technology and Management, Ogun State, to develop a relevant academic curriculum. The cleric, who is the Visitor to the College, spoke at the second graduation ceremony of the institution where it graduated 92 students. He explained that a relevant curriculum would enable graduands of the institution to be contributors to national development in the areas of entrepreneurship and scientific inventions needed for economic breakthrough. Represented by the National Overseer, Pastor Joseph Obayemi, he said, “Permit me to use this golden opportunity to congratulate the Governing Council under the leadership of the Holy Ghost and steer by Pastor J. F. Odesola.  I am delighted that the mission statement and vision of RECTEM is insight and to the glory of God, the journey to technological breakthrough and innovation by the College is around the corner. “I challenge the Rector of the College and her management team to put RECTEM on the global map for academic excellence, entrepreneurship and skill development and scientific inventions. The Chairman, Governing Council, RECTEM, Dr Johnson Odesola, said the convocation provided ample opportunity for assessment of the performance of an institution and to raise the bar for higher academic and entrepreneurial pursuits, adding that RECTEM was on the path of greatness and technological breakthrough. The Rector, RECTEM, Dr Stella Mofunaya, who listed some of the achievements of the students, noted with delight that “Today, we have covered some distances with verifiable evidence the graduating students here seated are part of the transformational agenda. Though the journey has some challenges but thanks to God for the strength and wisdom.” The Executive Secretary, National Board for Technical Education, Kaduna, Prof. Idris Bugaji noted that Technical and Vocational Education and Training remained the driving force for sustainable development. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com