The House of Representatives has urged the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; the Accountant General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris; and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, to withhold further allocation of funds from the Ecological Funds to the National Emergency Management Agency, National Agency for the Great Green Wall, North-East Development Commission and the National Agricultural Land Development Authority. The allocation is to be withheld “pending the outcome of the investigation on the alleged misapplication of Ecological Funds.” The House consequently mandated its Committee on Ecological Funds to “investigate the releases from Ecological Funds to the National Emergency Management Agency, National Agency for the Great Green Wall, the North-East Development Commission and the National Agricultural Land Development Authority in the last three years. “Examine the utilisation of the funds allocated to the National Emergency Management Agency, National Agency for the Great Green Wall, North-East Development Commission and the National Agricultural Land Development Authority from the Ecological Funds in the last three years.” These resolutions were based on the motion moved by a member of the House, Ibrahim Isiaka, at the plenary on Wednesday. The motion was titled, ‘Need to Investigate the Utilisation of Ecological Funds by the National Emergency Management Agency, the National Agency for the Great Green Wall, the North East Development Commission and the National Agricultural Land Development Authority.’ Isiaka noted that the Ecological Funds exists as an intervention fund set up by the Federal Government to address the multifarious ecological challenges across the country.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com