Chief Imam of Apo Legislative Quarters Mosque, Shiekh Nuru Khalid, who was suspended over a sermon considered to be “anti-government” has broken his silence. Khalid, popularly known as Digital Imam, in a post written in Arabic, said “God is the most powerful. He gives (enthrones) and takes away power (dethrones) from whomever He wishes”. The Imam said this a few hours after reports that he had been suspended as the Chief Imam of Apo Legislative Quarters Mosque by the committee in charge of the worship centre. The message was similar to the content of the letter written by Sanusi Lamido II when he was dethroned as the Emir of Kano. The Imam also urged Nigerians not to relent in praying for Nigeria and its leaders. He said, “Oh God! the master of sovereignty, you give sovereignty to whom you please, and seize sovereignty from whom you please, you honour whom you please and you abase whom you please, all good is in your hands, indeed you have power over all things.” The mosque committee of Apo legislative quarters, Abuja, had suspended Khalid over a sermon he delivered on Friday, April 1. Khalid, who is also the Founder of Islamic Research and Da’awah Foundation, in the sermon, criticised the government for its failure to stop insecurity in the country. The Imam specifically told the electorate not to vote for any politician who cannot guarantee them the safety of lives and properties. While delivering the sermon, he said, “Nigerian masses should resort to only one term which is – protect our lives, we will come out to vote; let us be killed, we will not come out to vote, since it’s only elections that you people know. “We need prayers. We need supplication. This is very important at a time when Nigeria is facing a very serious challenge. Everything is not working well. People are dying. Our roads are not secured. “Most part of the country is not secured. The government is always telling us that they are doing their best.  But we deserve more than that best as citizens because we want a secured Nigeria. “What you are telling us is that your concern is about the 2023 elections. And what I am telling the citizens is to send a message that we are going to vote under one condition. Nigerian masses should resort to only one term which is – protect our lives, we will come out to vote; let us be killed, we will not come out to vote, since it’s the only language you understand, we are going to speak it. “Our lives are important to us. We want to live. Our wealth and dignity are is important as well. You must do something to secure our lives and make our security workable. We cannot afford to be moving like this. People attacking our trains, killing our people as if there is no government in this country. “They (bandits) can gather and disseminate intelligence information as if they are a government of their own while our government cannot share information and stop the rubbish on our ways.” In a statement sent to BBC Hausa Service, the chairman of the mosque committee, Senator Saidu Muhammed Dansadau, said the imam was suspended over his sermon. The statement accused Khalid of “inciting public outrage”, saying his preachings negated the tenets of Islam. The statement read in part, “I am informing you that you have been suspended from leading prayers in the Apo Legislative Quarters Mosque from today being April 2nd, 2022 until further notice. “The decision was taken out of the inciting Friday sermon you delivered on April 1st, 2022; where you advised people not to vote come 2023 general elections unless politicians respond to some critical questions. “You should have advised them to vote out those that transgress the Almighty and breach people’s social contract as well as the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com