Thirty-four-year-old Kehinde Badmus, has lived the last five months in excruciating pain as he struggles to fight his way through chronic liver damage. The Ogun State Polytechnic graduate of Mass Communication, who is currently battling for his life at a private hospital in Lagos, fell ill shortly after his introduction to his would-be in-laws in October 2021, in preparation for his wedding. His father, Ganiyu, told City Round that he first noticed that his son’s condition had deteriorated when his stomach started protruding while he also vomited and urinated blood. “In February last year (2021), I was called and told that he fell sick, and when I got to the Federal Medical Centre, Abeokuta, I saw him vomiting blood. He was later treated and discharged but after six or seven months, the problem recurred. In October last year, his stomach started protruding. He vomited and urinated blood, so we were referred to a private hospital in Victoria Island, Lagos, where he is currently,” Ganiyu, a widower, told City Round that a medical evaluation showed that his son had liver disease and would need N10m to undergo surgery in Nigeria. According to a medical report by a consultant vascular/interventional radiologist, Dr Hamed Ninalowo, Kehinde “developed upper gastrointestinal bleeding with features of decompensated cirrhosis initially (in) November 2021. “Workup demonstrated positive hepatitis B infection with endoscopic features of gastroesophageal varices and porta hypertensive gastropathy. He has since had several episodes of gastrointestinal bleeding not happen approximately every two weeks, the last of which was a few days ago. He also admits a history of ascites requiring drainage at least once,” it added. The 66-year-old retired headteacher decried his inability to raise the fund required for the treatment, disclosing that he had been managing to take care of his children since he lost their mother in 2018. He also lamented that over N500,000 was spent to get a diagnosis and drugs for his son’s treatment in Lagos and Ogun states. “The doctors said he would need N10.2m for the operation but that if we wanted to take him to India, we would need N40m. We were able to raise N3.9m through donations from members of the public, so he (Kehinde) was taken to the hospital on Wednesday to begin the treatment. “We need N7.1m to complete the payment and treatment. One of the doctors said they would continue the treatment if the first phase was successful,” he added. While appealing to Nigerians to come to his aide, the retiree said, “I have six children and Kehinde has a twin sister. I lost their mother in September 2018, 10 months after my retirement. She complained about a headache after returning from her shop by the roadside but died the following day. “When I met Kehinde at the hospital yesterday (Thursday), we both wept. He was too weak. He could not talk when his twin sister wanted to talk to him. I appeal to every Nigerian and people around the world to assist me. No amount is too small.” Donations can be sent to the family can be sent to account name: Badmus Kehinde Jamiu, account number: 6170957604 and bank: Fidelity Bank.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com