In 2010, during one of my travels, I had been privileged to meet Gabriel Garcia Marquez. He had been awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1982; ten years earlier former US President, Bill Clinton, when he was a third-semester student at Yale, acclaimed him “the most important writer of fiction.” This chance meeting, however, marked my first knowledge of the man and his works—works that’d later influence and shape my writing prowess. For a budding writer like me, it was, indeed, a gift to come in contact with the literary icon. Although Garcia Marquez was of Colombian descent and had lived most of his adult life in Europe and Mexico, where he died, on April 17, 2014, I met with him in Ilorin, the capital city of Kwara State. At the time he was 82 years, two months and six days old. I was attracted to this old man whose benign face illuminates an academic sense of authority for two reasons: firstly, he’d started out as a journalist, reporting for the El Espectador in Bogota, Colombia. His most memorable work in that newspaper included The story of a shipwrecked sailor, an account of one of the eight crew members of a Colombian destroyer who disappeared after being washed overboard but turned up ten days later, barely alive on a deserted beach in Northern Colombia. Secondly, I chanced upon Garcia Marquez courtesy of one of my mentors in journalism: Bolaji Abdullai. Back in the university, I’d been blown away by Abdullai’s columns in THISDAY, which were more evident in his works namely: Detained in the Air; Die, Teacher, Die!; God in Need of Rescue; The Don’s Last Game; What is This Miss World Thing about Anyway? As to all works of art, some articles of his I found unimpressive; notwithstanding I had formed a cult-like following towards him. And I never looked back. Both men had moved on with life. Garcia Marquez had established himself as one of the great writers that Salman Rushdie proclaimed “(he) writes in this lyrical, magical language that no-one else can do.” The facts supported the claim. Abdullai, for his part, had quit the newsroom to take up political appointments as Special Adviser (Media) and later Commissioner (Education, Science and Technology) in the eight-year government of Bukola Saraki in Kwara State. But before this chance meeting with Garcia Marquez in Abdullai’s residence, neither the man nor his works were known to me, so when Abdullai dropped his name in introduction I immediately stretched a hand of fellowship. Followership followed. I had just finished reading One Hundred Years of Solitude, one of his books that Abdullai had insisted I read. And what I found fascinating about the writer is his mastery of syntax—how words are strung together well. And amazingly, for style, how he’d told a story rather forward, backward: Chronicle of a Death Foretold. One Hundred Years of Solitude, described by William Kennedy (of the New York Times Book Review) as “the first piece of literature since the Book of Genesis that should be required reading for the entire human race,” started off as a bore; to me, it was as drudgery as Haruna Ishola’s Apala music did in our ears when we were kids. It made one sleepy. Patience, I remember, was the wishful thinking of the author. A virtue, I think, he emphasised amongst his fans. During Garcia Marquez’s visit to the United States in the 1990s, he met President Clinton over the US embargo on Cuba. Garcia Marquez opposed it and was trying to talk Clinton out of it. When they were talking, Marquez, Clinton said, lavished most of his attention on Chelsea (Clinton’s daughter), who said she had read two of his books. “He later told me,” recalled Clinton, “that he didn’t believe a fourteen-year-old girl could understand his work, so he launched into an extended discussion with her about One Hundred Years of Solitude.” However complex and challenging the work was, it paid off; in part for him, in part for me. By the time I was done with the book, I wrote Abdullai telling him “I’ve indeed read books but none had been so evocatively and lucidly written than Marquez’s. He is a maelstrom.” In two weeks I’d ordered four more of his books: from Chronicle of a Death Foretold to Love in the Time of Cholera and Memories of My Melancholy Whores to No One Writes to the Colonel. And all, to my great astonishment, made me think when I read each, in a moment of illuminated pathos, that perhaps I was witnessing the unfolding of an earthquake. He was a master of magical realism, a genre defined as what happens when a highly detailed, realistic setting is invaded by something so strange to believe. To boot, he possessed a firmness of imagination that made his story, style and structure seamless. And timeless, too. It has been eleven years, six months and twenty-four days since I first met and read Garcia Marquez’s work and I haven’t stopped reading his numerous stories, numbering twelve up in my private library, time and time again. In essence, Abdullai wanted me to drink from the pool he draws and introducing Garcia Marquez’s book, which carries a photograph of the author on its paperback, in his filled-to-the-brim four-wall library that day (as it was not established if Garcia Marquez ever visited Ilorin, much less any part Nigeria) made all the difference to me, even so, after his 8th posthumous anniversary. Goodnight Gabo (March 6, 1927 – April 17, 2014). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com