A group, Imo Youths Peace Movement, on Wednesday, urged the government to withdraw soldiers from streets in the state. The president of the group, Chidubem Ogbenna, while reacting to the resurgence of criminal activities in Imo State, said that huge presence of military men in the state was not the solution to the spates of killings going in the state. The youth activist said that dialogue was the key to ending insecurity in the state. Ogbenna volunteered to lead the move for dialogue with those attacking the state if the government could sanction it. He said that the state had suffered enough, adding that his group was worried by how insecurity had engulfed Imo State and the South-East. “We are Imo Youths Peace Movement. We urge the Federal Government to demilitarise South-East and Imo State in particular. Dialogue is the only key to solving the problem of insecurity in Imo State. The military does not understand dialogue. They are trained to be forceful and that won’t solve our problem. “Every day we keep losing our young ones. Our state and national assets including buildings owned by law abiding citizens are being razed. Businesses are folding up. People are now scared to come home. Investors are running away. This is not what we want. We need peace in Imo State. Our group is leading the way for peace. We are ready to dialogue with the aggrieved youths and I shall lead the journey if government sanctions it. “Youths can talk to youths in a language they understand no matter how bad they are. Let the government remove military operation. We the youths for peace believe it’s possible to calm the situation in the zone without gun for gun approach. Let the government give us the chance to bring permanent solution by removing the army from the streets,” Ogbenna said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com