An Igbo think tank group, Nzuko Umunna, has said it is ready to persuade Nigerians on the need for a South-Easterner to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in 2023. It said it would unveil a stirring national conversation, through its Greater Nigeria Conference, to persuade Nigerians to see the fidelity of a Nigerian president from the South-East region. The group made this known in a statement titled, ‘Greater Nigeria Conference ready to persuade Nigerians for a South-East president’, and signed by its Media Office Head, Collins Steve Ugwu, on Thursday. The group argued that there was a need for Nigerians to rally round a candidate from the region for “equity, justice, and fairness to be seen as our unifying cornerstone”. To persuade Nigerians, the group noted that it would be holding a conference at the Executive Hall of the International Conference Centre, Abuja, on April 25, 2022. According to the group, the event is geared to gather Nigerians of all persuasions and substance, the elders, opinion molders, politicians, entrepreneurs, the youths, from the north and south, west and east, to a rational dialogue on the moral force of South East’s quest for Nigerian president from the zone. The initiative, the group maintained, was to underscore the need for progressive good governance, equity in diversity, and fairness by inclusion in national politics. The statement read, “We are determined by the eminence of the leading lights of this conference, in the persons of former governor of Enugu State, Dr Okwesilieze Nwodo and Distinguished Senator Victor Umeh, both former Chairmen of prominent national parties in Nigeria, as Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the GNC Organizing Committee respectively, to ask Nigerians to give the Southeast region the opportunity to make history for one Nigeria. “Now is the best time to cast the net of presidential recruitment to the Southeast, given the inspiring stature of men with proven capacity, competence, fitness, and knowledge, eager for fair consideration to serve this country as president, the way other regions have faithfully done unhindered. “It is our humble conviction and sober resolve that putting these worthy candidates on the table before Nigerians will make them appreciate deeply, how prepared South East has come through, in their compelling quest to balance our political sensitivity towards a stronger union, with a brave full integration of Southeast Ndigbo.” “The Greater Nigeria Conference with the theme “Together We Can” will build on the strength and determination of all lovers of peace, justice, and progress, to work better together, listen to each other more, and act selflessly in a  pan Nigeria spirit to remove the yoke of South East exclusion to the highest office in their country. “The occasion which will have all presidential aspirants from the southeast, governors from Southeast and Southern Nigeria in attendance, will be graced by a special delegation from Ohaneze Ndigbo, South West Afenifere leaders, Middle Belt Forum, Arewa Consultative Forum, Pan Niger Delta Forum amongst others. “Already, confirmations of attendance and participation from Nigerians in the diaspora, and within are great, in what will be a frank engagement to preach the message of solidarity to all, that the Southeast region is worthy of their trust and ready to serve this country, as their President since the unfortunate civil war more than fifty years ago.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com