The Raymond Nkemdirim Foundation has announced the commencement of her second edition of the Abia State Schools Quiz competition. The coordinator of the competition Mr. Uche Ama-Ohakan said the competition was open for both private and public secondary school students of senior secondary school 2 classes. He revealed that winners of the competition would receive scholarships worth N1.75 million. The coordinator, in a statement in Umuahia on Wednesday, stated that each school was expected to be represented by two students to compete in subjects like the English language, Mathematics, Sciences, and General studies. According to him, the picking of forms by interested schools has commenced, adding that the form is given without charge. “Schools are to pick up these forms from the Abia State Ministry of Education, SEMB, AIES, and ZIES, NAPPS as well as at Flo Fm office, 7b Factory Road, Umuahia. “The school quiz competition is scheduled to hold from 17th-26th May 2022 for local levels, while zonal stages will hold from 31st May- 2nd June 2022. The grand finale holds on June 30, 2022. “Prices have been arranged for winners at each stage from the local government to the zonal level and the state level. “The first prize for the overall best school is N1m, the second price runner up is N500,000 and the third price is N250,000. Local government winners are also entitled to have financial packages. “The philanthropist gesture is a strategic action to support Abia state government in promoting education and motivating pupils within the state towards sustained interest in learning. The aim is also to enhance human development in the long run”. “This pursuit is predicated on Raymond Nkemdirim Foundation’s mission summed in strategic Community-Oriented Actions for Good Governance and Sustainable Development. “The foundation also holds the view that education is the bedrock of development in which strategic community-Oriented Actions can be directed to empower the people at the developmental stages of their lives to build strong citizenship and leadership qualities in youths that will eventually translate into good governance and sustainable development for the state and her people”, Uche stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com