Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, on Wednesday, cleared the air on speculations bordering on his political ambition after the expiration of his tenure as Ekiti State Governor in 2023. Commenting on speculations that he may declare for Nigeria’s oval office and contest the presidential election in 2023, Fayemi said the season of Ramadan and the lent period were sacred for political games. The NGF chairman disclosed these during his first working visit to Gombe State, where he was received at the Government House by Governor Muhammadu Yahaya. He, however, asked his supporters to wait till when the period of Ramadan and lent is over before he opens up on his next political journey. He said, “For us, in Christendom, this is the period of lent and for people of the Muslim faith, this is Ramadan. Very rarely do the two come together. So this is a period that requires sober reflection. “The period is of deep thinking and should not be a period of the political declaration. Whether I’m going to run or not is a matter of conjecture. What I will appeal to you to do is to wait until after this spiritual season. I think it will be disrespectful to start playing those politics.” Meanwhile, Fayemi said governors across the country were not oblivious of the economic challenges being faced by Nigerians. He stated that their role as governors was to ensure that they cooperated with the Federal Government to ensure citizens enjoy the dividends of democracy. The governor also bemoaned the efforts of those he described as criminals for attempting to frustrate the government and sabotage oil production. Speaking on the role of governors in stabilising the economy, Fayemi said their role is to support the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) while describing the moment of the country’s existence as challenging times. Fayemi said, “There are both internal and external challenges, internal in the way and manner the volume of our oil production has gone down due to some deliberate attempt on the part of criminals to frustrate the national efforts. “In ensuring that we maximise production at a time when the price of oil is very attractive in the international. We have not been able to take advantage due to the limited production. “On the other hand, the war going on in Ukraine has affected food prices because we get some of the food items particularly wheat from Ukraine. So, the production of bread and other staple have suffered tremendously and inflation has affected things. “The President is working on all while we as governors have to collaborate with him to improve the economy because things are not easy for ordinary Nigerians and all of us are feeling the pains of the moment. We owe it a duty to meet the demand of our office which is security and welfare.” On his part, Governor Yahaya lauded the efforts of the NGF chairman, adding that Gombe state has become a home to people from neighbouring states. He stated that his administration has provided succour to displaced persons, by making the state conducive. Yahaya said, “As at the last count about 75,000 families are settled in Gombe. I don’t think if an opportunity comes they will still think of going back. “I want to assure you that our party is in control and I believe that through the support we are getting from Mr president, we can get to any level you want us to.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com