The Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, joined hundreds of worshippers at St. Patrick’s Cathedral Church, Awka, for the Palm Sunday. Soludo, in his remarks, spoke on the significance of the occasion and the need for the people to emulate the teachings, love, and peace that Jesus Christ signifies. He reiterated that the insecurity perpetrated in the state was the handiwork of people who were not indigenes of the Anambra state. He urged the people to cooperate with the government to flush out these criminal elements if they refused to accept the amnesty being granted to them. He noted that his government is ready to rehabilitate and assist the repented elements to begin a new meaningful life. He warned, however, that those criminals who refused to renounce criminalities, will have themselves to blame. Soludo, therefore, urged the people to cooperate and work harmoniously together to reclaim their land back from these criminal elements rampaging and killing innocent people at will. In his homily to mark the occasion, His Lordship, Most Rev’d Paulinus Ezeokafor, urged the congregation to emulate the life and teachings of Jesus Christ. Ezeokafor noted that Christ’s suffering and endurance are part of the grace that humanity enjoys today He also called on the people of Anambra State to support Governor Chukwuma Charles Soludo in his genuine efforts to rid the state of criminal elements. He urged the people not to be cowed but to brace up and ensure peace and tranquillity return to Anambra State Other dignitaries at the Mass include the Secretary to the State Government,  Prof Solo Chukwulobelu; Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mr Ernest Ezeajughi; Chinedu Nwoye (Glamour), Deputy Chief of Staff/ Chief Protocol to the Governor; Engr Emeka Ezenwanne, former Commissioner of Public Utilities under Governor Willie Obiano’s administration; Hon Chris Azubogu, Member Representing Nnewi North/Nnewi South and Ekwusigo Federal Constituency; Barrister Leo Chiegboka and others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com