A 17-year-old worker, Chukwuebuka Nwode, has been arrested by the Edo State Police Command for allegedly killing his employer, Peter Onoberhie. The suspect was arrested with two accomplices while trying to sell his boss’ car at Uwelu spare part market. Nwode was working at a sachet water factory owned by the deceased when he carried out the act. The state police spokesperson, Kontongs Bello, said the teenager allegedly killed his victim and conspired with two other persons to steal his car. The suspect told City Round that he used a kitchen knife to kill his boss while he was watching television in his sitting room at midnight. “I didn’t just know what came over me to kill him. I have been living with my mother in Ondo State for the past 16 years. So, when I turned 17, I decided to leave for Benin City. When I got to Benin City, I first started a job in a bakery. After I got the bakery job, I travelled to my village but when I returned from the village, my boss said my services were no longer needed. “After I was laid off from my bakery job, I got this job (at the water factory). After working for some time, I decided to kill and steal his car. I went to meet him while watching television in his room at night and stabbed him with a kitchen knife. “In the morning, I went to Ring Road to look for a driver because I don’t know how to drive. I met someone who could drive and took him to the house and drove the car to Uwelu spare parts market to sell it. But we were apprehended by the vigilance group who later handed us to the police.” Meanwhile, the state police command said it arrested 11 suspects for alleged murder, robbery, and banditry. The News Agency of Nigeria reported on Friday that Bello said three suspects were arrested for alleged robbery, three for alleged murder; two for alleged banditry, and three others for conspiracy, robbery and murder. He added that exhibits recovered within the period included three cut-to-size guns, one vehicle, one expended cartridge, and one unused cartridge. Others included one AK-49, four empty magazines, assorted charms, three AK-49 expended cartridges, and one red beret. “We also recovered three mobile phones, bank ATM card, vehicle number plate, three passports, as well as a Lexus Jeep,” Bello said. The PPRO said the police command, under the leadership of the Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, was committed to the fight against all forms of crimes in the state.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com