The Vice-President and presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, on Friday had a closed-door meeting with the Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello, in Minna as part of his consultations for his presidential bid. The meeting, which lasted about three hours, took place at the presidential suite where the vice-president was received. Details of their discussion were not revealed as of press time. It was, however, gathered that the meeting was not unconnected with his consultations for his presidential aspiration. Meanwhile, the Senior Special Assistant to the vice-president on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, said in a statement on Friday that Osinbajo had expressed his desire to serve and transform the country. During his visits to Benin, Edo State, and Delta State, he visited the Oba of Benin, Ewuare II; and the Asagba of Asaba, Prof Chike Edozien, after which he met with delegates and loyalists of the APC in the two states. It added, “On arrival in Benin, the vice-president was received at the airport by the Edo State Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, and other government officials; while he was received at the airport in Delta State by the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, and other senior government officials.” “The VP, who spoke passionately about the motivation to run for President, said ‘my purpose is to serve this country. When it comes to serving this country, it is the desire of my heart’. He also appreciated the APC delegates for their cooperation and support in the states.” The statement quoted him as telling APC stalwarts, “We need leadership that is committed, truthful, and who would make sacrifices for others. These are the types of leaders that would transform Nigeria.” He also highlighted the impact of the regime’s Social Investment Programmes and promised to focus more on the development of youths, especially the deployment of technology to improve their skills. He also promised to invest in education, health, and agriculture, among other critical sectors to engender national development.