The future is uncertain for real-world currencies with third-party intermediaries and vulnerable economies as Digital Finance is on the rise. But it is Decentralised Finance specifically that has been attracting the attention of investors. Find out why! There is an increasing amount of crypto investors and those who are recent to it may not be aware of the money-making secrets of expert investors. For the most part, investing can be quite easy to understand but one key element to have in mind to generate successful profits is to invest in future-proof currencies. Most investors would agree that decentralised exchanges are preferable crypto transactions and this is exactly what DeFi can offer you. Plenty of blockchains have taken the time to listen to the investor and most are looking forward to replacing central intermediaries and trust mechanisms. The Parody Coin (PARO) is a deflationary utility coin and its Decentralised application (DApp) operates on the BNB Chain. The native currency of the Parody Coin Ecosystem allows investors to mint, trade and market parodies of popular NFTs. Parody also features its own Metaverse, the Paroverse. Having recently launched its presale, the Parody Token was immediately praised by market analysts due to its many passive income opportunities. The ecosystem provides plenty of digital assets to invest in, such as: The versatile Parody has come to offer everything investors might look for. For instance, the platform has introduced an extremely profitable NFT marketplace that stunned investors. Not only is it a user-friendly interface, but you can also mint your favourite NFTs on BNB Chain, Ethereum and other blockchains. Experts predict the price value of the PARO token will spike next week. So far, it has asserted its position in the market as a total of 300 million PARO coins were pre-mined before the Initial DEX Offering (IDO) on PancakeSwap. Currently in its presale, you can now buy it for a premium price.  Launched in 2018, Fantom is a directed acyclic graph smart contract platform. The platform is a highly functional compilation of diverse blockchains and new projects are constantly being built on these individual blockchains; these are combined into a mainnet. The network is adored because of the variety of decentralised finance services it offers. Creators admit that Fantom was developed to become the top secure and scalable smart-contract platform for developing Decentralised Finance (DeFi) Applications. Additionally, Fantom has successfully fixed the scalability, decentralisation, and speed of transactions problems that other smart-contract platforms tend to have. The Network is known for its innovative features; for instance, it combines the Proof-of-Stake and Asynchronous Byzantine Fault Tolerance (aBFT) consensus mechanism (also known as the Lachesis consensus mechanism). The platform’s transactions are powered by the Fantom (FTM) token as it is their native cryptocurrency. The coin can be used for staking, on-chain governance, and platform fees within the network. The token is close above the $1.18-resistance which can improve the chances of a break toward the $1.3-level. The Fantom price today is $1,17 with a live market cap of $2.9 Billion.  Terra was launched in 2019 and has grown into one of the leading decentralised finance (DeFi) and open-source public blockchain protocols for algorithmic stablecoins which underpin a thriving ecosystem that brings DeFi to every investor. It also uses fiat-pegged stablecoins to power price-stable global payments systems and creates stablecoins that track the price of every fiat currency. The protocol delivers endless DeFi opportunities and many investors have joined Terra, generating many profitable returns. It accounts for a total number of more than 100 natively built projects which include non-fungible token (NFT) collections, decentralised finance (DeFi) platforms and Web 3.0 applications. Terra features a native currency, the LUNA Token. At the time of writing, the coin has a Total Value Locked (TVL) of $27 billion and this would put it in second place as the world’s largest platform, after Ethereum. The LUNA price is $92,33 with a live market cap of $32.7 Billion. For More Information On Parody Coin: https://presale.parodycoin.io/register https://parodycoin.io/ https://t.me/PARODYCOIN_OFFICIAL https://twitter.com/ParodyCoin Keywords: Parody Coin, PARO, Fantom, FTM, Terra, LUNA, DeFI