The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, on Wednesday, called on political parties to make drug integrity tests part of the screening requirements for aspirants seeking to contest political offices in the 2023 general elections, a move that was endorsed by the Nigerian Medical Association. The Chairman of the NDLEA, Brigadier-General Buba Marwa (retd.), stated this at the 2022 First Quarter Best Performing Commands Awards ceremony which held in Abuja. While the NMA supported the move, the Nigerian Bar Association advised the agency to approach the National Assembly for legal backing for the drug test. But Marwa said he had written a letter to the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Senator Abdullahi Adamu; and would be writing to the Peoples Democratic Party along with 16 other political parties. He said, “For politicians, we have long advocated and I take the opportunity again to repeat the advocacy that when they run for public office it demands a lot of responsibility from the person and we need to be certain if he’s a person that is already a drug addict/user who will spend all the money he’s given for public service to consume cocaine and his head will not be in a stable condition to handle the affairs he has been entrusted with. “For this reason, we have advocated and will continue to advocate that drug test be conducted for politicians; some state governments like Kano State are already doing this. “Not just politicians, but government appointees, and I’ve just sent a letter this morning to the national chairman of the APC, who will be the first of the National Working Committee I wish to pay an advocacy visit on this issue. “I recommended that drug tests be incorporated in the screening process for all those interested in running for public office; we’ll do the same to the PDP and other important parties.” Supporting the NDLEA’s proposal, the NMA National President, Prof  Innocent Ujah, told The PUNCH that the use of drugs by politicians would affect governance. Ujah stated, “There are schools doing drug tests for their students. Are you aware? There is a reason for that. Health is the state of physical mental and social well-being and not necessarily the absence of disease “So obviously if a person takes drugs is the person in a good state of mind to govern Nigeria? It is a health issue, it also affects governance but I don’t expect anyone governing Nigeria to be on drugs but it is a possibility. “The NMA will not have any objection to that. Even if not for politics, we want to ensure that everyone is on the correct state of mind. As a doctor, we do clinical examinations for fitness for instance.” SANs fault NDLEA However, the NBA said the drug test could only be enforced if it had legal backing. It, therefore, advised the NDLEA to submit a bill seeking to make the test mandatory. Also  many senior advocates faulted the move, insisting that Nigerian law made no such requirement for political aspirants. The NBA Spokesman Rapuluchukwu Nduka, in an interview with The PUNCH, said, “I don’t think there is any law in that regard. But when you look at the kind of leaders and leadership we have in this country, it may make sense to actually ask the people who want to take up positions to do some drug tests. “For me, it may not even just stop at drug tests they may also need to do some tests to check their mental capacity and certain other things about their health. But apart from that, until a law is passed to that effect, the NDLEA can only suggest while parties can make it part of their policy. So, aspirants can’t be forced to do drug tests because they want to run for political office.” When asked if an aspirant could be disqualified for failing to present himself for drug tests, the NBA spokesman said responded in the affirmative. “For a person to present himself for election, he must have gone through the party’s structure before the party allows him to run for election. So, if the party makes it part of their rules, that if you don’t present yourself for drug tests you can’t be given its ticket, then that will become a party thing. “So, any person who decides to run on the party’s platform will now abide by the dictates of the party. I think that’s how it can be done if we are serious about it. “It’s a proposal not backed by law. They may go on and ask the National Assembly to pass a law to that effect.” SANs disagree, say it is not  constitutional On his part, in a chat with The PUNCH, a senior advocate, Kunle Adegoke, faulted the request made by the NDLEA. Adegoke said the grounds of disqualification for political holders in the constitution did not include assessing the mental state of aspirants. He said, “From my perspective, while it is not ridiculous that many people occupying political offices in Nigeria should have their mental condition checked, at the same time there is no such prescription in the law that anybody who is vying for political office must be certified to be mentally alright. “And is in so far as it is not a requirement of the law, the only conditions of disqualifications are already stipulated and they do not include having to certify somebody as mentally alright or drug-free before he can run for an election.” Also in a chat with The PUNCH, human rights lawyer, Ebun Olu-Adegboruwa (SAN), said the NDLEA had no powers to make such a request. He said, “That request is unconstitutional, it is ultra vires and beyond his powers as the chairman of the NDLEA.  The NDLEA should engage itself within the ambits of the exercise of the powers confide on it by its laws; that is to go round the country and rid our land of drugs and narcotics. “People are hawking illicit drugs openly on the streets, morning, afternoon and night. The attempt to politicise the NDLEA is unbecoming, it is totally condemnable. The chairman should not politicise the NDLEA, he should focus himself on the statutory responsibilities and he has no power to add to the requirement created by the constitution.” Adegbowuwa added that the constitutions of the country and that of political parties had the guidelines and stipulated the qualifications of political candidates and this should remain the minimum standard. The senior advocate added that if there would be a need for drug tests, it should be carried out on existing public service holders. “If anybody is to be tested at all, it should be those who have won elections, the people who are currently serving. For us to determine why people loot money, why people do the things they do after they have won elections; those who are in office, the ministers, governors and others,” he added. Also, a former President of the NBA Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), said that he did not agree with the NDLEA adding that the agency needed to follow the constitution and the laws that govern the land. He said, “The law is there, the constitution is there, the constitutions of the political parties are there. If they are qualified, let them go and contest their primary elections. It is not even within the power or jurisdiction of the NDLEA to add to the constitution. The constitution is clear. What are the qualifications for contesting elections? Is drug usage or pushing part of it?” Olanipekun lamented that it was sad that the NDLEA was beginning to trivialise issues despite the enormous problems the country was faced with. He added, “We have a lot of problems facing us in the country, there are a lot of problems. The NDLEA is trivialising a lot of things; they are making Nigeria, a laughing stock. This is not the way it should go. “If you suspect anyone of being a drug addict or drug pusher, you know what to do. But what’s the meaning of aspirants subjecting themselves to drug tests? Why not tell them to subject themselves to mental tests and every other test? Why drug test?” The senior advocate said those holding public offices are the ones that should be subjected to drug tests, not aspirants. Another senior advocate, Chief Mike Ozekhome, said the request of the NDLEA, though appealing, ought to be interrogated within the parameters of the constitution. Ozekhome added, “The NDLEA Act and the constitutions of political parties have to be carefully read to ascertain if both institutions possess such enormous powers to screen aspirants by subjecting them to the inhuman and degrading test to ascertain if they take drugs. “This is more so having regard to the fact that the constitution and the Electoral Act have both comprehensively and exhaustively legislated on qualifying and disqualifying factors that can prevent an aspirant from contesting to become a candidate, and for a candidate to contest in the general elections.” Also reacting to the issue, Mr. Ifedayo Adedipe (SAN), said the NDLEA had no such right, adding that Nigerian law already lists the conditions aspirants must meet. He asked the NDLEA to focus on drug barons and abusers of drugs in the country. “If anyone wants to contest elections there are conditions listed by the constitution. You can’t add another condition until you amend the constitution. How do you even detect somebody is on drugs? “If somebody is on drugs and he knows he will be tested, he will withdraw his intake for a certain number of days and you’ll have nothing on him. Then he could go back when he becomes elected,” Adedipe stated. I’m ready for test – Minister Meanwhile, the Minister of State for Education, Mr Emeka Nwajiuba, has commended the proposed drug test for aspirants. He said, “That is a very good thing it is part of your medicals, it shouldn’t be put in a punitive manner, you need to know those who want to run for the elections how fit they are so you can plan. “Of course, I will submit myself for the test, everything Nigerians want, if you are trying to work for people, you look at what makes people comfortable, if they want to know your state of health that is welcome. It is a good idea to know how healthy people are for the purpose of running any place.” Also, a PDP presidential aspirant, Sam Ohuabunwa,  said not only would he submit himself the drug test, but also recommend psychiatric tests for himself and other aspirants. The former Chairman of Nigerian Economic Summit Group, stated this in a telephone interview with one of  our correspondents on Wednesday night. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com