The Lagos State Police Command has confirmed the arrest of no fewer than five suspected traffic robbers terrorising the Ladipo and Oshodi areas of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, in a statement on Thursday, said a Beretta pistol and four rounds of ammunition were recovered from the suspects. He said, “Operatives of the Rapid Response Squad, on April 5, 2022 arrested three robbery suspects and recovered a beretta pistol and four rounds of ammunition at Toyota bus-stop near Oshodi, Lagos. “The prompt arrest of the traffic robbers followed a tip-off from civic-minded Lagosians to the RRS officers who were on routine patrol along Ladipo and Oshodi. The arrested suspects, preliminary investigations revealed, are members of Aro–Baga cult group. “They include, Omuyibo Goddey, 32, alias Aro Ghetto Boy; Destiny Nwanga, 27, alias Aro Smiling God; and Ebuka Igwe, 23, alias Aro Do or Die.” During interrogation, Hundeyin said Goddey disclosed that they were about to rob their second victim when the RRS patrol team arrived and arrested them, adding that a swift follow-up on the arrest led the RRS to their converging point at 7 Alhaji Monsuru Street, Ijegun, where two other suspects were arrested. “Investigations revealed that Nwanga repairs fuel pumps at Ladipo Spare Part Market; Omuyibo works as a welder while Igwe deals in illicit drugs. “Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, has directed the Commander, RRS, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, to transfer the three suspects and exhibits to the CP’s Special Squad for further investigation and prosecution,” the PPRO stated. In another development, a policeman, Eyitere Joseph, who was captured in a video clip extorting N50,000 from a National Youth Service Corp member, in the Ejigbo area of the state, has been arrested by men of the state police command. Hundeyin, who confirmed the development on Thursday, said the command had arrested, queried, and commenced disciplinary measures against the errant officer. He added, “The money has been retrieved and returned to the corps member. The Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, has vowed to flush out all corrupt officers.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com