THE National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has called on Christians in the country to imitate Christ’s devotion and selflessness in their private and public lives. Tinubu made this call in a statement on Sunday by the Director of his media office, Mr Tunde Rahman. The former Lagos State governor urged Christians to reflect on the meaning of Easter. He said, “Easter speaks to a remarkable, triumphant rebirth after tremendous struggle and ordeal. It teaches a crucial lesson: in the contest of peace versus strife, good versus evil, and love versus hate, darkness may come and, for a time, seem to win. But ultimately, what is right and humane shall win. “Jesus sacrificed himself for the wellbeing of others. For his goodness, he was ridiculed, tried, and convicted in the worst of ways. The wrongdoers thought they defeated him. They indeed were wrong. He overcame their cruelty to achieve that which he was brought into this world to achieve. He withstood so much to reach his destiny. In so doing, he brought forth a new faith that has been the fountain of spiritual uplift to billions of people for over two centuries. “To the extent possible, we must try to emulate his morals and ethics in our personal and public lives. His devotion and selflessness, we must imitate. His sense of justice, we must reflect. Jesus’ compassion for all and his special love for the downcast and downtrodden, we must revere and honor in all that we do. This goes for each of us as individual Nigerians. It equally goes for us as a nation.” Tinubu also urged citizens to embrace hope in the lesson of Christ and work to build the country together. “Sceptics and critics have written us off. They say we have failed and can no longer be good. They are wrong because they do not know us. Yes, challenges face us, but we also face them. And we shall face them down. We take heart in the life and lessons of Jesus. The extent to which we learn these lessons, is the extent that Nigeria shall enjoy a rebirth and claim its greater triumph. “We have not and cannot falter. Our nation’s best still lies ahead. On this Easter, I join my Christian brothers and sisters in celebrating the example and teachings of Jesus. Let us reach out to one another as never before and, together, build our lives and this nation as never before,” he added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com