A former Deputy Speaker of the Abia State House of Assembly and presidential aspirant, Mr. Cosmas Ndukwe, has approached a Federal High Court in Abuja seeking the suspension of the presidential primary of the Peoples Democratic Party slated for May 28, 2022. Ndukwe filed an ex parte motion marked FHC/ABJ/CS/508/2022, through his lawyer, Paul Erokoro (SAN), on Thursday, hinging his argument on the failure of the PDP to zone its Presidential ticket to the South. According to The Cable, Agu Kalu, counsel for the PDP who was in court, challenged the motion and asked Justice Donatus Okorowo, not to grant the request of the plaintiff. After considering the argument of the PDP’s lawyer, the judge fixed May 5 for hearing, during which the PDP is expected to show cause why the ex parte motion should not be granted. The PUNCH had reported on Wednesday that the party was not considering zoning its Presidential ticket to the South despite the fact that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), who has served for seven years, is from the North. At least five northerners have purchased the Presidential form of the PDP including former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi; his Sokoto State counterpart, Aminu Tambuwal, former Senate President Bukola Saraki; and Mohammed Hayatudeen. The party is expected to hold its National Executive Committee meeting on Wednesday to debate the zoning report submitted by a 37-member committee led by Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State. However, the Spokesman for the party, Debo Ologunagba, had told The PUNCH that the PDP would not stop anyone from contesting. Ndukwe had while purchasing his form on April 11, argued that it was the turn of the South-East to produce the next President. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com