Clearline Health Maintenance Organisation and Greenlife Pharmaceuticals Limited have sensitised residents of Bariga on prevention and treatment of malaria as part of efforts to reduce the disease burden. The General Manager of Clearline HMO, Chidinma Chigbo, stated this on Monday during an awareness programme organised to commemorate the World Malaria Day in Ilaje-Ebute, Bariga. She said, “Today is an international day set aside to commemorate the World Malaria Day in order to stop the disease scourge, so we use the day to raise awareness on prevention of malaria and how to reduce the disease burden across the country over the years. “Ilaje Bariga is a riverine area and a suburb, so we sensitised residents to ensure that there are no pool of water or ditches in their environments, they cut the grasses around them which attract mosquitoes and we also advised them to sleep under the free treated nets we gave them to prevent mosquito bites which can lead to malaria.” An Area Manager with Greenlife Pharmaceuticals Limited, Dr Wilfred Okolie, explained that Nigeria has a greater percentage of malaria cases hence the need to provide therapeutic options for communities. “The theme of the international day for this year is ‘Harnessing innovation to reduce the malaria disease burden and save lives.’ Unfortunately, malaria still remains a big burden to Africa and out of the 300 million cases, over 60 per cent of them are still concentrated in sub-Saharan Africa and Nigeria carries a greater percentage of that. “Early treatment of malaria goes a long way to prevent complications, especially in children. For us at Greenlife, we have contributed much to the fight against malaria, through provision of therapeutic options, and today, the residents will be given anti-malaria medicines,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com