Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar on Thursday in Abuja said he had over 11 million ready votes to make the Peoples Democratic Party victorious in next year’s election if he emerged the party’s presidential candidate. He also asked the party’s leadership to grant him the right of first refusal for the 2023 ticket. Atiku said this to members of the PDP National Working Committee at the party’s national secretariat when he formally informed the leadership of his decision to contest for the party’s presidential ticket. The former vice president, who urged the NWC to ensure the emergence of only the best candidate, promised to work for the devolution of powers to the states and unify the country if given the opportunity. He said, “I am the best candidate. Under normal circumstances Mr. Chairman, this is a guy who already has 11 million votes in his kitty. And I think, as a party, you should give me the right of first refusal, but we are in a democracy. “All that I can urge you to do is to make sure that you conclude the way you have started by being very fair, very credible, giving every contestant the opportunity to face the electorate.” He added that when given the mandate to run, he would not be a retired Major General Muhammadu Buhari type of President. He said a Buhari-Presidency was incapable of directing Ministries, Agencies and Departments on what to do to squash the country’s security woes. He added, “About two months ago, I was on a visit to Niger State and I decided to pay a courtesy call to the governor. “The governor told me, ‘Sir, we have about 12 local governments, which are under the control of bandits. We don’t know how to conduct elections in those local governments. And I went to the president, I said, Mr. President, we need more policemen and the president said how can I give you more policemen when the Inspector-General of Police and the Police Service Commission are in court on who will recruit policemen?’ “I cannot be that kind of president. And that is where we are today. We cannot recruit policemen because the two agencies are in court and we have a president who cannot bring under control his own heads of departments, not even ministers?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com