A chieftain of the New Nigeria People’s Party in Oyo State, Alhaji Olopoeyan, has urged the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba; and the Director, Department of State Services,  Yusuf Bichi, to invite the state Chairman, Disciplinary Committee of Park Management System, Mukaila Lamidi, aka Auxiliary over the attack at his residence. Olopoeyan said this in an interview with our correspondent on Tuesday. The chieftain, who disagreed with the way Governor Seyi Makinde was running the Peoples Democratic Party, resigned from the party and joined the NNPP at his ward on Monday. After joining the NNPP, he said some members of the PMS invaded his residence to attack him but one of the attackers, who he identified as a member of PMS, was arrested by mobile policemen assigned to him. Speaking on the telephone with our correspondent on Tuesday, Olopoeyan alleged that Auxiliary had been after his life for a long time. He added that he had written a series of petitions to the IGP and DSS on the alleged threat to his life.  Auxiliary was invited by the police, he, nevertheless, refused to honour the invitation. He stated, “The attack on my residence is a confirmation of what I have been saying for long. I am happy that the MOPOL attached to me arrested one of the attackers and the identity card of PMS was discovered in his pocket. “He was arrested right in front of my house, while others escaped. They are after my life but I believe God will not hand over my life to them. “These Auxiliary boys attacked us when we were still in the PDP. They attacked us last year during our congress that was held at Liberty Stadium. They came to my house to survey last year. “They came after me during the PDP Zonal Congress in Osogbo. These are the same hoodlums who killed an innocent man at the Iwo Road Shopping Complex last year. “I have written petitions against Auxiliary to the police in Abuja and the DSS. I want the heads of these two agencies to invite him to Abuja. They kept attacking me while I was in PDP, now that I have left the PDP, they still continue.” Olopoeyan said he notified the police, the DSS, NSCDC before declaring for the NNPP on Monday because he said he had been told that the PMS boys would come and disrupt the programme. He added that they waited till after the programme when the security agents deployed had left before they struck. But the Public Relations Officer of the PMS, Alhaji Olopoeyan Jelili, described the claims of Olopoeyan as false. He debunked the claim that the PMS attacked Olopoeyan’s residence, saying the clash happened on the main road in front of the Testing Ground Police Station. He stated, “Our men were invited to the police station at Testing Ground, and they went to honour the invitation. As they were leaving, Olopoeyan boys came out from the street leading to his house and attacked our members. That happened in front of the police station. “Olopoeyan boys saw our members and they attacked them, a fight ensued.  The police are in the best position to say what happened. They repelled them. The MOPOL stationed in front of Olopoeyan’s house led his boys back to the road and they started to shoot. “The police seized one of their vehicles with arms and ammunition. “They are the aggressors and what happened did not happen at his house, it happened on the road.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com