The Convener, We2gether Movement, Mr Ibrahim Abdulkarim, has called on Nigerian youths to come together and be more involved in the political process of the country if they want a positive change in the polity. Abdulkarim made the call in an interview with our correspondent on Thursday. He said until Nigerian youths begin to take up leadership positions and political appointments, things would remain the same. “These young Nigerians can make a difference in the elective positions they find themselves in. We would also encourage these Nigerians to take up political appointments so that there would be a transition process where we have a new breed of Nigerians that can take over from them. “I think because we are not participating, that is what makes the old men who are over 70 years old feel that they have to be around power for as long as they want to. But, from what we have with this movement, all our aspirants will be prepared to lead this country,” he said. Speaking about the youth forum, he said, “We are non-partisan. It is a multi-party movement but it is not attached to a single party. What we want to do is make it open so any competent Nigerian who wants to contest would come to get the ideology of our founding fathers who are supposed to take our country to a promising future and a path of consistent progress. We would be there to support them because we know politics is very expensive. So, we can come together, work together and make it a little bit cheaper for them. “We would remove the issue of Godfatherism and that of thuggery and other forces that inhibit young people to be part of the process. With crowdfunding and coming together, it is going to be cheap for anyone that really wants to aspire to be part of the leadership structure of the country. We really want to be part of the system for us to change the system. “We2gether is a movement and other political parties are the vehicles to make it successful. So, we created a system to address all this. It is not about the big parties. We are going to have what we call a Charter of Demand for these young Nigerians based on the framework on how we are going to be elected and become a part of the system.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com