Coleman Cable and Wires has said that it has the capacity to solve the problem of incessant collapse of Nigeria’s national grid with the investment of N30 billion in the production of gap cables in the country. According to a statement by the company, the Managing Director/CEO of Coleman, Mr. George Onafowokan, stated this while reacting to the recent collapse of the national grid. Discos had last week notified Nigerians that the latest grid failure which threw many cities into darkness could linger for a significant period of time According to Onafowokan, Coleman has positioned itself to help Nigeria fix a problem that has further exacerbated Nigeria’s perennial struggle with power supply. “I want to call on the Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu to look inward in solving the problem.” “Coleman is committed to $50m investment which will in return create direct and indirect 100,000 jobs. The Federal Government should allow us to solve this problem once and for all with the production of transmission cables that would put an end to Incessant collapse of the national grid,” Onafowokan said. He said Coleman was open to working with the Federal Government, the Ministry of Power and Transmission Company of Nigeria to ensure Nigerians enjoyed constant power supply in the country, with the supply of one of the latest technology-driven power conductors, GAP Cable, with the capacity to carry more load than existing cables. He said, “Our company has acquired the technology and capabilities to manufacture various cables that were previously imported with huge foreign currencies,” he added. “Gap-type ZT-aluminum conductor steel reinforced uses heat-resistant aluminum over a steel core. “Part of the features is that it maintains between a high-strength steel core and the first layer of aluminum alloy strands. “The gap between the first layer trapezoidal shaped aluminum strands and the steel core is filled with high thermal resistant grease. The principle of the gap-type conductor is that it can be tensioned on the steel core alone during erection. This results in a conductor with a knee-point at the erection temperature.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com