A presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, Yahaya Bello, has said he is confident he would win the party’s ticket even if ex-President Goodluck Jonathan joins the party. The Kogi State governor, according to a statement on Wednesday, spoke when he picked up his expression of interest and nomination forms to contest the 2023 election. Bello, during his address to a crowd of party faithful and support groups from across the country, stated that the call on Jonathan to join the presidential race would be in his favour because he had the backing of youths and women. He said, “That is the beauty of democracy. In democracy, anybody can push for, vie for and support anyone. But I am assuring you that our great party, the All Progressives Congress, is a party that has its own ethics, rules and regulations and I know that all of them are in my favour. “I am confident because I am in the majority. I have the women, I have the youth, I have the people living with disabilities behind me. I have leaders, I have followers, I have Nigerians and above all, I have God Almighty behind me. “Right now, what we have ahead of us is a task of canvassing and consulting all party faithful, leaders, delegates and stalwarts, members and all Nigerians, at home and even in the diaspora to support us so that we become the flag bearer of this great party come  May 30 and 31, 2022. And by the special grace of God, I am confident I shall become victorious and the party shall become victorious.” The Director-General, Hope ‘23 Yahaya Bello Campaign Organisation, Hafsat Abiola-Costello, commended Bello for being the first to pick his nomination form, adding that it demonstrated a brighter future for Nigeria.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com