A Nigerian firm, Plexada System Integrators Limited, has dragged an American firm with multinational operations, Oracle Corporations, before the Lagos State High Court demanding compensation for “loss of revenue, loss of goodwill” allegedly caused by Oracle. The amount also included an alleged “outstanding commission” owed to Plexada by the international firm, with its Nigerian regional office in Ikoyi, Lagos. Plexada is also demanding a separate amount “being aggravated damages for the unconscionable conduct of the defendant (Oracle).” Furthermore, via its suit marked LD/4350/2022, Plexada wants the court to compel Oracle to pay it another amount as the cost of pursuing the legal action. In its statement of claim before the court,  Plexada alleged that Oracle unjustifiably delisted or cancelled its status as an Oracle Partner at a time it had attained the status of a Gold Partner, being the highest, and was even in 2014 awarded the ‘Oracle Partner of the Year – African Operations’. The Nigerian firm said the decision of the multinational to suspend its status as an Oracle partner and refusal to renew the partnership despite payment had seriously frustrated its operations and cost it opportunities. Plexada explained that trouble started when a business transaction between Oracle and the Lagos State Government for the supply of Oracle software, hardware, implement applications, system’s training and provision of support staff, ran into some difficulties. In an effort to resolve the difficulties, Oracle elected to have Plexada “come into the picture, run and execute its brief.” Plexada said part of its brief was “to recover the outstanding sum then owed the defendant (Oracle) by the Lagos State Government as of 2013.” The Nigerian firm was also to service the applications sold to the Lagos State Government by Oracle and provide support staff for a period of six years. For its effort, it was agreed that “the claimant (Plexada) shall be entitled to the sum of 20 per cent of the revenue as regards this project for the duration as enumerated above.” Plexada, however, alleged that some Oracle executives later breached the agreement and for daring to complain, they decided to punish the Nigerian firm. Plexada said in its statement of claim, “The defendant’s operatives were visibly incensed over what they considered ‘the temerity of this puny company’, to challenge Oracle, and began to label the claimant’s directors as ‘arrogant and un-cooperative’ and started a campaign to discredit the claimant. “Not being satisfied with the campaign to discredit the claimant, the defendant in its pushback, effectively utilised its sales and support staff, and its extensive wide network in Nigeria and beyond, to begin a campaign of calumny and ‘Chinese whispers’ against the claimant. “At the claimant’s complaint to the defendant about its vicious pushback, the defendant maliciously revised the claimant’s credit status by putting same on ‘Credit Hold’, and subsequently suspended the claimant’s status as an Oracle Partner by refusing, despite payment, to renew their Oracle Partner status. “The claimant later discovered that the defendant had declared an all-out war of attrition against the claimant to completely destroy it. “The defendant proceeded to attack other briefs of the claimant among others, but not limited to the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund, Union Bank Plc, Access Bank, FBNQuest Merchant Bank, Vodafone Ghana, Ecobank (eProcess), etc. “The defendant refused to have any dealings with the claimant in respect of any new brief and even attacked existing contracts that the claimant had been awarded; and frustrated the same.” It added that all its efforts to have the issue resolved over the years were rebuffed. It is, therefore, seeking the court’s intervention to compel Oracle to restore its “full Oracle Partner rights and specialisations that were achieved prior to the removal from the Oracle Partner Network.” It is also demanding payment of damages for “considerable financial loss as a direct and intended result of the actions of the defendant.” Apart from monetary awards, Plexada is also praying the court to compel Oracle to publish a full-page advert in three prominent Nigerian daily newspapers and one prominent Ghanaian newspaper stating that “Plexada System Integrators Limited is a full Oracle Partner with demonstrated competence and proficiency in Oracle applications and solutions, and is in good standing with Oracle.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com