THE Lagos State Government has advised local government officials on the need to acquire more knowledge and skills for effective service delivery. The Commissioner for Establishments, Training and Pensions, Mrs Ajibola Ponnle, gave the advice in a statement on Saturday. Ponnle was quoted to have made the call during the closing of the 2021 certificate course in local government administration, a nine-month course organised by the Public Service Staff Development Centre for chief clerical officers in the state’s unified local government system. She said, “A highly professional, competent and innovative public service will always be an advantage to the government and as purveyors of public policies, public services and local government services are critical agents in the formation, design, dissemination and implementation of plans, programmes, projects and activities of government. “The only stumbling block to a successful public service career is your attitude to work. Continuous acquisition of knowledge and capacity building will help define one’s career and it is important to present the local government in good light by putting the knowledge, skills and training into practice. “I applaud the Lagos State Government for investing in learning and development programmes that have boosted the capacity of the state public service which has kept it the prime of public services in Nigeria.” The acting Director-General, PSSDC, Mr Olushola Kolawole, stated that the 84 participants were drawn from the various areas of the state to be trained in their duties. “This certificate course in LGA is one of the initial programmes inherited by PSSDC at its inception in 1994. “It brings exposure to leadership skills through the citizenship and leadership training centre with the aim of building leaders and the 84 participants drawn from the various local government areas in Lagos State have been equipped with both mental and administrative requirements of their duties,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com