Eavesdropper couldn’t imagine that after almost seven in the saddle, presido said he had seen the mess to be cleaned up in the country. After seven years, you mean he is just discovering, and if he did earlier, what has he done about it? Unbelievable! Could that actually be the reason why things have not been working all along? Before Eavesdropper came across the news, the focus was initially about insecurity and how the terrorists are killing Nigerians like flies. The revelation by the “Mallam’’ in Kaduna that “we” know where the terrorists are and we listen to their conversations added a new layer of confusion to the insecurity crisis. You might ask that if they know where they are why can’t they smoke them out and let the country move on to other things? My main concern in all of these is how the country’s gallant soldiers are being killed by the criminals. Which nation watches helplessly as its soldiers are being killed by non-state actors and do nothing? The video that emerged when the terrorists released the bank MD gives a clue that can be traced and that shouldn’t be rocket science. Those abducted persons deserve their freedom and preside owes the nation that. Some Chibok and Dapchi girls including Leah Sharibu are still with their abductors. The abducted passengers have to be rescued speedily, no matter what it takes, please! The largesse in Zamfara For a long time now, the news emanating from the North-Western state of Zamfara has been disturbing, ranging from killings to kidnappings, and it just seems to get worse every other week. That was why Eavesdropper and many other concerned persons were stunned that amid the worsening insecurity, na buying of exotic vehicles for traditional rulers be the next thing. Chai! Anyway, Eavesdropper knows that no one should be asleep when the roof is on fire. There is hunger in the land, poor economy has put many people in survival mode, farmers can’t go to the farms and terrorists have become a threat to many villages, yet, the na buying of vehicles be the next thing. Eavesdropper is not saying the traditional rulers are not deserving of the vehicles, there is something about priority and sensitivity. Haba! Considering the fact that monarchs aren’t shielded from insecurity, oga should not be exposing the monarchs in these trying times in the country. Eavesdropper recalls what the oga said, “It is in view of the high esteem with which my administration regards our traditional leaders and institutions that we decided to procure brand new cars, Cadillac 2019 Model (sport utility vehicles) for 17 emirs, 13 senior district heads and 230 district heads across the state.” Oga, even you know you can do better. By the time those monarchs start driving around in such flashy vehicles; they become easy targets to terrorists. It’s no longer news that the criminals are attracted to flashy vehicles and passenger buses, because for the former, they presume they have caught a big fish and for the latter, they believe they can take many people hostage in one attack. Eavesdropper only hopes that the vehicles would be handled in such a way that it wouldn’t create more problems. With the way things are now in Nigeria and security challenges rising daily, Eavesdropper thinks it’s best to be careful.    ,,  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com