One person has been reportedly killed in a fracas that ensued during a youth election in Onne community in the Eleme Local Government Area of Rivers State. The victim, Victor Amasi, was said to have been hit by a stray bullet fired into the venue. It was gathered that the Onne Youth Council had scheduled an election for Monday, but after the arrival of the delegates, the electoral committee suspended the process following directives by some individuals they described as power-that-be. A native of the area, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the suspension of the election resulted in a chaos, as some delegates marched to the palace of the monarch in protest of the suspension of the election, which involved two prominent youths as frontline contenders. PUNCH Metro gathered that after some pressure, one of the youths, identified as Tete, was declared winner of the election. The development heightened tension, leading to shootings by yet-to-identified persons, though some youths alleged that the gunshot emanated from security operatives drafted to the venue to ensure there was no breakdown of law and order. In the process, two police vehicles were destroyed, as two interest groups clashed. “We conducted the Onne Youth Council election today and our preferred candidate chosen by the people was declared the winner. “There were other interested parties who wanted to hijack the process, but when they saw our delegates were more than theirs, the electoral committee chairman had to cancel the election. “As I speak to you, one of our supporters, Victor Amasi, has been shot dead by some security personnel who were there to supervise the election,” he stated. However, the Rivers State Police Command said the incident was under investigation. The acting police spokesperson, Grace Iringe-Koko, said, “We have yet to get any report of the death from Onne. “We know there was a youth election and security operatives where there to ensure there was no disturbance. But we are still investigating.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com