The three commissioners appointed from other political parties after the 2019 governorship election by Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, have defected to the Peoples Democratic Party. Some political parties had teamed up with Makinde and worked for his electoral victory during the 2019 poll. The governor appointed one of their leaders into his cabinet. The commissioners, who were also joined by Special Advisers and 93 other Special Assistants appointed into local government positions from the African Democratic Congress said their decision to pitch tent with the PDP in the state was because Makinde had fulfilled the promises he made to the coalition. The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Taiwo Adisa, said in a statement on Tuesday that the political appointees announced their decision to join the ruling party in the state on Tuesday. While speaking on behalf of the other defecting members, the Commissioner for Information, Culture, and Tourism, Dr. Wasiu Olatunbosun, said that the governor had fulfilled all promises made to the ADC as a coalition party. Olatunbosun, also explained that he, the Commissioner for Energy, Mr. Seun Ashamu, and the Commissioner for Agriculture, Adeniyi Adebisi, decided to join the PDP after much consultation with leaders of the ADC. He said, “On behalf of the commissioners here – the Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Wasiu Olatunbosun; Commissioner for Energy, Seun Ashamu and Commissioner for Agric, Adeniyi Adebisi, after much consultation with our leaders, we have decided to move to the ruling party, the PDP, because we believe that Governor Seyi Makinde has fulfilled his promises to our leaders. “So, we believe we should do everything to make sure we give him all the necessary support to win the second term in office. “We were part of the success in 2019 and we believe that if we join forces together with him, we will be able to succeed together. “Also with me here is Special Adviser to the Governor on Budget and Economic Planning, Gbenga Oyetola, 93 appointees at the state level, and elected representatives at the local government level.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com