The Ekiti State Police Command on Friday paraded one Akamo Ayodeji, the suspected killer of a student of the Federal University, Oye Ekiti, Patience Akomolafe. Akomolafe was attacked on November 2, 2019, by a gang of suspected cultists. The FUOYE student was reportedly inflicted with injuries with an axe in the attack. Before his death in the hospital, he identified Ayodeji as one of the hoodlums that attacked him. The suspect was said to have gone into hiding and had been on the watch list of the police. But the Ekiti State Commissioner of Police, Morounkeji Adesina, said Ayodeji was arrested at a criminal hideout, following credible information. “On March 23, 2022, upon a credible tip-off, Ayodeji was arrested in a criminal hideout at Orin-Ekiti by the operatives of the Rapid Response Squad. During the investigation, the suspect confessed to the commission of the crime,” Adesina, represented by the state police spokesperson, Sunday Abutu, said while parading the suspect along with others. The commissioner said five other suspects were also arrested in connection with kidnapping and gun-running in the Ikole Ekiti area of the state. He said the command received a distress call on April 4, 2022, at about 5:30pm that some suspected kidnappers were operating along Ikole-Ekiti/Ijesa-Isu-Ekiti Road. “The command, upon receipt of the information, deployed a team of RRS to the scene for possible arrest of the suspects. On approaching the scene, the suspects numbering about five sighted the police and took to their heels into the bush. Efforts intensified by the operatives led to the arrest of one Aliyu Mohammed. “Items recovered from him included two Beretta pistols, 40 rounds of nine millimetre live ammunition, a yellow hand band of Axemen black axe secret cult group, one military neck chain, one army leave pass, and one army ID card belonging to his late brother, and six passport photographs taken by the suspect in a military camouflage uniform,” the CP said. Adesina added that on searching the scene, another Beretta pistol suspected to have been left behind by the fleeing suspects was found on the ground.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com