The Zamfara State Police Command has rescued 37 kidnapped victims who were abducted at various villages and locations in the Bungudu and Maru Local Government Areas of the State. Addressing journalists in Gusau on Monday, the State Police Commissioner, CP Ayuba N. Elkanah, said the rescued victims included eight males, 15 females and 16 children. Elkanah said the victims were successfully rescued as a result of the ongoing clearance operation by the Joint Police and Military at Dabar Magaji camp located at Kadanya forest between the Kaura-Namoda and Maradun Local Government Areas of the state. Elkanah said, “Victims have been medically treated and later debriefed by the police and will be handed over to the officials of the two local government areas for reuniting them with their families.” The CP further explained that the command had arrested 10 suspects, including the outlawed vigilante members, car snatchers and they would be charged to court as soon as the investigation was concluded. The arrested persons, according to the CP, included two persons at the Fakon Idi area in Talata-Mafara local government, three persons in Gusau local government, and four outlawed vigilante members in the Kaura-Namoda local government area. Exhibits recovered from the suspects, according to the Commissioner, included locally fabricated guns, vehicles and motorcycles. He commended the Inspector General of Police and Governor Bello Matawalle for their support and encouragement to the police Command, which he described as a morale booster. “I want to use this opportunity to appreciate the untiring efforts, support and encouragement of the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, and the Zamfara State Governor, His Excellency, Bello Matawalle.” “I also want to thank the good people of Zamfara State for their synergy with the security agencies, especially the police, and I assure you of our continuous commitment to ensuring safety and security of Zamfara State,” said the CP. The Emir of Bungudu, Alhaji Hassan Attahiru, who received the rescued victims, commended the security agents for their efforts and assured that he would give total support to the security agents in the fight against banditry. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com