THE Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, on Wednesday, said policemen who have been on the same rank since 2017 will be promoted in the next 24 hours. The IG, who said he was concerned about police welfare, added that commissioned officers from the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police to Chief Superintendent of Police, as well as the rank and file, would be elevated. Addressing officers and men of Zone 7 headquarters, Abuja, during his familiarisation visit and inauguration of projects, Baba cautioned police officers and other security agencies to be mindful of whom they associated with. He stated, “Issues of the welfare of police personnel are paramount to me. All members of rank and file wearing the same rank since 2017 will be promoted by today (Thursday). “Commissioned officers from the rank of the ASP to CSP will also be promoted, but we are starting with the rank and file who are our dedicated officers. As for what is happening in the South-East and North-Central regions, we are doing something to change the narrative to ensure that citizens live peacefully.” As the nation approaches an election year, the police boss informed his personnel that they would soon be trained in election security duties in line with the Electoral Act. Baba ordered the release of two pickup vans and computers to the zonal headquarters to enhance its operations. The Assistant Inspector-General in charge of Zone 7, Mohammed Aliyu, commended the IG for the renovation of the zonal headquarters. “In line with the IG’s policy trust which is anchored on the principle of accountability, transparency, respect for the rule of law, human rights protection, and cooperation with other security agencies, the zonal command is living up to its responsibilities and expectations,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com