Dear Mummy Temilolu, I know your focus is girls/ladies however, I’d like to let you know my life has been blessed since I began following you as I learn from the pieces of advice you give to the female folk. I’m glad I’m walking on the right track! God bless you ma and thanks so much for changing our lustful mindset. I love you ma! Israel Praise Dear Mummy Temilolu, I’m a guy and I know this is Girls Club. However, since I started reading your articles, you have changed my life! You’ve taught me a lot of things even my family never taught me. May God continue to bless you and your family. Wilson Monday Dear Madam Temilolu, Ever since I decided to stay chaste and follow God, I have seen nothing but all round positivity in my life and God has been revealing Himself to me! My closeness to Him is top-notch. I wish more of our youths will see your articles and understand them properly. Fornication draws you away from God, sin draws you far from God. Keep up the good work ma! Adaora Dear Aunty Temilolu, May God bless you greatly for the work you are doing in such a generation as this ma. I want to share this to bless a young girl out there. Let’s be careful of the things we take to heart when we stay among people who talk anyhow. Some years back as a teen, I went for a youth fellowship in the church and on our way back, some of the people going my way decided that we should just trek to the bus stop. They started a conversation but one of the things that stuck to my head then was a comment from one of the young boys with us. He said he could never marry a virgin. I was disturbed. We were just children then but the way that word stuck in my mind made me feel there was no need to be a virgin at some point when I was under pressure later on in life. But I thank God for His mercies that made me overcome pressures even when it looked as if everyone is having premarital sex. One of the benefits this has done for me is that I don’t look for jobs. I see people complaining they don’t have a job. But it is not the same with me. As I speak to you, I have a great job but the CEO of a conglomerate called me and said I should drop a proposal for a job in his organisation saying he trusts me because of my love for God. See, it pays to fear God. Every young person out there should know this. Interestingly, the same guy who made that comment back then out of youthful exuberance is now born again. Imagine how many girls must have fallen, out of his careless words -what your worldly friends say is vague compared to what the Bible instructs. Marriage is bed undefiled. There are countless blessings from being chaste; both male and female. May God continue to bless you ma! Please don’t stop writing on sexual purity! Ify My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian sisters, It surprises me how a good number of you don’t miss church on Sunday and follow different trending prayer meetings- offline and online and still have the guts to disrespect the one you are crying to by defiling your body- His temple, your sanctuary and power house! Who’s fooling who? Take it or leave it, a lot of lives would have been most beautiful and wondrous but for disobedience and transference of strange spirits into that life through sex! Did you even know a lot of people out there have lost their souls to the devil unsuspecting and become a pawn in its hands? And these are the type of people you should never have anything to do with! They are so soaked in darkness, they can’t think or do things God’s way! Also, a lot of your friends who have long been defiled and passed around by men would never encourage you to stay chaste because they wish they were still intact. I tell you it’s better you don’t even fraternise with such people because they would do anything and everything to bring you down to their level. And guess what? Just one intercourse could make your life spiral out of control, put your life in bondage and mess you up forever or make you suffer for years that which could have been easily avoided! Now, this brings to mind a lady’s story which I shall share next Saturday. May God empower you to stay chaste! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowotemilolu Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com