The kinsmen of Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, a 2023 presidential hopeful on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, on Sunday, endorsed his aspiration. Ohuabunwa’s kinsmen and stakeholders of the PDP endorsed him for the Presidency, during a civic reception in his honour at the Arochukwu PDP Ward 3 Secretariat, to celebrate him for obtaining his expression of interest forms in Abuja, on Wednesday. The Ward Chairman, Samuel Okereke, said Ohuabunwa’s ambition would turn the fortunes of Nigerians for the better. Okereke noted that the endorsement of the presidential hopeful was a testament to the fact that God had already ordained him as president. According to him, Ohuabunwa’s presidency would be a blessing to Nigeria. He stated, “By the grace of God, I’m the Chairman of PDP, Arochukwu Ward 3. I’m very happy to learn that a son of the soil, from this ward, picked the presidential nomination form on the platform of the PDP. This has never happened before and it’s my prayer that this dream comes to pass. “The God that has made him pick this form will also make him become the president of this country. Since he believes in himself and his great God, we also believe in God for him and God will bring it to pass. “It will be a blessing to Atani people, to the entire Arochukwu people, to Abia State, to the South-East geopolitical zone and Nigeria. “This is because we all know the man called Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa. He is a detribalised Nigerian. He is an honest man. He doesn’t take what belongs to people, rather he gives to people what rightfully belongs to them. “He is not coming to make money, because going by the kind of man he is, he is very comfortable. He just wants to come and salvage Nigeria. He wants to come and save the needy and the poor.” “It’s on this note that we endorse him today as our sole candidate for the presidency, even as we prepare for our party’s presidential convention. He is the only person we know.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com