Entertainment lovers were treated to an evening of dance, music and comedy as the sponsor of Nigeria’s biggest dance competition and telecommunications services provider, Globacom, held the semi-finals of the much anticipated ‘Glo Battle of the Year Nigeria National Finals’ in Lagos. According to a statement from the firm on Sunday, the mega live event, which was held at the Eko Convention Centre, had dance lovers at the venue anticipating an evening of unlimited entertainment hours before the show officially began. Viewers at home were said not to have been left out as they connected live on GloTV – Globacom’s video streaming app. The statement read, “The live show itself saw the culmination of the four dance category battles and also featured top flight comedy and music performances. The popping battle had one of the fans favorite, Isikonko, emerge as the winner while Lil Conqueror triumphantly conquered the Krumping dance category. “The energy from the stage to the crowd was at its peak during the Afro dance finals. Angela from Abuja amazed the crowd with her truly African dance steps but was defeated by Izzy Twist in the finals. During their exhilarating comedy performances, ace comedians Bovi and MC Forever commended Globacom for giving dancers the opportunity to make a career out of dancing. “Another key highlight of the show was the spellbinding performance of Nigerian music super star, Olamide, who performed some of his hit tracks. The excitement was heightened further with the electrifying performance of Peter and Paul Okoye, popularly known as Psquare, who kept the audience dancing and singing along for over forty minutes. It was truly a night of unlimited entertainment. “The grand finale of the competition will take place on April 30, 2022 and will feature the Bboy, Bgirls, and Breakdance Crew final dance battles. Nigerian and African music mega super star, Davido, alongside female music sensations, Simi & Teni, are equally billed to perform on the night.”