Musa Agah is a new House of Representatives member for the Jos North/Bassa Federal constituency of Plateau State. In this interview with JAMES ABRAHAM, the Peoples Democratic Party member speaks on the current insecurity in his constituency Attacks and killings seem to have increased in recent times  in your constituency particularly in Bassa communities. What actually is responsible for this resurgence of violence? The perpetrators are in a better position to explain why they have continued to visit violence on the people of my constituency. As a people, we condemn their actions in strong terms and we will continue to advocate for peace because what has been happening in my constituency is so unfortunate and so worrisome. Just in the early hours of Sunday, April 3, it may interest you to know that the Irigwe people were attacked and many of them killed when celebrating their cultural festival called “Zerrenci.” The festival is used to usher in the new cropping season and that festival has been there for centuries. So, April 3 was the day for the festival and the people of Irigwe ethnic nationality from all walks of life gathered in order to celebrate. It usually starts from Kwall which happens to be  the ancestral home of Irigwe people. From there, it moves to Miango and thereafter to one bush where the normal rituals are held in line with the customs of the people. It is at this place that the seedlings ahead of the new farming season would be taken from this very spot and thereafter, the people would now go ahead with their farming activities  for the year.  So, the people had gathered at this place in large number and suddenly from nowhere, there were sporadic shootings .At last ten persons were killed with so many injured and  unspecified number of people still missing. Now, how do you explain what the causes of the killings? This is a very peaceful ethnic nationality that believes in peace and peaceful coexistence and on the day they were celebrating their annual cultural festival, they were attacked and killed. So, honestly, we don’t know why this kind of tragedy should be visited on the people. But some of us when we speak, those in power would always say that we are doing so because we are in  opposition to the government of the day. Are they saying that the killing should continue without them doing anything to save and  protect the people which is at the core of their constitutional responsibility as a government. The situation is quite disheartening . What is your take on the recent  26-man committee inaugurated by the Commander of Operation Safe Haven, Major General Ibrahim Ali, who is also the General Officer Commanding 3 Division,Nigerian Army , to implement a peace report earlier submitted to it by a -36 man committee as part of efforts to  restore lasting peace in your constituency and other troubled communities in the state ?  You have been here in Plateau State.   Have  the committees yielded any fruit? Well,I’m not aware of any peace committee put in place by the GOC but what I do know is that a number of committees were put in place in the past  to address the issues that have been caught up between the Irigwe people and Fulani herders but none has yielded any positive results. The ones I know of such committees are so many . What usually happened is that they would meet, agree on certain things that there should be cease fire and  that normalcy should be restored. But usually after the meeting, you will hear of a fresh attack on the locals. If the GOC has set up another committee in that regard, honestly I am not aware of that. But as a representative of the people, I must register my dismay and discomfort the way and manner these things are going on in my constituency. The office of the GOC is an office that is so tasking in view of the enormous responsibility attached to that office. Some of us are of the opinion that since the office of the GOC on its own is overwhelmed, the Office of Operation Safe Haven which the GOC also heads as the Commander is also overwhelmed .Why not separate the two offices? Why concentrating  two responsibilities in an individual? One requires field attention while the other one requires office attention. It is clear that the two offices occupied by one person are not the same. How do you reconcile two offices whose responsibilities are clearly opposed to each other. How can the two offices work together? We are aware of the enormity of the challenges of Operation Safe Haven. As the Operation Safe Haven Commander ,he has a lot in his hands. In fact, I listened to him when he visited the Governor of Bauchi Sate, Dr Bala Mohammed in Bauchi and he said that three states had been penciled in; that terrorists or bandits have entered into Plateau, Taraba and Bauchi states. As the GOC, a lot of expectations are there waiting for him as the General Officer Commanding  3 Division which covers these states and more. Then as the Commander of Operation Safe Haven,a lot of challenges are there for him to address as well. I’m of the opinion that if the two offices are separated ,may be, it will make the jobs easier and probably bring solution to some of these issues we are facing. Because I remember when Major General Agundu(immediate past Commander, Operation Safe Haven) was around, a lot of steps were taken which yielded fruits, but at the moment, we don’t know where we are heading to. Many people have called for the removal of Major General Ibrahim Ali as   the  Commander OF Operation Safe Haven alleging non-performance. As the representative of the people, do you support the call for his sacking. To an extent, I will support the call in view of what I have said earlier because it is possible that he is overwhelmed with the enormity of his responsibility as the GOC and at the same time as the Commander of OPSH. And if that is the truth, why not separate the two offices. As a social scientist, we are taught that in the course of a research, when you discover that certain variables are not giving you the desired results, you change . Given the current situation in my constituency and other parts of the state, It is obvious that there is security failure as far as security architecture is concerned .If people are calling for his removal or change, I don’t think those people are in anyway wrong because when you try somebody on a given assignment and he fails or he is not achieving the desired results, why should you continue to keep the person there? If you change to another alternative, possibly, that may yield some positive results. What is your advice to your constituents who seem to be helpless over the security situation in many of their communities? Even some of us are equally helpless over the situation we have found ourselves. What needed to be spoken have been said. The action that needed to be taken on the part of some of us have been taken, yet the government is not interested in the plight of the people to help them and stop the terrorists from having their way. Except that certain new steps are taken, the security problem being faced by the people remains. So, we will continue to urge the people to remain law-abiding, vigilant  and  prayerful because the present situation which we have found ourselves is rather unfortunate as it is a situation of helplessness because we don’t have anybody to help us except God whom I know will surely rescue the people from the current challenge because the situation is not beyond God to handle. On your recent election, ehat do you think that gave you an edge over other contestants  during the recent  Jos North/Bassa federal constituency  bye-election? It is God that gives power. The election that produced me as the winner,Musa Agah was not taken as a serious minded contestant. I was not considered to be among the top contenders. But if God says you are the one, nobody questions the verdict of God.  I’m aware  of the enormous responsibilities bestowed on me following our victory at the polls but I know that the same God that made it possible will not let me down. Before your election as a member of  the House of Representatives a few weeks ago,  many of your constituents expressed the fear about being shortchanged in the national Assembly  because of an alleged delay by the Independent National Electoral Commission to conduct the bye- election that produced you as the winner. What is the situation like which you met on ground after resuming office as a federal lawmaker ? It is true that there were a lot of concerns expressed  by my constituents because the electoral umpire delayed in conducting the bye- election but finally ,the election took place  in February this year and I won. That is the most important thing. I have nothing to say except to appreciate God. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com