A chieftain of the African Democratic Congress in Ekiti State, Ojo Asana, has said the party remained the most credible and best alternative to salvage the state and Nigeria from the hands of money bag politicians. According to him, the party’s governorship candidate, Dr Wole Oluyede, “is the most suitable for the exalted seat at this time in the life of the state in view of his wealth of experience in all sectors.” The ADC chieftain, who spoke during a meeting of the party leadership with members and supporters at Ogbonjana Ward in Ikere Ekiti, called on eligible voters to rally support for Oluyede and his Deputy, Hidiat Popoola, and as well vote for the party in the June 18election. He said, “The ruling All Progressives Congress and its compatriot, Peoples Democratic Party have both ruled the state with nothing tangible to show to residents. The APC and PDP governments in Ekiti State have failed us with inability to provide good governance and service delivery which included security. “There is poverty in the land, which has culminated in the spate of insecurity and unemployment. “Ekiti kete, this is the time to embrace the best alternative in order to secure the land and restore better life to the people,” he said. Asana expressed confidence that Ekiti workers would enjoy better welfare package if the ADC candidate was voted in as governor. “An Oluyede-led ADC administration would deliver good services to the people of Ekiti State. He will use his international experience as a medical practitioner to make Ekiti a medical tourists’ destination of choice. “Ekiti people should reject the continuity of either APC or PDP government in Ekiti State by casting their votes for the right candidate, Oluyede, who means well for the citizenry”, Asana said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com