A coalition of political groups drawn from the 19 Northern states and Abuja, on Thursday, made a case for Southern presidency in 2023. The groups, under the aegis of ‘Northern Patriots United for Gov. Udom for President 2023,’ said for justice, fair play and equity for peace and stability of the country, there was need for the presidency to shift to the south. According to the National Coordinator of the group, Jacob Kaduma, while addressing a press conference in Kaduna on Thursday, “it is expected that by 2023 when this administration led by President Muhammadu Buhari, who is of Northern extraction, would have clocked eight years of two terms in power, the
presidency should shift to the South for justice and fairness.” Kaduma noted that the groups had done a checklist of those who have shown interest in running for the presidency in the Southern part, particularly in the South-East and South-South zones, stating their preference for the Akwa Ibom State governor, Udom Emmanuel, as the next president of Nigeria in 2023. He added that the choice of the Akwa Ibom helmsman as the man the cap fits for the 2023 presidency followed a painstaking evaluation of all those aspiring to be Nigeria’s next president after the incumbent president. He said, “We are a group of Northerners who are concerned about the peace, security, unity and progress of Nigeria. We seated here are representing our members that are drawn from the 19 Northern states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory. We are committed to ensuring justice, fair play and equity for peace and stability in our nation. “We believe that since the inauguration of this unbroken democracy in May 1999, the principles of power sharing between the North and South have become acceptable as a stabilising factor between the two regions. “Arising from this, it is expected that by 2023 when this administration led by President Muhammadu Buhari, who is of Northern extraction. would have clocked eight years of two terms in power, the presidency should shift to the South for justice and fairness. “In view of the fact that power is expected to shift to the South, we have done a checklist of those who have shown interest in running for the presidency in the Southern part, particularly in the South-East and South-South Zones. One aspirant seems to capture our attention due to his sterling qualities of leadership and track record of integrity, statesmanship, development strides and commitment to national unity. “This exceptional aspirant is no other person than the hard-working
governor of Akwa Ibom State, His Excellency Emmanuel Udom. “Considering the present precarious state of the nation that is almost sliding to anarchy, the next president of Nigeria should be one that is a visionary leader that will restore hope and confidence, a bridge builder who appreciates diversity; one that places high premium on human lives and development; a courageous leader that is unafraid of bringing transformation, a patriot that will foster national unity and integration and one who believes in the Nigerian project. “The performance record of Udom Emmanuel as Governor of Akwa Ibom State clearly sets him apart as one who epitomises the qualities of the next president Nigeria needs. Nearly seven years since he was inaugurated as governor, he has not only managed the diversity of state, but has become the arrowhead of infrastructural development and recorded giant strides in various sectors of industrialisation, health, construction, security and development, among others.” He added, “Some of the ongoing and already completed job-providing projects include Quality Ceramics, Ibom Airlines, Tropicana Shoprite Mall, Ibom Deep Sea Port, Ibom Industrial Park/Jetty, Plywood Manufacturing Factory, Power Plant, Jetty, Refinery, Gas Processing Plant, Waste to
Wealth Plant, among others. “In nearly seven years of his administration, Governor Udom has worked round the clock to secure the state. In 2017, the Nigeria Police Force ranked Akwa Ibom as the lowest in crime index in Nigeria. In 2020, the administration donated 30 new patrol trucks to security agencies in a bid to strengthen the security outfits in the state. “Apart from building a 21-storey building called Dakkada Towers for the provision of accommodation to oil companies and other businesses operating in Akwa Ibom, the Udom-led government’s touch has gone a long way in carrying out sensitisation Campaign against Child Abuse, Child Trafficking, Child Abandonment and Baby Factory in the state. “It is without doubt that Dr Emmanuel Udom has continued to demonstrate quality and visionary leadership and the Nigeria of the 21st century needs such a dynamic transformational leader who will reconnect the country to the comity of progressive and industrialised nations. “We are calling on all Nigerians to join hands and support the aspiration of Emmanuel Udom as President of Nigeria come 2023.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com