The Allied Peoples Movement on Tuesday announced the suspension of six members for alleged anti-party activities. A statement by its National Secretary, Oyadeyi Adebayo, said the National Working Committee of APM took the decision after its meeting in Abuja on Monday. The APM said those suspended for “gross misconduct and anti-party activities,” include six national officers and three state chairmen. They are the National Treasurer, Rose Gyar; National Financial Secretary, Nadir Baba and National Publicity Secretary, Muktar Sidi. Others were the National Welfare Officer, Abubakar Ahmed; National Youth leader, Felix Idowu; Vice Chairman (South East), Rowland Inyama; Chairman, Kaduna State chapter, Nuhu Soba; Chairman, Nasarawa State chapter, Abram Gyabo and Chairman, Federal Capital Territory, Thomas Akosu. The statement said, “The suspended officers of the party held a kangaroo meeting and appointed the former national treasurer, Rose Gyar. as the acting national chairman in flagrant violation of APM constitution registered with INEC. “Article 10(7) of the party constitution provides that, “Two-third majority of the executive committee at all levels shall form a quorum” for any meeting at the instance of the national chairman. “Only six out of 20 members of the National Working Committee attended the purported meeting. It is obvious that any decision taken at the meeting was null and void and of no effect whatsoever in the operations of our great party. “The NWC has set up a three-man disciplinary committee which has Ken Ikeh as Chairman, Hafsat Usman (Secretary) and Kalu Njoku (member) to investigate the allegations, petitions and anti-party activities against the suspended officers and report back to the NWC in two weeks. “The NWC reaffirmed the vote of confidence passed on the National Chairman, Alhaji Yusuf Dantalle by the NEC in its meeting held on February 5, 2022, in Abuja.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com