The Lagos State Police Command on Monday said it had commenced investigation into the alleged sexual abuse of a female student (name withheld) of Chrisland Schools by her male colleagues. The police also said it won’t hesitate to engage the assistance of the International Criminal Police Organisation to get to the root of the incident which occurred in March 2022 when the school took the students to Dubai to participate in the World School Games. The police spokesman in Lagos, Benjamin Hundeyin, made this known in a statement titled, ‘Re: Viral Chrisland School Video…We Have Commenced Investigations – CP Alabi’. The statement read, “The attention of the Lagos State Police Command has been drawn to an alleged rape video purportedly depicting students of Chrisland School Lagos, going viral on social media. “The Command has commenced investigations into the matter with a view to establishing the identities of the players in the video, the true incident in the video, the geographical location of the incident, the alleged threat to life against a student of the school and circumstances surrounding the alleged repeated pregnancy tests conducted on a student without parental consent. “The Command is equally taking cognizance of the cybercrime angle to the whole episode and would not hesitate to enlist the support of the Interpol should the need arise. For a holistic and unbiased investigation, the Command shall be working with relevant ministries, departments, agencies and non-governmental organizations. “Meanwhile, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, fdc, mnim, psc has assured that due diligence will be observed to ensure that there is no miscarriage of justice.” The PUNCH had earlier reported that the Lagos State Government closed all Chrisland Schools in the state, indefinitely, pending the outcome of investigation by security agents. The students of the top private school located in the Victoria Garden City area of the state had embarked on a trip to Dubai in March when the incident happened. The school authorities subsequently suspended the female student (name withheld) indefinitely, stating that she was “a major actor” in an “immoral act”. However, the mother of the student claimed that her daughter was drugged and raped by some male students of the school. The Chrisland Schools’ incident was one of the disheartening cases resulting from bullying and molestations in secondary schools of late. Last November, a 12-year-old boarding student of Dowen College, Lekki, Lagos, Sylvester Oromoni, reportedly died from injuries sustained after he was allegedly bullied and sexually molested by some senior students of the school. Karen-Happuch Akpagher of Premiere Academy, Lugbe, Abuja, had died of sexual molestation in June 2021 while Don Davies of Deeper Life High School, Uyo, had also narrowly escaped death in December 2020, when his mother raised the alarm of alleged sodomy of her emaciated son. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com