ABIODUN NEJO writes that each of the All Progressives Congress, Peoples Democratic Party, and the Social Democratic Party believes that it will carry the day when Ekiti people go to the polls on June 18 The emergence in Ekiti State of the Social Democratic Party with former governor Segun Oni as its candidate to slug it out with All Progressives Congress flag bearer, Biodun Oyebanji, and the Peoples Democratic Party standard-bearer, Bisi Kolawole, in the June 18 election appears to have changed political calculations in the state. Traditionally, the governorship of the state since its creation in 1996 has been rotated between the APC (and its forebears) and the PDP, which have been alternating the position with none being able to succeed itself. While the SDP, which came as a third force with large and loud crowds following it all about, is giving the impression that it will change the status quo by winning the election, the PDP, which prides itself as a major party, is highly confident about producing the next governor to maintain the status quo. This is as the APC says it is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that it breaks the jinx of continuity in the state by ensuring that its candidate, Oyebanji, succeeds Dr Kayode Fayemi. Although many are of the opinion that the SDP will spring surprises in the Ekiti election, the APC and the PDP are quick to say that a third force in elections in the state had always been jokers, adding that the forthcoming governorship would not be an exception. While political watchers are of the view that the Ekiti election will be a keen contest among the three parties, each of them disagrees, saying the contest will basically be between two parties as all of them boast of winning the contest. The ruling APC believes that June 18 will be a contest between it and the PDP; the SDP is of the view it and the APC are the two leading parties in the Ekiti governorship; while the PDP sees the contest as one between it and the incumbent party. SDP, most credible alternative in Ekiti – SOCO DG For the SDP, which believes that its candidate, Oni, towers above the candidates of all other parties, nothing can stop it from dislodging the APC from the Government House through the June 18 election. The Director-General, Segun Oni Campaign Organisation, Ambassador Dare Bejide, said the forthcoming governorship poll in Ekiti “is not about the party this time, but it is about the individual involved. The SDP will win the election with a very clear margin if it is fair and credible. The people have tested the PDP, the APC and Segun Oni as a person. They know Segun Oni is credible. They will vote for Segun Oni. “The contest is between the SDP and the APC; the PDP is out completely in this race. As far as we are concerned, the PDP will be a distant third; we are going to win and the APC will come second. The PDP is not doing well; most of its members have crossed to our side. They are trooping in everyday and we are happy about that.” Bejide, who described the SDP as the new bride in Ekiti State, said, “We are moving very fast, people are embracing us, they see us as the most credible alternative to the present administration. Even though the SDP is a new party, we have gone round and the massive support has really jolted the two other parties.” While speaking on the strength of the SDP, the SOCO DG said, “Segun Oni is an institution; he was governor and did so well in terms of infrastructural development, salary payment, welfare of the civil servants and all spheres; he paid arrears of pensions and gratuities. “All these are the things that are still operating in the mind of the people. It is difficult for the people to forget what Segun Oni did when he was in government. If you compare his tenure with that of the APC, you will see that the difference is very clear. “We are not only going to win, we will win very well. What they are saying is that Segun Oni may not have money, who told them Segun Oni will not have money? “They are banking on rigging, saying they will rig us out; I don’t know how they will do that because you can only rig when you are popular. But they are unpopular. The people of Ekiti are our strength. We believe the election is about people, we have already taken the message to the people. “We have gone round the state; we have gone to court because there are many people who are friends of the party. We have friends from the APC and we have friends from the PDP, who are now members of the party.” The SOCO Director of Media, Jackson Adebayo, who corroborated the DG, quipped, “The PDP is not on ground again in the state because of the defections of majority of its members to the SDP. “The SDP will definitely win the election because it is the people’s election. It is an election that is being targeted by Ekiti people to produce a governor who will take them out of the bondage of the APC and PDP. “Ekiti people have seen that the leaderships provided by the PDP and APC were only tossing them around and Ekiti people are known to be averse to things like that. In that way, the election is an Ekiti project and Ekiti people will vote for the SDP as their choice. “What is happening in our party in Ekiti at present is strange. For a new party that did not have any structure to grow geometrically within two months is a miracle and that is what has happened to Ekiti State. “Now, all the structures in the PDP and the major structures in the APC have collapsed into the SDP; that is why the once unstructured party has suddenly become the most structured party in Ekiti State today. “The PDP shot itself in the leg during the primary by allowing those people that were not recognised by the Independent National Electoral Commission to vote. The APC is only a caricature because it has not been fair to its members, nor is it fair to the people of Ekiti State. That is why you see the members defecting to the SDP every day.” We’ll win June 18 election hands down – PDP However, the PDP expresses confidence that its candidate, Bisi Kolawole, will win the June 18 governorship election due to its acceptability to the people, large membership and the fact the governing APC has failed the state. The PDP State Chairman, Lanre Omolase, said, “We are going to win the election hands down because Ekiti people are tired of this fraud called the APC government. A government that will not interface with the people and will not discuss with the people and that does not care about anybody.” Omolase, who said the contest would be between the PDP and the APC, dismissed the SDP, saying, “No third force can win an election in Ekiti State. What can the SDP showcase to make them believe they will be in close rank? This is a party that has no structure right from the ward to the local government to the state!” The PDP chairman, who derided the SDP for saying Oni’s personality would win the poll for it, queried, “Which personality? Has he (Oni) won any election in Ekiti before? In 2008, he participated in a primary election and he came a distant third, at the end of the day, the election was given to him but taken away by the court. “He (Oni) defected to the APC, participated in another primary election with Fayemi in 2018, he was defeated. In January 2022, he came out again to contest against Bisi Kolawole, he lost. Where is the pedigree? Even if he has come, have you ever seen in the history of Ekiti where a third force won an election? “It is the people who don’t want anything to do with Fayemi and the PDP that went to gang up with Segun Oni, claiming they will showcase personality. What do they have on the ground? Do they have money to set up the necessary machinery and structure to manage the wards, councils and state to pursue the ambition?” Omolase, who said the APC would also approach the election as a weakling having failed Ekiti people and mishandled their primary, said, “You cannot even compare us with the APC; see their primary, they are in court against their candidate. Who even told you that the APC has a candidate? “Ekiti under this APC regime is faced with multiple dimensional problems. No sector is free; prostitution has become a profession because of the inability of this government to give people employment, but it is sacking workers. “Our party, the PDP, is a serious party that is determined to re-launch itself for greatness in Ekiti and indeed Nigeria. We are prepared to rescue Ekiti and Nigeria from this maladministration of the APC. “Apart from Segun Oni, other governorship aspirants did not leave. Wale Aribisala is with us working, Prof Kolapo Olusola is with us, contesting a senatorial seat, Olujimi is pursuing her ambition. We were able to manage the aftermath of the primary. We are together and on the ground at the ward, local government and state levels.” The spokesman for the Bisi Kolawole Campaign Organisation, Lere Olayinka, stated, “The SDP is not in this race. We (PDP) are going to win. All the indices are there. You can see the failure of the party in government, the APC, everywhere. “You can see insecurity; you can see decaying infrastructure, non-payment of salaries through not paying deductions. The government owes about eight months’ deductions. The indicators are there that the people have rejected the APC at the state and the federal level. “The people are with us, they want to go back to a government that they can feel; they want a situation whereby they can see their governor and they can discuss with their governor, unlike a governor who in a month spends only two days in Ekiti and the remaining in Abuja. People are tired of that kind of situation. “The PDP has remained the predominant party in Ekiti State. The strength of the PDP as a party is in the people. The strength of the PDP is in what we have done in the past; the strength is in the record of our achievements. “Our party has the record of employing people, but the APC government has the record of sacking workers. You cannot drive on the roads in many areas in Ekiti State without being kidnapped for ransom. That never happened when the PDP was there.” Describing the SDP as a joker, Olayinka said, “The contest is between the PDP and APC. I don’t see the SDP making any appreciable impact in this election. From past experience, a third force has never worked in Ekiti. “The SDP members know they cannot make any impact; they are even saying that they are out to spoil the chances of the PDP. The APC is the party we are contesting with.” Ekiti people trust us to deliver on promises – APC The APC, which says it has the highest number of members among political parties in the state, is confident of winning the governorship election with a very clear margin based on its achievements with which it will seek the people’s votes. The APC Publicity Secretary in the state, Segun Dipe, who said the governing party and its candidate, Biodun Oyebanji, were unbeatable since Ekiti people knew they could be trusted to deliver on promises, also dismissed insinuations in some quarters that the poll would be keenly contested by the APC, PDP and SDP. Dipe said, “It is not a keen contest. The APC will win with a reasonable margin. It is not going to be keen at all. The PDP is fake, and Ekiti people have realised that and rejected it already. We know the fake projects that the PDP did during its administration, roads that were worn out within six months. “The SDP is about noise, blackmail and propaganda. No structure, no backbone. There is a difference between ‘we have done this, we are doing this and we are going to do this’. The SDP thinks that by de-marketing the APC, they can market themselves. “They (SDP) are not focused on any strategy to win the election, but a strategy to bring down the winner. The PDP is the one that the SDP is contending with, they are struggling for the structure of the PDP and not to win.” The APC spokesman, who said the PDP and SDP were not preparing for the election per se, said, “The APC is conscious of the fact that some people are working towards petitions and litigation, not towards winning. They are just looking for landmines to capitalise on. “Over 2,000 projects have been done and inaugurated; Oni never inaugurated any project. The PDP did fake projects. Despite the paucity of funds, we endeavour to ensure that people’s needs are met and salaries are paid regularly.” The Director-General, Biodun Oyebanji Campaign Organisation, Cyril Fasuyi, who corroborated Dipe, added, “My appointment as campaign DG is not for joke. We have a focus. The focus is to employ strategy, deploy resources and use the goodwill of the APC candidate, Oyebanji, to win the election. I have always believed that the contest is not a tea party.” Fasuyi, who said happenings in the APC in the next few weeks, including receiving a large number of defectors from other political parties, would define the election, stated, “We are winning the election with a wide margin.” He said although the contest would be between the APC and PDP, the opposition PDP would be humbled once again in view of the performance of the Fayemi administration in all sectors, which had made Ekiti people to love the APC the most, and the quality of the candidate. The campaign DG said, “As of today, the APC is the largest political party in Africa, by extension, in Nigeria. The APC has 22 governors; the PDP has 13 and you want to tell me that a party that is standing on nothing will displace those kinds of parties with huge support bases? “This is a stand-alone election; the SDP has no single senator, no single House of Assembly member, and no single councillor anywhere – where will it get support from? When push comes to shove, you will see the impact of what I am telling you. Politics is science, science is fact and fact is sacred.” Last line Although each of the APC, PDP and SDP believes it will carry the day in the June 18 election, only one of them would be returned by the electoral umpire for satisfying the stipulated conditions to be declared the winner. In all, 16 political parties are fielding candidates for the election and would slug it out that day. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com