Some stakeholders in the education sector have said low-quality teaching in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics subjects is affecting the girl child’s interest in such courses. This assertion was made during a zoom conversation of EdTech, an initiative of the Mastercard Foundation in partnership with Co-Creation Hub. They, however, suggested access to digital tools and resources as the key drivers to facilitate and encourage young girls to take more interest in STEM-related fields. Speaking at the roundtable themed, ‘Celebrating African Women in Education and Technology,’ the Deputy Director, Research and External Linkages, Tai Solarin University of Education Dr Adefunke Ekine,  stated that the low number of young girls in Nigeria’s engineering and technology-related field was due to the lack of direct access to digital tools and resources. She noted that “the problem is further aggravated by the abysmal quality of teaching noticeable in foundational subjects such as Mathematics,  teaching in Nigeria is more abstract than functional.  There is the need to adopt a storytelling approach to elicit interest in the girl-child participation in STEM-related courses.” In her remarks, the founder of She Code Africa, Ada Oyom, an advocate of female representation in STEM education, noted that young girls must be optimistic that anything was achievable if they set their minds to achieve it. While citing examples of the success stories of She Code Africa on STEM education, she stressed the need for stakeholders to make resources and tools available and expose young girls to other opportunities. Also, founder, Imisi 3D, Judith Okonkwo, stated that the global aspiration for gender parity was realisable if stakeholders focus on providing immediate access to the girl-child regardless of social status. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com