Fun seekers who thronged the Eko Convention Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos, for the 2022 edition of AY Live, held on Easter Sunday, April 17, 2022, were not disappointed, as many of them stated that it lived up to their expectations. Aside from starting late and insufficient seats, it was indeed a memorable outing for the host, Ayo Makun, other entertainers. The event featured electrifying performances from top acts such as P-Square, Davido, Portable, Kenny Blaq and Acapella. At about 9:09pm, two comedians, Ajebo and Pencil, mounted the stage, introducing themselves as the hosts for the day. The duo gave the audience several moments of humourous pleasure, with their parody of Wizkid animating guests. The night took another twist when AY was called on stage at about 11:30pm. He was clad in a navy attire as fireworks heralded his welcome. AY rips into Eedris Abdulkareem The show’s organiser, AY, did not spare popular rapper and singer, Eedris Abdulkareem, as the former drew comparisons between American actor and comedian, Will Smith, slapping another comedian, Chris Rock, at the Academy Awards; and Abdulkareem’s infamous fight with American rapper, 50 cent, about 18 years ago in 2004. While throwing jabs at Eedris, who unknown to many, was seated among the audience with a nose mask covering his face, the ‘Mr Lecturer’ rapper stood up and walked towards AY, acting as if he wanted to slap the comedian. However, he abruptly ‘seized’ the microphone from AY and delved into his hit song, ‘Jaga Jaga’. P-Square shines again One of the highlights of the show was pop duo, P-square’s animated performance. The twin brothers, who had split for about four years before coming back together in 2021, mounted the stage and performed alongside a live band. They went on to dish out some hit songs like ‘Do Me’ and ‘No One Like You’. To say that the audience was thrilled by their performance would be an understatement. AY ‘begs’ E-Money for cash Controversial ‘Zazuu’ singer, Portable, also gave a good account of himself at the show. Popular socialite, Emeka Okonkwo, aka E-Money, was visibly impressed by his performance and he gave him wads of money. After the performance though, AY pleaded with E-Money to also give him his share of the ‘largesse’. The audience erupted in laughter as E-Money obliged him and threw some money on the stage. Davido closes show Pop star, Davido, did not disappoint the audience as his performance was the last one for the night. Other celebs at the event were Whitemoney, Liquorose, Akpororo, Ebube Nwagbo and Gordons.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com