The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, says he doesn’t know whether or not there will be an election in 2023 yet. The 80-year-old cleric said God has not told him whether there would an election next year. He said God spoke to him about the 2019 elections more than a year to the election but the case has not been so with the 2023 election. He quickly added that God might still speak to him about the 2023 general elections but He has not spoken to him yet. The cleric said he is more concerned about Kaduna killings, oil theft, Nigeria’s depressing debt profile and other current national challenges. Adeboye also said politics is not his calling and he will never be a politician. He stressed that he does not support any presidential aspirant ahead of the 2023 general elections. The octogenarian preacher said this on Sunday at the monthly Thanksgiving Service of the Church. Adeboye said the clarification was important amid the criticisms against the church’s creation of a Politics Directorate and the instruction to members to be politically involved in the 2023 electioneering process. Adeboye said, “Listen to me carefully and if you are going to quote me, quote me correctly. I am talking to those of you who are my children. Do you want to know the truth? And nothing but the truth? I am talking of myself now. “As of now, as I am standing before you, I still don’t know whether or not there would be an election next year. Don’t say that Pastor Adeboye said there would be no election next year; that’s not what I said. Adeboye does not know yet, put the word ‘yet’. “How come you don’t know? Because my father has not talked to me about it yet. The last time we had an election, He (God) spoke to me about the election by June of the previous year and this is April. So, it is not late but He hasn’t told me yet.” The octogenarian thereafter threw a challenge to the congregation seated before him. Adeboye said, “He (God) must have told you – some of you who are prophets, you are closer to Him (God) but is there anyone of you here who can raise your hand to heaven and say without any doubt, there will be an election in 2023. If you can tell us, stand up and we will clap for a prophet. “I don’t know yet. Remember to put the word ‘yet’,” he emphasised. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com