Former Lagos State governor, Bola Tinubu, has picked the All Progressives Congress’ N100m Presidential Nomination and Expression of Interest Forms, The PUNCH has learnt. It was gathered that Tinubu, who is in Saudi Arabia for Hajj, was represented by some of his close associates including House of Representatives member from Ikeja Federal Constituency, James Faleke; member representing Agege Federal Constituency in the green chamber, Babatunde Adejare; and a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir Lawal. Faleke, Lawal and other loyalists of the strongman of Lagos politics picked up the presidential forms for him (Tinubu) at the APC National Headquarters on Blantyre Street, Wuse 2, Abuja, at exactly 3pm. Tinubu had in January announced his desire to succeed the incumbent President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in May 2023. He had told Aso Rock reporters that becoming Nigeria’s President was his “lifelong ambition” and that there was nothing wrong in a kingmaker becoming a king. Already, Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba; Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello; amongst others have picked up the APC presidential forms while others are expected to follow suit in the coming days. They include Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige; Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi; former Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha; former Abia State Governor, Orji Kalu; amongst others jostling to be the flagbearer at the end of the APC presidential primary scheduled to hold at the end of May 2022. In the Peoples Democratic Party, presidential hopefuls have also emerged from both the Northern and Southern regions in the last few weeks. They include former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose; ex-Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi; media personality, Dele Momodu; former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Pius Anyim; former Senate President, Bukola Saraki; ex-Vice-President Atiku Abubakar; Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal; Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed; amongst others. The PDP’s presidential primary has also been scheduled for the end of May while Nigerians watch with rapt keenness as the two prominent parties elect their flagbearers at their conventions in four weeks’ time. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com