The Society of Petroleum Engineers, and the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board have commended Dangote Petroleum Refinery for its application of world-class technology in the construction of the 650,000BPD refinery project. This was contained in a statement issued by the Internal Communications Analyst, Branding and Communications of Dangote Industries Ltd., Roseline Okere, in Lagos on Monday. The groups, during a tour of the facility, had expressed optimism that the refining facility was capable of redefining Nigeria’s domestic fuel production. According to the statement, both associations said the completion of the gigantic project would secure the future of young engineers in Nigeria and put them at par with their counterparts in the global oil and gas industry. It also quoted the Chairman, SPE Nigeria Council, Prof. Olalekan Olafuyi, as saying that the visit was necessitated by the need for members to see the reality of the massive project. Olafuyi said, “Much has been heard and written regarding the refinery. “Coming here has given us the opportunity to see the level of construction works, application of world-class technology and massive equipment which are new to the Nigerian downstream oil and gas industry. “We have heard before about Dangote Petroleum Refinery and have also seen that the project is for real. “After touring the refinery, we are amazed by the level of work that has already been done and we are eagerly waiting for its completion. We are happy with what we have seen. “Dangote is doing a great job with the construction of a world-class petroleum refinery. It is remarkable that a Nigerian company is building a world-class project. Also, the Director of Planning Research and Statistics, NCDMB, Patrick Obah, said that the Dangote Refinery was Africa’s biggest oil refinery and the world’s largest single-train facility. Obah said the project was contributing to the implementation of the Nigerian Content Policy through its engagement with Nigerian engineers. “It is awesome that this kind of project is happening here in Nigeria. “For the first time, I saw a tank that could hold 120 million litres of liquid at the Dangote Petroleum Refinery plant. “We are indeed happy that we have this kind of facility here in Nigeria. The visit is very enriching for members of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and the Nigerian Content Board. “There is no doubt that the project gives inspiration to all visitors who come on a tour of the refinery. “The refinery plant gives a lot of hope to Nigerians. It is important for us to grow local capacity that will be able to fit into the energy demand of tomorrow,” he said. In his reaction, the Managing Director, Dangote Industries Free Zone Development Company, Yinka Akande, said that the company would continue to provide employment for Nigerians, whilst promoting the development of the Nigerian downstream oil and gas industry. He thanked members of the two associations for coming to tour the refinery and petrochemical projects. (NAN)