The Lagos State Government has shut down all Chrisland Schools in Lagos State indefinitely. This followed a controversy generated over an “immoral act” engaged in by students of the school during a trip to Dubai. The shutdown notice was contained in a press statement on Monday. The PUNCH had reported that pupils from the elite private school located in Victoria Garden City had embarked on a trip to Dubai to participate in the World School Games between March 10 and 13, 2022 when the incident happened. Following the incident, the school authorities suspended the student indefinitely, stating that she was “a major actor” in an “immoral act”. But the mother of the student claimed that her daughter was drugged and raped by some male students of the school. Efforts to reach the school for clarification proved abortive as of the time of filing this report. The government, in the statement, noted that an investigation into the matter had begun. The statement read, “The attention of the Lagos State Government has been drawn to the alleged sexual violence case involving students of Chrisland Schools which occurred in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. “It is pertinent to note that all allegations are being investigated by the relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies, including the Ministry of Education, Office of Education Quality Assurance, Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Ministry of Justice and the Lagos State
Domestic and Sexual Violence Agency, whilst the criminal allegations have been escalated to the Commissioner of Police. “In view of the allegations, we are committed to ensuring that adequate medical and pscyho-social support is provided. “This is to reassure members of the public of the State Government’s commitment to safety and child protection, especially in ensuring that all child-centred institutions within the state, formulate and implement policies and systems that are compliant with the Executive Order (NO.EO/AA08 of 2016), Lagos State Safeguarding and Child Protection Program. “We also use this medium to remind the general public that any person who engages in any visual depiction of sexually explicit conduct involving a child, commits an offence and is liable to a custodial sentence of 14 years. This includes “producing, distributing, receiving, or possessing an image of child pornography”. “In the meantime, all Chrisland Schools within Lagos State are hereby closed, pending further investigations.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com