Some Residents of the Federal Capital Territory have expressed concerns over the increased presence of military men in the territory. This is as our correspondent learnt that the military had also created security checkpoints at all entry and exit points into the FCT. Residents who spoke with our correspondent on Tuesday confirmed that the troops were sighted at different locations in border communities of the FCT. The FCT shares borders with states like Niger, Kogi, Nasarawa and Kaduna. A resident of Bwari who gave his name as Abubakar said, “We don’t know what is happening here. We don’t know if they have received intelligence of any impending attack. “We have been seeing military presence in numbers that we have not been seeing before. I also learnt that they are mostly in communities sharing borders with the FCT. “There is no how you will see things like this and not be scared. But whatever it is, they should ensure that we are safe in the FCT.” Another resident, who did not want his name in print, also told our correspondent about the presence of military personnel in Gwagwalada. When contacted, the Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, Guards Brigade, Captain Godfrey Abakpa, said the increased presence of troops was meant to solidify vulnerable areas in the FCT following last week’s train attack. He urged residents not to panic, stating that the nation’s capital is safe. Abakpa said, “You are aware of the recent development across the country, especially the train attack and all of that. “We are trying to solidify areas that we feel might be vulnerable in the territory. Other than that, there is no threat. Everything is normal. There’s no treat anywhere. Abuja is very safe; residents do not need to panic.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com