THE governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party in Ekiti State, Chief Segun Oni, on Sunday sympathised with the Nigeria Union of Pensioners in the state over the death of no fewer than 220 of its members while waiting for payment of their pensions and gratuities. The former governor, who said that the SDP government under him would pay attention to the plight of the senior citizens, said, “A situation where people who had spent their useful years serving their fatherland and retired die without receiving their gratuities is not acceptable. The saying goes, ‘labourers deserve their wages.’” The SDP candidate, in a statement by the Media Director, Segun Oni Campaign Organisation, Jackson Adebayo, titled “Oni sympathises with NUP over death of 220 members,” spoke in reaction to the statement last week by NUP state chairman, Joel Akinola, that no fewer than 220 Ekiti pensioners had died, while 367 others were at present battling for their lives and awaiting payment of their gratuities. Akinola had, at a press conference in Ado Ekiti last week, faulted a statement by the state government through the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Yinka Oyebode, that the pensioners commended the governor for the release of N200 million for the payment of outstanding gratuities. Reacting to this, Oni stated, “I want to use this medium to sympathise with Ekiti pensioners over the untimely death of some of their members due to lack of proper medical care occasioned by non payment of their gratuities. “I recall that when we were in government, pensioners were receiving their gratuities when due without any undue delay and protocols. “I want to assure the pensioners that their plights will soon be a thing of the past if I become the governor of the state, because their welfare will be a thing of priority to my government.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com