Former Ekiti State Governor and the candidate of the Social Democratic Party in the June 18 governorship poll, Chief Segun Oni, said on Monday that the governing All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party in the state were spent forces and would be rejected at the poll. Oni, who said that the outcome of the June 18 election would convince the APC and PDP that they had already been rejected by the masses, however, urged the Ekiti electorate not to succumb to the intimidations from the two parties. The SDP candidate, who spoke during campaign visits to supporters and party members at Ido/Osi, Moba and Ilejemeje Local Government Areas, said, “I want to assure you that the SDP will win the governorship election, so don’t allow anyone to terrify you; we are taking over government from them. “I want you to come out and begin aggressive mobilisation and get prepared. I am happy with the groundswell of support we have been getting from the Ekiti people, but  this should be translated to victory on June 18.” “We are sure of victory, but they are planning to rig and I know that Ekiti people will prevent their rigging because the power of the people is mightier than any power. Act as true soldiers of democracy and defend your votes and your state”, Oni advised. The governorship hopeful assured that his government would banish poverty by initiating programmes that would touch the grassroots as he did in his first term, saying, “By the grace of God, we are bringing a life full of abundance and that is what we intend to do. Whoever terrorises you, report him to the leadership and we will deal with such a person using the instrument of law.” Speaking at the event, a former Speaker, Ondo State House of Assembly, Femi Akinyemi, who said the Ekiti electorate had declared for Oni, expressed confidence that the electorate would give Oni a bulk vote in the poll. A former chairman, Ekiti State Local Government Service Commission, said that pensioners, civil servants, market men and women were deeply appreciative of what Oni did in his first term and they had promised to bring him back to restore normalcy to the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com