No fewer than four members of the Miyyeti Allah Cattle Breeders’ Association in Gwagwalada Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory, including their chairman, have been killed. They were said to be coming from Izom market in Niger State when the gunmen attacked them near Daku village in the area council of the FCT. Four other persons were said to have been abducted while several others sustained gunshot injuries. The Secretary-General of MCBAN, Ngelzeerma Usman, confirmed the incident to our correspondent. He added that their abductors are demanding N100 million for the release of those held hostage. Usman said, “They went to sell cow last Thursday and were attacked by gunmen around 8pm.  They killed four of our members which included the chairman in Gwagwalada and took four away. “They have reached out to us and have demanded N100 million to release those with them. “The issue has been reported to security agencies and they are on top of the situation.” Efforts to get the FCT police command’s  Public Relation Officer, Josephine Adeh, was not successful as calls to her telephone line were not answered. Meanwhile, the FCT Commissioner of Police, Babaji Sunday, has urged residents to form neighbourhood watch groups within estates and their communities to reduce the spate of crime in the nation’s capital. This is as he harped on the need for residents to provide intelligence to security agencies in their battle against criminality in the FCT. He spoke at the security meeting convened by the Minister of the FCT,  Muhammad  Bello. These were contained in a statement by the minister’s Chief Press Secretary, Anthony Ogunleye, on Sunday. The statement quoted the police commissioner as saying, “Residents are encouraged to form neighbourhood watch groups within estates and local communities to minimise the activities of criminals in those locations. “The actions from such neighbourhood watch groups made up of credible members of the community will assist greatly in slowing down the actions of criminals. “There is also the need for residents to provide actionable intelligence to security agencies in their battle against criminality in the FCT. “You know we cannot be everywhere and like the popular saying, security is everybody’s business. We expect residents to always be security conscious, give us actionable intelligence which we will act upon.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com