The Enugu State Ministry of Transport says it will deploy no fewer than 300 traffic officers to ensure easy flow of traffic ahead of this year’s Easter period. The Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Ogbonna Idike, disclosed this to the News Agency of Nigeria in Enugu on Saturday. Idike said that the special Easter traffic control operation had been codenamed: ‘Obedience to Traffic Rules the Way to Life’. He said that the operation would last 10 days, starting from April 13 to April 22. He noted that the traffic officers would only work in all transit and link roads in major cities within the state. According to him, apart from easing traffic along major internal corridors in the state, they would also be involved in removing obstructions on the road and ensuring maintenance of lane discipline among motorists. Idike revealed that the ministry would deploy its traffic patrol vehicles, tow trucks and motorcycles to ensure proper monitoring of the roads as well as assist travellers and motorists get to their destination on time. “They will only work inside roads in major metropolises of the state, on morning and afternoon shifts commencing from 6 am to 8 pm daily. “The traffic officers will be concentrating in the major metropolises as we are anticipating a large volume of vehicular traffic as well as a high volume of social activities this period,” he stated. He further assured the ministry would be working in collaboration with the Federal Road Safety Corps, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, the Nigeria Police Force, Nigerian Air Force and the Nigerian Army. “The ministry urges military and paramilitary formations and agencies in the state to continue to partner with us as we ensure traffic flow for the benefits of all residing in the state,” he said. Idike also thanked governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for his encouragement to the ministry, especially for logistics support for its programmes and operations. “We are also commending our amiable governor for the approval of training of 20 traffic officers of the ministry at the prestigious FRSC Academy, Udi, for two weeks,” he added. The Easter Holy Week is an annual Christian cultural festival in commemoration of the Crucifixion, Death, and Ressurection of Jesus Christ. This year’s Easter holiday falls between April 15 to April 18: with the Good Friday on April 15; Holy Saturday on April 16; Easter Sunday on April 17; and Easter Monday on April 18. By customs, during this period, there is a throng of movements – both intrastate and interstate, usually creating bottleneck transits – a situation which the Enugu State Ministry of Transport had anticipated and strategised against – with a view to reducing to the barest minimum. NAN