Maple Canadian College, Lekki, Lagos, will be offering a $40,000 scholarships to the best three students who have an interest in attending the college and study abroad. President, Maple Education Canada, Mrs Ebi Obaro, at a media briefing stated that the focus of the college was to bring Canadian education to Nigerians at an affordable cost for parents. She added that MCC University Preparatory College with affiliation to 65 universities in Canada and across the world, was designed to bridge the gap between the Canadian High School Curriculum and the West African High School Syllabus and operates in partnership with Rosedale Academy, Ontario Canada. The scholarship, designed under the university pathway programme for Grade 12 (SSS3) students in Nigeria will enable eligible students to benefits from an automatic scholarship based on students’ admission scores. Obaro said the best student would get a scholarship of $20,000 to cover tuition fees, accommodation, feeding, and others while the best two would get $10,000 each. “Through our partnership with Rosedale Academy, an Ontario Ministry of Education-inspected private secondary school that is able to grant Ontario Secondary School Diploma credits; we are able to offer a University Pathway Program to Nigerian students. “Graduates of this program receive a Rosedale Academy OSSD, a globally recognised certification to gain admission to the world’s great universities, and consistently ranked in the top five international academic high school programs. MCC helps students attain university readiness before leaving Nigeria to study in Canada, the United Kingdom, United States, Australia and other countries leveraging top global academic program taught by Canadian certified teachers who prepare students for rigorous university programs worldwide.” Obaro added that studying abroad would shape learners to be excellence-driven; saying the development and environment of the advanced countries would impact positively on students’ progress. “We started assisting students in Nigeria to get admissions to study in Canada, UK, America, Australia and other countries and we always have a 99% visa success rate. Our students always perform excellently in the diploma program that they always win scholarships to study abroad,” she added. Principal, MCC,  Tinuade Olufolabi, suggested that Nigerian government should add technology into education from the primary school level to bridge the gap in the country’s education curriculum. “Government must put things in place to help students   leverage technology. “Government needs to understand the place of education, education must be practical, fun, relatable, infusing technology in the curriculum will go a long way in making students understand more. “Teachers should be certified too, even if you have an education background, there is a lot needed to be able to impact knowledge because the Canadian content is way more advanced.” Olufolabi stated that the first phase of the entrance examination for the scholarship scheme would commence on Saturday April 23. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com