The Bayelsa State Government, on Thursday, dismissed claims in some quarters purporting that Governor Douye Diri was causing division in the state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party. The Commissioner for Information, Orientation, and Strategy, Mr. Ayibaina Duba, stated this in a statement he issued in Yenagoa titled, ‘Governor Douye Diri is a grateful, unifying man of peace’ while reacting to a piece published on some online platforms credited to one Ebi Jamaica. Describing the report as unscrupulous, Duba said that the insinuation that the governor was ungrateful to those who worked for his victory at the 2019 governorship election, particularly his predecessor, Senator Seriake Dickson, “was based on some unverified and bogus assumptions.” He said that there was no evidence whatsoever to sustain the claim of disagreement between Diri and the former governor, stressing that it smacked of beer parlour gossip. Duba said that the governor had rather been a preacher of peace and unity across the state and had initiated practical efforts at strengthening and keeping the PDP united as well as enjoyed a cordial relationship with Dickson. He said that, if anything, it was the author of the misleading and bad-intentioned piece “that seeks to divide the party along the lines of the former APC members and old PDP members, loyalists of Senator Douye Diri, the Governor and loyalists of Senator Seriake Dickson due to his lack of tact and shallow understanding of party politics and governance.” Duba said, “On the contrary, these two sons of our state have continued to enjoy a harmonious relationship based on mutual respect and in the best interest of our state. The Governor has continued to demonstrate good faith and is appreciative of the fingers of God used in making him governor and eternally grateful to God for his elevation. “In the last two years, the Governor has committed to unifying the party by insisting that every party man has equal right. He has also invested a lot of time and energy in bringing back members who defected to other parties and assuaged the concerns of stakeholders, thus fortifying the party. “The governor has also continued to preach peace and unity among our people and succeeded at engineering convivial relationships between the contending political groups and communities in the state. “Therefore, how can any discerning person come to the conclusion that the unifying efforts of the governor will divide the party?” The Commissioner, therefore, advised the author and his likes not to be unnecessarily over-excited about the ongoing usual political frenzy associated with party nomination. He said that Diri would not only continue to work for peace, unity, and well-being of Bayelsa, but also ensure that party politics was done in the best democratic tradition without the imposition of candidates. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com