Former governor of Anambra State and presidential aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party, Peter Obi, has revealed that his presidential ambition is borne out of his interest in the younger generation of Nigerians and those yet unborn. This, he said, propelled him to present himself for the task of leading the country by ensuring the current economic situation of the country, which holds no future for its children and generations yet unborn, is salvaged. Obi stated these when he met with the delegates at the party’s State Secretariat in Umuahia, the Abia State capital on Thursday. He advised the delegates to tread with caution on whom they are to choose as the party’s presidential candidate as their decision would be for the future interest of our children and those that are unborn. The former governor said he became successful in life not by converting public funds but rather made his fortune through genuine private enterprise and dint of hard work. He said, “I want to make Nigeria become productive and not be a consuming country, that is the message behind my aspiration. “My delegates, the tomorrow begins today for our children. So, if you mortgage your conscience during the presidential primary, then you should know that you have mortgaged your children’s future. “If they give you money collect but remember that any mistake you made by selling your conscience is placing your children in further bondage.” In his remarks, the state PDP Chairman, Ashiforo Okere, commended the presidential aspirant for coming to identify with the delegates of the party. “When you were talking, it was like exaltation or lecture, it never appeared to be a campaign, all you have said is already known to us, especially your performance during your tenure as governor”, he said Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com