Like fire spreads so fast in a bush during harmattan, the awareness of the use of herbs is gaining ground but we have to be careful that it does not turn to a wildfire that can wreak havoc. Today, I present to you the story of another sibling of mine, Mrs Bukola Oladejo and her experience with Zobo drink. Few years ago, she developed high blood pressure and was placed on medications. At some point, she started a healthy diet, exercise and she also went regularly for checkups. The blood pressure suddenly became so normal that she had to wean herself off her medications. She continued with her exercises and healthy eating and she also incorporated Zobo drink into her diet. Some weeks ago, she started experiencing dizziness and headaches and she thought maybe her high blood pressure came back. She went to check and the readings showed that her blood pressure was too low! While on the vegetables of our land series, I talked about Zobo and its blood pressure lowering capabilities. I remember that I even warned that those with hypotension do not have any business with it. For the effect it had on my sister, she must have taken it excessively. The consequences of herbal abuse are grievous, please, always take them in moderation. This week, the nut I will talk about is Pistachios. It is a popular ingredient in desserts and puddings. This edible seed of the Pistacia Vera tree is a source of healthy fats, protein, fibre and protective antioxidants. Notably, pistachios are one of the most vitamin B6-rich foods around. Vitamin B6 is important for several bodily functions including blood sugar regulation and the formation of haemoglobin, a molecule that carries oxygen in red blood cells. Let’s see some of its benefits High in antioxidants:  Antioxidants prevent cell damage and play a key role in reducing the risk of diseases such as cancer. Pistachios contain more antioxidants than most other nuts and seeds. In a four-week study, participants who ate either one or two servings of pistachios per day had greater levels of lutein and γ-Tocopherol, compared with participants who did not eat pistachios. Among nuts, pistachios have the highest content of lutein and zeaxanthin, both of which are important antioxidants for eye. Furthermore, two of the most abundant groups of antioxidants in pistachios — polyphenols and tocopherols may help protect against cancer and heart disease. Low in calories yet high in protein: While eating nuts has many health benefits, they are typically high in calories. Fortunately, pistachios are among the lowest-calorie nuts. 28 grams of pistachios contains 159 calories, compared with 185 calories in walnuts and 193 calories in pecans. With protein comprising about 20 per cent of their weight, pistachios are second only to almonds when it comes to protein content. They also have a higher ratio of essential amino acids. Potential aphrodisiac properties: According to the International Journal of Impotence Research, Pistachios can influence sexual vitality in men. Studies have shown that those men who had a daily intake of about 100 grams of this nut for three weeks improved their erectile function by around 50 per cent. This was confirmed by ultrasound scans which showed blood flow into the penis. Aids weight loss: While few studies have looked at the effects of pistachios on weight, those that exist are promising. They are rich in fiber and protein, both of which increase feelings of fullness and help you eat less. In one 12-week weight loss programme, those who ate 53 grams of pistachios per day as an afternoon snack had twice the reduction in body mass index compared with those who ate 56 grams of pretzels per day. Promotes healthy gut bacteria: Pistachios are high in fiber. Fiber moves through your digestive system mostly undigested and some types of fiber are digested by the good bacteria in your gut, acting as prebiotics. Gut bacteria then ferment the fiber and convert it into short-chain fatty acids which may have several health benefits including a reduced risk of developing digestive disorders, cancer and heart disease. Lowers cholesterol and blood pressure:  Pistachios may lower blood cholesterol and improve blood pressure, thus lowering your risk of heart disease. Many studies on pistachios and blood lipids are conducted by replacing part of the calories in a diet with pistachios. Up to 67 per cent of these studies have shown reductions in total and LDL (bad) cholesterol and increases in HDL (good) cholesterol. One four-week study in people with high LDL cholesterol had participants consume 10 per cent of their daily calories from pistachios. The study showed that the diet lowered LDL cholesterol by 9 per cent. In another study, 32 young men followed a Mediterranean diet for four weeks. Then, pistachios were added to that diet in place of its monounsaturated fat content, totalling about 20 per cent of their daily calorie intake. After four weeks on the diet, they experienced a 23 per cent reduction in LDL cholesterol, 21 per cent reduction in total cholesterol and 14 per cent reduction in triglycerides. Promotes blood vessel health: The endothelium is the inner lining of blood vessels. It is important that it works properly as endothelial dysfunction is a risk factor for heart disease. Pistachios are a great source of the amino acid L-arginine, which is converted into nitric oxide (nitric oxide is a compound that plays an important role in vasodilation which is dilation or widening of blood vessels) in the body. Therefore, these tiny nuts may play an important role in promoting blood vessel health.  One four-week study had 32 healthy young men consume a diet consisting of 20 per cent of calories from pistachios. It found that endothelium-dependent vasodilation improved by 30 per cent, compared with when they followed a Mediterranean diet. Good for eye health: Pistachios are a rich source of the antioxidants lutein and zeaxanthin, which are essential for eye health. According to the American Optometric Association, lutein and zeaxanthin reduce the chances of developing chronic eye conditions, such as cataracts. They can also help to protect against age-related macular degeneration. Lowers blood sugar: Pistachios have a low glycemic index, meaning they do not cause large blood sugar spikes. Perhaps not surprisingly, studies have shown that eating pistachios can help promote healthy blood sugar levels. One study showed that when 56 grams of pistachios were added to a carb-rich diet, healthy individuals’ blood sugar response after a meal was reduced by 20–30 per cent. In addition to being rich in fiber and healthy fats, pistachio nuts are rich in antioxidants, carotenoids and phenolic compounds, all of which are beneficial for blood sugar control. Aids in absorption of iron: Pistachios have a high copper content which helps in the higher absorption of iron into the body from food sources. This can help combat conditions such as anemia. Scientific study In a study titled, “Pistachios for Health by Pablo Hernández-Alonso et al,’’ the conclusion is that the inclusion of a handful of pistachios may confer health benefits in the context of a healthy diet. Pistachios can be enjoyed as a snack, salad garnish, pizza topping, or even in baking. Like other nuts, they can be used to make nut butter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com