Barbadian billionaire singer, Robyn Fenty, popularly known as Rihanna, has shared her reasons for refusing to hide her baby bump in public. The singer had in January announced she was expecting her first child after her midriff-baring pictures with her boyfriend, ASAP Rocky, went viral on the internet. Following her announcement, she had attended several public functions with her baby bump bared. In her interview for the Vogue’s May cover story, Rihanna revealed that after confirming her pregnancy, she decided against shopping for maternity clothes. “When I found out I was pregnant, I thought to myself, there’s no way I’m going to go shopping in no maternity aisle. I’m sorry—it’s too much fun to get dressed up. I’m not going to let that part disappear because my body is changing,” she said. The business mogul further stated that she considered pregnancy a thing of celebration that should not be hidden. She also opined that society should redefine “what is considered decent” for pregnant women. “My body is doing incredible things right now, and I’m not going to be ashamed of that,” she said “This time should feel celebratory. Because why should you be hiding your pregnancy? Speaking on how she continues to dazzle in her outfits, Rihanna credited her stylist, Jahleel Weever, for always curating her looks. “I know he loses sleep over it because my measurements can literally change from hour to hour. In fact, I’m sure he’s going to ask for a raise after this!” Sharing details on the pregnancy journey, Rihanna mentioned that it has been relatively smooth with support from friends and family. When asked what frightens her the most about pregnancy, Rihana said, “Postpartum depression. Will I feel out of control emotionally? Those are the stories I hear from other women that scare me.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com