Operatives of the Kaduna State Police Command, have arrested two suspected gunrunners who specialise in the supply of arms and ammunition to bandits terrorising the state. According to the police, the suspects were apprehended by the officers of the command in two different locations across the state. This was contained in a statement by the state Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammad Jalige in Kaduna on Wednesday. The statement noted that operatives of the command succeeded in intercepting one Musa Lawal (25 years) with AK47 rifle loaded with two (2) rounds of live 7.62 X 39mm ammunition in the Giwa Local Government Area of the state. Similarly, it said following a tip-off, operatives trailed another suspect to filin Mallawa Tudun Wada area of Zaria metropolis where he was arrested with an AK47 magazine loaded with thirty (30) rounds of live 7.62 X 39mm ammunition. The statement quoted the state Commissioner of Police, Yekini Ayoku, to have noted that the feat wouldn’t have been possible without the corporation of the members of the communities. The statement read, “On the 24th April, 2022 at about 1330hrs the Kaduna Police Command received credible information on a suspected movement of arms along Iyatawa village road of Giwa LGA, Kaduna State. “A purposeful patrol and stop for search operation was mounted along that said axis which yielded the desired result. The Command Operatives succeeded in intercepting one Musa Lawal 25yrs, with an AK47 rifle loaded with two (2) rounds of live 7.62 X 39mm ammunition. “In a related development, the Command in her relentless effort to safeguard the lives and properties of the citizenry had on same date at about 1430hrs acted on another reliable information and raided filin Mallawa Tudun Wada area of Zaria metropolis. “The Operatives in the raid process arrested one suspect with an AK47 magazine loaded with thirty (30) rounds of live 7.62 X 39mm ammunitions suspected to be delivered to armed bandits. “The cases are currently undergoing investigation and effort is ongoing to ensure that the syndicate is apprehended to face the wrath of the law. “This feat wouldn’t have been possible without the cooperation and prompt information from members of the communities. Thus, the Commissioner of Police, Kaduna Command, CP Yekini Adio Ayoku, is soliciting more collaboration from the general public in the area of information sharing as the Command strives to reduce criminality to the barest minimum in the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com