The Chief of Staff, Delta State Government House, Mr. Ovie Agas, and no fewer than nine commissioners have resigned their appointment to contest elective positions. The Commissioner for Information,  Mr. Charles Aniagwu, disclosed this at a press conference on Wednesday in Asaba. He said that the resignation was in compliance with the provision of the Electoral Law, section  84, subsection 12, on political appointees seeking elective positions. He said that the chief of staff’s resignation was to enable him to participate as a statutory delegate during the election. According to him, no fewer than nine commissioners and other political aides have resigned in order to participate in various political positions. Aniagwu also disclosed that Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, on Tuesday, addressed an enlarged meeting of the state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party where he assured of level playing ground for all aspirants at the party primaries. He said that the party leadership in the state was working to ensure peaceful primaries, adding that the relationship between former Governor James Ibori and Okowa had remained cordial. “On Tuesday, the party met with the senior stakeholders and leaders of the party in the state. The governor and the Chairman, Mr. Kingsley Esiso, were clear on the need for all contestants to play fair and sustain existing peace in the state. “The governor and the party chairman have assured that there will be a free level playing ground for all contestants. As a government, we will not engage in any act that will not promote confidence on the part of the people,” Aniagwu said. According to the commissioner, former governors, James Ibori and Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan were present at the stakeholder’s meeting. On the issues of zoning of governorship and presidential tickets, the commissioner said the party, had never, since 1999, zoned the ticket to any senatorial district or geopolitical zone respectively during its primaries. According to him, it has always been thrown open to all interested aspirants in the party governorship or presidential primaries. He, however, cautioned against zoning, adding that the country needed the best hands at present to deliver democratic dividends to the people. NAN