The All Progressives Congress’ Youth Development and Solidarity Forum has warned the national leadership of the ruling party against fielding unpopular candidates for elective public offices, especially for presidency in the 2023 general elections. The Coordinator of the APC-YDSF, Tobias Ogbeh, issued the warning at a solidarity rally held in Abuja on Thursday for the new National Chairman of the APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. Ogbeh said, “As concerned party members, we must come to terms with the issues at stake should an unpopular candidate emerge as the presidential candidate to fly the party’s flag at the presidential election. “This rally is, therefore, calling on the party under the dynamic leadership of Senator Abdullahi Adamu to, without sentiment, ensure that the most popular candidate emerges as the presidential candidate of the party, as the international community and other concerned stakeholders are keenly watching to see what will become of the APC. “We must also warn that there would be unpleasant consequences electorally, should the party deny the best candidate the party’s flag under the guise of zoning or consensus that fails to meet the yearnings of the masses in 2023.” According to Ogbeh, some persons are already parading themselves as the chosen candidates of the Adamu-led National Working Committee of the APC. He said consequently, they have “arrogated to themselves powers that defeat common sense.” The APC-YDSF leader said, “They have, in like manner, elected to ignore critical stakeholders of the party to the chagrin of all well-meaning members of our great party. While we may wish to ignore the activities of these individuals, we are, however, constrained to alter the leadership of our party to this ignoble trend that is capable of rubbishing the gains recorded in the party in recent times.” Ogbeh further urged Adamu and other members of the APC NWC to be wary of “such individuals that have been name-dropping, thereby sending wrong signals to other members of the party.” He said, “The APC as a party does not need such unhealthy and undemocratic displays by some party members. This is unacceptable and we demand the leadership of our great party to issue strong caution and reprimand to those individuals. “Whilst some aspirants have only made their declaration on the pages of newspapers, others who believe in the power of democracy have continued to galvanize stakeholders and have received popular endorsements from all segments of the party. “This is indeed the beauty of democracy hence the need for the leadership of our party to step in and assure the teeming members of the APC that they are not in bed with these undesirable elements that aim to take undue advantage of their closeness with the National Chairman to impose their whims and caprices on the party. “It is our considered opinion that it will be foolhardy for anyone to think that manipulating the party’s presidential primaries will be the way out for their candidates. We are assured that the APC as a party is bigger than individuals, and the leadership of our party is well-positioned to avail all aspirants a level playing ground.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com