As part of activities marking the World Malaria Day, HACEY Health with support from AIICO Insurance has concluded plans to organise health promotion programmes to commemorate the day. The Executive Director of HACEY, Rhoda Robinson, in a statement on Sunday, said the interventions were organised to improve women’s knowledge, attitude, and practice particularly among pregnant women, nursing mothers, and mothers in vulnerable communities across Lagos, Rivers, and Oyo States in Nigeria. “Over the years, Malaria has continued to be a significant public health challenge, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, which accounts for approximately 93 per cent of all malaria cases worldwide and approximately 94 per cent of all malaria deaths, with Nigeria emerging as a country with the highest number of malaria cases and deaths in sub-Saharan Africa. “According to estimates, 97 per cent of the country’s population is at risk of contracting Malaria, which accounts for approximately 25 per cent of the continent’s malaria disease burden. “Malaria infection during pregnancy poses a serious risk to both the mother and her unborn child. Premature delivery, maternal anaemia, intrauterine growth retardation, and delivery of low-birth-weight infants are all possible consequences of malaria during pregnancy, putting women’s health and economic outcomes at risk. The situation has been bad even before the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic began,” the statement partly reads. Speaking on the planned activities to mark the day, Robinson said, “It is critical to mobilise community leaders and stakeholders, health workers and service providers, nursing mothers and pregnant women in order to achieve the theme of World Malaria Day. “So, the programme will benefit not only 500 women including pregnant and nursing mothers in Lagos, Oyo and Rivers states but also community leaders, allowing for the establishment of an influential malaria-free community.” Also, the Head of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability at AIICO insurance, Abimbola Shobanjo, said there was a need to harness innovation to reduce the malaria disease burden and save lives. “At AIICO we believe that a healthy country is a key to achieving the sustainable development goal. This is why we invest in the health of vulnerable people, especially women. Malaria can limit the ability of pregnant women and children to live to their full potential. We are implementing this project in line with our long-term strategy to support a healthy and productive country.” “We plan to reach over 4000 people via door-to-door sensitisation in the three states, Oyo, Lagos and Rivers. The sensitisation is proposed to be held during the anti-natal meeting of pregnant woman and invited nursing mothers who live in malaria density areas.”