The Vice-Chancellor, KolaDaisi University, Ibadan, Prof. Adeniyi Olatunbosun, has counselled its newly admitted students not to be lazy. Speaking during the matriculation of 236 students, Olatunbosun told the students not to lose focus on why they were in the university, saying they should not engage in laziness and other vices He added that the varsity would soon begin Medicine and Pharmacy as part of its expansion programme. Olatunbosun said, “The University has initiated the process for the commencement of the Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences. For a start, the faculty will take off with programmes in Nursing Science, Medical Laboratory Science and Public Health. It is hoped that these processes will be completed in time so that students can be admitted into these new programmes during the next admission exercise. “In line with the vision and the desire of the founder, the take-off of these programmes is the first step towards the commencement of programmes in Medicine and Pharmacy. “May I inform you that the founder has already assembled a team of seasoned experts in these fields who have given appropriate advice on the requirements and procedures for commencements of these programmes. “In addition, a large expanse of land has also been acquired by the founder across the university’s main gate for additional use and further expansion of the university.” He also said the university had commenced part-time, top-up, Degree/HND conversion programmes as part of the institution’s drive towards ensuring that all categories of people had access to quality education. “The university has signed Memoranda of Understanding with the following institutions and organisations, Central State University, Ohio, United States, Universiti Teknologi, MARA, Malaysia, Missouri State University, USA, Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, United Kingdom, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria, New Horizon Systems Ltd.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com