Indigenes of the Bokkos Local Government Area of Plateau State have concluded plans to organise a grand reception in honour of a former governor of the state, Joshua Dariye, who was recently granted pardon by the Federal Government, Sunday PUNCH has learnt. Similarly, kinsmen of Jolly Nyame, a former governor of Taraba State, said they would receive him in grand style. Sources told Sunday PUNCH in Jos on Friday that the people of Bokkos were impressed by the state pardon granted to Dariye, hence their decision to organise a heroic welcome for him. Some residents of Bokkos told one of our correspondents in Jos that already, the council chairman, Joseph Guluwa, had set up a committee to organise a welcome party for the former governor. A member of the committee, who identified himself as Garuba, confirmed that Dariye would arrive in Plateau State from Abuja today (Sunday). Garuba said, “Since we learnt of the release of the former governor from prison, our people have been rejoicing and thanking God for setting him free at last. I can confirm to you that plans have been concluded to receive him back home from Abuja. In fact, an organising committee headed by a professor has been put in place to give him a rousing welcome. “The people, including his aged mother, who is in Mushere, are eager to see him. It’s going to be a celebration galore that may last for more than one week.” The PUNCH reported that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on the recommendation of the Council of State, last week pardoned 159 convicts, including Dariye, who was serving a 14-year jail term after he was convicted by Justice Adebukola Banjoko of the Federal Capital Territory High Court in 2018. Dariye, who was governor from 1999 to 2007, was jailed for laundering public funds to the tune of N1.162bn but the sentence was later reduced to 10 years before he was granted state pardon. However, the pardon has continued to draw the anger of Nigerians and groups, who feel that the development would affect the country’s war against corruption. Similarly, the National President, Mumuye Cultural Development Association, Dr Abraham Makoso, said plans were on to give Nyame a grand reception in Jalingo. Makoso, in a telephone interview with one of our correspondents, thanked the President for granting pardon to their son and leader. According to him, Nyame’s release is a relief to the Mumuye people. He stated, “Revd Nyame, our son, leader and former governor, deserves a grand reception and we won’t do anything short of that upon his final release. “Jolly is a political figure and he will continue to be our leader. He deserves a heroic welcome to give him a psychological balance to serve humanity better.” Meanwhile, some groups have printed T-shirts, banners and posters in celebration of the release of the former governor. Some of the inscriptions on the banners read, ‘Our leader is free at last’, ‘Victory at last! Thank you President Buhari’, and ‘Welcome back Rev. Jolly’, were seen at some locations in Jalingo, the state capital. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com