Fintech veterans Toyin Albert and Niyi Ajao join the Nigerian fintech start-up to drive expansion into new markets and launch additional products Kippa, the fast-growing fintech start-up offering digital business and financial management solutions for African SMEs, today announces that it has appointed fintech veterans Toyin Albert as Executive Director, Payment Services, and Niyi Ajao as a member of the board of directors – an Independent non-Executive Director. Toyin Albert and Niyi Ayao are two of the most seasoned fintech veterans in Nigeria, who each has over 20 years of industry experience as well as a deep understanding of the market and regulatory landscape. Toyin and Niyi appointments come at a period of significant growth for Kippa: the firm’s first product, a simple-to-use, mobile bookkeeping app has roughly 300,000 users already, having grown its customer base by an average of 80% month-on-month since it was launched just seven months ago. Kippa also recently announced the launch in the beta of its second product in January, a digital payments tool. The firm intends to roll out the product’s final version, launch additional products, and expand into new markets across sub-Saharan Africa, all during the first half of 2022. Prior to joining Kippa, Toyin was Chief Growth Officer for ITEX Integrated Services, a digital payment solutions provider based in Lagos. Before this, Toyin spent over 5 years at Xpress Payment Solutions Ltd., where she was Group Head of Operations. Toyin began her career with Unified Payments Services Limited where she left as Head, Payments and Acceptance Infrastructure. Toyin holds an MBA from the University of Lagos and a Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science from Ondo State University. In her new role with Kippa, Toyin will lead the Payment Services team to drive the growth of Kippa’s payment solutions for SMEs in Africa. Alongside his appointment at Kippa, Niyi leads Digital Finance Solutions as CEO.. Prior to this, Niyi worked for the financial services firm Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIBSS) for 20 years, where he left as Deputy Managing Director. Niyi left Societe Generale Bank as Head of IT. Niyi holds a BSc in Computer Sciences and Economics, and an MBA, from Obafemi Awolowo University. He also holds an MSC in Computer Sciences from the University of Lagos. In his new role with Kippa as an Independent non-Executive, Niyi will support and advise the company in its financial inclusion and Fintech solutions development and deployment strategy. Toyin Albert, said: “I am thrilled to be joining the Payment Services team during such an exciting time of growth and development at Kippa. I was impressed by the quality of the firm’s existing products, its commitment to supporting SMEs with their much-needed finance and management solutions, as well as the team’s ambitious growth plans. I’m looking forward to working with the founders and the rest of the team and hope to apply my knowledge of the digital payments space in Nigeria to improve overall efficiencies and support Kippa’s mission.” Niyi Ajao, said: “I’m excited to begin working with such a passionate team and to help Kippa solve financial inclusion challenges across sub-Saharan Africa. Kippa has the potential to be a game-changer in the fintech space and ultimately help small business owners flourish through their proprietary fintech solutions. Kippa has enjoyed incredible success to date since inception, and I look forward to supporting the team’s growth strategy this year and beyond as the firm plans to expand the product range, build upon its customer base and launch into new markets.” Kennedy Ekezie-Joseph, co-Founder and CEO at Kippa, added: “Both Toyin and Niyi have an impressive track record in leading and growing successful fintech companies, and I am excited to have them join us at Kippa as we head into our next stage of growth. Toyin’s experience will be an extremely strong addition to our already robust financial services team, and bringing Niyi’s skills and knowledge of the fintech industry in Africa onboard will also be a powerful step in helping us to meet our goals as the opportunities for Kippa continue to evolve.” About Kippa Founded in June 2021, Kippa is a disruptive fintech start-up based in Nigeria. The team is on a mission to unlock socio-economic prosperity in sub-Saharan Africa by helping SMEs grow their business and embrace financial inclusion. The company provides digital business and financial management solutions for African SMEs, starting with a simple-to-use mobile bookkeeping app, which helps African SMEs keep track of their daily revenue and spending transactions, create invoices and receipts, manage inventory, and see how their companies fluctuate over time recover; ultimately helping merchants to recover debts three times faster. Kippa has been on a steep growth trajectory under the leadership of Co-Founders Kennedy Ekezie-Joseph (CEO), Duke Ekezie-Joseph (CGO), and Jephtah Chidozie-Uche (CTO), who have a history of working together over the last six years, and strong experience launching products for the African market. To date, Kippa has 42 employees across 3 countries and over 280,000 SMEs in its network, having grown its average customer base by 80% month-on-month.