The Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, has promised to work well if Nigerians give him a chance in 2023. He said he would replicate the feats he achieved as a minister and his achievements as Anambra State Governor. Ngige spoke on Saturday evening when members of the All Progressives Congress welcomed him at the Amansea, Awka, a junction between Anambra and Enugu States. He told his supporters that the period of Easter is a spiritual period that called for sober reflection on the mood in the country as he waited till the end of the Lenten season to declare and make his ambition known to the people. He added that his ambition is not just the affairs of the All Progressives Congress alone. According to him, he has met all the governors in the South-East and they have accepted to support his ambition. He said, “I am just coming from Enugu where an ambush was laid for me, I didn’t know a second ambush was waiting for me here. During the period of Lent that ended last night, I talked to God and God talked to me and He spoke to me, by Tuesday, after the resurrection period, I will speak to you in a language you understand. “I assure you that I will not disappoint you. What we did in Anambra in 34 months as governor, those who stayed eight years did not do them. I did 34 months, during which I laid the foundation for the new Anambra state. “I will work if Nigerian people give us a chance. We will work the way we work as a minister of labour. I thank you for this surprise ambush and as I get home, I will speak to you and it will be very soon.” He added, “This is not just the affair of the APC, it is the affair of all the parties in the South East and by Tuesday, we will conclude on the matter. Nothing has spoilt, no one should be afraid, we will work together. The Lord will give you people the blessings of Easter. “I want to be your ambassador in Nigeria. We will work as we did in Anambra if the Nigerian people give us a chance. I will work as I did in the senate, if Nigerians give us a chance. We will also work as I have been working as a minister of labour and productivity over the years. “This journey is not for APC alone. Our brothers and sisters in the Peoples Democratic Party and the All Progressives Grand Alliance are in support. They will agree with me as a person. They knew that I was more qualified than any other person from the South-East. I am the most qualified, and they will support me.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com