Political economist, Prof. Pat Utomi, has urged Nigerians to maximise the Ramadan period to rise in unison and decree peace and stability for the country. He recommended that Nigerians should assemble in groups by midgnight, light candles, shake hands and sing the song ‘Nigeria will rise up again”. Utomi made the recommendations in a statement he personally signed on Tuesday titled, ‘Utomi calls for symbolic resistance and solidarity to prevent anarchy from overtaking Nigeria’. He noted that there was need for Nigerians to utilise a “spiritual, symbolic and practical’ approach to halt the advance of anarchy in the country. The statement read, “In the last two weeks the pain pangs from our poorly governed country failings have touched all, from the grandmother returning to Kaduna from the Holy Pilgrimage who was abducted in the Terrorist attack on the Train to Kaduna, and the Labour leader who paid the supreme price on the train; To Zamfara State where murderous bandits have slaughtered scores of our fellow citizens and Plateau where a whole community was annihilated, just like in Nasarawa. “This week when we officially overtook Iraq in the global index of terrified living, we cannot continue business as usual from taciturn leaders. We must say enough is enough and rise in solidarity in symbolic, spiritual, and special ways to offer fortitude to the afflicted, compassion to the frightened, and strategy to those in positions to act. “I want to call on citizens in solidarity to begin the cause of reclaiming Nigeria, to raise light over darkness, peace over violence, and progress over poverty. I urge all Nigerians in a symbolic gesture to gather in groups this Saturday night, especially at midnight, wearing white tops over black, light a candle each and shake hands in symbol of friendship and the universal fraternity and intone the song: Nigeria will Rise up again. “The song goes Nigeria will Rise up again (2twice) God will heal our land restore us anew, Nigeria will rise up again. “From that Saturday evening, till the end of the Ramadan Fast, people all across Nigeria should gather for a few minutes in their white tops, light candles, shake hands and sing Nigeria will rise up again. “We must rise in solidarity with our fellow compatriots, as anarchy threatens our country, even if tribe and tongue may differ, for in brotherhood we stand.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com