A civil society organisation, Partners for Petroleum and Energy Sector Prosperity Initiative, says it will in partnership with about 400 other CSOs hold a protest against crude oil theft in some parts of the Federal Capital Territory. In a statement, titled ‘Protest march against crude oil theft’, on Thursday, the Chairman, P-PESPI, Charles Ibiang, who is a co-convener of the protest, said it was unacceptable for the country to be losing so much of its crude oil “to some cabals with the help of highly placed persons in the system who have refused to be accountable to our country.” He said the perpetrators could be using the illicit act to fuel the insecurity in the country, even as he called on citizens to join the protest to the United States Embassy in Abuja, the headquarters of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company and the Presidential Villa on Thursday. The statement read, “Partners for Petroleum and Energy Sector Prosperity Initiative in conjunction with International Youth Development Initiative is organising a two-million man protest march as a public advocacy campaign to draw the attention of the international community, the Nigerian public, the government, host communities and security agencies to the alarming and disturbing rate of crude oil theft and pipelines vandalism. “This campaign is a joint action of more than 400 civil society organisations, community-based organisations, environment-based organisations, youth/student organisations and organisations in the Niger-Delta under an Anti-Crude Theft and Pipelines Vandalism Coalition called ‘Movement against Crude Theft and Vandalism in Nigeria’. We solicit the support of our fellow compatriots.” Ibiang said if the issue was not addressed, the citizens would bear the brunt more. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com