The Osun State Police Command, on Tuesday, said its officers have arrested a 28-year old hunter, Jimoh Sulaimon, who allegedly shot dead a 78-year old cleric, Yusuf Adegun. Addressing newsmen at the Osun Police Command headquarters in Osogbo, the Police Public Relations Officer for the command, Yemisi Opalola, said, Adegun, who until his death, was the Chief Imam of Alaguntan village, was shot dead by the suspect, resident in the same village. Opalola said when the suspect was arrested, he confessed to the crime, saying he was on hunting expedition and aimed his dane gun at an antelope, which surprisingly turned to human being after he fired the shot. She said, “The suspect was arrested and confessed to the crime, that he was on hunting expedition when he saw an antelope in the bush which he shot with his dane gun. “He said he was surprised when he went to pick the antelope, and he met Baba Imam on the ground. The suspect will be charged to court after the completion of the investigation.” Parading other suspects arrested at different locations in the state, Opalola said officers also arrested three men; Muideen Nafiu, Yusuf Muslim and Rabiu Fatai, who allegedly killed a widow, Aisat Yekeen, and dismembered her corpse for ritual purposes in Ileogbo. Responding to questions from PUNCH Metro, prime suspect in the crime, Nafiu, an Islamic cleric, who runs Arabic school in Ileogbo, said his accomplice, Yusuf, killed and dismembered the deceased when they met in his room. He, however, admitted collecting the hands of the woman, which his accomplice intended to use for him for money ritual. Speaking on another breakthrough by the command, Opalola also said police officers have arrested one Abdullahi Abdulkareem for threatening to abduct a member of the Osun State House of Assembly, Adebayo Taiwo, and one Justice Oke. According to her, the suspect sent text messages to the victims demanding between N500,000 and N2m or they, alongside their family members, would be abducted. “On the receipt of the information, a team of police detectives swung into action and through series of relentless efforts, the suspect was arrested with the phone used to perpetrate the act. “He confessed to the commission of the crime and will be charged to court after the completion of the investigation,” Opalola concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com