Paediatricians have warned mothers against sitting their babies when they are unable to control their head and neck, cautioning that babies that are not mature enough to sit could have spinal cord injury and come down with brain damage when they are forced to sit. According to the experts, it is dangerous to sit babies that are just only two months old, noting that their brains are usually not fully developed for such a task. According to the experts, the best time for babies to sit down is between three to four months when their neck is fully controlled. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise in an exclusive interview, a Consultant Paediatric Haematologist and Oncologist at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, Prof. Edamisan Temiye said child development is a process that is controlled by the brain. Prof. Temiye stated that if a baby is unable to control the neck to hold the head straight by three months of age, there is a problem, which he said has to do with the brain. The paediatrician urged mothers who are forcing their babies to sit at the age of two months to desist from the act, warning that a baby that was born normal could become abnormal from injuries sustained from a fall. Prof. Temiye explained, “When babies are born, they can’t control their head yet and when you carry them the neck falls back. They start learning how to control the neck around two and half months to three months. Most times, by three months, the head is steady and well-controlled around four months. “So, it is when the head is well-controlled that a baby can sit. If the head of a baby is not well-controlled and you are forcing the baby to sit, the baby can be injured because the head will be flopping and can cause injuries. “Again, the muscles there are not strong enough and the brain will not respond to what you are doing. It is dangerous to start sitting a baby at two months. “So, ideally a baby should start sitting when the head is straight and when the head is fully controlled. “That is also when the baby should be supported to sit and that is usually around three to four months of age. Between four and five months if the baby is sitting with support, there is no problem.” According to Temiye, by six months, a baby should be able to sit usually without support; start freeing the hands to start dragging things. The paediatrician reiterated that the baby must be able to control the neck first before forcing the baby to sit. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com