The Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, on Saturday, urged the people of the state to observe a one-day prayer session against the activities of the gunmen terrorising the state and the South-East region. The governor said the prayer session would hold on Monday, April 4, 2022 in churches and other religious worship centres across the state. He said the move became necessary so as to counter the “evil” effect of the Monday sit-at-home order. He spoke at a stakeholders’ peace meeting with security chiefs, traditional rulers and religious leaders, in Awka. He said, “I enjoin you to pause and join in fellowship as we seek the face of God.It is expected that the conclusion of the prayer session shall mark the end of Sit At Home in Anambra State.” IPOB has ended sit-at-home in South-East, says Anambra monarch Meanwhile, the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra has scrapped its Mondays’ sit-at-home directive in the South-East region, saying the development is to embrace peaceful negotiations organised by the Anambra State Government. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that IPOB yielded to the appeal by the Anambra State government and traditional rulers to pave the way for peace since all Igbo stakeholders and religious leaders have declared their intention to find a lasting solution to insecurity and incessant sit-at-home in the region. The decision was disclosed by the Chairman, Anambra Traditional Rulers’ Council, Igwe Nnaemeka Achebe, during a one-day peace building and security meeting held in Awka on Saturday. Achebe, who is also the Obi of Onitsha, said the stakeholders had continually held meetings on the way forward on the impasse. He said after its meeting on Friday, it was agreed that the call to release the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, would help in dousing the tension in the state. He called on the governors of the South-East states to represent their people well and speak their minds at all times. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com