Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has said his administration has entered into a partnership with the Nigeria Police Force to tackle land grabbing and resolve communal clashes and land disputes in the state. In a statement on Friday, Obaseki said the state government would work closely with the new Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, to ensure that crimes, especially land grabbing, was brought to a minimum in the state. Obaseki said as a result of the increased collaboration with the NPF, the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, had deployed a special tactical team to complement the government’s efforts at restoring peace and sanity in Edo communities. The governor, who described the issue of land grabbing in various communities in the state as worrisome, said the IG would deploy special squads to assist in restoring sanity. He said, “I thank the IG for deploying two police special squads in Edo State. We will soon inspect their accommodation as they will be deployed in the state in the next few weeks. This squad will deal with community issues and issues of land grabbing. We need your support and that of the area command. I have spoken with the AIG, who assured us that all land cases that come to the area command will be referred to the Edo command. “We are dealing with the issue of land grabbing squarely as it is impeding development in Edo State. We have a land committee in place, which is currently reviewing cases before it. We are making resources available to fight this menace in the state.” Obaseki, who urged the new CP to develop a mechanism to forestall violence during the forthcoming elections, added, “As we prepare for another set of elections, we want to work with you to design a system that will not allow electoral violence in Edo State. “We want to tackle electoral violence. We must have a peaceful election; both pre and post electioneering activities must be peaceful in Edo State. Election is not war and we don’t see reasons why people take up arms during this process. “I have been told that you have been putting in place an action programme to mop up those causing trouble for us, especially in the Ovia area of the state. “The key to our security success in the state is hinged on the synergy and collaboration among security agencies and the police is the apex. Once we have a very cooperative and open CP, who is ready to work with other sister agencies in the state, it will help tackle the security challenges.” Yaro had earlier noted, “I am here to thank you for the top-notch security architecture on the ground, which I have noticed with satisfaction, which I’m ready to key in to advance the cause of stability and security in Edo State.” The Edo CP also thanked the governor for his relentless support to security agencies in the state, pledging to work with the government to sustain peace and security.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com