The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), felicitates the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, on the occasion of his 65th birthday anniversary, April 10th, 2022. In a statement signed by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, on Sunday, Buhari enjoins family members, friends and associates in celebrating the business tycoon. The statement equally extends the President’s heartfelt wishes to the Dangote Group, including management and members of staff, as well as other well-meaning stakeholders who are fantastically contributing daily to the economic growth of the country and promoting competitiveness in the mainstream economy. It also affirms the mercantile footprints of self-made Africa’s richest man in core sectors of the economy, particularly in areas of production and distribution of food items across the 36 states of the federation – a remarkable quality it says, has etched the brand Dangote, a household name. Buhari hails Aliko Dangote’s business mien coupled with his industriousness and dynamism in buoying up the economy through heavy investments – building Africa’s largest refinery, fertiliser manufacturing company, cement factories and a host of others – both within and outside Nigeria. As charity truly begins from home, the presidency notes the patriotism, simplicity and demonstrable wisdom of the sexagenarian, in prioritising the interests and economic welfare of Nigeria and Nigerians – notwithstanding the prevailing challenges, whilst rapidly setting the pace as a bankable role model for future merchants and giants in the industry. The President wishes him greater service to God, country, and humanity. Alhaji Aliko Dangote has hit the ground running as one of Africa’s most successful billionaires, strutting his stuff beyond the vast African continent – as a top-of-the-trend prolific exporter. With a net worth of $12.1 billion in 2021, the business mogul retained his seat on the Forbes list as Africa’s wealthiest man – a comfy position he has held for nearly a decade. Dangote Cement thrives as the continent’s largest cement producer, with about 45.6 million metric tons produced annually in 10 countries across Africa.