A telecommunication company, 9mobile, has held a one-day train-the-trainer workshop for 100 teachers in Kano in partnership with the Kano State Ministry of Education. The workshop had in attendance teachers across the state drawn from both the Junior and Senior Secondary Schools. A facilitator at the workshop, a professor of Media and Cultural Communication and immediate past Vice-Chancellor of the National Open University of Nigeria, Prof. Abdalla Adamu, spoke on the theme, ‘Promoting school enrolment and retention through innovative teaching methods and class management.’ He emphasised the important factors required to create an effective learning environment in the class. Furthermore, Adamu shared some of the current and emerging innovative teaching methods, practical steps teachers could take to stimulate students’ interest in learning and how teachers could apply child-friendly communication skills to build trust with students. He said, “I feel strongly that teachers can be effective role models to their students, while also leveraging technology to deliver effective lessons.” Also, the Commissioner of Education, Muhammad Kiru, represented by the Executive Secretary, Kano State Library Board, Dr Ibrahim Bichi, challenged the teachers to put to practice and mirror what they have been taught. He said, “Teachers should be more friendly to their students and must be passionate about teaching which will help achieve the goal of learning and retention of students in the school system. In this modern day, we have to adopt technology in teaching students and equally inculcate our local language to teach effectively”. Commenting on the workshop, the Executive Director, Regulator and Corporate Affairs, 9mobile, Mr Abdulrahman Ado, represented by PR Lead, 9mobile, Chineze Amanfo, said that 9mobile was committed to prioritising education and would continue to invest in initiatives that would impact positively on the development of the sector. She said, “Education is dear to us, and the teachers are also dear to us which is why we started this programme last year with a pilot edition in Lagos. The feedback was amazing and we decided to bring this to Kano as well. “ As an ICT and communication company, we take care of the communication needs of our customers, so it is important to do this so that the communication gap between the teachers and students is bridged.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com