THE acting Vice-Chancellor, Lagos State University Of Education, Prof. Bidemi Lafiaji-Okuneye, has counselled carriers of Sickle Cell Disorder to be cautious so as not to breed more. Speaking at the maiden edition Of the Sickle Cell Awareness programme, which was organised by Lifestyle Innovations Ltd and in collaboration with Lagos State University, Ojo Sickle Cell Society, Lafiaji-Okuneye explained that there had been recent successes in the management of sickle cell even in the point of surgical cures, saying medical practitioners needed to find a lasting solution to sickle cell disease. She said, “While we look forward to a world free of SCD, it is important to advise people to be cautious so as not to breed more into the burden. Would-be couples should confirm and reconfirm their genotype statuses before saying ‘I DO’. Those who have been lucky despite their genotype should not take any more risks. Those who are yet to have kids should consider other options of having children than risk having the ones with the disorder. Medical research needs to focus attention on lasting solutions to this problem. All these are necessary if we must rid the world of SCD.” The Vice-Chancellor, LASU, Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, promised to support sickle cell warriors among students and staff of the institution. Olatunji-Bello, who was represented by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Administration, Prof. Adenike Boyo, advised the sickle cell warriors to adhere strictly to their prescriptions by medical science and guidance. “Be diligent in seeking and taking medical guidance, be prayerful too, because God is the giver of good health,” she said. Convener, LASU SCD FEST, Dr Layo Abiola, pleaded with the university to establish a Warriors Clinic at the Folabi Olumide Health Centre. She said, “This will serve as a follow-up structure for Sickle Cell Disorder warriors to help them go through in their quest to achieve academic excellence. It will serve as a platform for continuous education, experience sharing and sponsorship where necessary.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com