The Super Falcons will face rivals South Africa, Burundi, and Botswana in Group C of the 2022 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations in Morocco. The competition, which is billed to hold from July 2 to 23, will serve as a qualification for the 2023 Women’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand in July of 2023. The African champions will be defending the title they won back in 2018 in Ghana where they defeated the Banyana Banyana 4-3 on penalties after regulation time had ended goalless. Both nations had faced off in the same group at the last edition of the competition in Ghana, with the Banyana winning by a lone goal. Thembi Kgatlana grabbed the winner in the 85th minute. Nigeria face Botswana in their first game of the competition before squaring up against Burundi while their final group game will be against South Africa. The 2022 edition of the competition sees the tournament expand from eight to 12 teams. In Group A, hosts Morocco have been paired along with Burkina Faso, Senegal and Uganda while Group B will see Cameroon tackle Zambia who were impressive at the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, Tunisia as well as Togo. The 2020 edition of the competition was cancelled due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic which brought a stop to all sporting activities across the globe. The top two countries in each group qualify automatically for the knockout stage while the two best losing teams in the three groups will also make it to the knockout stage. The draw was conducted by the CAF Director of Competitions Samson Adamu and assisted Moroccan Nawal El Moutawakel and Cameroonian Ajara Njoya. Traditional teams Ghana and Ivory Coast failed to qualify for the competition after being knocked out by the Falcons during the qualifying phase.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com