Fear has gripped residents of the Angwan Bulus community in the Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State following threats by bandits to kill some residents who were kidnapped recently because of the failure of their relatives to pay the ransom demanded. The fear was further heightened as a result of the killing of three out of the 26 kidnapped victims by bandits on Monday night. The bandits threatened to kill more of the hostages if the N20m ransom they demanded was not paid. Confirming this, the Chief of Angwan Bulus community, Gideon Goni, told journalists on Tuesday that the bandits informed the community to go and pick up the corpses of those they killed. According to the monarch, the bandits killed the victims around the Dutse community, along the Kaduna-Abuja expressway. He stated, “They have threatened to kill more, especially women, if their demands are not met. Out of the 26 persons that were abducted, one was released while three had been killed. “The one that was released was based on health grounds. He has a liver disease.” The monarch recalled that the bandits on March 31, 2022, invaded the community, killed two residents and abducted 26 persons. Goni stated, “We came together as a community; raised some amount and they called us and told us to pick some corpses at Dutse. “I am appealing to them not to kill anyone. We are appealing to the state and Federal Government as well as religious clerics to come to our rescue so that the killings will stop.” The state police command’s spokesman, Mohammed Jalige, confirmed the incident. Jalige said he received a call on the discovery of three corpses at Dutse along the Kaduna-Abuja expressway, adding that the corpses were evacuated by the police. “The corpses were evacuated to Saint Gerald Hospital. We are trying to talk to the area commander to ensure the safe return of those who are still in captivity,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com