BOOT party and one Adesoji Adeleke have asked a Federal High Court, sitting in Osogbo, to declare the nomination of Senator Ademola Adeleke as Peoples Democratic Party candidate for the July 16th governorship poll invalid. The plaintiffs in the suit filed by their counsel, Muhydeen Adeoye, had dragged before the court the Independent National Electoral Commission and joined PDP and Senator Ademola Adeleke. In their originating summons, the plaintiffs asked the court to determine if INEC and PDP, who were parties in suit no: HIF/36/2021 and suit no: HIJ/6/2022 were bound to obey subsisting decisions of Justice A. Aderibigbe of an Osun State High Court delivered on November 22, 2021 and March 3rd, 2022 regarding the authentic ward delegates permitted for vote at PDP governorship primary. The plaintiffs also asked the court to determine if PDP in the conduct of its March 8 primary election has complied with the tenure of the subsisting decisions of Justice Aderibigbe of an Osun state High Court. Should the questions be resolved in negative, the plaintiffs also told the court to determine if the outcome of the PDP governorship primary could be regarded as valid. They also asked the court to determine if PDP’s nomination of Senator Ademola Adeleke as its governorship candidate on March 15, 2022 was valid, having made outside 180 days stipulated by the law. Among others, the plaintiffs asked court to declare that PDP did not comply with the decisions of the Justice Aderibigbe regarding delegates list while conducting its governorship primaries. They also asked the court to declare Adeleke’s nomination by PDP as its governorship candidate as invalid following non compliance with extant INEC’s guidelines and law. Meanwhile, the court in its order dated April 1, 2022, regarding the matter granted the plaintiffs the leave to serve the defendants through substituted means, while it adjourned hearing to May 3, 2022 for hearing. When contacted for reaction, spokesperson of Adeleke Campaign Organisation, Mallam Olawale Rasheed, said the party complied with the dictates of Electoral Act and the Constitution, adding that its legal team was ready to appear for it in the matter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com