Ahead of the 2023 general election, the pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, has called on Nigerians to embrace governance that will include representatives from all regions across the country. The socio-political organisation said it called for a government of national unity because Nigeria needs another approach to governance to resolve its challenges. Afenifere made the call in a communiqué issued after a meeting held on Wednesday, at the country home of its acting leader, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, in Sanya Ogbo, Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State. The communiqué signed by Afenifere’s National Publicity Secretary, Jare Ajayi, also identified the failure of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to resolve the country’s challenges as another reason for its call for a government of national unity. The communiqué read partly, “After extensive deliberations, Afenifere resolved as follows: the situation in the country is now so dire that there is an urgent need to approach the issue in a more decisive manner. “In view of the seriousness of the situation and considering the fact that the present regime under President Buhari has shown that it is incapable and unwilling to tackle the identified problems, Afenifere hereby strongly advocates for a Government of National Unity. “Such a Government of National Unity is to tackle the insecurity problems and midwife a new democratic government.” Afenifere, however, commended the operation of the Amotekun Security Network in South-West states. It said, “Once again, Afenifere is reiterating its position that restructuring of the Nigerian state must take place before the elections. “We also recommend that states that are ready must be allowed to establish their own police forces. The performance of Amotekun Security Network in the South-West in conjunction with the Nigerian Police has shown clearly that all the criticisms against state police are unfounded and self-serving.” The meeting was attended by some leaders and members of Afenifere from all the states in Yorubaland. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com