The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry has advised the president, Gen Muhammadu Buhari (rtd), to convene a National Council of State meeting to deliberate ways of tackling the increasing tide of insecurity across the country. In a statement signed by the president of the chamber, Asiwaju Michael Olawale-Cole, the LCCI said it was concerned with the current insecurity crisis because of its impact on businesses and the economy. The chamber noted that the 2021 Global Peace Index published by the Institute for Peace and Economics ranked Nigeria at 146 out of 163 countries, only better than countries like Iraq, Syria, Libya, Afghanistan, Sudan, Somalia, Yemen, and Russia, which were typically known to have been conflict areas for a long time. It said the security challenges were continuing to spiral into general lawlessness and anarchy. The statement read in part: “On behalf of the business community, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry is concerned with the current insecurity crisis because of its impact on businesses and the economy.” “We are also very concerned because of the apparent threat to our forthcoming general elections in 2023 and, by extension, a threat to our democracy. In the absence of peace and security, it would be challenging to hold credible, free, and fair elections that would reflect the choices of the electorates about whom their leaders should be. “For immediate action, we recommend that the President, Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces, Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, should convene a National Council of State Meeting to deliberate on the several issues around politics, the economy, insecurity, and the forthcoming general elections.” According to the chamber, Nigeria needed a surveillance infrastructure monitored in real-time to respond to emergencies and foil planned crimes. “This calls for more technology deployment to gather intelligence, provide 24/7 responsive surveillance, and track persons’ movements and activities, especially in already troubled areas,” the statement further read. The LCCI also said that while the huge amount of N2.41 trillion earmarked for the defence/security sector in the 2022 Federal Government budget might have reflected government’s commitment to resolving security challenges, “we however need to be prudent with spending and put in place checks to prevent the diversion of funds to other uses like sponsoring political activities.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com