The head teacher of Arochukwu community primary school in Arochukwu
Local Government Area of Abia state, Mrs. Ejim Obioma, has expressed gratitude over the renovation of their school’s facility by the chief whip of the Senate, Orji Uzor Kalu saying that they’ll no longer be affected by the Sun and rain. The staff expressed their feelings on Monday at Arochukwu when Kalu, led a delegation to commission the newly reconstructed school building in the community. Narrating their ordeals prior to Kalu’s intervention, Obioma said that whenever it rained, it disrupted all their activities in the school due to the deplorable conditions of the school building. She further added that many pupils were discouraged from coming to school because of poor condition of the classrooms. Ejim pointed out that the pupils and staff also had to endure the heat of the scorching sun, whenever it wasn’t raining. She said, “The joy you have brought to us is immeasurable. That is why we are all gathered here to celebrate. “Through the reconstruction of this school building and the provision of learning materials, you have boosted the morale of our students. “You have made them willing to learn and happy to come to school and as for the teachers, you have made us proud and increased our zeal to teach these children because you have made everything easy for us. “Before your intervention this building was so terrible that most of the students stopped coming to schools because the building used to be dilapidated with no roof. “Both the pupils and staff get ‘beaten’ by the sun and the rain, but you have reconstructed this school as if you’re an indigene of Arochukwu. “You didn’t only reconstruct the building, you also provided furniture, study textbooks, bags and other writing materials, we have never had it this good. The road which leads to this school has been so bad for the last 30 years but you have also built it for us.” Earlier in his remarks Kalu, said the gesture signified his commitment to improve the lives of his constituents, in addition to other developmental projects which he has facilitated in the community. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com