The Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, on Friday, visited the Olubadàn of Ibadanland, Oba Olalekan Balogun, at his Alarere residence, in Ibadan, to seek the traditional ruler’s blessings on his presidential ambition. The visit was in continuation of the vice president’s visitation to states ahead of the primary election of his party, the All Progressives Congress, holding in May. Osinbajo said that he came to pay homage and sought the traditional ruler’s blessings on his desire to take over from the President, Major Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in 2023, after the completion of the current tenure. He explained that his decision to contest the post of the presidency was made in the realisation of the need to put into use all the experiences he gained in the last seven years under the tutelage of Buhari. While informing him formally of his intention to run for President, the VP told the monarch that he also came to pay his respect. “As you know, on April 11, 2022, I declared my intention to run for the presidency of our great land under the flag of our party, the great party, the All Progressives Congress. I did so while taking into account the fact that our country needs all of those who are willing to serve it to the best of their capacity and knowledge. ‘With great humility and sincerity, I come to your majesty, that after serving about seven years as Vice President, and also as acting, under our President, President Muhammadu Buhari, who truly gave me every opportunity; he opened up doors in a way that most deputies may not have experienced, and entrusting a lot to my care, including very sensitive positions. “After all of that, I felt that it would be the right thing to do, to make that experience available to the people of our country. By the grace of God and the will of the people, if I am voted in as the President come 2023, I believe that there is so much to do. The desire of our hearts is that our country will be much greater and will be able to attain all of the great potentials of our people,” he said according to a statement by his spokesman, Laolu Akande. “During these years, our president truly gave me every opportunity to know all that the government was doing, including very sensitive issues and I, felt it would be the right thing to do, to deploy all those experiences under me to the service of the country. “Nigeria needs those who are willing to serve, to attain her potential. “Kabiyesi, I know that you are no more a politician. Though it is said that we are all political animals, but your position as the father of all, precludes ‘Your Imperial Majesty’ from being active. “So, I covet your prayers and want to assure Your Majesty, that wherever I may be, your highly respected position is guaranteed,” Osinbajo said. In his response, Oba Balogun wished the vice president good luck in his desire to contest the presidential race. “We are proud of you and share your aspiration. Just let me hand you over to the Almighty Allah, to take total control and be with you and your entourage,” Oba Balogun added. The royal father also prayed for the vice president and his entourage. Among the dignitaries who accompanied Osinbajo were Sen. Teslim Folarin, APC, representing Oyo Central, Sen. Adamu Bulkachuwa, APC representing Bauchi North, Chief Niyi Akintola (SAN) and other chieftains of the party.