Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Sunday in Abuja said there would be a restoration of peace and prosperity for Nigeria despite its current challenges. Osinbajo said this in a chat with journalists shortly after the Easter Sunday service at the Aso Villa Chapel, Presidential Villa, Abuja. A statement on Sunday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, quoted Osinbajo as saying that “my message is really a prayer. The resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ is a defining moment for us Christians. And one of the most important things to bear in mind is the resuscitation of hope. “Where there is despair, I pray that hope would be restored; where there is fear, I pray that there is courage and confidence. Where there is deprivation, I pray that there is prosperity, and there is abundance. “There may be things that appear dead but the power of the resurrection is one that assures us that life will come after death, so we are completely confident especially for our country that everywhere we suffer deprivation, there will be restoration, and that is the promise of the resurrection.” Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi; Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Wase; former President of the Senate, David Mark; and former Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu; among others also congratulated Christians on this year’s Easter celebration. Ugwuanyi called on Nigerians to seize the opportunity of this year’s Easter celebration to advance peace, intensify prayers and show more commitment to God. In his Easter message on Sunday, the governor enjoined Nigerians to appreciate the reason for the celebration, come closer to God, and dedicate themselves to virtues that would promote peace, love, unity and progress of the country. Emmanuel reminded the political class in the state to eschew violence, hatred and anger in their quest for power, as there is no political office worth the blood of anybody. This is as he stated that there should not be any ambition so deep or sacred that should warrant taking the state to a violence field. Emmanuel said this in his Easter broadcast to the people of the state on Sunday. He said the state has become an oasis of peace and will not return to the years of locusts characterised by kidnapping and politically-motivated killings, adding that God alone gives power and only Him grants such power to whoever he chooses. Gbajabiamila, in a statement issued on Sunday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, said the period calls for sober reflection and dedication to nationhood, urging Christians to be their brothers’ keepers at all times.The Speaker also called on Nigerians, especially Christians, to use the period of Easter to pray for unity and peace in the country, while urging all citizens to support the government in its efforts to tackle the insecurity in the country.Wase, in a separate statement issued on Sunday by his Chief Press Secretary, Umar Puma, enjoined Nigerians to be strong and prayerful amidst current security challenges bedevilling the country. The Deputy Speaker expressed optimism that better days would soon come, urging Nigerians not to be discourage and continue to pray for peace and stability of the country. Mark, in a statement issued by his Media Adviser, Paul Mumeh, urged Nigerians to “reflect and review the tortuous journey to nationhood so far, with a view to reversing faulty steps in order to achieve a prosperous, secured and guaranteed future.” The former President of the Senate, therefore, urged the present regime led by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to “open doors for fresh ideas.” The Primate of the Church of the Lord Worldwide, Archbishop Rufus Ositelu, has called on politicians to exhibit the fear of God in all they do as the 2023 elections approach. Ositelu made this call in an Easter message issued by his media office on Sunday, adding that the security situation in the country needs the government’s action. The Bishop of Kwara Diocese, Anglican Communion, Rt. Revd Sunday Adewole, in his Easter message at Cathedral Church of St. Barnabas Sabo-Oke Ilorin, Kwara State, urged Christians to always be their brothers’ keepers, and not their brothers’ killers. The Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, Most Revd Ignatius Kaigama, in his Easter sermon at Our Lady Queen of Nigeria Pro-Cathedral in Abuja, faulted the performance of the Federal Government in tackling security challenges which, he said, has increased the anger in the land against political leaders. While also decrying the poor living condition of many Nigerians, the cleric said the activities of most leaders were not serving the interest of the citizens. The Prelate and Moderator of General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church of Nigeria, Nzie Eke, also congratulated Christians across the country and urged them to be steadfast in their walk with God and to use the Easter celebration to rededicate their faith to the Almighty. The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria called on Christians to use the Easter period to pray for the peace and unity of Nigeria. In his Easter message, the Spiritual Father and Chairman Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church Worldwide, (Ayo  ni ooo), Prophet Samuel  Abidoye, urged Nigerians  to reflect on the resurrection of Jesus Christ, rededicate themselves to living in peace, oneness and love of God. The University of Port Harcourt Alumni Association, in a statement issued on Sunday by the association’s National President, Ule Williams-Glad, said Easter afforded Nigerians, particularly Christians, another opportunity for sober reflection on the journey of nationhood so far. The South-East Zonal Chairman of MACBAN, Alhaji Gidado Sidikki, made the call in a statement in Awka, on Sunday in his Easter message to Christians in the South-East and South-South regions.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com