The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), is meeting with the Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Tambuwal’s meeting with Buhari comes only days after his fallout with the Saraki-led consensus drive at the Peoples Democratic Party. The PUNCH had earlier reported that a delegation of Northern Elders led by Prof. Ango Abdullahi under the directive of former Head of State, Ibrahim Babangida, chose former Senate President, Bukola Saraki and Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, as its consensus candidates. Speaking with our correspondent last Friday, the spokesperson of The Media Office of Bukola Saraki, Yusuf Olaniyonu, said “this decision that has been taken in the north will also be taken by the elders in the south. Therefore, they’ll have to do a similar thing. “The elders considered the unity of the north. They considered that the northwest had a fair share of the presidency. Only the North-central and Northeast have not produced before. So they said, let’s look at those two. “The two of them will sit down, discuss among themselves and arrive at one. They will meet their counterparts from the south to make them stabilize the number in the south using the principle of equity, justice, and fairness. So, we will have a small number going into the primaries. So, it’s a work in progress.” The PDP presidential aspirants involved in the arrangement included Tambuwal, Governor Mohammed, Saraki, and former Managing Director of FSB International Bank, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen. Tambuwal has since distanced himself from the Committee and its activities saying he would, regardless of the decision, proceed full throttle, with his campaign to clinch the Peoples Democratic Party’s Presidential ticket. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com