THE National Inland Waterways Authority and a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Mr Gerald Ezeuko, have disagreed over the alleged abuse of court orders by the Federal Government agency. While the senior advocate insisted that the agency was disregarding court orders, the agency said the orders and judgment in question had been appealed through its lawyers. However, Ezeuko claimed that NIWA’s unlawful activities around the Onitsha waterways, despite court orders restraining it showed the alleged level of the lawlessness of the agency. He, therefore, asked the Federal Government to call NIWA to order to avoid anarchy. Addressing journalists in Onitsha, Anambra State, on Friday, the SAN accused NIWA of allegedly using the police, Army, and Navy to appropriate the property of Lake Petroleum Limited, Onitsha, a matter he claimed the Federal High Court, Awka, had decided against NIWA. He said, “We obtained a court judgement against NIWA at the Federal High Court, Awka, presided over by Hon. Justice N.O. Dimgba, with the Suit No. FHC/ AWK/CS/51/2020, Lake Petroleum Limited, as plaintiff and National Inland Waterways Authority, NIWA, and Chris Orajekwe as defendants. “The court ordered that the defendant, which is NIWA, has no statutory power/right of any kind to appropriate/expropriate the private property of the plaintiff, which is Lake Petroleum Limited, for its own use.  The court also made another declaration that the act of the defendant in claiming ownership of the plaintiff’s private property is unconstitutional, ultra vires, null and void. “A declaration is made that the Right of Way as conferred on the defendant by NIWA Act does not disturb/interfere with the right of ownership vested on the plaintiff. The sum of N5m was awarded in favour of the plaintiff against the defendant as general damages. “You can imagine, even with this judgement, NIWA is presently on site interfering with the property right of Lake Petroleum Limited. You can imagine the lawlessness and impunity being perpetrated by a government agency. “We are therefore appealing to the Inspector General of Police, Chief of Army Staff, and Chief of Naval Staff, that they should use their time and personnel to do their constitutional duties and not give NIWA protection, while they unlawfully appropriate people’s property in Onitsha waterside. However, the Area Manager, NIWA, Mr Yakubu Anthony, in his reaction, denied the accusation of disobedience of court order, saying that the judgment had been appealed. Anthony said, “If there is a court judgment and there is an appeal if that appeal is still on, can you execute that judgment? “The case is on appeal, they should wait until the termination of the judgment. You can’t abide by any court judgment when there is an appeal. “We did not invade the property. The area is under our Right of Way, which means it is under the control of NIWA. We are just doing our job. Even if there is a court judgment, and it falls within our Right of Way, anything there is under our control.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com