A coalition of human rights organisations championed by Connected Development and BudgIT has called on the Federal Government to revamp the primary healthcare system in Nigeria for improved service delivery. They also advised the government to prioritise research and development to improve the PHCs in the country. The CSOs made the call at a meeting to build momentum for healthcare accountability. The meeting which was organised by CODE and BudgIT with support from Conrad Hilton Foundation and Skoll Foundation in Abuja was part of activities on the  implemention of the second phase of the COVID-19 Transparency and Accountability Project. According to them, it is aimed at tracking all funds and donations made in support of the Federal Government COVID-19 intervention. The Assistant Manager of BudgIT, Iyanuoluwa Bolarinwa in a lecture titled, ‘Strengthening formidable partnerships for accountability,’ said the CSOs in the course of their work observed that most primary healthcare centres needed a facelift. He said, “We saw the structures, they are  in deplorable conditions and these are the first point of call to an average Nigerian where they go first to access care before they can even be referred to general hospitals.” Bolarinwa who called for more investment in the health sector stressed the need to implement  the Abuja declaration by  committing 15 per cent of the budget to healthcare. He urged the government to tackle the issue of brain drain by empowering medical personnel to remain in the country to service citizens. The Founder of Follow the Money and Chief  Executive Officer of CODE,  Hamza Lawal , said that the COVID-19 pandemic showed that   Nigeria’s fiscal accountability mechanism was not so strong. Lawal said that the group began monitoring the N38 billion raised in the  Coalition Against COVID-19, a  private sector-led organisation established to assist the government in combating the Coronavirus disease. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com