The All Progressives Grand Alliance on Saturday called on Nigerians to demonstrate true commitment to unity and shun all divisive tendencies threatening national coexistence. The National Chairman of APGA, Chief Victor Oye, who said this in his 2022 Easter message said Easter, which was a commemoration of suffering, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, was another opportunity for all to take a look at their lives and their relationship with one another. Oye said the prevailing political tension, insecurity and economic hardship “were products of hatred, greed and mutual distrust.” While noting that Jesus Christ laid down his life to reconcile humanity with God, Oye said it was time Nigerians had a conversation in the interest of the nation and its people. He said, “I must thank God for sparing our lives and making to us witness yet another Easter. I also want to congratulate Nigerians on the occasion of Jesus Christ’s passion, death and resurrection. It is only by the grace of God that we are alive. “On this occasion, I want to call for national reconciliation; we must jettison sectional and religious proclivities and talk to one another as Nigerians with true love, compassion and empathy with the aim of addressing our challenges. “God loves this country. He is still interested in Nigeria, and our problems are not insurmountable, but He needs our cooperation, and we must show to ourselves, the type of love Jesus Christ showed to humanity.” Oye called on Nigerians to embrace fair play and tolerance instead of intimidation, brigandage and animosity as the country goes into crucial election in 2023. “Other political parties should learn from the peace, order and progress in APGA. Nigerians should look our way and vote our party massively in all elections because we have the solution to the myriad of challenges facing Nigeria,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com