The Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr Godwin Emefiele, and the Chief Executive Officer of Financial Institution Training Centre, Mrs Chizor Malize are scheduled to deliver the keynote and lead papers respectively at the third edition of The Industry Summit/Awards in Lagos. According to the organiser, The Industry Newspaper 2022’s event is the third in its series and is themed, ‘Financial inclusion, digital payment and the challenges of banking the unbanked. It added that the event would be chaired by the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and the special guest of honour is the Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr Udom Gabriel Emmanuel. In a statement, the convener of the summit and the Editor-in-Chief of the Industry Newspapers, Goddie Ofose said, “The event is envisioned to bring together leaders of thoughts in the Nigerian business landscape in order to rev up conversations that would deepen financial inclusion and proffer solution to the challenges of banking the unbanked.” Meanwhile, the organisers of the awards have announced the Governor of Borno State, Prof. Babagana Zulum, Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr Udom Emmanuel as the winners of The Industry Governor of the Year in overall, job creation, and infrastructure, respectively. It added, “The Industry Awards team of assessors led by the Leadership Newspaper, South-West General Manager, Mr Chima Akwaja, also named the Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele, Chairman, Troyka Holdings, Biodun Shobanjo, Chief Executive Officer of Fidelity Bank Plc — Mrs Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe, as Regulatory Officer of the Year, Doyen of Advertising in Africa, and Banker of the Year respectively. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com