Nigerian rapper, Jude Lemfani Abaga, known better as MI Abaga, has lamented the lack of respect for the hip-hop music genre and its artistes in the Nigerian music industry. Abaga, in a series of tweets on Friday, revealed that he was invited to meet global hip-hop legend, Rick Ross, but his request to see the star “one-on-one” was declined. Rick Ross had on Thursday organised a concert at the Eko Hotels and Suites. There were performances by some of Nigeria’s artistes including Tiwa Savage, Davido, Mayorkun, Patoranking, Buju, Pheelz, Rema, and DJ Obi. “I was invited to meet Rick Ross, I responded by saying if I could do it one-on-one. Of course, they declined,” he said. “The Afrobeats industry will not respect hip-hop just because, and that’s fine. Let’s accept it as what it is and make great music for the ones who do care. “That’s how I created the wave the first time!!! Every single time I gave them music I never cheated them. I made classic after classic and I am relentless still.” The former Chocolate City boss also narrated his experience at his “first big gig”, which he said taught him the “valuable lesson” of self-respect. He said, “My first big gig ever was in 2008 with Jay Z and Rihanna and Usher, how I was treated that day taught me a valuable lesson; them no go respect us until we respect ourselves.” Abaga’s tweets came hours after his colleague, Oludemilade Martin Alejo, popularly known as YCee decried the absence of rappers at the Rick Ross Live In Lagos concert on Thursday. “This ain’t even about me cos I haven’t put out rap music in a while, but how do you have a Rick Ross show in Nigeria and not have one single Nigerian rapper on the lineup? And tomorrow you wanna come on Twitter and ask why rappers are switching genres,” he tweeted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com