Racing Genk assistant coach Glen Riddersholm has backed Nigerian striker Paul Onuachu to make an impact should he join Premier League giants Liverpool or Atletico Madrid in Spain during the next transfer window, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Riddersholm was Onuachu’s former coach during his time at Danish side FC Midtjylland, before departing in 2015. They both reunited in November 2021 after the Dutch coach joined Genk as an assistant coach. Onuachu, under Riddersholm’s tutelage, played 27 games and scored a miserly three goals in three seasons, but the 27-year-old has since grown to become one of the most sought after strikers in Europe following an extraordinary 2020/21 season with Genk that saw him bang in 35 in all competitions, as well as scoop the Golden Shoe, Belgian Professional Footballer of The Year and Ebony Shoe awards. The 6ft 7in striker was tipped for a move away from the Luminus Arena, with several clubs interested in him, but surprisingly the Nigerian remained with the Smurfs. Onuachu has picked up from where he left off last season, and has registered 21 goals and three assists in 37 games this term. Ahead of the next transfer window, both Atletico Madrid and Liverpool have been mentioned as possible destinations for Onuachu and Riddersholm is confident the big striker has the quality to make an impact for the Spanish and Premier League giants. Speaking with bold.dk, Riddersholm said, “He (Onuachu) won the Golden Boot, and it is very apt for what he has achieved. He has developed since I worked with him in FC Midtjylland. “He’s a much more accomplished footballer, and he’s ready to be shot now, and I really hope he succeeds. “There were various things that made him not smoke in the summer transfer window, including the uncertain financial situation due to Corona, and then he is not completely cheap either. “I really hope he succeeds in the upcoming transfer window, and until then I just have to say that he is hugely ambitious and he tries every day to help his club. He has a huge mentality. “He has received a good education from Denmark, and I am pleased that he is also a cultural carrier down here. It’s cool that he’s just proving himself, but he’s ready to move on, and he’s going to leave, too.” Asked if Onuachu was ready for a big move to Atletico or Liverpool, Riddersholm added, “Yes, I’m absolutely convinced he is. I’m not saying he can play solid for those clubs, but he can play a significant role. “For some of the clubs, he wants to be a squad player, where he has to have a few minutes, because they play many matches in one season. “The question is also whether he wants to be a solid starter every round or whether he has to take new steps. I cannot answer that. “But he has some eye-catching core competencies, which means that it does not surprise me that there are such big clubs in play. “Being able to change matches is super important, and Paul has some obvious qualities that are nice for a coach to have at his disposal.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com