itel Nigeria has partnered Amatem Softgel in commemoration of global efforts aimed at bringing an end to malaria, especially among African children and pregnant women. A statement by the group said itel had donated relief materials including anti-malarial mosquito nets, free medical tests, and mosquito repellant cream to more than 1,500 families in the Agboyi Ketu area of Lagos State. This year’s World Malaria theme is ‘Harness innovation to reduce the malaria disease burden and save lives’. It added that itel extended its love to the children in the community by donating educational materials such as schoolbooks, school bags, notebooks, and other materials to aid their love for learning. Speaking at the event, the marketing manager of itel for West Africa, Oke Umurhohwo, said, “Giving back to our communities is a project of love that we do with utter passion, and malaria is a disease that affects millions of people in Nigeria. This is why we and Amatem Softgel have chosen to help reduce the burden of malaria in Agboyi Ketu community. Together, we can “Harness innovation to reduce the malaria disease burden and save lives.” He added that Itel had shown its continuous interest in impacting lives in the low-income communities surrounding it over the years. “So it is no surprise that the mobile phone, home appliances, accessories and electronic manufacturer partnered with Amatem Soft Gel, another leading anti-malaria drug company in Nigeria to donate relief materials to the people of Agboyi Ketu. “More than 3.3 billion people in 106 counties are at risk of malaria. According to the World Malaria Report, 2020, Nigeria alone accounts for 27% of the malaria burden and 23% of malaria deaths worldwide, and children under the age of 5 remain the most vulnerable population to the disease,” the statement stated in part,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com