The Nigerian Tulip International Colleges has announced scholarships and cash prizes to the finalists of the 19th Annual National Mathematics Competition. 20 students from Primary 5 and 6 and 20 students from Junior Secondary School three have been awarded a 100 per cent tuition fee scholarship. The awardees were the outstanding students from the junior and senior categories. The students have done excellently well right from their different states and zones on February 5, 2022, making their parents and school proud. The organisers said they had made it to the second round, which commenced on the 4th -8th for the JSS three category and 6th-8th for the Primary 5 and 6 categories. The second-round qualifiers were invited for the second round and had an award ceremony at NTIC on April 8 2022, which witnessed the emergence of 21 exceptional students from the junior and senior category who would have access to 100 per cent full-tuition scholarship awardees plus cash prizes and academic equipment. The Managing Director of NTIC, Fevzullah Bilgin, said the annual national Maths competition was a platform by which NTIC supports and encourages excellence. “I must confess that ANMC is one of Nigeria’s largest Mathematics competitions. “NTIP is the sole sponsor of ANMC scholarships for the benefit of students, while Access Bank is sponsoring the organisation of the 19th edition of ANMC.” The ANMC coordinator, Erdal Yilmaz, said that currently, 167 students were benefiting from the NTIC scholarship scheme, with more than N500 million spent annually for the awardees. “With ANMC, we have been able to awake the Mathematics potentials in students and has been of great help in leveraging the students’ functionality in the science-oriented area,” he said. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com