The Chief Missioner, Ansar-ud Deen Society of Nigeria, Sheikh Abdur-Rahman Ahmad, discusses the essence of the Ramadan fast in this interview with ABIODUN SANUSI What is the significance of Ramadan? Ramadan is a special season for human beings to connect to their Lord, feel the pang of hunger, especially for those that are rich, in order for them to feel the same thing that the poor feel so that they can always take care of the poor, the needy and the underprivileged. It also gives a lot of benefits. In modern times, people now know the benefits of intermittent fasting. They now know that fasting is good for the heart, blood pressure, and overall well-being. These are also parts of the benefits of fasting. Fasting is in obedience to our Lord and creator, and that is the most important thing. By obeying Allah, he is happy with us. What is the overriding philosophy behind Ramadan? It is selflessness, self-denial, priority, self-discipline, and spiritual growth. Apart from food and water, are there other things that Muslim faithful are expected to stay away from during the Ramadan period? Yes, they are expected to stay away from a lot of things, not just food and water. They are expected to stay away from even legitimate relationships with their spouses, and also to exercise control in the use of their tongues, in their actions that are not expected of someone that is seeking to purify him or herself spiritually, backbiting, bearing false witnesses, lying, plundering; one is also expected to stay away from other vices. Are there some types of food that are most ideal for breaking the fast? It depends on the individual, everything that comes from Allah, I mean permitted, is allowed. All types of food that are wholesome, legitimate and nourishing are allowed. Are there inappropriate food items that should not be used in breaking fast? Food and drinks that are from illicit sources, dogs, and usually these things are those not permitted for Muslims to eat. Are there consequences for skipping some days during the 30-day Ramadan period? Yes, there are consequences. It is not even expected of faithful Muslims to do so. However, for those who do such, it’ll seriously affect their relationship with the creator because they wouldn’t be fulfilling the obligation of fasting. In some instances, they’re expected to fast for 60 days consecutively in lieu of the one day that they deliberately missed or prematurely break their fast, as a penalty for such infractions. Are there reasons for which a Muslim may be exempted from penalty if they miss or break their fast prematurely? Absolutely. Fasting is not meant to punish people, hence, sick people, pregnant women and mothers who are breastfeeding babies are excused; also, travellers are permitted to repay the fast later. Travelling, even in modern times, could cause so much inconvenience, hence, travellers would not be paying the same way that those who deliberately missed the fast would; they would rather repay the actual number of fast missed. They could rather feed a poor person in lieu of the days of fasting that they missed. However, those who cannot afford to feed anyone are also at liberty not to because Ramadan is all about mercy, not about punishment. Apart from eating and drinking, what other things can invalidate one’s fast? Conjugal relation (sexual intercourse and romance), even with one’s wife, and other infractions, such as backbiting, stealing, and lying during Ramadan do not only break the fast but are also an infraction. Technically, such persons are fasting, but will not get the rewards of fasting. Does menstruation invalidate fast? Women who are menstruating are excused from fasting, and they’re expected to observe it later at their convenient time. What kind of reward comes to those who fully observe the Ramadan fast? There are tremendous rewards for people who observe Ramadan to its fullest. The reward is unquantifiable. There’s a Hadith which says that Allah has said that all the actions of the children of Adam are for them except for fasting. Allah says fasting is for Him, and He is the only one who would duly reward people who fast. Hence, the reward for fasting is incomprehensible because it’s so great. In Islam, we were told of the rewards for every other deed, save for fasting. As Allah has taken it upon Himself to reward those who observe the fast conscientiously. Some people abstain from alcoholic drinks, out of respect for Ramadan, but go back to alcohol immediately after Ramadan. What does Islam say about the drinking of alcohol? Their case could be likened to that of a person who is dieting but keeps cheating, claiming that it’s his cheat-day. Such a person would not achieve their aim of weight reduction. They’d only go back to point zero. The same applies to a person who fasted for 30 or 29 days and then goes back to those things that they had abandoned.  The fast has no effect on such persons; therefore, they have no reward, and they’ve only wasted their time because it is an exercise in futility. One of the objectives of fasting is to instill discipline, consciousness about God, spiritual elevation. And the evidence of proper fast is for a person not to go back to those things that they had left during the fast. What advice do you have for people at  this period? The message is for every one of us to live and let live. We have been living together in harmony for so long. We are brothers and sisters; we do not hate one another. We should resist every action of those who are manipulating us with religious sentiments because intolerance, bigotry and hate are new and strange to our way of life. We must go back to being our brethren’s keeper and respecting our differences. We cannot all see things the same way. The fact that we are different is evidence that we are alive, hence, we need to tolerate one another as that is the minimum expected of everyone. We need to accommodate one another. What is your view about people who claim to be Muslims but unleash acts of terrorism on other human beings, while shouting Allah Akbar just before such an attack? The fact that a person says Bismilahi before taking a poison doesn’t neutralise the effect of the poison they’re about to swallow. Anyone could shout anything or refer to themselves as whatever they could. However, I can attest to the fact that no religion preaches violence. Life is sacred in every religion. Islam has disowned such people, and Islam has dissociated itself from the activities of these people who claim to fight, maim, kill and destroy in the name of Islam. Mind you, majority of their victims are Muslims. They don’t mind to attack mosques and kill Muslims even during prayers. They are not following the dictates of Islam and the Quran, which says that whoever takes a life unjustly is like someone who has taken the entire lives of the human race. These people are not speaking for Islam or Muslims nor are they acting in our name. Every religion has its own population of extremists and lunatics. The Lord Resistance Army in Uganda kills and maims in the name of Jesua, but I know that Jesus preached peace, hence, I do not take them to represent Christianity, rather, they represent their own extremism. Such people fight and maim in the name of whatever they believe and worship, but it is not Allah or Islam. What advice do you have for holders of political powers in Nigeria? I would advise politicians not to use religion as a means of getting votes, especially by dividing people and manipulating them to be sentimental. Politicians are said to have no religion, because the only religion that they understand is how to get their votes, and they don’t care where it comes from. Politicians go to church on Sundays to get votes, they also go to the mosque on Fridays to win votes, and they go elsewhere on other days for votes too. They go to some places during the day, and they go to other places in the dead of the night, all to get votes and power. The politicians know that many people are not sincere to their creator. The only thing they serve is gold, and that is their ultimate. However, they must realise that one day, they would stand before God the creator to render account. They would either leave office or the office would leave them. For these reasons, they must stop dividing people by exploiting our differences, because they would go, but the people would remain. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com