The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and former President Olusegun Obasanjo were among dignitaries who on Saturday congratulated Lady Doja Otedola, the mother of billionaire businessman, Mr Femi Otedola, on her 90th birthday. The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, his counterpart in Ogun State, Mr Dapo Abiodun; the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof Ibrahim Gambari, as well as the President of Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, also in their separate letters celebrated the matriarch of the Otedola family. The celebrant is the widow of a former governor of Lagos State, Sir Michael Otedola, who served between 1992 and 1993. Buhari, in his congratulatory letter, wrote, “I note your selfless service and charitable works to the people of Lagos State when you served as first lady between 1992 and 1993 and years after this period. “In celebrating this milestone, I also recognise the many contributions you have made to the people of Epe, most recently the building and dedication of St Peter’s Catholic Church. I wish you many more years in good health. Happy birthday.” Osinbajo, in a letter, said it was heart-warming that the celebrant fulfilled her vow to build a benefiting church for St. Peter’s Catholic Church in Odoragunshin, Epe, Lagos, and is alive and well to witness its official dedication. He noted, “Dolapo and I are honoured to wish our dear mother a happy 90th birthday. Your remarkable life of service to others through philanthropy has most certainly been imbibed by your children and grandchildren whose reputation for promoting charitable causes is also well known.” Obasanjo, in his letter, noted that the life of the nonagenarian had been a source of blessing and inspiration to many. “You are an exemplary patriot and the record of your steady, constant and beneficial influence as a dependable and worthy role model to the entire womenfolk and younger generations has been astonishingly remarkable,” he added. Gbajabiamila also wished the celebrant continued good health, joy and peace, just as he prayed that God’s grace upon her life would never wane. Sanwo-Olu noted that her attainment of the milestone age of 90 was a testament to the grace of God upon her. Abiodun wrote, “The significance of this occasion is beyond the number; the landscape is dotted with many impacts you have brought to bear on the society.” Gambari also applauded the celebrant’s “strong devotion to humanity and service to your community”, Dangote, in his letter, said, “As she attains the age of 90, I will like to join other well-wishers to congratulate Lady Doja Otedola and wish her a happy landmark birthday, greater wisdom, immeasurable peace, abundant health and many more years of fulfillment in her dedication to God.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com