An Ekiti State Chief Magistrate Court, Ado Ekiti District, has sentenced a 22-years-old motorcycle rider, Ayomide Ogedengbe, to two and half years imprisonment without the option of a fine for reckless driving and non-possession of rider’s permit. Ogedengbe was arraigned on 30th August 2021 on two counts of “reckless driving and driving on the public road without riders permit on the 14th of May, 2021 along Oshodi Community, off Afao Road, Ado Ekiti, around 2:30p.m, and caused grievous injury to one Ojo Ige”. One of the eyewitnesses who testified before the court had said, “Ogedengbe rode recklessly on that day, he left his lane and hit Ojo Ige badly and sustained a serious injury on the head and all over his body. “The accident victim was rushed to the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital and later referred to Afe Babalola Multisystem Hospital where he was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of the hospital”. The Police Prosecutor, Inspector Elijah Adejare, said, “The convict contravened Section 28 of the Road Traffic Law, Cap 548 Laws of Ekiti State of Nigeria, 2012 and Section 7(1), punishable under Section 45 of the Road Traffic Act. The prosecutor, in a bid to prove his case, called five witnesses and tendered photographs of the accident scene and the victim at the hospital, a Vehicle Inspection Officer Inspection report, a sketch map of the accident scene, and statements of the witnesses among others as exhibits. The convict, who spoke through his counsel, Olanrewaju Oluwasola, pleaded with the court to temper justice with mercy and called one witness. In the court judgment, Magistrate Olatomiwa Daramola, said, “On the whole, I hold that from the totality of the evidence before the court, the prosecution has established the charge against the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt. “The issue for determination, in this case, is hereby resolved in favour of the prosecution as against the defendant. “I find the defendant guilty as charged and convict him accordingly in count one and two respectively. The defendant is hereby sentenced to two years imprisonment on count one and six months imprisonment on count two. The terms of the imprisonment are to run concurrently,’’ the magistrate ruled. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com