Madam Oriaku Nmadu, the mother of the late gospel singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu, from the Isuochi Umunneochi Local Government Area of Abia State, has demanded justice for her daughter. Osinachi, 42, died penultimate Friday after being admitted to a hospital in Abuja. Some of her friends alleged that her husband, Peter, maltreated and assaulted her several times before she died. Mrs Nmadu, who poured out her heart while speaking to members of the Nigeria Association of Women Journalists, advised single ladies to be careful when selecting their spouses. She said when Peter came for her daughter’s hand in marriage, he presented himself as a pastor from Anambra State. She noted that shortly after the marriage, Peter shut the doors to Osinachi’s family “and completely possessed her”. “My daughter went through hell in the hands of Peter. My daughter had four children and I could not go for omugwo (babysitting) for any of the children because her husband would not want to see any member of Osinachi’s family,” she added. The bereaved mother disclosed that on one occasion after a church service, Peter abandoned her and his wife and drove home with the children. “That Sunday after the church service as we were waiting for Peter Nwachukwu, he came out and ordered his children into the car and drove off, leaving me and my daughter behind. I was shocked because it was a well-wisher that gave my daughter that car Peter was driving. “Instead of Osinachi to complain, she rushed out and got a taxi that drove us home,” she added. According to her, there was another car a fan gave Osinachi which her husband allegedly took from her. She said at every misunderstanding, he would abandon his wife and drive off. “On one occasion, the children inside the car were saying bye-bye to their mother; he never allowed the wife to enjoy the fruit of her labour,” Madam Nmadu added. While appealing to the female group to help the family get justice, she said the couple’s children were with one of her daughters. “Osinachi believed in the Biblical injunction that marriage is for better and for worse and that was why she endured the marriage thinking that Peter Nwachukwu would change, but unfortunately my daughter died,” she said. The Abia State Chairman of NAWOJ, Mrs Beatrice Odoemelem, assured Osinachi’s mother that the group would not relent until justice was served.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com