Chronic kidney disease has left a 35-year-old father of four, Emmanuel Balogun, helpless and unable to fend for his family. Balogun, it was learnt, had in May 2021, been taken to a hospital and treated for high blood pressure. But his condition was said to have worsened when doctors told him he had a kidney infection. His wife, Ify, said her husband started showing signs that all was not well when he could not breathe with ease while some parts of his body, including his feet and face, were swollen shortly after he was admitted to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital. “It started in May 2021. He had been dealing with high blood pressure. At one point, when he was being treated, we were told he had a kidney infection. He was given some drugs for high BP. But this year, he started complaining again, so he was taken to a hospital. He was later referred to LASUTH,” the graduate of Education said. She further explained that after a series of tests carried out at LASUTH, Balogun was diagnosed with chronic kidney disease. According to her, doctors at the hospital said her husband’s condition was severe, leaving him with no other option than to undergo a transplant to replace his damaged kidneys. “It was in the course of the treatment that we were told he had a chronic kidney disease that reached the end-stage. Since January, he has been on dialysis. A few weeks ago, a doctor said it would be best for him to go for a kidney transplant.” She noted that the family couldn’t afford cost of the treatment, adding that two of her children had to be withdrawn from school due to their father’s ailment. Ify added, “We have spent over N1m. Each dialysis costs N60,000 and he undergoes dialysis every three days; it ought to be done every two days but because we could not afford that, we had to extend it to three days. He ought to undergo one today but we had to shift it to Monday because we didn’t have the money. “We have been living on donations from family members and friends. Two of our children have stopped going to school. Most of the time, I am at the hospital. I use the little free time I have to take care of the home. “At the moment, we need financial help for the surgery. We were told he would need a donor that matches. He needs N15m for two kidneys and other levels of treatment.” Donations to the family can be sent to Zenith bank account with the name, Balogun Emmanuel Kayode, and account number; 2546077575. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com