The Lagos State government has partnered with the World Bank to provide income for over 10,000 residents of Lagos. The state Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs Yetunde Arobieke, made this known at a meeting with stakeholders in the state on the National Social Safety Nets Project. She said, “I am elated to disclose to this gathering that the receipt of this bi-monthly stipends by 10,985 Lagos State beneficiaries has impacted greatly on them because it has smoothened the household consumption, improved school enrolment and attendance, encourage financial and asset acquisition, as well as group formation and savings through SGM trainings, stepped down at the targeted LGAs. “We are aware that according to the design of this programme, the current phase of the implementation would be brought to a close in June, 2022. “Therefore, it is worthy to note that the programme is expanding as a result of economic shock and the need to accommodate more beneficiaries into the social register, especially, in a continually growing city like Lagos.” “With this trend, the prompt intervention to position NCTO as the payment delivery platform in the humanitarian and development space and to push for the use of NCTO and SCTUs as the delivery platform for cash transfer is germane for a prospective and feasible social development.” The commissioner also commended the Federal Government and the World Bank for their concern and support for poor households in the state and the country in general. She added, “I must use this opportunity to appreciate the Mr. President for this initiative which is being implemented by the Federal Government of Nigeria through the National Social Safety Nets Coordinating Office and the National Cash Transfer Office under the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development with the mandate to develop humanitarian policies, and provide effective coordination of National and International Humanitarian interventions, ensure strategic disaster mitigation, and manage the formulation and implementation of fair focused social inclusion and protection programmes in Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com