The Karmajiji Colony of People with Disabilities, Federal Capital Territory, has declared support for Vice President Yemi Osinbajo ahead of the 2023 presidential election. According to the News Agency of Nigeria, members of the colony, who made their stance known at a pro-Osinbajo rally held at the colony on Tuesday in Abuja, said the Vice President had made huge impact on their lives. The Chairman, Traders Union in the colony, Malam Ibrahim Sagir, told newsmen that members of the colony were excited to endorse Osinbajo as their preferred candidate in the 2023 presidential election. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Diaspora for Asiwaju has refuted social media reports alleging that Tinubu is set to defect to the Social Democratic Party. The News Agency of Nigeria on Tuesday reported that Director-General of the NDA, Dr Akin Badeji, in a statement on Tuesday in Abuja, said the two-term former governor of Lagos State had no such plan. Meanwhile, a commissioner in Osun State, Remi Omowaiye, and a loyalist of Minister of Interior, Wale Alabi, on Tuesday engaged in a war of words over Vice President’s declaration. Omowaiye, who is currently serving as the state Commissioner for Works, in a Facebook post, had said there would not be consensus arrangements in picking APC’s presidential candidate. The message read, “They claim their presidential aspirant is the most popular and most loved, yet they are afraid of direct primary. They are now shouting consensus up and down. If we didn’t use consensus to pick President Buhari in 2015 as APC candidate, we shall not use consensus to pick APC presidential candidate for 2023 polls.” But in another post, Alabi declared that Osinbajo was their presidential candidate and urged their supporters to work without minding claims by those opposed to the project. Alabi, “Now that we have established the sacrosanctity of our candidate’s presidential ambition, let’s continue working without minding the howling of e-criers.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com