The National Coordinator, Media Warriors Forum of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, Mr. Chinedu Obigwe, has denied the allegation that N30m was paid to a member of the party’s National Working Committee. Obigwe said a timely warning was issued to all aspirants of the party to be properly guided and that anybody who did otherwise should blame himself/herself for being foolish. Addressing journalists in Awka on Tuesday, Obigwe stressed that the party was committed towards producing credible candidates for various elective positions in Anambra. He added that the Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, was focused on delivering the dividends of good governance to the people as well as ensuring free and fair primary elections in APGA. He said, “The general public should disregard the claim that a member of APGA National Working Committee collected N30m bribe from an aspirant because it is not true. “This is because the allegation is a fabricated lie. The governor will not tolerate such excuses because he did not tell anybody to secure APGA ticket with a bribe. “APGA is determined to break the jinx of not winning senatorial and the house of representatives elections by clinching the three Senate seats, 11 House of Reps seats, and 30 House of Assembly seats at the next general elections. “This is our target and how to actualise it is what the governor and the party are focused on.” He warned those thinking that they would bribe their ways to obtain APGA tickets in the 2023 general elections to rethink, stating that the allegation that the N30m bribe was a mere campaign of calumny against APGA leaders. “The person who leveled the allegation did not even reveal the identity of the person that collected the N30m bribe and that is to say that he is a big coward. “No refund and resign protest will be tolerated in APGA under Soludo’s watch as party leader because he wants APGA to go to the poll with candidates that are the masses’ choice so that the party will clinch a well-deserved victory in the election,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com