The President of pan-Ijaw socio-cultural organisation, Ijaw National Congress, Prof Benjamin Okaba, has urged the Federal Government to halt the incessant killing and destruction of public infrastructure and communities by bandits and terrorists across the country. Okaba noted that the worsening insecurity had assumed a more frightening proportion with gory tales of violence, killing, abductions and ransacking of villages by dare-devil gunmen recorded every day in several parts of the nation. He stated this in his address as chairman on the occasion of the inaugural edition of the Boyloaf annual lecture, formal launch of the Boyloaf  Foundation and 50th birthday celebration of Ebikabowei Victor-Ben also known as ‘General’ Boyloaf in Yenagoa on Friday. Condemning the acts, the INC chief said, “On a daily basis, Nigerians are hit by reports of killing, kidnapping and violent attacks by bandits and insurgents who invade communities and slaughter hapless people without any form of resistance by security agencies. “The madness is taking a more frightening dimension as these hoodlums have taken over our roads, airports, waterways and railways, making life unbearable for the average Nigerian and movement difficult in most parts of the nation. “The government must, as a matter of urgency, halt the wanton
killing and destruction of property and save the citizens from agony and misery.’’ He reiterated that restructuring remained the panacea to rescue the country from imminent collapse, urging the Federal Government to listen to the clamour from various quarters for restructuring. Okaba also decried the magnitude of oil and gas pollution in the Niger Delta which had destroyed the marine environment and the livelihood of the people, noting that sustainable peace and development in the region could only be anchored on justice, equity and fairness. The Ijaw leader, while congratulating Victor-Ben on his 50th birthday celebration and the formal launch of his foundation, commended him for the active role he played in the Niger Delta struggle for self-determination which resulted in the proclamation of presidential amnesty for the agitators. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com