A rights group in Osun State, Osun Masterminds, on Thursday, warned political actors in the state to jettison any thought of rigging the July 16 governorship election. It, however, said whoever wanted support among the governorship candidates must present to the electorate ideas that would transform Osun into an economically sustainable state. Osun Masterminds made this known in a press statement titled: ‘As we approach the governorship election and other primaries,’ signed by its Executive Director, Dr. Wasiu Oyedokun-Alli, and obtained in Osogbo. The statement read in parts, “By now, we expected that issue-based campaigns would have commenced through the multifarious channels available to candidates and their political parties, but we are concerned that what we have had, instead, is mudslinging, empty rhetoric, emotional manipulation, and bland promises. “We expected, that by now, politics in Osun State and Nigeria would have matured beyond mere theatrics. Governance has evolved way beyond tomfoolery, abusive songs, and theatrical performances in the name of campaigns. “Osun Masterminds also note that in the past, superior rigging mechanisms have been deployed by politicians to counter the rigging they suspect their opponents are perpetrating and we urge present political actors in the state to do away with any thoughts of the rigging of any kind.” On peace and security, OM stated that the activities of some men of the Nigeria Police in the state were inimical to the maintenance of law and ensuring peaceful coexistence. “We are aware of several cases of extra-judicial killing in the state and the seeming inability of the top echelon of the police in Osun to call its errant men to order. “We condemn all of these entirely and demand that if the state government sees that it has become impossible for it to work with the present top echelon of the police in the state, it must as a matter of urgency, request the redeployment of the present Commissioner of Police,” it concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com