GEELY Nigeria, exclusive partner of Mikano International Limited, has unveiled its flagship luxury SUV from the Nigeria lineup, the Geely Azkarra. The launch, which was held in Lagos on Saturday, followed what the company described as a highly successful pre- sale period. The launch event was mapped out to demonstrate the beauty of the Azkarra SUV. Speaking at the official launch of the SUV, the General Manager, Mikano Motors, Ralph Haidar, said that Mikano Motors was committed to offering good value for car purchases currently obtainable in Nigeria. These, according to him, included the five-year/ 150,000 km warranty, mobile workshop, VIP courtesy service, guaranteed resale value, after- prowess, assurance for peace of mind and overall, the best value for auto investment. The event also featured a demonstration of the vehicle by Geely’s Head of Design, ShanghaiGuy Burgoyne, who described the company’s latest product as “sophisticated, practical, intuitive and technically precise.” He said the Azkarra was designed with the car owners in mind, and that “the consumers’ choice of cars is becoming their choice of lifestyle rather than just a tool for transportation.” The performance of the Azkarra’s 48V EMS (Electric Motor Synergy) was described in an explainer video. The footage detailed how, when in certain driving modes, the system could improve the acceleration dynamics of the car, due to additional torque (+50Nm) and also provide up to 15 per cent improved fuel economy. Overall, the EMS of the Geely Azkarra provides the car with a distinctly smooth ride, more power and a substantially improved fuel economy. While officially unveiling the company’s new product, the general manager announced a limited-time launch offer, a starting price of N17.3m, in addition to the additional perks from the presale offer. He said the special limited-time launch offer was meant to celebrate the success of the pre- sale offer, which led to sales of over 100 units of Azkarra within a short period of time. The event was attended by Mikano Motors customers and stakeholders who gave objective appraisals of the Geely Azkarra SUV. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com