The Industrial Training Fund has empowered 100 indigenes of Ogun State with various equipment after three months of training from the National Industrial Skills Development. The beneficiaries of the programme were given start-up equipment and advised to optimize them. The Area Manager of ITF, Funmilayo Coker, disclosed this on Friday during the closing of the training held at the Abeokuta Office. Coker said the skill training which will serve as a means of livelihood will also reduce unemployment, poverty and curb youth restiveness and insecurity, in Ogun State and Nigeria at large. According to her, the training was spread across three senatorial districts, having been trained in catering and event planning and plumbing for three months. She added, “As a result, 100 indigenes of Ogun State would be graduating today.” The Director-General of ITF, Joseph Ari, represented by Director of Research and Curriculum Development, ITF, Jos, Mr Zachariah Piwuna, said the ITF was ready to increase the number of beneficiaries after the incident of COVID-19. He charged stakeholders to support the ITF to ensure more youths are empowered with training and equipment. He said “this year, Nigeria’s population, which is 200 million, has been projected to hit about 400 million by 2050. “Our population cannot be a disadvantage to us as long as we do what is expected of us as a country.” Also speaking, the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Afolabi Afuape lauded the ITF for its empowerment programme. He pledged the government’s readiness to be part of the activities to emancipate the youth from poverty. He however said “In developed countries, they don’t rely on certificates, they rely on what you know. There is no way we can reduce unemployment without engaging in small trading.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com