Ahead of the 2023 general elections, two lawmakers in the Anambra State House of Assembly, have announced their defection from the All Progressives Congress to the Peoples Democratic Party. The lawmakers, Mr Douglas Egbuna, representing Onitsha North I Constituency and Mr John Nwokoye representing Awka North Constituency, announced their defection at the plenary in Awka, on Tuesday. Egbuna, a deputy minority whip of the House, who used to be a member of the PDP before his defection to the APC and back to the PDP said, “I am pleased to announce my defection from the APC back to the PDP over reasons best known to me.” Also speaking, Nwokoye said, “I want to also officially announce my defection to the PDP for personal reasons. I am no longer a member of APGA neither am I a member of the APC.” The Minority Leader, Mr Onyebuchi Offor, representing Ekwusigo Constituency, welcomed the lawmakers to the PDP and commended them for their decision. Offor said, “I thank you for making the decision to join our accommodating party. We welcome you into our midst as members of the PDP in the House of Assembly,” he said. Also at the plenary, the House confirmed the last commissioner-nominee from the state governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, after adopting the report of the House Committee on screening, headed by Dr Pascal Agbodike. The Speaker of the House, Mr Uche Okafor. said the commissioner-nominee confirmed by the Assembly was Mr Sylvester Ezeokenwa who would be in charge of the ministry of special duties. The confirmation of the nominee took place through a voice vote conducted during plenary. Soludo had in a letter dated April 6, submitted the last name of the commissioner-nominee to the Assembly for confirmation, which increased the number of commissioners to 21. The House adjourned to April 26. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com