Organisers of the FESTAC Africa 2022 have said the event will boost trade and showcase the richness of African cultures. A statement titled, ‘Africa’s biggest event loading’, said it would be held in Zanzibar from May 22nd to 29th 2022. It read, “FESTAC Africa 2022, Zanzibar, to be held from  May 22nd -29th, 2002, ushers new dawn for Africa as we celebrate Africa’s biggest festival in arts, culture, heritage, music, literature, writing, poetry and story-telling. It also aims at promoting hospitality, travel & tourism business, and encourage talent discovery. “It has the ultimate effort to promote intra-Africa trade, business and investment across the continent; and of course get to explore Zanzibar and grab some fun. “This is not just an event but a power-packed festival aimed to showcase and celebrate Africa’s richness in culture.” The statement also assured interested visitors and tourists of easy access to getting visas for the festival, adding that there was a partnership with Sterling Bank, Nigeria, to grant travel loans. “Worried if you may get a visa to the festival, that is long sorted and anyone travelling for the festival will get visa access to all events subject to booking in time. 80 per cent of exhibition stands are booked, so hurry now. Come support proudly made in Africa and enjoy the best of Africa’s heritage in Zanzibar. “Activities and other attractions include three days of business conferences, five days of exhibition of proudly made-in-Africa products, seven nights of music, celebrations, talent discovery, hip-pop street battle, traditional Swahili music, acrobatics, dancing, and much more. “We are expecting 5,000 visitors, there will be golf, three days of a food festival, Swahili cuisine luxury experiences. We invite you to come to swim with the dolphins and explore Zanzibar to discover the beauty of Africa. “If you want to travel and you do not have the funds to do so, Sterling Bank Nigeria is giving tourism travel loans making it easier for everyone to travel. Just pay with Specta” The statement also listed some online links, “If you wish to know more, contact, info@inspireafricaconnect.com or book your travel packages with Goge Africa Worldwide Limited, nneka@gogeafrica.tv;  D and P Travels, wonuola.olatundelamidi@dandptravels.com; D and D Travels Nigeria, info@dndtravelsng.com, Angels Style Travel Nigeria, enquiries@angelstyletravelng.com; Tourism Plus Nigeria, tourimplusng@gmail.com; Barclay Travels Limited, Info@barclaytravelslimited.com.”” 