THE alarm on looming massive job losses raised by the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria over the acute shortage of foreign exchange to import critical raw materials and spare parts for machinery paints a frightening picture on the state of the economy. Brutally frank, the Director-General of MAN, Segun Ajayi-Kadir, lamented that the prevailing forex scarcity and the high cost of diesel had greatly increased the cost of production, leaving employers with no choice but to lay off some workers. This should jolt the federal and state governments into emergency mode to rescue the economy. Fierce headwinds are battering Nigeria’s economy, putting its hapless population under massive strain. Without a doubt, the situation is dicey. Unfortunately, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), his team and the 36 state governors have serially failed to arrest the plunge with realistic, creative measures targeted at key sectors. The foreign exchange crisis is one. Forex scarcity has continued to worsen with the naira approaching the N590 to US$1. Financial observers forecast it to depreciate further as politicians flood the market with cash ahead of the 2023 general election. In the past weeks, the naira had exchanged for N585 against the dollar at the parallel market, where about 90 per cent of end users source forex. The naira has been in a free fall since 2015. From N198.9 to $1 in 2018, the naira had fallen to 306.08/$1; and N360/$1 in 2019. Despite stopping the direct sale of forex to Bureaux de Change operators in July 2021 as part of desperate efforts to stop the slide, it had hit N585/$1 at the end of March. Businesses have been badly hit. Racketeering, illegal arbitrage, cronyism and ‘grand corruption’ rule the market where the Central Bank of Nigeria is the major source of forex. Legitimate business operators and financial institutions are acutely short of forex for their customers. It is so bad that some money deposit banks now place a cap of $20 per month for online transactions. Unemployment is 33.3 per cent; it is 53.4 per cent among the youth, says Trading Economics. This is potentially explosive. Frustrated, manufacturers and travellers are forced to patronise the BDC operators to keep the factories and other businesses running. Analysts say the banks are only able to meet about 30 per cent of customers’ demands. The chief operating officer of a manufacturing firm lamented that the company had an invoice of $425,000 to import materials but was allocated only $210 by the CBN! Like others, the firm has to contend with escalating energy costs to power the plants amid power shortages and astronomical pump price of diesel. Buhari and his lacklustre cabinet must snap out of their reverie. Under them, Nigeria is tottering. He and the governors continue to misread the dire situation, perpetually seeing economic adversity solely as a revenue problem. This explains why they borrow so recklessly. Public debt hit N39.55 trillion by December 2021, said the Debt Management Office. Outrageously, the country now spends over 90 per cent of its revenue servicing debts! To lift the economy, it needs to retain and attract investments by improving the operating business environment. In this, Buhari has failed woefully. While it “improved” from 145th in 2019 to 131st in 2020 in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business ranking, evidence on the ground depicts the opposite. Consequently, foreign direct investment has been falling, depriving the economy of the vital push needed to close the infrastructure and jobs gaps. FDI shrank by $1.2 billion in 2019, said UNCTAD, and by 48.9 per cent between 2019 and 2021 according to the National Bureau of Statistics. Apart from the desperate power supply crisis that adds over 40 per cent to operating costs with the recourse to alternative power sources, insecurity has reached the failing state proportions. The tax system is shambolic, public infrastructure is patchy and dilapidated; borrowing rates shut out SMEs and start-ups, mining and agriculture. The non-oil export sector is weak, though rising marginally. Combined, all the categories are still less than 6.0 per cent of total exports, thereby depriving businesses of the much-needed independent foreign exchange sources. Already, the prices of locally manufactured goods have increased astronomically, while quality is dangerously in retreat. Household expenditures on basic items such as food and consumables have risen exponentially without commensurate boost in income. Indeed, Nigerians are groaning but those managing the economy appear confused and uncaring. Quartz Africa put the disastrous situation in perspective, saying the country is virtually earning nothing from crude oil though the price is rising over the Russia-Ukraine war due to massive crude theft. Quartz analysts said the CBN’s forex policies directly facilitate some people “making a fortune from the confusion and arbitrage.” There are signs that things will get worse. The country is in the period of electioneering and politicians will assault the currency by frantically stockpiling dollars to pursue their respective ambitions. No economy can grow under this kind of arrangement. The Buhari regime desperately needs a holistic economic programme. Adoption of strong forex, infrastructure and energy policies enabled Egypt’s manufacturing sector to post seven consecutive years of growth despite strong internal and external adversities. But the Federal Government alone cannot rescue the economy sustainably; the states must have job creation and economic programmes and compete for investments. Local governments too should have similar programmes. The CBN should focus on its core mandate of stabilising the economy by arresting the free fall of the naira. Obviously, its current efforts are not delivering. Therefore, the government and the CBN must harmonise the fiscal and monetary policies to tame inflation, exchange and interest rates. The government can also raise money to finance critical infrastructure by selling non-productive assets. Borrowing to build airport terminals, ports etc that should have been privatised outright or given out as concession to private investors is unwise. It should work towards expanding the tax base and stamping out corruption. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com