The Federal Government, on Thursday, confirmed committing the sum of N5.9 billion on training, tooling and monthly stipends for the Batch C beneficiaries of the N-Power Programme in Kano State. The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disasters Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq made the disclosure at the closing ceremony of not less than 177 youths, who benefited, from the government’s training on Smart Phone Repairs and Services under the N-Skills programme, a component of the N-Power programme in Kano. The Minister, who was represented by the Special Assistant to the President on N-Skills, Dr Nasir Mahmoud, disclosed that about 16,629 youths were currently benefiting from the programme (under Batch C) in the state, noting that about 18,042 had already benefitted in the Batch A and B of the programme. Farouq warned the N-Skills beneficiaries against selling their starter packs, which were handed over to them after the programme, adding that it was well-conceived to rescue them from unemployment and transform them into employers of labour. “We have had such experience in the past, whereby beneficiaries were engaged in selling of the starter packs, which is rather unfortunate. Do not sell them, as they are meant for your judicious use to bail you out of the unemployment circle and transform you to employers of labour.” Also, the minister noted that the N-Skills programme was based on a certification system and accreditation of practical training provided through the informal apprenticeship System, anchored by Master Craft Persons and the formal training system, including using the Community Skills Development Centres in many States. “The programme’s goals, among others are to improve the quality and relevance of skills delivered, using a certification system and to ease the transition of target beneficiaries to full-time skilled employment, self-employment and/or further their education. It targets marginalized and disadvantaged population, including those with primary or no-formal education. “The N-Skills accommodates many skills-based enterprises, Smart Phone Repairs is used to pilot the programme under the N-Power non-graduate component. The programme is designed to train, tool and transition marginalized unemployed youths into the labour market to gainfully be employed. The Ministry collaborated, with technical service providers to provide the N-Skills training services to 6,475 unemployed youths across the Federation. Furthermore, Umar Farouq maintained that with the successful completion of the in-centre training, beneficiaries will be issued a Certificate of Attendance and given a starter pack, ranging from Rework Soldering Station (Soldering Iron), Digital Multimeter, Set of Precision Screwdriver and Repair Tool Kit, as well as a magnifying lamp that would enable them to start the smartphone repairs business, adding that Business Clinics are also being set up in partnership, with States and FCT to provide post-training business start-up and entrepreneurship mentoring and support to the beneficiaries of the programme. “This is consistent with the national aspiration of lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in 10 years,” Commenting on the N-Power programme, Farouq said, “The graduate and non-graduate components of the N-Power programme have been expanded to provide job opportunities for 16,629 unemployed youths in Kano State under Batch C, following the successful exiting of 18,042 youths under Batches A & B.” Jamilu Alkali, who is among the beneficiaries, commended the Federal Government’s gesture, which he said would go a long way to address the upward trend of unemployment, among the youths in Kano. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com