The Enugu State Government has appointed Professor Aloysius-Michaels Nnabugwu Okolie as the new Vice-Chancellor of the Enugu State University of Science and Technology. The appointment was contained in a statement signed by the Secretary to the Enugu State Government, Prof. Uchenna Ortuanya, dated April 4, 2022, but was released to journalists on Tuesday. According to the statement, the appointment takes effect from Monday, April 4, 2022. Okolie, who hails from Awgu town in Agwu Local Government Area of Enugu State, is a Professor of Political Science and International Relations at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka. Until his appointment as the new Vice Chancellor of ESUT, Prof. Okolie, was the Dean, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, and also Chairman, University of Nigeria Nsukka Chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), the statement disclosed. The statement partly read, “Professor Okolie holds a Bachelor of Science degree (B.Sc.) in Political Science/Administrative Studies, a Master of Science (M.Sc.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees in International Relations. “He was a Fulbright Scholar in 2004 at the prestigious American Studies Institute on United States Foreign Policy. He holds a postgraduate Diploma in Management of Higher Education from the Galilee International Management Institute, Israel. “Professor Okolie was also a resource person to the National Defence College, Abuja, on Foreign Policy and National Security Roundtable on Nigeria and her Immediate Neighbours. “Professor Aloysius-Michaels Nnabugwu Okolie has held many leadership positions including: Chairman, Governing Council, Enugu State College of Education, Technical, 2021-date. Vice President (2nd), Social Science Academy of Nigeria, 2021 – date. President, Nigerian Political Science Association (NPSA), 2018 – 2021. Pioneer Director, Joint Universities Preliminary Examinations Board (JUBEB), UNN, 2014 – 2019.” It added, “He is a renowned international Scholar and Researcher with over one hundred and eight (108) publications to his credit. “Professor Okolie belongs to several national and international scholarly and professional Associations and has served in several national and international Committees including: Member, Federal Government Committee on NEEDS Assessment of Nigerian Universities, member Committee on Bilateral Relationship between DAPAD Foundation of Japan and UNN, and member, Visitation Team to Public Universities. “Professor Okolie is a Knight of the Order of St. Mulumba. “He is married with children,” it read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com