THE Lagos State Government in collaboration with Rinllanded Nigeria Limited, has said it is ready to partner with the Kingdom of Netherlands to explore the economic prospects of urban farming in the state. The Chief Executive Officer, RNL, Mr Ahmed Anrinle, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday. Anrinle was quoted to have said this during a tour of Netherlands attended by the state Commissioner for Agriculture, Abisola Olusanya; the Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Sam Egube, and 30 delegates drawn from various state governments across the federation and private companies. He said, “This was designed to explore the economic relations at the governmental level between Nigeria and the Netherland in the domain of international investment and trade. Both countries, including the private companies, agreed on collective actions towards embracing the practice of urban farming on a commercial scale. “It would be recalled that earlier this year, Lagos State and other states in Nigeria had forged collaboration through their Ministries of Agriculture with the government of Netherlands to develop urban farming. “The visit took members of the delegation to various public and private places to gain technological insights regarding horticulture, energy transition, and circular economy and we met relevant stakeholders in these three sectors; to build network and to exchange knowledge.” Olusanya said Nigeria and the Netherlands have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to strengthen the field of agriculture. “Netherlands is the second-largest exporter of agricultural produce in the world and in terms of landmass and size, it shares same with Lagos. It was on record that Netherlands and Nigeria had a long cooperation history and have an important trading and investment partnership,” she said.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com