The Nigeria Employers Consultative Association has again expressed worries over the high unemployment rate under the regime of the President, Major General (retd.) Muhammadu Buhari regime. The NECA President, Taiwo Adeniyi, said the 33 per cent unemployment rate in the country was alarming and that efforts should be made to create platforms for the creation of job opportunities for youths. Adeniyi, who spoke at a one-day job fair in Abuja, on Thursday, said NECA was contributing its quota to addressing the unemployment crisis in the country instead of lamenting the situation. Adeniyi, represented by the Director-General, Federation of Construction Industry, Mrs Olubunmi Adekoje, said to ensure maximum impact, the fair would also be held in Port Harcourt and Enugu. He said, “As you are all aware, the rate of unemployment in our nation has reached an alarming rate with the National Bureau of Statistics affirming a 33 per cent unemployment rate as of Q2.” In his response, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige, said most youths are unemployed because of a lack of functional skills. Ngige, represented by Mrs Tilda Mmegwa, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Job Creation said all stakeholders must be actively involved in preparing the African workforce for the ‘future of work’. According to him, the Nigerian government is conscious of the fact that most of the unemployed are those without functional skills. “Our strategy, therefore, is to equip the unemployed youths with market-driven skills, which will facilitate their access to self or paid employment. “In recognition of this reality, my ministry is keenly committed to equipping unemployed graduates with entry point competencies to make them employable,” he stated. The Country Director, International Labour Organisation, Ms Vanessa Phala, noted that many jobs had been lost due to COVID-19 and that the rate of unemployment had continued to increase.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com