The President, Major General (retd.), Muhammadu Buhari, and the Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, have inaugurated 68 housing units under the National Housing Programme Phase One, in the Uhunmwonde Local Government Area of Edo State. While speaking at the unveiling on Thursday, Obaseki called for increased collaboration between the state and the Federal Government, as well as other stakeholders to address the housing deficit in the nation. He said, “As the National Bureau of Statistics has shown, we have over twenty million housing deficits in Nigeria, which means that very many Nigerians are living without proper shelter. The World Bank recommends at least a million homes annually to bridge this gap. “But due to limited resources and economic challenges, it is difficult for us to attain this goal. It is very important to encourage all partners, particularly the federal government, that collaboration is very key. While we congratulate them and appreciate what they have done, we are saying that the road ahead is very long. “The pace at which we are going is very slow. We need to change the strategy; 65 units of housing after nine years of construction will not solve our problems. We need to do more, and as a state, we are going to collaborate with the federal government to achieve the desired goals. “While considering the gains of this project, it’s pertinent to note and underscore the need to develop other aspects of the housing industry that will help us move at a much faster pace and one of them is mortgages. Unless we introduce a virile, realistic, and affordable mortgage arrangement we will not be able to develop housing as we want to. “For us in Edo, we are very committed to housing projects. As we speak, we have about four projects which we are working on already.” According to Obaseki, the state is ready to work with all partners including the federal government and communities in solving the problem of housing. In his contribution, Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, commended the state government for providing the land and the host community for their cooperation in ensuring the project is completed. He said, “This is a benefit of inter-government collaboration despite the political divide. This is one of the first phases of the several phases of the Federal Government Housing projects since 2016.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com