Recently, a mother got in touch with me, worried about her son who was having a crisis.  I can’t imagine what it must be like for a mother to have a child, two or three or more children who are diagnosed with sickle cell. Such mothers are desperate, especially if they have more than one child living with sickle cell because sometimes, the children could be sick at the same time.  Therefore, it is important to have people that one can rely on around one.  People who can be there for when such a mother is going through a hard time with her child being sick. A mother or a caregiver finds seeing their child having a crisis uniquely tough because a mother would sometimes blame herself for what is happening to her child.  And yet, there is absolutely nothing that a mother can do physically to take the pain away from her child. As we know, food is only one part of the care of looking after someone with sickle cell.  My mother for example studied nursing and midwifery in England but when I was diagnosed with sickle cell, she eventually had to give up working. One might say that it is best for such a mother to have her own business, that way, if her child is sick, then she does not have to give any excuses to a boss or feel constrained regarding what to do or say about not going to work. However, working for yourself has its own disadvantages because if one isn’t producing or selling, then there is no income coming in.  It would be a good thing if there is someone working for this mother.  This means that there is opportunity for income to be made. This mother needs to constantly encourage herself and remember that this too shall pass, hard as it might be currently.  As someone living with sickle cell, as a child, I needed my mother to look after me and she did a great job.  When writing this article, I turned to my mother and asked her how my parents coped when they had me and found out that I had sickle cell.  My mother told me that one learns to get on with it, even though there were things she did to safeguard my well-being. Anyone with sickle cell, must drink plenty of water, at least a minimum of two litres daily.  This enables the red blood cells to not clot or stick together.  When the movement of healthy oxygen rich blood is blocked, this causes the sickle cell crises pain.  But it can also cause damage to major organs in our bodies.  Drinking plenty of water will assist with the blood flow not stopping.  Normal red blood cells live up to 120 but sickled cells only live up to 10 to 20 days.  Can you see there is a big difference and hence the fatigue or tiredness or weakness that people living with sickle cell go through. My mother also said she decided that if there was one thing that she was going to do, it would be to make sure that she gave me nutritious food to eat.  Anyone living with sickle cell must help themselves by eating well and eating themselves to wellness.  I mean eating nuts, fruits, vegetables, whole grains, beans, and protein. It is a must for anyone living with sickle cell to eat fruits and vegetables daily.   They must ensure that they eat carbohydrates. I mean potatoes, yam, rice, plantain, bread, beans, pasta etc.  Remember to take dairy products, for example milk or yoghurt.  Eat protein in the likes of beans, pulses, fish and seafood, pork, eggs, peas, meat, pumpkin seeds, peanuts and turkey, etc.  Try not to eat too much oil.   Do eat food high in fibre, (garri, yam flour).  Make sure the number of vegetables on your plate is more than the carbohydrate or food rich in fibre on your plate.   Foods rich in fiber are corn, beans, potatoes, plantain, banana, rice, cassava, pineapple oats, vegetables, fruits, nuts, wheat bread, leafy greens, carrots, cucumber, apple, watermelon and yam, etc. Yet, sickle cell is finance intensive, particularly in countries where healthcare is not free.  This is the reason why to act like the good Samaritan is a great thing to do for us all.  If you know someone with a child or children who has/have sickle cell, try and befriend such a mother or family.  Ask how you can be of help.  Sometimes the help we need to give is right under our noses. To help means to assist; how can you assist someone that you know is struggling.  To help means to show acts of kindness.  Helping can take different forms for a family with sickle cell.  It could be sitting with the child while the mother goes to work.  It could be helping the mother to go to the market or supermarket and paying for the shopping. Kindness could be topping up the mother’s phone with credit.   I believe that there is always something that the helper can give or do, and it does not have to be money.  Helping is sharing in someone’s burden. The mother might want to express how she feels.  One can help by being with the mother when she is in hospital with her child. I remember some decades ago, I used to do voluntary work.  I volunteered my time at a prison, at a hospital radio, at a telephone helpline for relationship matters, another helpline for parenting issues.   Once I finished my shift, I always felt fulfilled.  I was able to give my time and this in return made me feel good that I was doing something worthwhile.  It also boosted my sense of self-worth.  It helped keep my pain in perspective.  I had a community of people around me, those of us, who were helping together.  I had a sense of purpose that I also needed to give back.  I became less self-absorbed about my issues. I salute every woman out there who is a mother and has a child or children living with sickle cell.  You are doing a great job and even if your children don’t tell you, I am sure they appreciate you. If you would like to get in touch with me about this article or about sickle cell, do so, via email: t.dehinde@yahoo.com.  Please note, there is a change to my blog name, it is now www.dailylivingwithsicklecell.com.   The e-copy of my book on sickle cell – How To Live With Sickle Cell is available for purchase on www.toladehinde.com and if you want to purchase a paperback version, it is available on Amazon.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com