A recent World Health Organisation analysis warned that one in 10 children and teenagers will be obese by December 2023 in 10 high-burden African countries if no robust measures are taken to curb the increasing incidence of the health condition. In this report, some children living with obesity lamented that the health condition is making life tough for them, noting that they are troubled by their inability to engage in some physical tasks like their peers. They also bemoaned their obesity-related health issues and the daily mockery they endure due to their weight. ANGELA ONWUZOO reports Living with obesity has been quite challenging for a 13-year-old Daniel Akpan and his parents. Daniel, an indigene of Akwa Ibom State, said the excruciating pain he daily experienced on his knees and waist had been making life difficult for him. The JSS 3 student, said despite his young age, he could barely walk a long distance let alone run due to his weight, unlike his peers who were doing such with ease. Besides the physical pain, the young boy said his condition was also bringing him psychological pain due to stigma which he lamented was making life unbearable for him. Daniel decried the ridicule and mockery he had to go through daily in the hands of neighbours, friends, family members, and classmates who made fun of him for being obese. Sharing his frustration with PUNCH Healthwise, Daniel who is the only son of his parents said, “Since primary school, I have been having pains in my legs due to my weight. My weight is too heavy for my legs to carry and because of that walking, most times becomes a difficult task for me. Constant leg and waist pain “I always experience pain in my waist and knees. There was even a time in my primary school when I stopped going to school because of my weight. I am not happy with my size at all. It is denying me a lot of things and comfort. “I can’t eat some of the things my sister and friends are eating; I can’t run; I can’t walk a long distance and if I try to do that, it will be as if I want to faint. “The chocolates, sweets and biscuits that my mates consume, I can’t consume them because my mother said they will make me add more weight. “I am given small portions of food, especially wheat all the time. Yet, I am still fat despite all those restrictions. I feel bad each time I am unable to do what my peers are doing nor eat what they eat. “And I was told that if my weight remains like this, I may have a heart problem. The whole thing is making me sad.” I stopped going to government school because of stigma Continuing, Daniel said, “Now, apart from the health problems, the ridicule and mockery that I face daily over my weight is too much. “Sometimes, I feel like not going to school nor interacting with anybody because of the way people look at me. I can’t walk on the street freely without people calling me all sorts of names. “If I am walking on the street or going to school, people will call me ‘Orobo, fatty bum bum. In the compound where we live, if I should come out to play, people will be calling me names and will also be touching me anyhow. “Some will say I have a big breast, tummy, and buttocks like a woman.” Daniel, looking sad, said some people even accused him of being responsible for his problem by eating too much. “Some people will call me a glutton. I was attending a government school before but because of the way they mock me and call me ‘Orobokibo’, my parents had to withdraw me from the school and put me in a private school. “The mockery is still there in private school but it’s not like what I experienced when I was attending the government school,” he recounted. I am not happy with my looks On measures taken to help himself apart from the small portion of food given to him by his mother, Daniel said, “I am doing exercise to see if I can change how I look but I am not seeing any improvement. I want my weight to go down. I am not happy with how I look. Daniel’s mother, Mrs. Margret Akpan, who gave insight into the plight of her son, told our correspondent that her son was quite small when she gave birth to him on October 14, 2009. My son became obese after recovering from an illness The 41-year-old mother said Daniel became obese at the age of two after recovering from illness. She narrated, “When I gave birth to him in 2009, he was not fat. He weighed 2.5kg at birth. Around a year and six months, he became sick and was given treatment. “In 2011, after he recovered from that illness, he started gaining weight rapidly and when it was becoming too much, I took him to the private hospital where he was treated. “Getting there, the doctor referred us to Massey Street Children’s Hospital, Lagos Island. At Massey, we were asked to carry out certain tests after which one of the results showed he had high cholesterol. “So, he continued to gain weight to the point that he now developed bowlegs because his legs could no longer carry his weight. The weight began to cause him serious pain in his legs. So, I started giving him Lipton tea, grape water, and lime to see if he would shed weight. “In 2018, the pain in his legs became worse as he could no longer walk again because of his weight. “So, I took him to Massey hospital again. When I got there, they referred us to the Lagos University Teaching Hospital. “It was at LUTH that he was diagnosed with obesity in 2018 after several tests were carried out on him. “So, they asked me to bring him to LUTH every Friday for an exercise, but I was not able to do so because of my work.” The businesswoman stated that her efforts to help her son to lose weight had not been successful. “He is still obese despite all we have done. You can see his size. I told him to exercise at home but he refused. He is always complaining of tiredness and he eats a lot. If I give him a small portion of food, he will go back and take more. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com