A meeting of Ndieze Igbo in Diaspora and Igbo Delegate Assembly has reportedly resolved to support the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, for the 2023 presidential race. According to a statement on Saturday from Ngige Media Office titled, ‘2023: Igbos in 19 Northern states endorse Ngige for president,’ the IDA asked the minister to stop his consultations and join the race for the country’s top political office. The IDA is one of several political groups canvassing support for various politicians jostling for the nation’s top job ahead of the 2023 elections. The President-General of IDA, Chief Chi Nwogu, who reportedly announced the resolution, after a meeting on Saturday, said Ngige by his antecedents, had proved his mettle in leadership and if Nigerians decided to seek for an Igboman to lead the country, he should be the one. Nwogu said Igbos were tired of playing second fiddle in Nigerian politics and wished to produce the successor to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). He said, “We want to produce the President of Nigeria in 2023. We don’t want Vice President. Please Ngige, you have done enough consultations. Don’t consult again. Join the presidential race. “We know your antecedents from the periods you served as governor of Anambra State and Senator of the  Federal Republic of Nigeria. You have been in the labour room for the past seven years as the Minister of Labour and Employment, attending to all the labour disputes brought to your table. Please, join the presidential race. We will support you. We will follow you to Aso Rock.” Speaking in a similar vein, the Eze-Ndigbo Bauchi, Igwe Jude Umezika, described Ngige as “a unifier and bridge-builder who would unify Nigeria and safeguard the lives and property of the Igbos and other Nigerians wherever they live in the country.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com