The Lagos State Police Command has arrested a 30-year-old man, Uchenna Daniels, over the kidnap of a girl, Hannatu Kabri. PUNCH Metro gathered that Daniels abducted the victim in Kaduna and fled to Lagos, where he was arrested. The state Police Public Relations Officer, SP Benjamin Hundeyin, during a parade at the command headquarters, Ikeja, said the suspect was tracked and arrested at Allen Avenue, Ikeja. “The suspect revealed that the victim’s boyfriend, one Ahmed, and one Biliya, planned the kidnap with him and collected a ransom of N2m in Kaduna through a Bureau de Change from the parents of the victim before she was released on March 28, 2022. “He added that they made use of a toy gun to commit the crime. Investigation is ongoing to arrest other fleeing suspects,” he added. The police also paraded a pastor, Elijah Emenandu, of the Chapel of Revelation Ministry, Ajegunle, for allegedly defiling three children for eight months. The police spokesman vowed that the suspect would be made to face the full wrath of the law. The police command also paraded a father, Benedict Ahieze, for allegedly killing his one-month-old baby, Onyiyechi, at their residence in the Idimu area of the state. The PPRO said, “The victim was killed by Benedict Anieze, who in a drunken state smashed her (Onyinyechi) head on the floor after a quarrel with his wife. The suspect will soon be charged to court.” Three other suspects were also paraded for allegedly killing three people in separate incidents in the Bariga and Agege areas of Lagos State. Hundeyin said two men, Obiora Igboagu and Pedro Akinbiyi, were at the Exclusive Mansion Hotel when an argument ensued between them. The argument was said to have degenerated into a fight and in the process, Igboagu allegedly used a stone to hit Akinbiyi’s head, which led to his death. Another suspect, Tijani Abubakar, was alleged to have stabbed a 25-year-old man to death during a scuffle in the Agege area on March 18, 2022.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com