Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, on Friday, paid a condolence visit to the royal family, members of the Oyo Mesi, and other traditional chiefs over the death of Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi. The PUNCH reports that the monarch died in the late hours of last Friday. He was 83 years old. Addressing the royal families and other dignitaries on Friday during his condolence visit, the vice president said that he would miss times spent debating national and international issues with the late monarch. This was contained in a statement by Osinbajo’s spokesman, Laolu Akande, where he shared the excerpts of the vice president’s speech during the visit. The speech read, “I bring you the condolences of our President, President Muhammadu Buhari, and also from the Federal Government. Kabiyesi was in the mould of a philosopher king. “He understood the place of the correct representation of the history, heritage and political economy of a people in imbuing self-worth and self-esteem in the people and by such means, the building of a proud and patriotic people. “In his writings and speeches, he argued vigorously that the Oyo system of governance and especially the relationship between the Alaafin and the Oyo Mesi was a precursor to the concepts of the rule of law and separation of powers made popular by Dicey and Montesquieu. “I will miss the times I spent with him in Ibadan and Abuja debating sundry national and international issues. I have always come away with the impression that the monarchy may have hidden away one of the best minds of this generation. But his books and articles at least help us to get a second-hand feel of his remarkable intellect and erudition. “My sincere condolences to the Royal family, the Governor and the people of Oyo State, and all of us who mourn his passing. May his memory remain blessed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com