A former Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has urged Muslim faithful and non-Muslims alike to renew and strengthen their faith and trust in God. Tinubu, an All Progressives Congress Presidential hopeful, made the call in a statement signed by his media aide, Mr. Tunde Rahman, on Saturday in Lagos. He congratulated the Muslim faithfuls in Nigeria and around the world on the commencement and observation of the holy month of Ramadan. He urged them to pray fervently during the holy month to overcome and defeat the challenges which now confront the nation. “We beseech Almighty Allah to grant Nigeria special favor such that we become the just, prosperous, and harmonious society He intends for us to be. “That each of us in our own humble way contributes to the wellbeing of those around us, give succor to people we find in need and study more how to solve problems instead of creating them,” he said Tinubu noted that ‘Ramadan is a most sacred and special time.’ According to him, this blessed month asks of us certain sacrifices and these sacrifices are rich in significance and meaning; they are intended to increase our bond with Allah and our awareness of our fellow man. “As we abstain from food, drink and other material pleasures from dawn to dusk as Ramadan enjoins us to do, let us keep in the forefront of our minds that Ramadan also asks of us to show greater compassion, empathy and understanding, and enlightenment in how we treat and relate to one another. “Ramadan asks of all of us to embrace acts of kindness, love our neighbors and reach out to the poor, needy and unfortunate among us. “Our nation is one gifted by Allah with bountiful resources and a good and decent people. Yet, we also face serious and dangerous challenges because of a small few who know not the way of truth, love, and goodness. “These people have given themselves over to that which is bad and destructive. We shall not be made despondent by the wrongs these people do,” Tinubu said. Tinubu, therefore, called on Muslim faithfuls to pray that Munificent Allah answers the prayers of His faithful as the ultimate reward for their sacrifices this holy month. He prayed Nigeria to see the peace and prosperity that would be fashioned by the kind hand of the Almighty Himself. NAN