Following the Super Eagles failed bid to qualify for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, the country’s football faithful are divided over the national team’s next head coach, The PUNCH reports. The Nigeria Football Federation has begun moves to hire a new coach after it tasked its Technical and Development Sub-Committee to begin the search for a gaffer for the national team. Austin Eguavoen and his technical crew were relieved of their positions after the Eagles were beaten by Ghana in the play-off to Qatar, and thus failed to qualify for the world’s biggest football showpiece. While no name has been mentioned as a possible candidate, there were reports that former Eagles coach Sunday Oliseh is in the running for the position, while Eguavoen on Monday also stated that he would love to return to the coaching position in the future. But fans aired different opinions on their choices of coaches for the Eagles, with some insisting on the NFF hiring a local coach, while others backed a foreigner for the job. Yusuf Ganiu has the opinion that Nigeria’s football governing body should go for an indigenous coach. “… An indigenous coach would understand the pain and emotion of the citizens and will not toy with us. For me, I think I will prefer a local coach,” Yusuf Ganiu said. Peter Dibịa added, “Super Eagles need Emmanuel Amuneke.” Afam Udeozo, who also shared Dibia’s opinion, stated, “It is an indigenous coach for me, please. Both Ghana and Senegal have indigenous coaches, and the North Africans usually employ indigenous coaches. It’s time Nigeria looked inwards.” Mujahideen Mmabdullahijnr added, “A good indigenous coach, someone that has Nigeria at heart, someone that can coach even without being paid, a patriotic Nigerian.” A Twitter The real spencer is among several others who preferred a foreign coach for the Eagles job. “A foreign coach is fine, but must be knowledgeable enough to coach a team and identify new players home and abroad. A Brazilian or Dutch coach may be a good idea,” The real spencer said. “Foreign coach to help us organize the talent of our boys, the indigenous coach doesn’t have that pedigree,” The Mayor Of Warri added. Hiboi sarcastically stated, “Except they are bringing (Stephen) Keshi, we do need a foreign coach, Rohr was not doing badly.” Copyright PUNCH. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com