Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Friday, said his administration would continue to work with security formations in the state for Lagos to remain the most peaceful, safe, secure and enterprising for the citizens and foreigners. Sanwo-Olu gave the assurance  when the General Officer Commanding GOC), 81 Division of Nigerian Army, Major General Umar Musa; Air Officer Commanding (AOC) Logistics Command of the Nigerian Air Force, Air Vice Marshal Hassan Abubakar and the Commander, NNS Beecroft of Nigeria Navy, Commodore AM Haruna, led some military officers on a courtesy call to him at the Lagos House Marina, on Friday. This was contained in a statement by Sanwo-Olu’s spokesman, Gboyega Akosile, titled, ‘We’ll continue to ensure Lagos remain most peaceful, secure state in Nigeria, Says Sanwo-Olu’. He charged the military officers to sustain and improve the existing collaboration between the government and all the various security formations in the state. Sanwo-Olu added that the military officers owe it as a duty to the country to continue to raise the level of security assurance that currently exists in Lagos. “As a government in the last three years, we have been receiving tremendous cooperation from the men and officers of the Nigerian Army Forces – Nigerian Army, Nigerian Air Force and Nigerian Navy. “As a government, we will continue to ensure that we raise the bar of governance so that our people can receive the real dividends of democracy, which is the improvement of the livelihood of our citizens. And in doing that, the safety and security of lives and property are critical and germane because it is only in a safe and secured environment that businesses can thrive; people will sleep with two eyes closed and go about their businesses lawfully. “We want to ask that the existing collaboration that we currently enjoy between the government and all of the various security formations in the state is sustained and where necessary, improved upon. Once we do that, we will be able to ensure that the commercial nerve centre of our country is kept safe and secure. We owe it as a duty to our nation to continue to raise the level of security assurance that is in Lagos. “For us, as civilians, we will ensure that democracy thrives, lives and alive. We will continue to ensure that we bring to the barest minimum things that can bring about a civil disturbance. The expectation of our citizens is not lost on us and we know what we are meant to be doing. We will do what we can do to ensure that Lagos continues to remain safe, peaceful and enterprising to our citizens and foreigners.” In his remarks, Major-General Musa said members of military officers in the state are working behind the scenes to make sure Lagos becomes the most peaceful and secure state in the country. He said: “Our responsibility in Lagos State is to ensure Lagos is peaceful. I want to assure the people of Lagos State that we will ensure peace in the State. Lagos is going to be the most peaceful state in the whole 36 states of the federation. “We will not allow the survival of the fittest in Lagos State. We will ensure everybody gets his best and ensure that bad eggs in Lagos State are fished out and the law-abiding citizens will continue to carry out their duties responsibly.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com