De9jaspirit Talent Hunt Season 2 is set to kickstart in grand style amidst the long awaited expectation and anxiety of aspiring contestants, fans and viewers. The season 1 of the show is attested by viewers to be one of the most unique of its kind, featuring all kinds of talent and people from the nooks and crannies of Nigeria. The show, being one of Africa’s most decorated talent hunts is nothing short of excellence in the way it is being garnished to output an entertainment revolution never before experienced in the years past, the show shall welcome interested registrations from all over the nation irrespective of ethnic group, religion, descent or state. The previously held season 1 supervised over 15,000 registrations. However, in the forthcoming season 2, the numbers may even triple. The show shall feature youths with talents ranging from magic, contortion, dance, comedy, spray painting, poetry, singing, breakdancing, ball dance,Acting, and many of such exciting and intriguing talent displays. 50 contestants will be selected from thousands of registrations and through auditioning and this 50 will birth a winner who will be accorded 7 million Naira cash including a +5 day trip to Dubai and Kenya while the first runner-up will bag 3 million Naira cash and second runner-up, 2 million Naira cash prize. The talent hunt will have on its judge row, one of the most exquisite icons in the Nigerian Entertainment Industry. The judges include Liquorose (Afije, Rosaline Omokhoa), first runner-up, Big Brother Naija Season 6 (Shine Ya Eye) 2021, video vixen, choreographer and dance craft lady. The talent hunt will have on its judge row, one of the most exquisite icons in the Nigerian Entertainment Industry. The judges include Liquorose (Afije, Rosaline Omokhoa), first runner-up, Big Brother Naija Season 6 (Shine Ya Eye) 2021, video vixen, choreographer and dance craft lady. IK Ogbonna (Ikechukwu Mitchel Ogbonna), a Nigerian film and television actor, model, director and TV personality; Dr. Sid (Sidney Onoriode Esiri), award winning singer and songwriter, Dentist, stage performer, philanthropist and many more. Ini Edo (Iniobong Edo Ekim) who holds the record of having being one of the most decorated Nigerian actresses in Nollywood. The judges have pledged to contribute in making the show an unforgettable experience and to discharge their abilities in the direction of fairness, impartiality and transparency. To crown it all, De9jaspirit Talent Hunt will be hosted by none other than the entertainment luminary, V.J Adams known formally as Adams Ibrahim Adebola who came to limelight after he contested for 2008 edition of Next Movie Star. He is a video jockey, television presenter, entrepreneur, musician cum executive producer with associated acts with Iceprince, Chidinma, Sound Sultan, Oritse Femi and Reminisce. As the flames of De9jaspirit Talent Hunt is about to light up, Nigerians should be prepared for the biggest and most diverse talent hunts ever known and expect not just the best but the very best. Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/de9jaspirittalenthunt/ Facebook: https://web.facebook.com/de9jaspirittalenthunt/ Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/c/De9jaSpiritTalentHunt/ Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/dthngr Website: https://www.dth.ng/ DE9JASPIRIT TALENT HUNT – EXPRESSING THE TRUE 9JA SPIRIT.