The Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, says state governors are not oblivious of the economic challenges facing Nigerians. Fayemi said their role as governors was to cooperate with the Federal Government to ensure citizens enjoyed dividends of democracy. He lamented the efforts of those he described as criminals for attempting to frustrate the government and sabotage oil production. The NGF chairman spoke on Wednesday during his working visit to Gombe State. He was received at the Government House by Governor Muhammadu Yahaya. Speaking on the role of governors in stabilising the economy, Fayemi said their role was to support the President while describing the moment of the country’s existence as challenging times. Fayemi said, “Support him (President) to overcome these challenging times. There are both internal and external challenges, internal in how the volume of our oil production has gone down due to some deliberate attempt on the part of criminals to frustrate the national efforts in ensuring that we maximise production when the price of oil is very attractive internationally. We have not been able to take advantage due to the limited production. “On the other hand, the war in Ukraine has affected food prices because we get some of the food items, particularly wheat, from Ukraine. So, the production of bread and other staple foods have suffered tremendously, and inflation has affected things. “The President is working on all forces while we as governors have to collaborate with him to improve the economy because things are not easy for ordinary Nigerians. All of us are feeling the pains of the moment. We owe it a duty to meet the demand of our office, which is security and welfare.” Fayemi, commenting on speculations that he may declare for the post of President for the 2023 elections, stressed that the moment is a spiritual season. “For us, in Christendom, this is the period of Lent, and for people of the Muslim faith, this is Ramadan. Very rarely do the two come together. This is a period that requires sober reflection. The period is of deep thinking and should not be a period of political declaration. Whether I’m going to run or not is a matter of conjecture. What I will appeal to you to do is to wait until after this spiritual season. I think it will be disrespectful to start playing those politics,” Fayemi added. On his part, Governor Yahaya lauded the efforts of the NGF chairman, adding that Gombe state has become a home to people from neighbouring states. He stated that his administration had provided succour to displaced persons by making the state conducive. Yahaya said, “As at the last count, about 75,000 families are settled in Gombe. I don’t think if an opportunity comes, they will still think of going back.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com