The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, has called for unity among the Yorubas, saying that religious practice should not affect cultural sustainability. Ogunwusi made the call when the Olomu of Omu-Aran, Oba AbdulRaheem Adeoti, led other chiefs to visit him at his palace in Ile-Ife on Wednesday. Ooni praised Olomu for his exemplary leadership style over the years on the throne of his forefathers which had brought more development to the town and its environs. Receiving the Olomu, alongside his queen, Agboluwaje Adeoti, chiefs, and other dignitaries from Omu-Aran, Ooni admonished that Africans and indeed, Nigerians, should not dispose of their cultural heritage on the basis of conflict with religion. The traditional ruler said that there were differences between religion and culture, which must be carefully studied and practiced with one not encroaching on the other. He commended the Olomu and his team for visiting their source, saying he was aware of their rich cultural heritage, but with caution not to throw them away for civilisation or religion. The Ooni said that Oba Adeoti portrayed the real virtues of Oduduwa, adding that their visit would bring development and sustainability to their hometown. Ogunwusi pledged his support to the Olomu to ensure the establishment and completion of the University of Omu-Aran. Earlier, the Olomu had described Ooni as a wonderful father whose leadership style remained immeasurable. He said that history had it that his forefathers left the Cradle of Yorubas about 600 years ago to fend for their kingdom and none of the ‘Oonis’ had visited them at home (Omu-Aran) except, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II. The Olomu said, “I decided to come here to have a feel of home and I am convinced that this is my home and my root. “I am happy and excited to tap from the grace endowed on your Royal Majesty and I pray that this shall be the beginning of good things and a cordial relationship between us.” The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the highlight of the event was the performance by palace cultural dancers, and drummers, among others. NAN