Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has faulted the anti-corruption fight of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), following the state pardon granted to a former Governor of Plateau, Joshua Dariye, and his Taraba State counterpart, Jolly Nyame, who were convicted for corruption. This is he also asked the President to disband the Economic and Financial Crime Commission and the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission since their efforts were coming to naught after painstakingly working to nab corrupt officials who were later being granted a presidential pardon. Wike, according to a statement by his Special Assistant, Media, Kelvin Ebiri, spoke while addressing the Peoples Democratic Party delegates in Kano State on Monday as part of his ongoing consultation ahead of the party’s presidential primary. He said: “This is the same government that complained against the judiciary that it is not fighting against corruption. Now, look at what the judges have passed through; sleepless nights from the FCT High Court to the Court of Appeal to the Supreme Court, everything is wasted. “If President Muhammadu Buhari knows that he doesn’t want to fight corruption, then, he should disband EFCC and ICPC because he has thoroughly embarrassed them. “So, all these things he (Buhari) is doing is because of the election coming soon. They want this person in Plateau State to help them and they want this person in Taraba State to help them. But it will not work because Wike will face them in that election.” On why he did not attend the Council of State meeting where the pardon was approved, Wike clarified that he boycotted the meeting to avoid being “ambushed” because the agenda of the meeting was not disclosed. He said: “So, when his (Buhari) pressman (Garba Shehu) said I was invited to the Council of State, is it because I’m not there, that is why they did what they did? “If you wanted me to contribute, you would have sent me the agenda. Then, I would have known what I’m coming to do in the meeting. It’s not when you don’t send me the agenda, I come, then you boxed us in, ambushed us, then you said I attended the meeting where they approved it. I will not attend such a meeting.” He added, “When they said my deputy attended and when they looked back they could not see my deputy again. Why would you see her? “When she had seen what was there, she had to switch off because she knew it was a wayo. That is what this APC government is known for.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com