An Abuja-based human rights lawyer, Pelumi Olajengbesi, has slammed the Director-General of the Department of State Services, Yusuf Bichi, for incompetence and failure to expose some deadly attacks in the country before they were launched. The lawyer said Bichi and his secret police were grossly incompetent as they failed to uncover plots by terrorists to bomb a Kaduna-Abuja train with hundreds of passengers in March 2022. Olajengbesi said Bichi, who has been the DSS director-general since September 2018, should be sacked forthwith for his repeated failures to uncover dastard attacks by terrorists overrunning Nigeria, especially the North-East, the North-West and the North Central. The secret police had on Tuesday claimed criminal elements were plotting “return the country to the pre-2015 era reminiscent IED attacks” on relaxation centres, after the Muslim festive celebrations next week. Reacting, Olajengbesi, in a chat with our correspondent, slammed Bichi, saying, “A DSS DG who could not uncover and stop the burglary of the home of the Chief of Staff to the President, Ibrahim Gambari, last year is incompetent. “A DSS DG who could not uncover the terrorist attacks in Kaduna State and prevent the unprintable horrors on trains, airports and others is incompetent. “A DSS DG who fails to provide intelligence and alerts on the operations of kidnappers and bandits is a gross failure. “A DSS DG who attacks self-determination agitators, kill them, and incarcerates them while Islamic cleric, Sheikh Gumi, is left to roam around and hobnob freely with murderous bandits without ever arresting or questioning him is a blatant failure. “A DSS DG who persecuted former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Obadiah Mailafia, until his death, just because of his outspokenness and exposure of the moneybags of terrorists is a blatant failure. “A DSS DG under whom scores of atrocious human rights violations and abuses were committed should be ashamed and stop grandstanding. “The DSS DG should resign immediately or be sacked forthwith. He has failed Nigerians and should leave and apologise to the whole nation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com