The All Progressives Congress is in the eye of the storm for selling its presidential nomination and expression of interest forms for N100m. ADELANI ADEPEGBA and LEKE BAIYEWU examine the implication of this on democracy and the anti-corruption drive of the regime of the President, Maj Gen Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) Not a few Nigerians were shocked by the huge fees announced for the nomination forms into various elective positions by the ruling All Progressives Congress during its National Executive Committee meeting attended by the President Maj. Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (retd), in Abuja on Wednesday. At the meeting, the party pegged its presidential nomination and expression of interest forms at N100m; governorship forms at N50m; Senate, N20m; House of Representatives, N10m; and state House of Assembly forms, N2m. The NEC also disclosed that the party would hold its presidential primary election between Monday, May 30, and Wednesday, June 1, 2022. But the prohibitive costs left most aspirants and their supporters tongue-tied. More surprising was the President’s silent acquiescence. Those expecting a protest from him on the high nomination costs might have been disappointed, but political watchers maintained that Buhari hardly complained about things that did not affect his wellbeing or interests. His tacit support for the APC’s decision, they said, also exposed his lack of interest in the party’s future after he leaves office in 2023. The APC National Publicity Secretary, Mr Felix Morka, told journalists that female aspirants and persons with disabilities would be given the nomination forms free of charge, while youths under 40 years would get the expression of interest forms at 50 per cent discount. On the other hand, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party announced N40m for the presidential forms; N21m for governorship; N3.5m for Senate; N2.5m for Reps and N600,000 for state assembly aspirants.  While the amounts announced by the PDP were perceived to be fairer, the consensus among Nigerians is that the monetisation of the political process under the Buhari regime poses an obstacle to participatory democracy. With this development, many believe the nation’s democracy may have been hijacked by moneybags, whose sources of wealth cannot pass the scrutiny of anti-graft agencies. While citizens were trying to make sense of the APC’s decision, the Director-General of the Tinubu Support Organisation, Aminu Suleiman, signed a N100m cheque to purchase the nomination and expression of interest forms for the former Lagos State governor. Political analysts note that in more civilised countries, Suleiman would have come under investigation for tax purposes and to ensure that he was not involved in money laundering. The Federal Inland Revenue Service and the anti-graft agencies are probably waiting for a presidential directive before doing their jobs. Nigerians recall how Buhari once lamented the N27.5m nomination form while he was a struggling aspirant in 2014. Speaking against the fee ahead of the 2015 elections, which brought him to power, he had said, ‘‘In 2014, when the nomination fee was N27.5m, Buhari lamented, saying “I felt heavily sorry for myself because I don’t want to go and ask somebody to pay for my nomination form, because I always try to pay myself; at least, for the nomination. “N27mn is a big sum. Thankfully, I have a personal relationship with the manager of my bank in Kaduna and early this morning, I put in an early call (and) I told him that very soon the forms are coming. So, whether I am on red, or green or even black; please honour it, otherwise I may lose the nomination.’’ Eight years after his famous lamentation, his party raised the stake much higher beyond the reach of most aspirants. Critics pointed out that the President’s silence in the face of the party’s decision was a betrayal of the people’s trust and an endorsement of political corruption. They also alluded to the recent state pardon granted to former governors of Plateau and Taraba states, Senator Joshua Dariye and Jolly Nyame, respectively by the National Council of State led by the President. Dariye and Nyame were convicted and jailed by Justice Adebukola Banjoko of the Federal Capital Territory High Court in 2018 for stealing N1.16bn and N1.6bn, respectively. Nigerians argued that their pardon signalled the death of the anti-graft campaign of the Buhari-led regime. In addition to the high nomination cost, the decision of the National Assembly to raise the election expenses by about 500 per cent, especially for the presidential election, in the amended Electoral Act, 2022, further confirmed fears that the elite might have appropriated the political process to the exclusion of the masses. The lawmakers had fixed the N5bn limit for the presidential campaign as against the earlier N1bn under the 2010 Electoral Act, as amended. Similarly, the Act stipulates N1bn expenses for the governorship; N100m and N70m for the Senate and House of Representatives membership, respectively; N30m, state House of Assembly membership; chairmanship of a local government area or area council, N30m; and councillorship, N5m. How the Independent National Electoral Commission intends to track the expenses or enforce the spending limits remains to be seen. Human rights lawyer, Mike Ozekhome, SAN, said the APC and Buhari had simply corrupted the nation’s democracy by pegging the presidential nomination and expression of interest forms at N100m, wondering how the likes of  Vice-President Yemi Osibanjo; and the Minister of Labour, Chris Ngige, among others, would raise the money for the forms. The lawyer said in a statement, “The party hopes to rake in N1.5bn from the 15 aspirants that have so far declared interest in the presidential race. By this singular act, the APC has shown a shocking insatiable bacchanalian propensity to corrupt democracy and democratic echoes, and also scam the entire country. “The vulgarity of this exercise lies not just in the abominable fees prescribed, but more in the party’s pretentious mantra of fighting corruption, using a well-orchestrated and carefully oiled Hitler’s Goebel propagandist machinery of dubious pedigree.” Comparing the APC’s nomination fees to the PDP’s, Ozekhome stated, “It is more abhorrent when we realise that this is miles apart from the price fixed by the party’s whipping child, the opposition PDP, which has fixed N40m for the expression of interest; and N35m for the nomination form. The N100m is also over 100 per cent of the N40m fixed by the same APC for the 2018 presidential nomination form.” But justifying the charges in an interview with Channels Television, Morka said, “I get that people may have legitimate questions around that. Don’t forget at the same time some of the most special groups of citizens were granted high consideration either in delivering nomination forms to them for free as in the case of women and people living with disabilities.” Dismissing Morka’s arguments, the PDP National Chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, said the high costs cast the ruling party “in the image of rogues and hypocrites.” “It is most insensitive and mind-boggling. All those buying the N100m and N50m nomination forms should be investigated for fraud. Nigerians can all see what the APC is: a fragmented alliance put together to capture power and inflict maximum pain on Nigerians, including their members,” Ayu stated. Analysing the development in the APC, the Co-Convener, Centre for Liberty, Ariyo-Dare Atoye, said, “The fact that President Muhammadu Buhari presided over the meeting where N100m was approved as the cost of nomination and declaration of interest forms for the office of the President in the party is a disservice to our democracy; it is a disservice to our nation and it is a disservice to everything that Muhammadu Buhari represented before he became President.” Atoye described the development as “state capture, a situation where a few members of the ravenous ruling elite want to seize and control power forever’. This, he said, was done by making democracy and political offices beyond the reach of the average Nigerian. While describing some political parties as capitalists, the Chairman, Centre for Anti-corruption and Open Leadership, Debo Adeniran, said he was not surprised by the APC’s decision. The social crusader, however, noted that there were many young Nigerians who could afford the forms. “But then, it is immoral by any standard because the nomination to run the affairs of the government should be something that should be within the reach of an average Nigerian,” Adeniran affirmed. According to the Executive Director, Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, Adetokunbo Mumuni, the development in the APC does not show that Nigeria is serious about the fight against corruption. “If anybody is qualified to contest for the presidency and they have to look for N100m to purchase presidential forms, then we are in serious trouble,” he observed. Political watchers and opinion moulders are concerned that corruption has eaten deep into the fabric of society with the high fees, though the officials remuneration packages for the various offices are not so attractive. For instance, the annualised salary and allowances of the President are N14,058,820, while those of the Vice-President are N12,126,290. President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo had announced their decision to take only 50 per cent of the salaries and allowances approved for them, meaning that they take home N7,029,410 and N6,063,145, respectively. However, most of the allowances and entitlements of the President and his deputy are not monetised but fully provided by the state. For a senator, the salary and allowances add up to N20,669,280 per annum. Those of a member of the House of Representatives add up to N17,271,347.75.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com