The Senate has passed the Nigerian Peace Corps (Establishment) Bill, 2020 and the Nigerian Hunters Council Bill. Passage of the bills followed the consideration and adoption of the reports by the Senate Committee on Interior. Senator Ali Ndume (Borno-South) sponsored the Nigerian Peace Corps (Establishment) Bill, while Senator Biodun Olujimi sponsored the Nigerian Hunters Council of Nigeria (Establishment) Bill, 2020. Presenting the report on Peace Corps on behalf of the Chairman of the committee, Kashim Shettima, Senator Sulieman Umar said the panel consolidated the Nigerian Peace Corps Bill and National Unity Corps Bill into one for “ease of advancing its work.” Umar also said the Nigerian Peace Corps Bill sought to empower, develop and provide gainful employment for the youths, facilitate peace, volunteerism, community services, neighbourhood watch and nation-building. The lawmaker added that the Peace Corps would have the responsibility of training the youths to advance the course of peace-building and conflict transformation through peace education, mediation and conflict resolution among warring groups and communities where there is crisis in Nigeria. He said, “The bill when given legislative support will be of great benefit to the Nigerian youths as many of them will be gainfully employed through the establishment of the Corps.” In his presentation on the Nigerian Hunters Council of Nigeria, Umar said when it is established, it would among other functions, prevent and detect crimes and illegal activities going on in the country’s forests. The lawmaker added that the Council would work with the Police and other security agencies by making available any relevant information on criminals’ encroachment, as well as partner with relevant stakeholders on Community policing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com