A Presidential aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party, Bukola Saraki, has stated that the decisions and recommendations of the Northern Elders on the consensus candidate should be taken in good faith, adding that everyone involved in the process was not forced. Saraki stated this at PDP Secretariat in Minna when he met with the state delegates to seek their support for his aspiration of becoming the PDP presidential flagbearer. He said, “We voluntarily went to our elders’ statesmen to seek their participation. They did not seek or ask that they should be involved in it, and neither were we forced into doing it. We decided on our own to go seek their involvement for a northern consensus candidate. “For the decision, we appreciate our elder statesmen for their role in the process and their patriotism and desire for the unity of the country. To abide by the decision is an individual choice. Everyone has to make his own decision.” The former senate president promised that after he becomes the President of Nigeria, banditry and kidnapping will be a thing of the past, adding that the country is in a state that needs desperate intervention, especially in the areas of insecurity and poverty. The former Senate President stated that when he becomes the President, there would be more women in his cabinet while youths will be made Ministers of State of various ministries. “After I become President, there will be no more banditry and kidnapping in this country. I assure you that I will do more as president. I will include more women in my cabinet and make sure that my cabinet has youths as Ministers of State ” The former Senate President appealed to the members of PDP in Niger state to work towards ensuring that the north-central produces its first President, stressing that it is time for the north-central to have a democratically elected President. “2023 is the time of the north-central. We will make history to have a democratically elected president from the zone. We can fix, rescue and rebuild the country,” Saraki said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com