While his age mates are at school studying, Dosu Joseph Football Academy goalkeeper Toheeb Abdulazeez is helping keep clean sheets in the Ikeja Super League. At just 16, the youngster is already being tipped by his academy owner, Dosu Joseph, as “the future goalkeeper for Nigeria.” Abdulazeez started the last four games for DJFA academy, who sit top of the Ikeja Super League Group B log with 10 points from four games, keeping four clean sheets. His sudden rise to fame at the ongoing ISL has caught the eye, with the 5ft7in shot-stopper hoping to emulate his hero Dosu and his predecessors at the academy. The 48-year-old ex-international won the Nigerian league twice with Julius Berger, while Abdulazeez’s predecessors at DJFA Laide Okanlawon and Kayode Bankole are currently featuring in the Nigerian Professional Football League for Shooting Stars and Remo Stars respectively. Born in Lagos August 25, 2006 the young keeper was scouted from youth side Gafar FC in Agege, Lagos. But he was so big while growing up and his mother would bring his birth certificate along to every game to show opposition teams who thought he was overage. “I didn’t see myself as a goalkeeper at the start of my career despite being taller than my peers when I was growing up,” the shy goalkeeper told PUNCH Sports Extra. “As a 12-year-old back then, I was more of a creative player at the start of my career but there was a game where our goalkeeper was absent from training and I was asked to stand-in for him. I think I did well in that game because I saved some shots and my coach was impressed with my performance. “After that game, I received lots of plaudits and the following session we had, the coach told me to man the other goal again, to my dismay, but he didn’t care about how I felt. I did well again in the session. “I was asked to remain in goal when we played a game against a team in Agege and I saved a penalty. Ever since, I became the team’s first choice, before I joined Gafar FC, where I was spotted by Dosu Joseph. “My mother made sure I was not denied a chance to play with my mates because she always brought along my birth certificate, so that I would be allowed to play with my age mates.” On why he opted to join DJFA academy, Abdulazeez said he believes the switch would enable him to learn more from the Olympic medallist. “Dosu is my idol,” said Abdulazeez. “He teaches me a lot and I want to follow in his footsteps. Everyone would like to have a career like his. He usually tells me to start from small and be consistent.” “My dream is to join a team in the NPFL like Okanlanwon and Bankole did from here, learn more, before going abroad and hopefully someday play for Nigeria.” Atlanta ‘96 goal medallist, Dosu, describes the young keeper as a very calm person with great technical ability. “I’ve known Abdulazeez since I started attending youth games in Agege scouting for players for my team. Then he was still growing and attending classes, but I could sense his talents,” Dosu told PUNCH Sports Extra. “I moved for him because of his goalkeeping talent, calmness and ball distribution techniques; these qualities have helped our team’s attack score crucial goals from fast breaks. He also has a good command of his goal area. “He’s a very calm person, which is technically essential for a goalkeeper.” Does Abdulazeez think he can reach the heights of his idol, Dosu? “I do not know if I’m destined as many say,” he added. “I’ll definitely keep my feet on the ground.” His coach, a former Nigeria youth international, Akeem Ogunlade, believes the 16-year-old is a special breed. He said, “Abdulazeez is exceptionally talented for his age. He has a huge wingspan and is agile for someone of his size. I played abroad and for Nigeria from youth level as well. I haven’t seen a youth goalkeeper like Azeez at the moment. “From an outfield player he has developed the art of becoming a goalkeeper and that makes all the difference. He can pass the ball well out from defence and kick as well. “He is not just talented, he has the right mindset, which will make better than the other goalkeepers. He never gets tired of shouting at his defenders, another good quality a good goalkeeper must possess. “He is highly rated and a model professional. To fill the void left by Bankole says a lot about him, that he is something special. “His weaknesses are crosses and his positioning, he has made mistakes and been inconsistent at times, but we have absolute faith in him.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com