Decentralised Finance (DeFi) is a term used in the world of crypto trading to describe a side of crypto that is geared toward building a new, internet-native financial system, using blockchains to replace traditional intermediaries and trust mechanisms. Plenty of crypto coins are revolutionising the decentralised finance market. Get to know a few! In the Cryptosphere, Decentralised Finance (DeFi) refers to the financial services built on top of blockchain networks without central intermediaries; which means there are Decentralised exchanges (DEXs) and these allow investors to trade with each other directly and independently without a centralised intermediary. By eliminating the need for intermediaries, crypto investors can trade without needing to provide identifying information. Decentralised exchanges are highly attractive and are said to be the major backbone of Decentralised Finance. DeFi provides extensive and independent access to a variety of cryptocurrency tokens and financial services but this can be a broad and overwhelming category for investors. So we narrow this down to platforms that focus on automated market making and decentralised exchange tokens. PancakeSwap is the first and largest crypto DEX protocol built on Binance Smart Chain (BSC). The platform has its native token ($CAKE) was launched in September 2020 and as an exchange for staking tokens in protocol liquidity pools, the investors acquire LP tokens that can be used to farm and earn rewards in ($CAKE). Why are DEXs features beneficial to you as an investor? In DeFi, traders supply liquidity to Decentralised Exchanges (DEXs), these function similarly to traditional exchanges but are not concerned with their weaknesses (i.e. slow transactions, high gas fees, slippage, etc.). As such, the AMM-powered DEX provides effortless token exchange, simpler staking, and easy yield farming! But Pancakeswap is special even compared to other AMMs because it offers low-cost crypto trading, by leveraging the Centralised Decentralised Finance (CeDeFi) infrastructure that underpins BSC and integrates centralised and decentralised architecture; this mixture is great for investors that see the benefits in both sides. PancakeSwap has also launched many other investments, such as a non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace, a lottery system, a prediction market, and Initial Farm Offering (IFO) functionality. The live PancakeSwap price is $8,50 with a 24-hour trading volume of $238.6M. The current market cap of $2.3B and it has a circulating supply of 278.7M CAKE. Uniswap was launched in 2018 and is the first decentralized platform to successfully operate an Automated Market Maker (AMM) system. This system is the underlying protocol that powers all of the platform’s decentralized exchanges (DEXs). As the platform uses Decentralised Finance (DeFi), there is no need to worry about the involvement of third parties. More so, the Uniswap platform is built on the Ethereum blockchain and is then able to benefit from the efficacy of the ERC-20 token standard. Popular for its decentralized trading protocol, it is also known for facilitating the automated trading of decentralized finance (DeFi) tokens. The Uniswap platform has its own native token, the ($UNI) and operates as the governance and utility token of the network. The Uniswap price today is $11,28 with a 24-hour trading volume of $289.8M. With a current market cap of $7.7B, it has a circulating supply of 689.1M UNI coins and a total supply of 1B coins.  Aquasis Protocol (AQS) has come to make a difference in the DeFi side of crypto trading and plans to build stronger relationships between investors and project teams to achieve long-term value and success. How? The Aquasis Portal is a launchpad for decentralised finance projects that highly benefit investors by supplying safe and lossless crypto investments. In this platform, users can make risk-free investments and benefit from zero-fee services. Additionally, $AQS is the native token of Aquasis Protocol and is an ERC-20 token developed on top of the Ethereum blockchain. The price per token for the token sale event is fixed at $0.20. There will be a total of 10 million $AQS tokens will be in circulation at the time of TGE with an initial market cap of $AQS at the listing of $1M. Aquasis Protocol Web Application is a web interface where users can trade and stake $AQS tokens, with little to no effort. Token Holders can also vote on the governance suggestions, propose ideas for the protocol’s growth, and engage within the community.  Click the Links Below for More Information: Enter The Presale:https://presale.aquasis.io/ Website: https://aquasis.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/AQUASISPROTOCOL_OFFICIAL Twitter:https://twitter.com/AquasisProtocol Keywords: DeFi, Decentralised Finance, Aquasis Protocol, AQS, PancakeSwap, CAKE, Uniswap, UNI