Suspected gunmen in military camouflage on Sunday invaded a gathering where people  were doing ‘adashi’ local bam  ( thrift and cooperative) carted away huge amounts of money as well as abducted two officials of the cooperative. The incident, according to sources, happened at Tiine Nune village in Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State. The gunmen were said to have arrived the village on motorcycles from a neighbouring Katsina-Ala Local Government. “The incident happened at about 8am this (Sunday) morning when the gunmen came into the village on motorcycles. “On entering Tiine Nune village, the gunmen were shooting sporadically into the air which made people run and scamper for safety,” a source who identified himself as Ordams said. When contacted, Chairman of Ukum Local Government, Steve Ayua, confirmed the invasion of gunmen but said he could not confirm if the gunmen kidnapped people. Ayua who spoke to our correspondent on the telephone said as of the time he was speaking, two officials of the local bam had not been seen, so also he could not ascertain the amount stolen by the gunmen. He said, “Yes, some people came in from Adako side in Katsina Ala axis to rob local people who were doing adashi. The robbers were in military camouflage and they came and were shooting sporadically to scare everybody and this made people to run away, they carried the money but no one can ascertain how much they carried. “Also, I am not sure whether they took people away or they (people) also ran for their lives. “I cannot confirm to you now that anybody was abducted but the local people gathered and were having their adashi. The people came on motorbikes from Adako side in Katsina Ala LGA. “But the people that are not seen now are two local officials of the adashi. They (people) are not sure whether they ran away or were kidnaped. Police are on it and would be able to confirm if it is actually abduction,” the chairman said. Efforts to get the reaction of the state police command’s spokesperson, Catherine Anene, a Superintendent of Police, were not successful as calls made to her telephone lin rang out and did not respond to messages sent to her phone.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com