Senator representing Imo West and All Progressives Congress presidential aspirant, Rochas Okorocha, has urged delegates to vote wisely during the party’s primary election. Okorocha who admitted that the delegates are under pressure due to the bigwigs contesting the party’s primary urged them not to vote based on sentiments. Okorocha spoke shortly after being presented with the APC presidential nomination form procured for him by the New Nigeria Movement on Friday. He said, “I know you will be under intense pressure brought by religious, ethnic, and political sentiments but one question you must ask yourself is what has been your gain? If you cast your vote by sentiment, don’t blame anyone later”. Okorocha said Nigeria at the moment needs a wealth creator who could identify and stimulate the economic potential of the country and not a manager. He stated that the majority of those in the presidential race are wealth Managers who are not perfectly fit for the task of reengineering the country to work Okorocha promised to create wealth for Nigeria when elected President, adding that Nigeria’s current situation calls for a man with the capacity to engage Nigerian youths and women in the productive sector. He said, “There are so many in the Presidential race, I am not the best aspirant but I am who Nigeria needs to change the ugly narrative. In Nigeria we are going through an abnormal situation, our country is associated with poverty, insecurity, and others, and an ideal person is needed to champion the nation. “Nigeria requires a builder, not a manager. What I see happening is that many managers are aspiring to manage the nation but you must build first bringing the managers. My only agenda is to create wealth for Nigerians” Earlier, the spokesman for the New Nigeria Movement, Prince Ebunola Martins, said the group was propelled to purchase the nomination form for the former Imo governor by the desire to rescue Nigeria. He said Okorocha has the potential to salvage title country, adding that he will not be a tribal candidate but a detribalized Nigerian that will unify the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com