A socio-cultural group in Adamawa State, Hoba Development Association, which has the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, as patron, has re-equipped health centres affected by the recent Boko Haram attacks in Hong Local Government Area of the state. The medical items donated by the Women wing of the HDA are for distribution to all primary health care centres across the seven district areas under Hong Local Government. They are meant to complement the delivery of healthcare in the area following the recent deadly attacks on the council by unknown gunmen suspected to be members of the dreaded Boko Haram sect. The medical items, which include sanitary pads, cord clamp, BP apparatus, bed sheets, maternity kits among other items, were received by, Executive Chairman, Adamawa State Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr Suleiman Bashir. Women leader, HDA, Rejoice Yaduma, said the medical intervention was to re-equip the primary healthcare centres operating in the seven district areas under the council to help bolster health coverage for vulnerable groups following the recent violent attacks affecting operations of some health facilities in the council. President, HDA, Alheri Nyako, said the medical intervention was a donation by the women wing of the association, targeted towards bringing succour to communities in the council. Nyako stated, “When I got elected last year as President of Hoba Development Association, I made it a priority to intensify efforts to unite our people and bring development to them. There’s also the obligation of being our brothers’ keepers when there’s hardship, suffering or calamity, we shouldn’t be seen to just fold our arms. We must do everything possible to make an impact. That is why when bandits ransacked one of our communities in Kwapree, and burnt houses, the survivors were brought to an Internally Displaced Persons camp in Hong. Today, we have come to Hong in the same mandate of making an impact on our own community. But on this particular occasion, it is the women wing of HDA that has embarked on this initiative of health intervention. Because the government alone cannot adequately cater for the health needs of the entire community, there must be community involvement, that’s why the women have decided to intervene.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com