…Nigeria, South Africa, Ghana, others Victor Oscar Company is a leading American multinational plastic packaging production company. It produces mainly Plastic bags and Plastic bottles for Product Packaging. Victor Oscar Company’s most popular product is Ziplock Bags which is also referred to as Ziplock Pouches. The company is considered as one of the world’s best producers of Custom Printed Ziplock Resealable Standup & Flat Pouches. Other products manufactured by the Company are Plastic bottles (PET, HDPE etc) and Cosmetic beauty/skin product packaging containers (cream jars, lotion bottles etc).  With a large production capacity, Victor Oscar Company serves many manufacturers around the world in regions which include North America, South America and Europe. In the company’s latest global expansion move, Africa is the prime target. From the words of the Business Development Manager – Mrs. Francisca, “Africa is a resource-rich continent with a fast-growing economy and we look forward to providing the best plastic packaging solutions for manufacturers in as many African countries as we can”.  Victor Oscar Company has begun operations in three African countries which include Nigeria, South Africa and Ghana with plans to expand into more countries as its expansion move progresses. Property acquisition and development processes are currently going on in each of these three countries (Nigeria, South Africa & Ghana) for Victor Oscar Company’s facilities. More about VICTOR OSCAR COMPANY; Industry – Manufacturing, Plastics, Packaging. Regions – North America, South America, Europe, Africa.  Products – Custom Printed Ziplock Resealable Pouches, Biodegradable Standup Pouches, Aluminium Foil Ziplock Resealable Pouches, Coffee Packaging Gusseted Resealable Ziplock Pouches Bags with Valve, Holographic Ziplock Standup Resealable Pouch Bags, Matte Resealable Ziplock Bags, Generic Plastic Bags, Customized Standup Resealable Ziplock Pouches with window, Generic Ziplock Bags, Generic Standup Pouches, Kraft Resealable Ziplock Pouches Bags, Generic Gusseted Pouches, Back Seal Bags, Plastic Bottles, Cosmetic Containers, Cream Jars, Lotion Bottles, Acrylic Jars, Acrylic Bottles, Shampoo Bottles, Spray Bottles, Washing Liquid Bottles Materials – BOPP, PET, PP, HDPE, VMPET, MOPP, AL, LDPE, CPP, NY, VMCPP Quality – International Standards Production Capacity – 250,000,000 pieces monthly Services – Custom Printing, Custom molds Website – www.victoroscarcompany.com