A political group, Unified Northern Nigeria Youth Forum, has said that only the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Goodwin Emefiele, is capable of winning the presidency for the All Progressives Congress in the 2023 general election. The convener of the group, Mohammed Salisu Danlami, stated this while addressing a news conference in Lokoja. Danlami said that the group had placed all those hustling for the position and had come to the conclusion that, based on antecedents of Emefiele both in the private sector and his exceptional performance at the Apex bank, it was clear that he was the best among them all. “His performance on introducing the anchor borrowers programme, massive investments in agriculture resulting in recently commissioned rice pyramid in Abuja, and saving millions of foreign currency all point to his competence to handle the affairs of the country,” Danlami said He called on the ruling APC to unanimously adopt Godwin Emefiele if truly the party was ready to drag the country out of the economic doldrums. The convener said that the party must put in all efforts to sustain the unity of Nigeria which he said was “not negotiable”. According to him, Nigeria is one today as a result of brotherhood based on the power rotation principle. It is shameful and unpatriotic for anyone from the North to show interest having completed eight years, as power is expected to shift to the South, it’s an attempt to disintegrate Nigerians. He called on all right-thinking Nigerians to support Southerners to become the next president to preserve the unity of Nigeria and maintain our agreed principle of rotating power from one block to the others. “In search for the next president, we must consider somebody who is detribalised and somebody who is not a normal politician.” He added that “among all appointees of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.)’s administration, no one has performed like the CBN governor.” According to him, if Emefiele refuses to heed to our call across the country, there would be voters apathy because we believe that no one else among those hustling for the position is vast enough to take us out of the woods. “Emefiele is the only person qualified to occupy the position. He is highly competent and stands tall among other candidates,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com