Retired Deputy Inspector General of Police, Parry Osayande, on Thursday, said that the 2023 general election would be the right time for Nigerian youths to fully participate to reduce the possibility of rigging. He said this was possible considering that the youths constituted the majority of the voting population. He also backed the call by the northern elders that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) should resign having failed to secure the lives of Nigerians. He equally condemned the recent presidential pardon given to some convicted persons, particularly former governors Joshua Dariye of Plateau State and Jolly Nyame of Taraba state. Speaking to journalists in Benin City, the former chairman of the Police Service Commission said, “All the politicians are jokers and they are taking us for a ride. It is high time the youth used their votes with the improvements made to the new electoral law because by bringing in technology, rigging will not be as easy as it used to be. So this gives the youths a more formidable weapon to use in the new Electoral Act and vote the charlatans out of office. “So, if the government is not sufficiently responsible to come and carry out the functions defined by the constitution, then it has to be voted out.” On the call for Buhari’s resignation, he said, “Somebody is talking about interim government, is there any government here? In any case, why can’t the president resign if he cannot carry out his functions?” Osayande said granting pardon to Joshua Dariye and Jolly Nyame was a criminal conspiracy. He added, “That pardon is absolute rubbish. How can you do a thing like that? Why release somebody who has stolen public funds, which has led to the death of the people. Now that they have been pardoned, what happens?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com