Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, on Tuesday, approved the resignation of seven commissioners in his cabinet, who have tendered their letters of resignation. The PUNCH had reported that governor Ganduje on Saturday night issued an ultimatum to political appointees with the intention to contest in the 2023 general elections, mandating them to submit their resignation on or before April 18, 2022, in line with section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act, as amended 2022. Although, there are insinuations that the governor rejected the resignation of his Chief of Staff, Ali Makoda, Commissioner for Education, Muhammad Sanusi Saidu Kiru, Commissioner for Health, Dr Ibrahim Tsanyawa, and Commissioner for Budget and Planning, Nura Muhammad Dankade. Also, recently, the resignation of the Managing Director, Kano Road Traffic Agency, Baffa Babba Dan’agundi was rejected by the governor in a notification he sent, indicating that he wanted to pursue his political career. A statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Abba Anwar, on Tuesday, listed the commissioners to include: the Commissioner for Agriculture and Natural Resources, Dr Nasir Gawuna; Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Murtala Garo; and the Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Ibrahim Abubakar Karaye. It said others were: the Commissioner for Housing and Transport, Mahmud Muhammad Santsi; the Commissioner for Special Duties, Muntari Ishaq Yakasai; the Commissioner for Rural and Community Development, Musa Kwankwaso; and the Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Kabiru Ado Lakwaya. ‘’The Governor thanks them for their tremendous contributions towards the development of the state and wishes them well in all future endeavours. ”In this respect, the Permanent Secretaries of the affected ministries should take charge immediately. ‘’However, the Chief of Staff and all other Commissioners are directed to continue carrying out their duties in their respective ministries,” the statement said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com