The National Youth Service Corps on Thursday, in Abuja, flagged off the operations of its Radio and Television stations, saying they would complement the mainstream agencies in preserving Nigeria’s unity. The Director-General of the NYSC, Major-General Shuaibu Ibrahim, during the event, said the broadcast stations were not a duplicate or replacement for existing media agencies of the government. A former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon (retd.); Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, and Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Farouk Yahaya, were present at the event While Dare was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, Alhaji Isma’il Abubakar, the COAS was represented by Major-General P. P. Malla. Ibrahim said, “The establishment of NYSC Radio and Television is part of the whole gamut of activities designed to further advance the cause of the Scheme, which today symbolises national unity. “The NYSC is at the forefront of raising a crop of youth entrepreneurs that contribute to the country’s Gross Domestic Products through their exposure to the NYSC Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development training. “While the NYSC Radio broadcasts on Channel 88.3 FM in Abuja, the NYSC Television runs on TStv Channel 365.” He also said the promotion of national ethos as well as value reorientation were the main reasons behind the formation of the media outfit. According to him, the existing media arms of the NYSC were not enough to redirect the mindset of youths towards national integration. He said, “The philosophy behind the establishment of these stations is multifaceted. They will educate and entertain, give the scheme a stronger voice to propagate the programmes and sensitise Nigerians on the policies of government. “In addition, they will promote national unity and ethos, as well as value re-orientation. Thus, they will contribute to redirecting the mindsets of Nigerians, especially the youth, towards things that are noble.” Delivering his keynote address, Gowon said the NYSC was only one of the many solutions instituted by his regime half a century ago to tackle the many socio-political problems facing the country post-Biafra civil war. He said, “We instituted the NYSC because of my love and trust for the young people, especially at that stage of our development (after the civil war). “The scheme has, in almost five decades of its existence, successfully harnessed the potentials of our graduate youths as models for defining patriotism, credible and quality leadership as well as economic regeneration. “So, these media outfits will serve as veritable tools for driving our quest for national unity, cohesion and purposeful development.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com