The Katsina State Chief Judge, Justice Musa Abubakar, has constituted the state Local Government Election Petitions and Appeal Tribunals to hear petitions and appeals arising from last Monday’s local government elections in the state. The election tribunal has 90 days to determine the petitions filed before it while the appeal tribunal has one month to determine the appeals arising from the decision of the tribunal. Chairmen and members of the tribunals will be inaugurated on Wednesday at the High Court of Justice conference hall Katsina by 11:00a.m. The Supervising Judge for the exercise, Justice Abas Abdullahi, disclosed this at a press conference in Katsina on Monday. He said, “Following the conduct of election into local government councils in Katsina State on the April 11, 2022, and according to the powers conferred on the Chief Judge of Katsina State by the provisions of Sections 79, 81(2), 88(1) (2) and (3) of the Local Government Councils Electoral Law 2002, the Chief Judge of Katsina State, Justice Musa Abubakar, has established the Local Government Election Petition and Appeal Tribunals in Katsina State to hear petitions and appeals arising from the conduct of local government councils election in the state. “Three Local Government Election Tribunals are established for each of the three senatorial zones in the state, namely: Katsina Senatorial Zone; Funtua Senatorial Zone, and Daura Senatorial Zone.” Justice Abdullahi further explained that the Local Government Election Tribunals for Katsina and Funtua Senatorial Zone will sit at Katsina while the Local Government Election Tribunal in the other zone will sit at Daura. He clarified that all processes regarding petitions are to be filed at the Secretariat of Local Government Elections Tribunal, Katsina,” for ease of logistics.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com