Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has announced the upgrade of the State College of Education, Ilesa to a full-fledged university. Oyetola made the announcement in Ilesa on Thursday at the inauguration and handing-over of N1bn Ijesaland Geriatric Centre funded by the community to the management of Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital, Ile-Ife. The governor also said the government has engaged a corporate consultant, KPMG, to work out the sustainability plan of the upgrade. He said, “Let me say that, having looked into and examined carefully the request made by prominent sons and daughters of Ijesa Land, and the Owa Obokun Adimula of Ijesaland, Oba Gabriel Aromolaran, government has decided to upgrade the Osun College of Education, Ilesa, to a full-fledged university.” Commenting on the project, Oyetola said the initiative was another testament to the generosity of Ijesa people, adding that the gesture would go a long way to complement his administration’s sustained investment in the health sector. “Considering our nation’s growing aged population and the absence of the requisite medical care for our senior citizens, this project is certainly excellently well-thought-out and has definitely come to fill a much-needed void. “In other words, the Ijesa Geriatric Centre is a welcome development as it brings closer to our people a specialised geriatric care. This is against the background of the truism that being old is not a disease and that senior citizens have a right to medical care as indeed the younger population,” Oyetola concluded. In his remarks, Asiwaju of Ijesaland, Olayinka Fasuyi, who initiated the project, said timely support and donations from the people of Ijesaland assisted in no small measure towards the completion of the hospital. He then commended the unparalleled commitment and dexterity of the Ijesa to their community development which was demonstrated in the Owa palace and hospital project. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com