The Resident Electoral Commissioner in Ekiti State, Dr Adeniran Tella, on Monday, assured stakeholders that the Independent National Electoral Commission was determined and prepared to conduct a credible and acceptable governorship election in the state in June. Tella, who said INEC was set for the election, assured all that the votes of the people would count in the election and Nigerians would witness an improved electoral process leading to the Ekiti State governorship election scheduled for June 18. The REC, who spoke in Ado Ekiti while declaring open a voter education implementation workshop organised for stakeholders ahead of the election by the electoral body, said there would be a level playing ground for the 16 parties participating in the election which would hold in 2,445 polling units in the 16 council areas of the state. According to him, technological innovations in election management as witnessed in the 2021 Anambra governorship election, and the recent area council election in the Federal Capital Territory would be adequately deployed in the Ekiti governorship election to guarantee the integrity of the electoral process. Tella stated, “This engagement is a clear indication of the commission’s resolve to conduct a free, fair, acceptable and inclusive governorship election in Ekiti State on June 18. As the saying goes, he who fails to plan is planning to fail. The commission is developing structures that will support democratic processes for credible elections. “This feat has been achieved in Anambra and the FCT elections. These two elections are better testimonies to the above assertions in line with the recent development in technology imbibed by the commission. “It is also my aim to say that the success in past elections will be surpassed in subsequent elections, including the 2023 elections. We have been experiencing tremendous changes in our people in picking their permanent voter cards. Let me tell you that we are set for the June 18 governorship election.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com