The Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom on Saturday commiserated with the government and people of Oyo State over the transition to the great beyond of the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III. In a condolence message to his Oyo State counterpart, Seyi Makinde, issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Nathaniel Ikyur, the governor described the late Oyo monarch as a courageous king who did everything possible to preserve the culture and tradition of his people. Ortom noted that Oba Adeyemi’s reign witnessed peace and unity of the kingdom, which created the enabling environment for growth and development, not just in Oyo State but also in Nigeria. The governor lamented that the late monarch departed at a time when his wisdom and wealth of experience was needed to navigate through the murky waters of politics and the national insecurity threatening the corporate existence of our dear country, Nigeria. Ortom said, “Oba Adeyemi was a respected royal father who was conscious about the peace and unity of his kingdom and the nation. We shall miss his tutelage and wise counsel.” He however admonished the people of Oyo State to take solace in the fact that the late monarch lived an eventful and accomplished life worthy of emulation. The Governor asked his counterpart in Oyo state to immortalize the Oba in recognition of his sacrifices and contributions to the development of the society. Meanwhile, the Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, also mourned the passing of Alaafin Adeyemi, “a great ruler, who displayed kindness and compassion to his people, espousing the virtues of hard work, diligence and love for humanity.” In a statement on Saturday, Obaseki said, “It is with a heavy heart that I mourn the passing of a revered monarch and an illustrious leader of the Yoruba race, the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III. “Brave and cheerful, Oba Adeyemi embodied the ideals of the Yoruba nation, promoting the rich culture and heritage of the Yorubas and providing wise counsel to those who sought guidance from the throne.” According to him, “During his over 50-year spell on the throne, Oyo witnessed numerous transformations and transitions, but he remained true to his heritage and harped on the need for brotherly love and conscientious living.” “He will be remembered for his kind nature, conviviality, wisdom and love for humanity and living.” Obaseki commiserated with the Government and people of Oyo State, the Oyo Kingdom, family, friends, associates and well-wishers, and prayed that God will grant all the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com