The spokesman for the Indigenous People of Biafra, Emma Powerful, has said the separatist group is not responsible for the violence and criminal activities in the South-East. Powerful claimed that the unrest in the region should be blamed on another group, which he identified as Autopilots. He also maintained that IPOB’s Monday sit-at-home order remained cancelled, adding that anybody still enforcing it was not its member and should be arrested. He said, “We, the Indigenous People of Biafra under the leadership of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, wish to tell Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra State that IPOB is not responsible for the criminality in the South-East, including Anambra State. The governor should know that our enemies are committing atrocities using our name in their desperation to blackmail IPOB. “It is a certain criminal gang called Autopilots that are carrying out threats against people’s lives because of the non-existent Monday sit-at-home. These people disturbing the peace of our people are not IPOB members. They should be treated as criminals. IPOB doesn’t shed blood. We are a peaceful movement. “We wish to reiterate once again that IPOB has cancelled Monday’s sit-at-home order, and anybody or group enforcing the relaxed order is not from IPOB. Any governor in the region who deems it fit to stop the non-existent Monday sit-at-home order in the region is free to do so. Anyone caught adding to the pain of our people in the name of enforcing Monday’s sit-at-home order will be treated like the enemy that he or she is. “We, therefore, warn these agents of darkness using the name of IPOB to enforce a non-existent sit-at-home to desist. “The only day sit-at-home will be observed in Biafraland is when our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, is appearing in court, and we shall, as usual, make it public for all to know.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com