The Peoples Democratic Party in Etikan Ward in the Ilaje Local Government Area of Ondo State has announced the suspension of 13 members for their alleged inability to register as members of the party during the registration exercise. The sanctioned members were also alleged to have been involved in acts of indiscipline and anti-party activities. The action of the party against the errant members was contained in a communique issued after the meeting of the party held on Sunday. The communiqué was signed by 10 PDP leaders in the local government and was made available to our correspondent on Monday.  Some of the leaders who signed the communique include Johnson Ajimajasan, Adeniran Oronla, Okuntade George and Akingboye Are. At the meeting, the leader said the actions of the affected members who defected from the  Zenith Labour Party,  were against the party’s constitution. According to the leaders, the constitution of the PDP said all members of the party must register with the party at their various wards but the former ZLP members only announced their defection at a hotel. The communique read, “ In as much as the party welcomes constructive criticisms, contestations and engagements, we would not condone any form of political indiscipline, rascality and ostentatious display of insubordination.  “ The action of these (sanctioned) members directly contravenes section 58(1)F, items F. H; I and J of the party’s constitution. Consequently, these persons are hereby suspended with immediate effect for anti-party activities and insubordination to constituted authority.” In his reaction, the state Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Kennedy Peretei said, “The matter has not been officially reported to us at the state level, it is at the local government level; even at a ward level and I believe it may even be resolved at that level.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com