AFTER reading Tayo Oke’s column on The PUNCH titled, How Russia undermines International Law (Tuesday, April 19, 20022),  I felt a responsibility to pen my disagreeing position on the subject. I have followed and read his articles for years. His last piece of April 19 compelled me to do a little background check on him. Tayo Oke is a lawyer and a doctor (PhD). He is an old hand at The PUNCH  newspaper. Building his argument solely on the “theoretics” of international law, while neglecting the extra-legal weight of historical and circumstantial facts/evidence, makes his position misleading and lacking in depth. The world continues to watch the gruesome spectacle in Ukraine. What Russia thought would be a quickie is now unravelling as a gruesome marathon with thousands of casualties on both sides. With NATO allies and American military might keeping Ukraine in the fight, there seems to be no end in sight for the continued destruction of Ukraine. Western backing and the good performance of Ukraine has only helped Russia awaken to the threat Ukraine poses to it and strengthened Russia’s deep rooted fears of NATO and America’s liberal imperialist expansionist agenda. Millions of brains, while justifiably fantasising about the ideals of democracy, sovereignty and freedom, are unable to make the slightest intellectual adjustments between theory and practice or idealism and realism. The reality is while Western Europe boasts the finest model of domestic democracy, anyone is disillusioned to think or believe international relations revolve around international law, democracy and its ideals of sovereignty. In the international theatre, the levers of international relations and foreign policy revolve around the pistons of economic and/or military might — “mightocracy” — rather than democracy. In essence, when nations interact, the basis is not altruism or international law but strategic national interests wherein politico-economic and/or military might is the de facto factor. The theoretical ideal is Ukraine, being an independent and sovereign nation, should have the right to belong to any military alliance it desires. However, the geopolitical realities make such an ideal an absurdity. Also, the basis of the Monroe doctrine articulated to the U.S congress on December 2, 1823 is a sensible and logical recognition of spheres of influence. The European powers, according to him, were obligated to respect the Western Hemisphere as the United States’ sphere of interest. The doctrine warned that any colour of intervention by another European power in the domestic affairs of any nation within the Western Hemisphere is considered a direct threat to the United States. Be reminded that the NATO Bucharest summit of 2008 agreed NATO membership for Ukraine and Georgia following President George W Bush’s fierce lobbying. However French, German and a few European leaders firmly opposed the idea. Chancellor Angela Merkel dismissed Ukraine as a “corrupt mess” and warned of dangerously provoking Russia. Again in 2021, against U.S. preference, allied opposition deterred the 2021 NATO summit from approving a MAP ( Membership Action Plan ) for Ukraine. Washington’s obsession with Ukraine flies in the face of geo-logics is a poison for geo-political stability in Eastern Europe. A few more historical reminders are necessary to illuminate the truth about international relations or my coinage, mightocracy. During the 1962 Cuban missile crisis, Cuba, a socialist sovereign state was prevented from hosting Soviet missiles. The U.S enforced a naval blockade of the island and a planned invasion was put in top gear. In the end, diplomacy prevailed between Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev and the American John F. Kennedy. The Soviet Union evacuated its missiles while the U.S reciprocated by removing its Jupiter missiles (which the USSR claimed was a National Security threat to it) in Turkey and Italy. Also be reminded of the failed CIA sponsored 1961 Bay of Pigs Invasion of Cuba and a bizarre 638 assassination attempts on the life of the Cuban President. Beware, the United States, with its NATO bulldog, has been almost everywhere in the world either under the facade of democracy, national security, humanitarian intervention, etc. Many of these military operations did not have the approval of the United Nations. Examples include the 1999 NATO                                                                                                                                      bombing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Iraqi war. Not to mention copious tinkering with the domestic affairs of nations that are deemed anti-West or not pro-West enough. For decades, aside from military operations, whipping up and financing civil unrest to topple foreign governments have become the slickest tool in the American foreign policy toolkit. An aggressive foreign policy agenda, whose goal is to create a unipolar hegemony/a one world order by decimating or weakening other powers, is at the core of America’s Imperial design. After the end of the Cold War, the leaked Wolfowitz Doctrine (authored by then U.S. Under Secretary of Defence) was a revelation of America’s 21st century imperialist agenda and pre-emptive military action to suppress potential rise of other nations to superpower status. Declassified US documents also show the United States to have copiously violated the security guarantees it gave to the Soviet Union. When the Soviets agreed to tear down the Berlin Wall and unify East and West Germany, then U.S. Secretary of State, James Baker’s famous phrase “not one inch eastward” was the assurance about NATO non-expansion to Mikhail Gorbachev and Boris Yeltsin. However, years after, NATO has recklessly driven eastward into Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania, etc. Let us halt historical references for a moment and entertain a common sense hypothesis. China’s economic imperialism, or economic presence depending on your preference, might be tolerated anywhere in the world including its economic presence in (America’s backyard) Canada, Mexico, Cuba. However, how plausible or possible is it for China to have military presence in Mexico, Canada or any geopolitical location considered a Western sphere of influence. It is extremely laughable and absurd to a layman. To a state, it becomes an existential threat. A national threat that surpasses the weight of an encyclopaedia of sanctions. Simply put, when serious states (unlike third world nations who will trade for a pot of porridge) are faced with national security choices versus ephemeral economic decisions, national security comes first. America’s overt and covert aggressive foreign policy agenda aimed at Westernising Ukraine has proven to be a disaster. America shares decades of bilateral economic and military relations with Ukraine which should have been maintained. America’s encouragement of NATO membership for Ukraine caused it (Ukraine) to lose Crimea in 2014 and has now forced the country into what seems to be a proxy war. Ukraine is not of national strategic importance to the U.S. on the same scale as Saudi Arabia, the Persian Gulf, Canada or Mexico. Thus, America’s billions of dollars investment in military equipment in Ukraine is a needless escalation of a war that should have been averted in the first place. NATO already has a heavy presence in Russia’s neighbourhood. Its bloodthirsty desire to be at Russia’s doorstep is needless war mongering which is unhealthy for world peace. This piece is not intended to force the reader too far into the deep addictive waters of history and the “mightocratic” politics of international relations. However, beware, a tiptoe into the arena can engulf you with an insatiable appetite to know more. Such is my story. Unfortunately, the Western media, which billions of innocent people around the world rely on for the purpose of mass education, is a criminal accomplice. The Western media like its peers in other parts of the world is a failure. Its claim to independent journalism is one of the biggest scams of the 21st century. The likes of Dr Tayo Oke, and other respected columnists, like him must beware lest we become innocent pawns on the chessboard of Western liberal imperialism. It is not enough to see, hear or read. We have a responsibility to ponder, a duty process and an obligation for self education. It does not require too much hard work for anyone with the barest minimum of mental capacity to see through the veil of liberal imperialism. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com