Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, on Friday in Oyo State, said serving as acting President in June 2016 and July 2017 has prepared him to run for the country’s highest office. This is as he said Nigeria needs leaders who deeply care about the common man and the progress of the nation. Osinbajo spoke when he paid a courtesy call at the palace of the Olubadan of Ibadan, Dr. Lekan Balogun Ali-Iwo Okunmade II, ahead of his interaction with All Progressives Congress Stakeholders in Oyo State. The Vice President who declared his intention to succeed Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) last week Monday was in the ancient city to continue wide consultations ahead of the APC presidential primary election to hold from May 30 to June 1, 2022. In a statement signed on Friday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, Osinbajo said, “In the seven years that I have been involved, because the President considered it the right thing to do and, in his generosity, and openness, he gave me every opportunity to serve including sensitive international assignments. “As you know, I also acted as President during certain periods when the President was away and everything I learnt as acting President has prepared me to run as President of our country.” In the statement titled ‘We need leaders who deeply care about the common man, says Osinbajo in Ibadan,’ the VP said “God doesn’t make mistakes. God is deliberate in everything He does and by giving me all of these opportunities to understand governance for myself at the highest level of our country, all of it was not just so that I can sit down and write a memoir, no, it was to come handy one day and I believe the time has come. “I believe that the time has come and I have the responsibility to my country, to you, to all our children and the coming generations to give all of what I have learnt, everything I have learnt, all of the services to be able to give it to our country. To serve our country faithfully and honestly is my intention. “One advantage I would have is that on day one, I can hit the ground running because I know what it takes.” While informing his host, the Olubadan of Ibadan, of his intention to run for President, Osinbajo told the monarch that he also came to pay his respect. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com