A governorship aspirant in the 2023 elections in Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Akan Okon, pledged to sustain the food basket status of Ini Local Government Area of the state, and improve infrastructure to enhance food sufficiency. He said his administration would strive to sustain the legacy of the past governors and inject new ideas into the system that would place the state in a better position. The immediate past Commissioner of Economic Development and Ibom Deep Sea Port said this during his consultation visit to the Peoples Democratic Party delegates and stakeholders in the Ini LGA on Tuesday. He reminded the people that the Ini Local Government Area was part of the Eastern Ibibio which was carved out of the former Itu division to become a Local Government Area, noting that over the years, the four Local Government Areas under the Eastern Ibibio extraction have suffered political, social, economic and cultural setbacks. “As a son of the Ini Local Government Area, I know and understand the plights of the people here. I also feel the pains of the entire Local Government. It’s crystal clear that no other person will be able to salvage this situation as an outsider apart from your son, which is myself. “I will sustain the food basket of the Ini LGA, and improve on the existing infrastructure to enhance food sufficiency in the state,” he assured. While assuring the people of the council area of value added leadership, he extended gratitude to Governor Udom Emmanuel for giving him the opportunity to learn the roles of leadership as Commissioner in several ministries. According, “My records are there for every one to see and I have been positioned as the the best man for the governorship position,” Okon boasted Responding, Mr. Emmanuel Umah, the chapter Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in the Ini Local Government Area, expressed satisfaction for the honour bestowed on Ini people by the governorship aspirant and promised that his community would rally support for him. He called on the aspirant to remember the promises he made to the people of Ini if elected governor of the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com