***issues 14-day ultimatum to Methodist Bishop to run for gov A group in Abia State, under the aegis of Cleanse and Clean Abia Group, have demanded an urgent security summit in the South-East to address the continued killings by gunmen across the region. According to them, events in the last few weeks in the South-East and other regions had revealed that Nigeria was at a precipice. They also issued a 14-day notice, within which the Prelate of the Methodist Church, Bishop Sunday Onuoha should declare his intention to run for the governorship. Should he decline after the expiration of the ultimatum, the organisation would be left with no option but to proceed to court to compel him to run for the 2023 Abia State governorship election. The CCAG made its position known in a communique issued to journalists on Friday evening at the end of its meeting. The document was co-signed by Uchenna Emehelu (Convener); Chief Oge Nnatu (Secretary); Dr Chidera Onyenka (Publicity Secretary); Sir Stephen Omile (member); Joy Inyi (Woman Leader), and Paul Kalu (Youth Leader). The organisation emphasized that strange things were happening in the South East region with bloodthirsty maniacs on the rampage, maiming and killing innocent Nigerians. The communique reads, “We unanimously issue, agree and resolve to: commiserate with families who lost their loved ones since the security crisis began in the South-East and pray that God will grant them the fortitude and staying power to bear the irreparable loss. “We call for a security summit in the South-East to address the lingering insecurity and loss of lives in the region.” The CCAG also explained that the meeting was to assess the political and security crisis in the South-East and provide an in-depth analysis of all the aspirants jostling for elective positions in the forthcoming 2023 general election, to support any aspirant who can unify the people as well as propel the region, especially Abia State, to an enviable height. The group said that having examined the qualities of governorship aspirants in Abia State, the meeting observed that a Methodist Bishop, Most Revd Sunday Onuoha, towered above others with his wealth of experience. The organisation said that without sounding immodest, the cleric was the most accommodating, thereby, issuing him a 14-day notice to publicly declare his intention. “At the expiration of the 14 days notice, if Bishop Dr Sunday N. Onuoha has not declared his intention to Ndi Abia, we shall be left with no option than to legally compel Bishop Dr Sunday N. Onuoha to run as aspirant/candidate in the 2023 Abia State Governorship election. “Finally, we call on all political parties to provide a level playing ground for all aspirants and to ensure a free, fair, credible and transparent primary election for all elective positions in Abia State, South-East, and Nigeria as a whole,” the communique added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com