THE vessels and the illegal refineries are very conspicuous and visible to be noticed, yet these illegal operations have been going on without any significant challenge from government or governmental institutions, including security agencies” — Dakuku Peterside, ex-NIMASA boss Although the death toll is still counting, no fewer than 100 people were killed last Friday night after an illegal refinery went up in flames in the Abaezi community in the Ohaji-Egbema Local Government Area of Imo State. Vehicles lined up to load illegally refined petroleum products were all razed. The trees were burnt, the earth scorched and the waters seared. Indeed, the entire Egbema land and its environs are in mourning. We were told by the Imo State Commissioner for Petroleum Resources, Goodluck Opiah, that the state government had declared the owner of the illegal refinery, Okenze Onyenwoke, wanted; he advised the suspect, whom he said was on the run, to surrender himself at the nearest police station. This is funny because by saying this, the government is trying to convince us that these illegal refining operations have been going on without its knowledge. The security operatives are saying this is the first time they are getting to know the alleged suspect. I do not believe the tale. There are many bad things happening to the people of Niger Delta but the accidents at the so-called illegal refineries are blood-curdling because they are avoidable – like the one that happened last year in Rivers State and killed twenty-five people. But this latest disaster has grabbed global attention. Perhaps this unfortunate incident that has spilt Egbema’s blood will galvanise enough action to end the region’s sorrow for good. Not that the government has not made moves to tackle the menace, but they have been going about it the wrong way. They are like the farmer who wants to remove a tree from his farm to make way for food crops and then begins cutting the stem, instead of removing it from the roots. He can only succeed in exerting his strength in vain, wasting his time and blunting his implement; while the roots of the tree still prevent him from farming. It is an effort in futility. For instance, last September, the Federal Government set up an inter-ministerial committee to tackle the illegal refining of crude oil in the Niger Delta. Members of the committee were drawn from the Ministry of Defence, Nigerian Army, Navy, Defence Headquarters, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Environment, Department of Petroleum Resources, and National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency. I did not see the Ministry of Science and Technology and Innovation, Ministry of Labour and Employment, Ministry of Youth Development and National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion. This shows that all that the government is interested in is force. They never thought of the technological aspect of the operation or the human potential that could be harnessed for national development. Furthermore, speaking at the inauguration of the committee, Umar Mohammed, acting Solicitor-General of the Federation who represented the Attorney-General of the Federation, said the mandate of the committee is for “recovery of illegally-refined petroleum products (crude oil) in the dug-up pits found around the creeks of the Niger Delta in line with the policy of the current administration on security and economy, as well as the preservation of the environment from negative hazards… The responsibility of the inter-ministerial committee is to detect, report, evacuate, assess and ensure transparent disposal of the product with due consideration to the environment… It is my hope that the proceeds from this exercise will be a source of additional revenue for the country.” Interestingly, nowhere did I read about human beings. Therefore, the other thing the government is interested in is making money. It only has its eyes on oil wealth and not on human wealth. This is the root of the problem. A government must be anchored on a philosophy, no matter how shallow. Ours is a governmental philosophy lacking in humanity. It is as heartless as it is clueless. The government has not for one moment considered rehabilitating the thousands of young people involved in illegal refineries, most of them geniuses at what they do. In the West, even innovative criminals are not left to rot; the government co-opts them into governance – to redesign their law-enforcement strategies and prepare for emerging criminal trends. Yet, here we have talented young people – many of them unemployed graduates – who have innovated ways of distilling crude oil; who are supported by shady public figures from the shadows; who play the fall guy just to feed their family because their Niger Delta land has been rendered barren by pollution. Indubitably, their know-how is not in the pits and containers that burn; it is in their brain. They know how to refine. Even if the government agents raze the entire region, as long as Nigeria still exports oil, they will find a way to apply their genius. They are more afraid of hunger than they are of the Nigerian military. If the truth must be told, in trying to force them out of illegal refining of crude oil, the government becomes the unwitting ignition for refinery explosions. This is because the operators would be in a hurry to refine and run. The vehicles coming to evacuate illegally refined products would be in a hurry to charge in and bail out. The rural community dwellers would be racing to scoop whatever resources they could find at the sites. In fact, everybody involved would throw caution to the wind, as they apply every trick in the book to outsmart security operatives. Ironically, such a business requires precision, caution and maximum safety. My prayer is that, now they are dead, may their blood speak loud and clear against the government that speaks from both sides of the mouth. May their blood communicate and plead with God for mercy to be granted to the Niger Delta; and for the Nigerian government to seek the face of God while asking the people they swore to protect for forgiveness. May our leaders be washed in the healing fountain of God’s grace. May they repent, and turn a new leaf. With a country that still depends on foreign countries to refine its own crude oil, it is absolutely unjustified to be wantonly destroying supposed illegal refineries. These are mushroom refining industries that could be mainstreamed, upgraded and regulated. It is a crime against Mother Nature to burn them. The pollution from their wanton destruction is more of a threat to society than the crime they are trying to stop. In saner climes, environmental lawyers would take up this matter. Another truth is that the so-called illegal refineries are on the bottom rung of a commercial ladder known as oil bunkering. The term bunkering encompasses all acts involving oil theft, including diversion and smuggling of oil and unauthorised loading of ships. Roughly a quarter of stolen crude oil is sold locally. Illegal artisanal refineries, located in the Delta, “cook” the crude into separate petroleum products. The end product yields 2 per cent petrol, 2 per cent kerosene, and 41 per cent diesel. The remaining 55 per cent of crude goes to waste, most of which is dumped into nearby water or into a shallow pit. I am of the view that the government should concentrate on improving and adopting this technology instead of burning the sites and exacerbating environmental damage in the region. It cannot be stopped because it is such a lucrative business. Everybody’s hand is in the cookie jar. Each refining camp costs only about $4,700 to set up and can make $7,800 a month in profit. The cost of construction is typically no more than 7 per cent of annual profits. The prospects are so tempting that many people are ready to face any risk that might come, including periodic infernos.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com