Imosé Technologies Limited, a mobile technology company, has instituted a technical training academy to train talents in the repair of mobile devices, graphic design, using mobile apps, and product photography. According to the firm, the academy will run a three-month intensive certification programme for individuals between age 18 and 30 in Abuja, Benin City, Ibadan, Lagos, and Port-Harcourt. In a statement, the Executive Director, Imosé Technologies Limited, Taiye Osayi-Izedonmwen, said, “The Imosé Technical Training Academy is a corporate social responsibility initiative of Imosé Technologies Limited, and it is aimed at getting youths engaged and off the streets. “It will be an annual programme and run in partnership with Upskill Learning Centre to change the lives of passionate and interested Nigerian youths. “The Imosé Technical Training Academy is one way the technology company contributes to its host communities while grooming top talent that will deliver quality service and boost customers’ confidence in the company.” The firm added that it would empower beneficiaries with skills in the telecommunications sector. It said, “As part of the company’s objective to have a structured, thorough, and transparent process, the registration process for interested candidates was made open via the Imosé Technologies website and offline across its different service centres. “A series of screening and interviews were conducted to select the first batch of 30 candidates from an applicant pool of over 1000 for the programme, who kicked off their training on Saturday 9 April. All trainees will be compensated at the end of the three-month programme, while the best two performing candidates get instant employment with Imosé Technologies as well as cash prizes.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com