Barely two days after over 70 victims of recent attacks were given a mass burial in Kanam Local Government Area of Plateau State, two more victims of another attack were on Wednesday buried in Jos South Local Government Area of the state The latest attack victims who were buried in in Vom community on Wednesday were killed last week in Rantis community, Barki Ladi LGA, while trying to rebuild their homes after they were displaced from an earlier attack carried out by the terrorists . It was learnt that activities in the council came to a standstill during Wednesday’s burial  as people abandoned their businesses to pay their last respects to the deceased. Most of the residents from various communities who were all dressed in black attire expressed concern about the presence of terrorist groups in the state. Addressing a press conference after the burial, the National President of Berom Youths Moulders Association, Dalyop Mwantiri, lamented the inability of the government to protect the people. He noted that the non-implementation of Anti-Land Grabbing Law in the state is aiding the territorial expansionist appetite of the invaders from within and beyond the state. The youth leader, however, reiterated that the indigenous natives in the state would not cede their lands due to attacks and killings by the terrorists. Mwantiri said, “It is no longer news that over 68 villages and communities in Berom land have been sacked and are currently occupied by Fulani militias with no challenge whatsoever either from the Berom native owners or the government as well as security services in favour of justice, equity and fairness. “Unfortunately, this is now the price that the Berom and other hospitable, accommodating and peace loving natives have been forced to pay for hosting the Fulanis. “To our knowledge, many have been killed, maimed and injured while making self-efforts at rebuilding their homes and livelihoods.” He added, “Finally to the Fulani invaders and land grabbers, we unequivocally declare that no inch of Berom land shall be ceded, no matter the magnitude of terror and killings of our people. The resolve in the land is that, might can never be able to be right, and good shall always prevail over evil.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com