A Professor of Law at Harvard Law School, United States, Matthew Stephenson, has asked journalists not to relent in reporting corruption, saying the continued reportage would help to create awareness among the populace. Speaking during the Virtual Reporting Tour on United States’ Anti-Corruption Efforts, recently organised by the Foreign Press Centres under the US Department of State, he noted that journalists and independent media platforms had played a vital role in the fight against corruption in the US and that journalists across the world should take a cue from it. At the virtual programme, which hosted about 50 journalists from different countries, Stephenson said, “Stories about corruption, especially as it affects everyday people, can help raise the profile of this issue and help people feel more comfortable talking about it. It is especially helpful to raise awareness of the fact that many people oppose corruption and would like to change the system. “Corruption tends to feed on helplessness, and the belief that nothing can be done about it can become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Effective journalism can help not just to inform people, and not just to break down the taboos on discussing the topic, but also to inspire people to work for change.” Also, a Supervisory Special Agent in the International Corruption Unit of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Jeffrey Coleman, noted that journalists working on issues that involve US jurisdiction should reach out to the US embassy in their respective countries. He said the world had become more interconnected than ever, necessitating collaborations to address mutual concerns like corruption. Similarly, the Director for Financial Transparency and Regulatory Policy in the Office of Terrorist Financing and Financial Crimes at the US Department of the Treasury, Young Lee, noted that corruption thrives in systems that allow the rich to hide their income from government authorities and those with opaque real estate market. She called on financial institutions and other private sector organisations to undertake robust due diligence and actively seek to avoid corrupt clients and counterparties to keep the financial systems secure. Others who spoke during the event were the Chief of the International Unit of the Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Section of the US Department of Justice, Mary Butler; Senior Sanctions Coordinator for the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs for the Department of State, Joshua Mater, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com