An All Progressives Congress group, The Progressive Project, on Thursday in Abuja said Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s presidential aspiration wasn’t about personal ambition. Addressing a press conference at the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, the TPP Chairman, Senator Kabiru Gaya, said the presidential race for Osinbajo was about a positive response to popular calls from a citizen-driven mobilisation that began without any input from him or his office. According to Gaya, the group could crowdfund the N100m required to purchase copies of the nomination and expression of interest forms for the VP to support his aspiration. He also added that “moneybags” within or outside the All Progressives Congress will only lose their money if they dare to contest against the people’s will in 2023. Gaya said that neither the APC presidential ticket nor its VP slot had ever been won by throwing money around but by populist endorsement from North and South. The senator said, “Even an internal issue of the price of our party’s nomination form is being deliberately misinterpreted in some circles when we feel confident that unlike moneybags, our truly populist candidate is popular enough to pool supporters’ token donations and raise such money with ease. “Just one youth group with TPP, the Progressive Group alone, say that they can raise N100m with rough voluntary contributions of N10,000 each by 10,000 of their supporters who are keen about seeing a better future. “Our populist Mathematics is flawless and very strong; moneybags within or outside APC will only lose their dollars in any contest against the people’s will. “Unlike the history of some other political parties, records show that neither APC presidential ticket nor its VP slot had ever been won by throwing money around but by populist endorsement from North and South.” The Kano Senator noted that although some groups supporting other candidates have descended into the use of foul language and smear campaigns, the TPP remains committed to Nigeria’s unity and a sane political space. “For us at TPP, the unity of Nigeria as well as the unity of all Progressives remain paramount. We are not unaware that a band of very few pessimists who try to deceive themselves and their sponsors about their lower chances are equally disseminating false narratives in a futile effort to demarket Yemi Osinbajo.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com