THE Financial Services Innovators, a Nigerian non-profit organisation committed to enabling start-ups within the technology and financial space, has reaffirmed its commitment to creating inclusive financial solutions in suburban Nigeria with the announcement of the final round of the ‘IncludeMe’ virtual hackathon competition. This was disclosed by the SMEDAN State Manager, Mr Folorunsho Lukman, at the ongoing virtual Hackathon, which started on the 11th of March with a webinar entitled ‘MSME challenges in northern Nigeria’. Lukman said the event was aimed at engendering inclusive financial solutions for the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises, focusing on the banking and insurance services sectors in Northern Nigeria. While speaking on the innovative Hackathon, the Executive Director, FSI, Aituaz Kola-Oladejo, said, “We are excited to see this virtual hackathon moving ahead to a logical stage since we started. It has proven to be a unique platform for engaging the brain and minds of our various university students left redundant by the lingering ASUU nationwide industrial action. “At FSI, we know that great ideas come from great minds; when tech-enthusiasts come together with a determination to ignite change with their diverse backgrounds and skill levels, the result is better excitingly impressive.” He added that the hackathon was team-based with a minimum of two participants and a maximum of five participants. The teams would develop technological applications to solve real-life problems in suburban communities, he noted. “This particular challenge aims to identify tech talents in Nigerian tertiary institutions. A total number of 77 teams registered for the hackathon with a total number of 209 persons.” “This concluding round which began on the 1st of April with a capacity building programme on Building Minimum Viable Products by Mr Osasenaga Enogieru, the Grants Portfolio Manager of Pledge Inc.15 team with 43 members, are expected to pitch their innovative ideas to a panel of judges on the 12th of April 2022 virtually. “The winner of the challenge will be going home with N1, 500,000, the 1st runner-up, N1, 000,000, the 2nd runner-up, N750, 000 whilst the 4th to 10th place will get a consolation prize of N100, 000 each,” he said. FSI is working closely with other development partners to empower young Nigerian university innovators towards creating a  successful ‘IncludeMe’ virtual hackathon competition designed to create a sustainable digital economy that enables financial inclusion to flourish in our suburban.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com