A section of Nigerian fans of Arsenal have backed the English Premier League side to sign Napoli striker, Victor Osimhen, saying he is the right person to solve their striking problems. Arsenal have been without a proven striker since the departure of former captain Pierre Emerick-Aubameyang to Barcelona in the January transfer window, while Alexandre Lacazette has struggled and Eddie Nketieh does not seem to be on the consistent level needed to contend for domestic and international trophies. The Gunners had been linked with Dusan Vlahovic, who opted to join Juventus instead in January, while they failed to meet the valuation of Real Sociedad striker Alexander Isak. The North London side will be hoping to boost their ranks ahead of the coming season in order to be able to contest for honours and have been linked with Nigerian Osimhen, who has been valued at €100m by Napoli, as well as Manchester City striker Gabriel Jesus, who has not renewed his contract with the Cityzens. Nigerians online called on the club to splash the funds in bringing Osimhen to the Emirates, insisting he can be a valuable asset for them. Jude Chidiebere tweeted, “He (Osimhen) is very good, top finisher and fast-paced. With good midfielders behind him, he’ll bag at least 25 goals a season in EPL. Napoli players are just selfish, with quality midfielders behind him he’ll be named alongside the likes of Kylian Mbappe and Erling Haaland. @ItepuStephan wrote, “Osimhen is like Haaland. He will bang in the goals. The only problem he is having at Napoli is that his teammates are very selfish.” “Osimhen to Arsenal, that sounds very interesting.  However, considering the amount involved, I doubt if Stan Kronke and the board would be ready to approve such an amount on a striker going by their antecedent. Hope this comes to reality.” “God if this Victor Osimhen to Arsenal move should eventually happen, all the big clubs in Europe should better be battle-ready for us next season, we are going all out to win every available tournament and trophies,” Omotayo of Lagos added. Osimhen has scored 16 goals and provided five assists in 28 games across all competitions this season. He’s also been named the Serie A Player of The Month twice this season.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com