In a recent interview on Arise News, the Peoples Democratic Party presidential candidate, Sam Ohuabunwa, eloquently articulated the various problems that beleaguer Nigeria. Though he identified poverty as the overriding problem, two tangential points actually caught my attention the most. One is his suggestion that Nigeria is ripe for a turnaround. The other is his pairing of injustice with perceived injustice. “People have lost hope about their country. So, having lost hope, some out of a feeling of injustice, real or perceived, some out of a lack of economic opportunities, they just feel unhappy about the country. And they take it out on the country,” Ohuabunwa said. “We are saying please do not lose hope. A new Nigeria is about to be birthed…. We are about to recreate a new Nigeria that will be globally competitive.” The reference to hope and perception are especially important because they point to the psychological dimension of the challenges facing Nigeria. As psychologists are wont to say with regard to individuals, how people react to their experience is often more consequential than the experience itself. Hopelessness and despair often lead people to behaviours that only compound their problems. So does perception of injustice beyond its reality. Nigerians need no illustration of what it means to “take it out on the country.” The phrase may well be the most euphemistic way to describe the incessant bloodshed, banditry, kidnappings, and the plethora of frauds that compound the distress of the nation. Collectively, they constitute national self-immolation. On April 17, just two days before I watched Ohuabunwa’s interview on YouTube, The PUNCH carried several stories that exemplify this reality. Two headlines in particular stood out: “Over 90% sponsors of insecurity in Imo claim they’re Christians –Uzodimma” and “Miyetti Allah members now fleeing Nigeria to escape bandits’ attacks, cattle rustling – MACBAN secretary-general, Usman.” “It is truly ironic and disheartening that over 90 per cent of both the actors and sponsors of insecurity in Imo State and, indeed, all over Igboland, claim to be Christians,” Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma was quoted as saying on the occasion of the observance of Easter. “Are these Christians the true followers of Christ? Do they even remember the fifth commandment which says, ‘Thou shalt not kill?’ The answer should be obvious.” Uzodimma underscored his sense of desperation: “In several fora, I have literally gone on my knees to appeal to the sponsors and perpetrators of these senseless killings to sheath their swords and embrace peace and reconciliation irrespective of whatever grudges they may have.” Apparently, his appeal has been to no avail. Up in the North, Ngelzeerma Usman, the Secretary-General of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders’ Association of Nigeria, is just as pained about the mayhem being wreaked on herdsmen by fellow Fulani. The ethnic sameness doesn’t shield herders from the mostly Fulani bandits, Usman told PUNCH reporter Solomon Odeniyi during an interview. “Are our members different from the other public members? Of course, not,” Usman said. “Their cattle are being taken away by bandits on a daily basis; they are being kidnapped and killed by bandits.  It is the same thing that is happening to communities in the North-West and the northeastern part of the country. Our people are not different from other citizens that are coming under attacks by bandits.” When Nigerians think of bloodshed, what typically comes to mind is the killing of one ethnic group by another. It is tragically ironic, of course, that mass killings by herdsmen contributed in no little way for that perception. Still, what Uzodimma and Usman —a governor in the South and a union leader in the North—are saying is that the terror is mostly within. Usman further underscored the vicious circle engendered by banditry. The cattle rustlings and killing of herders in the North is rendering the mostly illiterate young herders jobless and further impoverished. That makes them ready candidates to join the ranks of the bandits, and the circle continues. Furthermore, the crippling of herding in the North causes reduced beef supply nationwide and the reduction causes a spike in the price of Nigerians’ staple meat. That adds to the economic hardship which further intensifies anger and frustration. The home-grown insecurity in the South-East and elsewhere has the same self-reinforcing effect. It would seem then that by analogy to individuals the problems bedeviling Nigeria are part pathological and part psychological. We could say that the pathological aspects are the directly observable and even measurable realities such as violence, banditry, joblessness, inflation, hunger, lack of opportunities, and the like. These contrast with the psychological reaction, that is how people process and react in their minds to these realities. For example, do they see the glass as half full or half empty, do they see opportunities or just obstacles, do they prefer redress or are they bent on vengeance? So far, the vision of a new Nigeria that Ohuawunwa and other visionary candidates are proposing deals with the “pathological” challenges. Alas, the psychological dimension is likely to hinder their efforts. This is not intended as a criticism. More than anything else, the “pathological” problems have to be tackled as is being proposed by candidates such as Peter Obi and Ohuawunwa himself. However, it would be detrimental to disregard the collective psychological scars. When individuals are treated for life-threatening problems such as COVID and cancer, they are commonly encouraged to follow through with psychological therapy. One doesn’t have to be a psychologist to know that the national psyche is currently a mix of anger, paranoia, delusion, particular and generalised anxiety, and sadomasochism. Quite a bit of the killings seems to have no purpose other than the satisfaction of the killers and their sponsors. So, it would seem that Nigeria as a country needs therapy. For individuals, the principles are well established. How such would work in the context of a nation is something to ponder. Perhaps, it is worth looking at the precepts of the practice as applied to individuals. A recent description by Maggie Mulqueen, a Massachusetts-based practising psychologist, suggests some possibilities. “Mental health is best served when therapy is not merely a confessional but helps people realise change in their lives,” Mulqueen wrote in an essay for NBCOnline’s “Think” feature. “Such change comes about when therapists use their expertise to promote self-awareness in patients, which the patients can then act on.” Self-awareness, in other words, brings about a keener understanding of what it takes to reach a desired goal, and how certain thought processes and behaviours may be subverting that goal. For purposes of transforming Nigeria, is the creation of such an awareness possible in the context of the national psyche? Is it possible to thus reorient Nigerians enmasse toward the requisite mindset for the establishment of the New Nigeria? Might this be a challenge to political, civic and business leaders? Might religious leaders of all faiths commit to it? Might the horde of social media warriors accept the challenge and tone down the unsettling posts, especially the hoaxes? If the elections of 2023 are to transform Nigeria, there have to be changes beyond Aso Rock, the National Assembly and the state capitals. As we would say, e no easy-o. But hope dey. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com