The Nigerian Air Force has constituted a panel to probe the training aircraft that crashed on Tuesday. The board was set up to determine the main cause of the crash. The PUNCH reported that no fewer than two pilots died after aircraft belonging to the Nigerian Air Force crashed in Kaduna on Tuesday evening. In a statement on Wednesday by the Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet said the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, promised to ensure a painstaking investigation into the incident. He quoted Amao to have stated this when he visited Kaduna earlier today to commiserate with families, friends, and colleagues of the two pilots, Flight Lieutenant Abubakar Muhammed Alkali and Flight Lieutenant Elijah Haruna Karatu, who lost their lives in the tragic accident. The statement read, “The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, has stated that the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) will ensure it thoroughly investigates the cause of the Super Mushshak trainer aircraft crash that occurred yesterday, April 19, 2022, at NAF Base, Kaduna. “Air Marshal Amao had constituted an Accident Investigation Board upon receiving the sad news of the crash yesterday, to determine the immediate and remote causes of the crash. “While at Kaduna earlier today, he assured the officers, airmen, and airwomen of 401 Flying Training School that all measures will be emplaced to avert similar occurrence in the future. “He also reminded them of the need to remain steadfast and focused on their assigned roles and responsibilities in view of the onerous task before the NAF and other security agencies to rid the Northwest and indeed the entire Nation of all criminal elements. “The unfortunate incident of yesterday’s trainer aircraft crash is yet again a tragic reminder of the perilous nature of the military flying profession as well as the risks NAF pilots continually take, daily, to secure Nigeria’s territorial integrity. Kindly bring this information to the awareness of the general public.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com