BLESSING AFOLABI writes about women delivered of their babies by traditional birth attendants and their penchant for the methods adopted The baby of a new mum, Mrs Taiwo Ali, looked innocently as her mother was handed some dried plants by a traditional birth attendant identified only as Mummy Samuel. The woman also gave her instructions on how to prepare and administer the herbs after cooking. She told our correspondent that such herbs were for new mums after suna (Christening) to prepare agbo (herbal concoctions) for the babies and themselves. Ali, who came to an herbal home located in Iwaya, Yaba, Lagos, to buy the herbs for her baby, told Sunday PUNCH that the herbs would wash away dirt inside the baby’s body to achieve healthy looks in less than 41 days. According to her, her experience shows that the herbs flush out diseases such as malaria, typhoid, jaundice accompanying pregnancy and childbirth. She, however, stated that while drugs have prescriptions, agbo doesn’t. Ali added, “But one can drink as much herbs as we want because there is no fear of taking an overdose. The excess always goes out with urine. We come to the home once every week for lectures and check-ups. It was through the clinic lectures that I learnt a lot about childbirth. There, we go for scans, our blood pressure is checked and we also pray. If I had my baby in a hospital, I could be operated on because it took me hours to labour before I had my baby. Also, some women don’t like drugs so we take herbal concoctions to stay healthy as the food we eat these days are composed of chemicals.’’ TBAs amid related maternal mortality statistics A mother and resident of Ogun State, Mrs Yemisi Olajide, said that she would still use TBAs if she got pregnant again She said, “If I get pregnant again, I will still use a TBA. The delays we suffer at primary health centres are usually frustrating. The healthcare attendants there take their time before attending to us. One of my nieces had complications after birth, her baby did not cry after several stimulations because she was not attended to on time. She started having contractions by 7am on the day but the nurses said she had yet to dilate. By 10pm, when she gave birth, the baby didn’t cry. She was already weak, including the baby. I know that several factors may be responsible but some actions can trigger such a situation too.” She narrated that the baby had to be taken to the Intensive Care Unit and given several infusions and medications to survive. A midwife based in Ilorin, Kwara State, Mrs Shakirat Ajiboye, shared her experience with a TBA. She noted that the TBAs use both spiritual and herbal methods, stating that her experience with them propelled her to utilise their services. She narrated the case of a friend who she said was transferred from a hospital to a TBA. Ajiboye said, “She was referred for a surgical operation because the baby was not in the right position. The TBA used rain water to rub the pregnant woman’s stomach and gave her soap to bathe with. Almost immediately after the shower, the baby turned to the right position, she gave birth and she has since been going to a TBA for child delivery.’’ It was learnt that before the advent of conventional medicine, traditional birth attendants have been in existence, offering assistance to pregnant women through herbal and spiritual solutions. History documents that traditional midwifery is an inherited occupation for untrained individuals who believe in facilitating natural childbirth. With the poor economic situation in the country, over 10 per cent of the population live in poverty and some women use the services of TBAs. Most of the practitioners believe it is an inherited practice and they must continue on the path. However, others use them because Primary Health Centres do not deliver quality services. The rate of maternal mortality in Nigeria poses a great concern as Nigeria accounts for nearly 20 per cent of all global maternal deaths. WHO states that Nigeria still maintains a high maternal mortality ratio of about 545 deaths per 100,000 live births this serves as a threat to the attainment of Millennium development Goal 5 of reducing maternal mortality by 75 per cent by 2030. It is reported that 12 per cent of stillbirths globally occur in Nigeria and as stated by UNICEF, 50 per cent of these stillbirths occur during intrapartum and delivery period. The WHO noted that in most developed countries, more than 90 per cent of all births benefit from the presence of a trained midwife, doctor or nurse. However, fewer than half of all births in developing and underdeveloped nations are assisted by such skilled health personnel. Primary health care services in recent times have aimed at forestalling maternal mortality rate but the ease of access to these facilities in rural areas is far-fetched. Many women grumble about the accessibility of adequate care from health workers and cost of services and this made them patronise TBAs, traditional healers and prayer houses believed to give adequate care and cheaper services, though unprofessionally. Midwives believe in facilitating natural childbirth as much as possible, which is one of the major factors preventing women from utilising primary health care services. Meanwhile, access to skilled health care accounts for a reduction in maternal mortality and morbidity. Last year, as the cholera epidemic in Nigeria affected nearly 100,000 persons and killed over 3,000 due to poor hygiene practices, lack of water facilities and inadequate medical intervention, 918 primary health care centres in 32 states remained closed. The situation worsened the plight of the poor who use the facilities. “Why we patronise TBAs” Olajide said that she patronised TBAs because of their concern and care to ensure pregnant women gave birth through vaginal delivery. She said, “The health centre attendants are not willing to assist us to give birth naturally and most times we are booked for caesarean section especially if the baby is big. Also, if one’s items are not complete when one gets to the health centres, even if one is already contracting, they will not attend to one. I prefer to use traditional birth homes because they put more effort in care, assistance and prayers to ensure we give birth successfully. Most times we are given water, prayer oils, herbs and eko (pap) to drink during pregnancy and labour to facilitate childbirth.’’ She also noted that they used pad/cotton wool soaked in alum water to close up the vagina to return to its original size. “Every woman chooses where she wants to give birth to her children due to family background, culture and beliefs. Some cases are spiritual as some children are special and must be born in a particular traditional or prayer home so medical practitioners may not be able to handle it,” she added. On her part, Ali said that she was delivered of a son in one of the homes, adding that the child was doing well. Pointing at the three-year-old playing in the vicinity, she added that both hospitals and TBAs were good but she preferred the latter. Ali added, “The health care givers, especially those in general hospitals, do not want to stress themselves. Most times they advise women to opt for CS. Unlike the hospitals, we are assisted by the TBAs to give birth with ease and moreover our parents used herbal medicine for treating any ailments before the discovery of orthodox medicine.” The difference we make, say TBAs Speaking with Sunday PUNCH, a Lagos-based local birth attendant, Alhaja Ramota Osho, said that she got into the business through her grandfather who was a TBA. She said she was trained by other TBAs, served in a general hospital in Lagos and also at the Lagos State Traditional Medicine Board, Onikan, where she obtained a certificate. She said as soon as a woman gets pregnant, she registers her with the birth home to take care of her from the beginning of the pregnancy until after delivery. She said, “We will check if she has enough blood and if her blood is compatible with the child, she will undergo scans to know the position and state of the baby. If the scan reveals any form of complications, then she has to be referred to a hospital either private or general depending on their choices.’’ Osho said apart from ensuring safe delivery of pregnant women, they also prepare agbo for those with infertility issues to aid conception and give soap and agbo to those with breech presentation for the babies to return to normal position before delivery. She added that those scared of giving birth were often given ose aweju (soap) to bathe to make them strong and fit for delivery. She claimed that whenever they saw signs of danger such as a woman with swollen legs (oedema) or high blood pressure, they were referred without delay to hospitals because they cannot proffer solutions to such an issue. On how she cares for pregnant women, another TBA earlier identified only as Mummy Samuel, said the women must register, attend weekly clinics, run tests and scans and drink herbs as required. She added, “They are given aseje (traditional soup concoction) and agbo when the baby is not in the right position although sometimes they give birth to the baby that way. In cases where the baby doesn’t return to normal position and the woman in labour is weak, they are referred to the hospital.’’ She further stated that they must come along with their cards on the delivery day, noting that when any form of complications such as cervical tear was noticed, they would be referred to a hospital immediately. The woman added, “For bleeding cases, we have herbs we administer to tackle it. Like health care centres, we give them a list of items to come along with. But if it is incomplete, we still attend to them because some people are only managing to survive. Sometimes, I have to buy some of the items they need for delivery myself and give to them when they go to a hospital.” Another TBA who spoke on condition of anonymity spoke about how she administered care to pregnant women. She noted that as done in hospitals, pregnant women have to register with a card and have appointment days. She said, “Every morning, they will come to drink agbo. We give some of them rings to put on their left hand till the day of delivery. On the day of delivery, they have special clothes they wear and they drink water inside an ikoko (pot) called omi aremo (water for safe delivery).’’ NGO, experts wade in Reports have shown that some communities in Nigeria still lack access to PHC. In view of this, some experts believe that TBAs are assisting, considering the country’s inadequate modern healthcare and contributing to the reduction of maternal mortality. In an article in Asian Pacific Family Medicine Journal, a health expert, Decio Sarmento, noted that the strategy to overcome the shortage of qualified medical practitioners was to utilise community health workers such as the TBAs. Also, Executive Director, HACEY Health Initiative, an NGO which launched the ‘Project Agbebi’ aimed at reducing maternal mortality Rhoda Robinson, said their drive to enhance TBA services was a result of understanding the impediments that could affect mothers and their children under five in attaining their full potential. She noted that TBAs were the closest people to the community, stating that there was a lot of trust between them and the community. Robinson said, “People in rural and underprivileged settings with low-income earners are more likely to patronise TBAs than PHCs or private hospitals. Cost, distance, mode of care from health care workers, and follow-up from TBAs contribute to this.’’ She added that TBAs were important stakeholders in maternal care, arguing that if they were not well trained or informed, instead of improving the quality of maternal and child health, they might destroy it. Robinson further explained that training TBAs was not a means to provide a parallel system of healthcare but to make sure that recognised TBAs providing services were well skilled and knew their limit. She said, “We work with the PHC board in states we visit because it’s important for coordination. We also support PHC officers and nurses with training and digital innovations.’’ She advised that the government should collect data on the current status of TBAs in Nigeria, which should include their contributions and how they could be fully integrated into the health system. The health expert noted, “TBAs are good tools in health promotion and the use of PHC. If TBAs are properly trained and monitored, they’ll help in providing referral services while taking vital data such as high blood pressure and diabetes at different points during the lifetime of the pregnancy and reporting it to the nearest PHC facility. This will ensure there is information flow and the health care officers are not overburdened. “In some communities, some women do not use PHC because they cannot afford transport fares. Can we ask the government to pay for the fare of all pregnant women who cannot afford them? That’s impossible, but it is possible to train the TBAs to collect first-level data to identify these symptoms for referral to hospitals before it aggravates. Robinson further added that another opportunity was to train them as preliminary mental health counsellors because pregnancy comes with mental health needs. She said, “We can look at global best practices, what is going on in other countries, get recommendations and national guidelines in integrating them into the health care system.’’ Commenting on the issue, a professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the University of Maiduguri, Borno State, Abdulkareem Mairiga, stated that there were two major issues in the use and incorporation of TBAs which he identified as types of TBA and inadequate manpower. He noted that there were TBAs with orthodox medicine training, those without, adding that NGOs monitor the trained ones. Saying the country has inadequate skilled manpower, Mairiga stated, “There is a shortage of qualified birth attendants. If we do not use these TBAs, where do we allow our women to go? Also, these women in our communities respect and patronise the TBAs. So the issue is how do we integrate them into society?” He said that the challenge with TBAs was their location and the fact that they often delayed referral until the situation was critical. He further stated that their method of managing the umbilical cord could result in neonatal infections such as tetanus. Mairiga said, “In rural areas, TBAs do more harm and cannot be blamed because there are no hospitals so where will they take the patient to? In areas where there are hospitals, poverty is an issue. Some of them do not have money to take the patient to the hospital. We have many challenges in the country contributing to the increase in the rate of maternal mortality. I will suggest that TBAs should be integrated fully into the primary health care services. With adequate training and monitoring, they will be of great help in reducing maternal mortality in terms of mobilisation and advocacy, in increasing family planning patronage, and antenatal care attendance not in the actual management of the patient.’’ He advised that the administration of traditional herbs to pregnant women and other harmful traditional practices should be discouraged as they could lead to vesicovaginal fistula and heart failure. On his part, Professor of Obstetrics & Gynaecology and consultant at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital, Edo State, with specialty in maternofetal medicine, Adedapo Ande, noted that Nigeria’s failed system, coordination and lack of continuity of programmes were currently affecting the high rate of maternal mortality. He said, “TBAs say they refer, is it done properly? It’s a terrain we avoid talking about as we give them credence for what they are not. Poverty has worsened the situation because people will rather go to them than hospitals. They give herbal concoctions to women but do we know the basic outcome of the herbal treatment? What are the antecedents? Do they identify babies with jaundice, cerebral palsy and others? It is not just about delivery, it is the quality of the mother and the baby after birth that matters. After five years will the baby still be alive and behave normally? “The data of maternal mortality I get from the referrals of TBAs is a disaster. It is after the cases have worsened that they refer to hospitals and sometimes it’s already too late. These are things the system doesn’t follow up on.’’ He explained that one major issue with the integration of TBAs was coordination because they don’t listen to instructions, adding that former Ondo State Governor, Olusegun Mimiko organised them by creating the Abiye programme and provided incentives for them on referrals. He said, “At the time, the maternal and prenatal mortality rate reduced drastically since they were willing to refer patients due to the incentives they got. But now we are back to square one and almost zero. The current government is not ready to sustain what the previous government started. If something works, is it not best to sustain it?’’ Ande stated that in India, China and UK there were some degree of TBA practices which were also coordinated, adding that his fear was the country’s ability to coordinate them owing to the fact that some hospitals were not licensed yet operating. The medical professional stated that activities of TBAs cannot be stopped since they were an integral part of the Nigerian society, stating that they had to be domesticated because patronage would keep increasing with the current situation of the country amid non-working health insurance and high rate of poverty. He added that the attitude of an average health worker to patients was not accommodating, noting TBAs relate and communicate with the patients properly. Ande stated, “Also, TBAs accept trade by barter and instalments in exchange for their services but hospitals cannot do that. The issue now is can we look at integrating everything that relates to their practices? Can we let them know there are some things beyond them? It’s not everything that is spiritual because that’s their belief. I believe there’s a way forward. It’s challenging but we need sustainability.’’ He observed that TBAs have a great role to play in healthcare delivery and the possibility to integrate them with the right measures should be made to ensure they don’t handle complications. In her comment, Chairman, Lagos State Traditional Medicine Board, Prof. Adefule Ositelu, said the Lagos State 1999 law reformed in 2006 legalised trained TBA practices. She added that 4,098 TBAs have been trained and registered in the state. She said the state organises an immersion programme for the training and induction of TBAs as community birth attendants. Ositelu further said that TBAs belong to associations and have leaders who inform the board of their proficiency, and it steps in for attestation and training. She said, “The majority of our people prefer to go to the TBAs but they must be regulated. Times are changing, so we need to upgrade the methods, practices and monitor them. They go through six weeks of mandatory training at the LSTMB and another six weeks of training at the general hospitals where there are community health officers and apex nurses. Also, they spend eight weeks at the Lagos State College of Health so that modern techniques and procedures that will reduce maternal mortality and morbidity are introduced to them. Those who have their private clinics are monitored from time to time and they must attend the general hospital meetings with their CHOs.’’ Also, Ositelu stated that there was an established referral system in place so that whenever any problem arose, they would refer appropriately. She added that there was zero tolerance for quackery to check carelessness or negligence on their part, disclosing that there was data collection every month on the number of births, complications, referrals, fetal death in utero among other details. According to her, one major challenge is the fact that TBAs administer herbs to pregnant women and that they need laboratories to test the herbs. She said, “They are contributing tremendously to the birth rate in the state and they do not have problem with the breech presentation; that is children who sit in the womb. They know what to do to make the baby turn round and have the vertex in the right position. But the challenge is for us to standardise the herbs they are using. We have a research group prepared to commence research to standardise what the TBAs are using, so we can confidently say the herbs are good for the particular thing it is prescribed for. “We do sensitisation and advocacy on a quarterly basis in all zones and inform them it is mandatory to refer. We make sure we involve all their traditional rulers so they can talk to their subjects and enlighten them that they are not allowed to practice if they are not registered. Anyone who doesn’t comply is apprehended by the task force, and if they refuse to change we close them down. We can’t afford to take risks with anybody’s life.’’ Ositelu noted that another challenge was the attitude of skilled practitioners, saying they needed to be re-orientated that everything traditional was not fetish. She said that the white developed traditional medicines into tablets, syrups, injections and sell them, yet the country has it in abundance. She said, “Medical practitioners cannot handle all patients because there are more cases compared to their number. Let the TBAs do what they can do. The land belongs to them and the grass-roots want them. Before orthodox medicine came, we’ve been living. We need to go back to our roots, take what is good from the orthodox, add it to what we have and make progress. We need cooperation so that what cannot be done the traditional way will be handled by the orthodox. The most important thing is the wellness of the individual.’’ She stated that the Chinese, Indians, and Americans had their traditional medicine, adding that Nigerians would keep punishing themselves unnecessarily if they failed to embrace what they had.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com