Stakeholders have urged the Federal government to give more support to Micro and Small and Medium-scale Entrepreneurs by providing the enabling infrastructure like roads and electricity to diversify and improve revenue for the country. A statement quoted the President of the Organisation of Youths of International Trade and Commerce, Mr Chinedu Amadi, as saying this during a workshop in Lagos. The workshop was aimed at educating entrepreneurs on a better ways to package their products to meet international standards. According to him, this will help the products to compete in the global market, attract foreign exchange to the producer and enhance economic growth. Amadi said there was a need for the government to collaborate with local producers to diversify the economy from the long dependency on crude oil. He observed that during the COVID-19 lockdown, farmers who entered into production, made huge revenue from the sale of their farm proiduce. “We are talking on how to change our non-oil export to attract foreign earnings to Nigeria and better our lives,” he said. He explained that a time would come when Nigerians would no longer depend on foreign food. While noting that Nigerian foods were much appreciated abroad, he said local producers needed to know how to package them for more attraction. The organiser of the workshop, Mr Michael Ukeje, said the purpose was to enhance export drive by teaching producers how to package their products for international market and earn foreign currencies. At the end of the workshop, he said some products that met the standard would be chosen and producers would be given money as a form of empowerment to enable them to produce in large quantities. This, he added, would take them to international market.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com