A former Pro-Chancellor of the University of Calabar, Senator Nkechi Nwaogu, has declared her intentions to contest the Abia Central senatorial district seat in 2023. Nwaogu who had represented the district between 2007 and 2015, in a speech titled ‘Message of restoration’ on Thursday, said she was the best among other aspirants hustling for the seat in the All Progressive Congress chapter of the state and beyond. She urged the party delegates to consider the fact that experience matters in lawmaking, adding that 90% of the current National Assembly leaders are all old timers in the legislature. She said, “As a ranking senator and having navigated through the rudiments of the parliament, I stand a better chance than anyone else to attract the much desired democracy dividends to Abia Central. “APC ticket is a jewel of inestimable value which must be given to candidates that are popular, credible and determined to win election and I’m among the candidates in Nigeria that have this prerequisite factor. “Check my records, I have done it before and I will do it again. All the previous positions I handled were beneficial to the youths. “If I’m elected with your support I will replicate what I am known for and the youths of Abia Central district must be adequately and sufficiently empowered and employed to face the realities on ground. “I’m going back to the Senate to champion a course for gender equality and make sure that the gender equality bill that was rejected by the Senate is reversed. “In continuation of what I have been doing before, there are going to be massive women empowerment and skill acquisition programmes for women. “We will also run a regular town hall meeting to know the various challenges our people are facing. “In the area of basic infrastructure and social amenities, we are going to partner with our APC state government of Abia state and relevant Federal Government agencies and parastatals to bring about the much desired democracy dividends in our Senatorial district and Abia state as a whole”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com