Nigerian athletes were at their best at the second edition of the All-Comers Competition which came to a close on Friday at the Yaba College of Technology. The Athletics Federation of Nigeria had revealed that the event would serve as selection trials for home-based athletes for the 22nd African Senior Athletics Championships holding from June 8 to 12, in Mauritius. The competition was also put in place to ensure that athletes wishing to participate in the championship had the opportunity of achieving the qualification standard before the window closed April 30 (today). In the men’s 110m hurdles, Prosper Ekporere ran a personal best time of 13.71secs and got his head past the line to pip Oyeniyi Abejoye to first place while Abejoye ran a season-best time of 13.72secs which was only good enough for second place. Stella Anyaleke won the women’s 100mH in a time of 14.02secs to beat Grace Ayemoba who finished in a time of 14.03secs, with Victoria Adunbi finishing third in 14.57secs. In the men’s triple jump, Chidozie Kalu, leapt to a SB of 15.71m, beating Blessing Oluwayemi to the second position with a leap of 15.49m, while Olajide Abiola came third with a mark of 15.22m. In the women’s hammer event, former national record holder, Queen Obisesan, threw a SB of 57.26m to win the event while Utitofon Sam improved on her previous PB (37.83m) to finish second, throwing a new PB of 46.48m. Reacting to the performances at the event, Olympic gold medallist, Enefiok Udo-Obong, said he was impressed with the turnout and the hunger in the athletes to show their worth. “The overall turnout was impressive and it shows that the athletes have been hungry for competition and they’re so happy they could compete. “For their performance, I think some of the athletes really did well especially at this time of the season, in the 100m we saw some impressive times. In the 400m hurdles men and women’s event we saw some good performances. “I think on the road to the African Championships, World Championships and the Commonwealth Games, I think a number of athletes will come from the home front.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com