Paediatricians have described as untrue the belief that using the mouth to extract mucus from the nose of a newborn can cause the brain to be expelled through the nose. They, however, said the act, which is often carried out by mothers is unhealthy and unsafe. According to them, it is better to use a mucus extractor or cotton bud to remove mucus from the nose of a baby than to use the mouth. In an interview with PUNCH Healthwise, a Senior Lecturer at the Department of Paediatrics, College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Dr. Beatrice Ezenwa, said even an outsider should not be allowed to suck out secretion from the nose of a newborn with the mouth. The Consultant Neonatologist/Paediatrician with the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, said the danger of sucking mucus from the nose of a baby using the mouth poses more danger to the person carrying out the act, than to the baby. She said, “The danger here is that it’s possible that the mucus contains certain infections which the mother, if she is not careful, can swallow and become infected. “The risk is to the mother or caregiver, not the baby. The mucus may not be hygienic enough and might be laden with microorganisms, and the mother may inadvertently swallow it. “The other one is that some people believe that while sucking out the mucus, they will suck out the baby’s brain. That is not true. There is nothing like that.” Dr. Ezenwa, however, cautioned mothers who might still go ahead with the practice to be mindful of the amount of pressure applied to avoid bursting vessels in the nose. “If the pressure is too much, it can also traumatise the baby. So, if mothers are suctioning their babies’ noses with their mouths, they should remember that they are dealing with babies. “They should not apply too much pressure. The best way to decongest a baby’s blocked nostril is to use a suctioning machine. If it’s a thick secretion, they can use cotton buds to clear the nose,” she added. The paediatrician, however, said a mother sucking out the secretions in her baby’s nose is actually helping to clear a blocked airway to avoid suffocation. But she insisted that it must be done with a mucus extractor. “This is because babies only breathe with their noses. They don’t know that they can breathe with their mouths. So, if their noses are blocked and nothing is done about it, they can suffocate, especially if they don’t cry. “Babies are obligate nose breathers, so if that nose is blocked, it is only when they cry that they can breathe. So, when their noses are blocked, they will be struggling to breathe and that is why you see mothers desperately trying to suck whatever is causing the blockage. “There are mucus extractors that can be used for that purpose. If it is in the healthcare environment, nobody would use the mouth to suck mucus from the nose of a baby. They use the normal suctioning machine or mucus extractor,”Dr. Ezenwa added. Another paediatrician, Dr. Amy Sniderman from Cleveland Clinic, said a nose that is clogged with mucus can make it hard for babies to breathe and eat properly — especially for young babies who breastfeed or eat from a bottle. She noted that keeping excess mucus in check can also ward off skin infections caused by leaking mucus around a child’s nose. “The best way to remove it is with a handy baby nose sucker device like a nasal aspirator”, Dr. Sniderman advised. The paediatricians concluded that while some congestion can be inevitable, especially in newborns, there are things mothers can do to prevent bothersome congestion, especially those caused by cold. They advised mothers to keep their babies away from nasal irritants that include aerosol sprays, cigarette smoke, hair sprays, dust, paint, gasoline fumes, perfumes and scented body lotions. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com