The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday in Abuja said the All Progressives Congress-led government is working for the good of Nigerians. Buhari said this when he received the newly-elected Chairman of the governing party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. In a statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the President assured the party and the nation that he would continue the struggle to entrench democratic principles in politics and governance affairs. In the statement titled ‘President Buhari formally receives new APC chairman, tasks him to be fair and firm,’ the President said the APC has healed from its wounds and is set for next year’s elections. “Today, we should all be happy that the party has nursed its wounds and healed itself sufficiently to march forward to face the challenges of the coming state and general elections. “When I reflect on policies of the administration on the economy and specifically in the development of agriculture, infrastructure, ICT and innovation and the welfare measures we have put in place for women, the youth and the less privileged members of the society, I get fresh confidence that our citizens will continue supporting the APC in our electoral battles.” “Our government is working for the betterment of the country. Our policies and programmes aim at nothing but the betterment of the country and its people. Essentially, the party should take the programmes of the government to the people to infuse confidence into them,” the President said. Buhari once again commended the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning to conduct the congresses and Convention leading to the emergence of the Adamu-led National Executive Committee, saying, “we cannot thank you enough for all that you did.” He urged the new party Chairman to be fair and firm as he is known to be in all his dealings. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com