With just few games until the end of the 2021/22 season, KELVIN EKERETE takes a look at the goals scoring exploits of Nigeria’s top strikers abroad in this report Odion Ighalo (23 goals) Al Hilal/ Al Shabab With 23 goals in 29 games in all competitions for both Al Shabab and Al Hilal, Super Eagles striker, Ighalo, is currently Nigeria’s hottest striker globally and leads the race for who will be the country’s top scorer at the end of the 2021/22 campaign. This season is one of the best for the 32-year-old, having scored 19 goals in 24 appearances in the Saudi Pro League, three goals in three appearances in the Saudi Kings Cup and one goal in two games in the Club World Cup. Paul Onuachu (21 goals) Genk Although he has had somewhat of a quiet campaign, lanky striker, Onuachu, is the second top scorer amongst Nigerian strikers abroad. The 6ft 5in striker has grabbed 19 goals in 29 league games this season, scoring once during the Champions League qualifiers and once in five games in the Europa League. Onuachu was Nigeria’s overall too scorer in the 2020/21 season with 35 goals in 41 games in all competitions and is breathing down the neck of Ighalo, who is just two goals ahead. Taiwo Awoniyi (17 goals) Union Berlin Awoniyi has been a revelation this season after moving from Liverpool to Union Berlin last summer. The Nigeria international has 17 goals in all competitions, with 12 of them coming in the German Bundesliga in 26 games. He also scored twice in six Europa Conference League games, twice in two Europa League qualifying games and once in three appearances in the DFB Pokal. Umar Sadiq (17 goals) Almeria Gangling striker Sadiq has also been one of Eagles best strikers in Europe this season. The forward has scored 17 goals in all competitions for Spanish Segunda side Almeria this term as he aims to lead them back to the topflight. The 25-year-old has scored 16 goals with 10 assists in 29 league games for Almeria. He is third on the top scorers list, two goals behind top scorer Borja Baston. Victor Osimhen (16 goals) Napoli Despite dealing with various injuries and COVID-19 related issues during the season, Osimhen has scored 16 goals in 26 appearances for Napoli this season. The former Lille forward has been Napoli’s most important player as they continue their chase for the elusive Serie A title they last won in 1990. Osimhen boasts 12 goals in 21 league games in Serie A and four goals in five Europa League games, before the Italians crashed out of the competition. His form has seen him become one of the most followed strikers in Europe. Cyriel Dessers (16 goals) Feyenoord On loan from Belgian giants Genk, Dessers has been a revelation for Feyenoord this season scoring crucial goals for the Dutch side. The one-cap Eagles striker has found the back of the net 16 times in all competitions in 40 appearances this season, including the brace that fired the Dutch side to the last four of the Conference League in the 3-1 win over Slavia Prague on Thursday. He is joint top scorer with Roma’s Tammy Abraham in the Conference League on eight goals from 10, adding six more in 23 games in the Dutch Eredivisie, as well as two goals for Genk before completing his transfer last summer. Stephen Odey (14 goals) Randers Odey joined Danish side FC Randers in the summer, on loan from Genk, in a bid to revive his career and he’s done exactly that! The striker has 14 goals in 27 games across all competitions, leading to the club activating his buyout clause and signing him on a permanent basis in November, after just over three months with the club. His performance helped Randers finish fifth on the table during the regular season. Anthony Nwakaeme (12 goals) Trabzonspor Nwakaeme has been one of Nigeria’s most impressive players in Europe this season. He the country’s highest scoring winger this season with 12 goals in 30 appearances in all competitions, with 11 of those goals coming in the Turkish Super Lig, with 10 assists. He has been instrumental in his side’s chase for the Turkish Lig title this season. Nwakaeme has been one of the most consistent players for the Turkish side in the last four seasons. Yira Sor (10 goals) Slavia Prague Little-known striker Sor may have scored just 10 goals in 35 appearances this season, but he looks like the player to look out for next season. He jumped into the limelight with his impressive performances in the Conference League, where he scored six goals in five appearances with three assists, before the Czech side crashed out in the last eight to Dessers’ Feyenoord on Thursday. Peter Olayinka (10 goals) Slavia Although he had a slow start to the season, he found his rhythm close to the end of the season, scoring 10 goals in 35 games across all competitions. He was also impressive in the Conference League, where he amassed four goals in nine games.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com