The Supreme Court on Wednesday in Abuja upheld the six years imprisonment imposed on a former Federal Director of Pensions, John Yusuf, for misappropriating N22.9bn Police Pension Fund. The apex court also ordered him to refund the N22.9bn to the Federal Government. Justice Tijjani Abubakar, in his judgment in an appeal filed by Yusuf, upheld the decision of the Court of Appeal, which in 2018 sentenced him to six years imprisonment and ordered him to refund the sum. The apex court held that Yusuf and others engaging in fraudulent practices must be told in clear language through court judgments that it is no longer business as usual. Justice Abubakar said the appeal of the former federal pension director seeking to set aside the six years jail term was frivolous, vexatious, and devoid of merit. He further held that victims of the convicted director deserved restitution which can only be achieved through justice. The Supreme Court, in the unanimous judgment, held that the judgment of a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, which in 2016 sentenced Yusuf to two years imprisonment with an option of N750, 000 was a slap on the wrist. The justice said that the plea bargain at the High Court and the ruling of the Judge on it was not only bizarre and embarrassing but also ridiculous and unacceptable. The apex court said that the sentence at the Lower Court was meagre, insufficient, and ridiculous given the huge negative impacts the fraudulent action of the convict must have caused the pensioners. Justice Abubakar adopted the judgment of the Court of Appeal, which imposed a six years jail term on the former pension Director and directed him to make a refund of N22.9 billion to the Federal Government. “I have carefully perused the case of the appellant (Yusuf). I found it to be frivolous, vexatious, and devoid of merit. “I make an order dismissing the appeal and affirming the findings and conclusion of the Court below,” the Supreme Court Justice said. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission had arraigned Yusuf before FCT High Court in 2016. He admitted to committing the fraud and subsequently entered into a plea bargain with the anti-graft agency. Justice Abubakar Talba of the FCT High Court had, upon the plea bargain, sentenced the former Director to two years imprisonment with an option of N750.000 fine which he promptly paid and escaped imprisonment. Disappointed by the sentence, the EFCC challenged the decision at the Court of Appeal in Abuja. The Court of Appeal, in its judgment of 2018, quashed the plea bargain, sentenced the former Director to six years imprisonment without the option of a fine, and also ordered him to refund the N22.9 billion to the Federal Government. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com