The Federal Polytechnic, Offa, Kwara State, has established an Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit to curb corrupt practices and related offences in the institution. The unit, which is an initiative of the Independent Corrupt Practices & Other Related Offences Commission, will serve as the institution’s ethics and anti-corruption instrument designed to function as an autonomous outfit. Also, the ACTU is said to be a functional linkage to help in fighting corruption and eliminate sharp practices in the polytechnic. Speaking at the inauguration of the anti-corruption outfit, ICPC Chairman, Prof. Bolaji Owosanoye, who was represented by the Resident Anti Corruption Commissioner for Osun State, Mr. Alero Shuaib, commended the Acting Rector of the Polytechnic; Dr. Olarongbe Afolabi and his management team for establishing the Unit in their institution. Owosanoye stressed that the unit in the school would serve as an added impetus to the efforts of ICPC in promoting and entrenching the anti-corruption crusade among students and by implication, the larger society. He solicited full support and backing from the management for the success of the Unit through the provision of enabling environment to make it carry out its functions effectively. Owosanoye, however, warned the ACTU officials in the polytechnic to avoid using their offices as a tool to witchhunt or victimise other staff of the institution. Also, the ICPC Chief Superintendent, A.O Lawal who was present at the occasion said the unit derives its powers from the provisions of Section 6 (a-f) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000. The Act, he further disclosed, empowers the Unit to carry out all the functions of ICPC except prosecuting corrupt practices suspects in court. In his remarks, the Acting Rector; Dr. Afolabi expressed his admiration for the ICPC officials for their tremendous efforts towards eradicating corruption in Nigeria. The rector expressed the readiness of the polytechnic’s management to fully work with the unit to ensure accountability and transparency in the system. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com