The Nigeria Petroleum Development Company and Independent Petroleum Producers Group on Thursday inaugurated a state-of-the-art COVID-19 Molecular Laboratory Centre in Warri, Delta State. They also called on all groups responsible for carrying out health care services in the host communities of Niger Delta region to ensure adequate patronage of the facility for the diagnostic testing needs of patients. The NNPC Managing Director, Ali Muhamma Zarah, stated at the groundbreaking ceremony held at the Shell Housing Estate, in Ogunu, Warri, that the facility has been adequately equipped to provide COVID-19 and blood testing services to the operational bases, hospitals, HMOs, Corporations, and individuals within Delta State and beyond. The NPDC Executive Director, Assets Management, Dr. Ismail Mohammed, noted that the company has no doubt that the new laboratory will extend the range of available information to physicians and other professionals in the Niger Delta region. He said, “The modernized laboratory equipment provided in this facility will enable this Clinic to obtain more accurate data and enhance the skills of the personnel. This will also help in establishing the effectiveness of the Clinic by providing credible analytical capability that will save the lives of many in our host communities and others. “For this, we applaud the NPDC/ND Western JV and the Independent Petroleum Producers Group for this strategic initiative that will improve the access to quality diagnostic, timely and accurate treatment to patients. “This vision aligns with NNPC vision under the Dynamic Leadership of the Group Managing Director, Mallam Mele Kolo Kyari, and his management team. Most significantly, this initiative will help in cultivating a reliable, strong partnership between our Joint Venture Partners and other important stakeholders, like the IPPG. NNPC and indeed, NPDC/ND Western JV will always support such initiatives to contribute to the development of the country’s laboratory service. “As part of the nation’s efforts aimed at bringing health care to our people, especially in combating the COVID-19 pandemic amongst other deadly diseases, the NPDC and ND Western OML 34 JV, in collaboration with the Independent Petroleum Producers Group formed an alliance to set up this Laboratory, “Delta Plus”. “The facility has been adequately equipped to provide Covid-19 and blood testing services to our operational bases, hospitals, HMOs, Corporations, and individuals within Delta State and beyond”. Also speaking at the event, the Chairman of Independent Petroleum Producers Group, Abdulrazaq Isa. explained that the group was proud to be associated with the Delta Plus project which, according to him, is primed to provide the most advanced technology in Covid-19 and other infections diseases testing services. Isa commended the NNPC for championing the industry-wide intervention considered in the Second and Third Quarters of 2020 being the height of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com