THE recent lethal attack on Atani Police Station, Ogbaru Local Government Area, Anambra State, where four police officers were slaughtered, has again spotlighted the urgency of tackling the violence raging in the South-East. The bloodletting has the potential to snowball into a bigger conflict that could set the region further back economically and with far-reaching consequences for national security. With no solution in sight from the strong-arm response of the Federal Government, the governors, traditional rulers and other opinion leaders need to urgently collaborate to save their region. So far, among the elite, only the recently inaugurated Governor of Anambra State, Chukwuma Soludo, has shown some appreciation of the existential danger posed by the terrorists branded “unknown gunmen,” non-state actors decreeing sit-at-home days and their effect on the region’s economy and security. The five state governors should jointly formulate a region-wide counter-strategy to restore order. For almost two years, the region has not known peace. Apart from the attacks on Atani and Nteje police stations, some LG premises were recently razed, including the headquarters of Aguata LGA, Anambra. Amid all this, the elite of the region have telegraphed confusion, inertia and disunity. The governors particularly have demonstrated poor leadership. The stage for unrest was set with a sit-at-home order issued by the separatist group, Indigenous People of Biafra, to be observed May 30 of every year to honour the “fallen heroes” of Biafra during the 1967-1970 Civil War. Violent criminals have since hijacked the self-determination agitation to torment the region. Apart from armed robbery, kidnapping and other violent crimes, hoodlums have widened the scope of criminality. Frequently, they launch attacks on security agents, police stations, correctional facilities, election offices and LG secretariats and other public assets. Unambiguously, they are engaged in terrorism. Hastily, the government attributes all the violence to the Eastern Security Network, the armed wing of the proscribed IPOB. The group has however rescinded its stay-at-home order and disclaimed violent efforts to enforce it by “unknown gunmen.” It has also dissociated itself from the frequent attacks on citizens and public infrastructure. There should be a thorough investigation by the security agencies to unmask and punish the perpetrators. The blanket profiling of South-Easterners and the high-handedness of the security personnel deployed in the region is fuelling rather than containing the raging fire. Stakeholders need to find lasting solutions quickly to avoid a full-scale asymmetric insurgency. With such insurgencies ongoing in the North-East and North-West, the country can ill-afford another one in the South-East. The Independent National Electoral Commission’s facilities have suffered over 14 attacks in Abia, Enugu, Ebonyi, Imo, and Anambra. The violence has spread to Bayelsa and Akwa Ibom states in the South-South. Recently, an INEC worker was shot dead while conducting the continuous voter registration in the Ihitte Uboma LGA, Imo State. A viral video showed the hoodlums forcing registrants to lie on the ground while destroying registration materials; they vowed that elections would not be held in the South-East. Leaders must act. They should mobilise the people to resist the criminals foisting fear and terror on the region. The governors, traditional institutions and civil society institutions should rise to the occasion and demonstrate responsive leadership. The safety of lives and property is the primary responsibility of the state. The governors should do more to secure their people. The youths and communities should be mobilised to set up vigilance groups to complement the security agencies. Such groups should be tightly regulated and supervised to prevent abuses. The region’s elite, the business community, professional bodies and social groups should not remain aloof. This is beyond politics; it is about the safety of the people and the zone. With the region unsafe, those in the Diaspora visit home with trepidation as the farms and highways are targets of murder, kidnapping and arson. Some who braved it were killed, kidnapped or injured. The communities must rise and defend their territories. There should be strong security collaboration among the South-East governors. The region’s leaders and youths must resolutely resist the violence and end the needless bloodshed. They are stakeholders in their own land and no group of criminals has a right to employ violence against them, enforce sit-at-home orders, or force them into secession. Self-preservation is the first law of nature, it is said. The governors should immediately establish carefully supervised vigilance forces, arm, equip and train them. The regional initiative, Ebubeagu, should be vigorously activated, strengthened and equipped. The situation should not be allowed to deteriorate further. The governors and leaders should stop dithering and prevaricating and should act decisively. They should drop the preoccupation with their 2023 political ambitions while their states burn and their economies are devastated. They must live up to their responsibilities as chief security officers of the states. Human rights group, the International Society for Civil Liberties and the Rule of Law, said Nigerian security forces and militants separately killed no fewer than 1,150 defenceless citizens in the region from October 2020 to December 2021. It further alleged that the security forces abducted 1,000 unarmed civilians. An Amnesty International report cited the human rights violations and crimes under international law perpetrated to include mass arrests, extortion, arson, theft, extra-judicial executions, unlawful force, torture and other ill-treatment. These claims should be investigated and any operatives found culpable for human rights abuses should be sanctioned. Also, the Nigerian Army alleged that ESN had killed 128 military and police personnel; 15 civil defence officers and 31 vigilantes; it said ESN also murdered over 100 civilians in 2021 that refused to join their movement. South-East leaders should address the poverty and unemployment in the zone. They should truly democratise politics and ensure that the people remain the centre of governance. Democracy must benefit the people of the region, not just the elite. Leaders and all the people of the region should act now to restore sanity and make the region safe again for production, travel and social activities.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com