AXA Mansard Health Insurance, a member of the AXA Group and a global insurance and asset management firm, has expressed its commitment to protecting the environment and its people against unforeseen circumstances in the society. A statement said the firm made the commitment to mark the World Health Day, which is commemorated globally to highlight the invaluable role of good health in global and national development. Speaking on the theme of this year’s commemoration, ‘Our planet, our health’, Chief Executive Officer, AXA Health Insurance, Tope Adeniyi, said the theme was apt in the way it brought together two critical elements required to guarantee continuous development locally and globally. Adeniyi said, “For us, we understand that the environment plays a significant role in life, living and wellbeing of everyone. That is why we do more than support environmental-friendly initiatives. We also practise it as an organisation. “At another level, we also understand that despite taking care of the environment, we also need to support the enthronement of good health. So, we continue to create solutions that ensure that good health is available, accessible, and affordable for everyone. We have ensured that we have solutions for them.” Adeniyi noted that environmental considerations also played a major role in the selection of partners for the organisation. He said, “Today, we have over 2,000 service providers nationwide. Sustainability is not just a critical criterion in our selection process; it is a subject of a constantly evolving conversation with them. “From energy management to waste disposal and water consumption to the reduction in emissions, we are not just tracking ourselves. We are encouraging all our stakeholders to act and advocate for the environment. We want to ensure that we take care of the health needs of the present generation, without compromising the wellbeing of the future generation.” AXA Mansard Health Limited is the Health Maintenance Organisation arm of the AXA Mansard Group of Companies.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com