United States Embassy in Nigeria has expressed hope of a credible Osun 2022 governorship poll with a pledge to work with the state government to achieve the objective. This was disclosed on Wednesday by the Political and Economic Chief of the US Embassy in Nigeria, Brandon Hudspeth, during a visit to Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, in his office in Osogbo. Hudspeth, who led a delegation from the Embassy, further said the team would visit security officials, civil societies and other stakeholders before the poll. He said, “The reason why we are here is because of the forthcoming election in Osun State in 2022. “We hope that the election will be free and credible because there are expectations within and outside this country over the forthcoming election in this state. “Our expectation is that the election should be fair and credible. We are partners with Nigeria to ensure free and credible elections. “We are meeting with you as the first citizen of the state and our officials will also meet security officials, civil societies and other stakeholders. We will be in the state for the next couple of months. We are ready to work with you for a free and credible election in 2022 in this state.” Responding, Governor Oyetola, said his administration had done well in improving the quality of infrastructure in the state, adding that about 300 kilometres of road across Osun State had been completed, while the administration just completed the Ola-Iya flyover in Osogbo. Oyetola, who said he remained the candidate to beat, added that he also expected a credible election. “I want to tell you that we are looking forward to a credible election in Osun State. We are the party to beat, I am the candidate to beat anytime any day. The fact speaks for itself. “We’ve cared so much about the welfare of the people and ensuring their security. We pay salaries regularly,” he concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com