Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, has said his administration will sue an online media outfit, SaharaReporters, for the alleged false publication of exercise books contract. The governor said he read the online publication where it was claimed that the exercise books contract awarded to the Chairman of Agidigbo FM, Oriyomi Hamzat, was inflated to N998m but described it as a campaign of calumny aimed at him. Makinde, who said this at the 1st anniversary of Agidigbo FM, Ibadan, held on Saturday, stressed that anyone qualified and who could add value to the state would be supported by his government. The governor, according to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Taiwo Adisa, congratulated the management and staff of the radio station and hailed its chairman, Hamzat, for his commitment to the emancipation of the masses, a quality, which he noted, brought him [Makinde] and Hamzat together. Makinde charged the media to be wary of being used to play politics of bitterness, stating that though he and not Oriyomi was the target of the smear campaign, the claim was untrue and unfounded. He said, “Let me also say this. Yesterday, I read of an allegation on the internet that Oriyomi Hamzat inflated a contract amounting to N998m to supply exercise books. I am very sure they were trying to smear me, not Oriyomi but they are afraid of confronting me directly. “Well, let me tell you the truth of the matter; such never happened. Anything you hear from me is nothing but the truth. If they don’t know where we are coming from, they know where we are going. “What will happen is, I will encourage Oriyomi to sue them and settle the case in court. And, as a state government, we will sue SaharaReporters for the false publication. By the time we are done with them, they will stop publishing false reports about the government of Oyo State. “It is unfortunate they are engaging in politics of bitterness. Nobody will stop them from doing politics but they should do politics based on truth and fact. If they are embittered that the government gave the contract to Oriyomi Hamzat, is he not from Oyo State? If anyone around me is qualified and can do what will add value to the people of Oyo State we will patronise such people.” The governor said the youthful energy of most of the members of staff of the radio station and their commitment to excellence was responsible for the rapid growth recorded by the station in just one year of its existence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com