The Hilton Hotel owner, Dr. Ramon Adedoyin, who is standing trial alongside six other staff members of the facility for the alleged murder of a Masters student of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Timothy Adegoke, on Monday entered his defence in the matter. Adedoyin and Adedeji Adesola, Magdalene Chiefuna, Adeniyi Aderogba, Oluwale Lawrence, Oyetunde Kazeem and Adebayo Kunle, had been arraigned on 11 counts bordering on conspiracy, murder, altering of receipt and administration of extra judicial oath. But Adedoyin, through his counsel, K. Eleja (SAN), at the resumption of hearing, did not call any witness. But counsel for the 2nd, 4th and 5th defendants, Muritala Abdulroosheed (SAN), told the court that he would call witnesses for the second defendant, Chiefuna. He, however, said unforeseen circumstances did not allow him to prepare his witnesses for the day’s proceedings. He asked for adjournment to allow the second defendant to attend to her health, as she took ill during the proceedings. Holding brief for Rowland Otaru, SAN, who is the counsel representing third and sixth defendants, Abdulroosheed also sought adjournment. Counsel for the seventh defendant, Okon Ita, also sought adjournment, saying he would not want to be ahead of other defendants in the matter. Lead prosecution counsel, Mr Femi Falana, did not oppose the application for adjournment by the defence counsel. Justice Adepele Ojo, in her ruling, adjourned the matter to May 25 for the continuation of hearing. Court forced into short adjournment over 2nd defendant’s ill health. Meanwhile, Justice Ojo was forced into a short adjournment about 20 minutes into the proceedings after the second defendant, Chiefuna, coughed intermittently and lost balance. The proceedings, which started at about 9.35am, were forced into short adjournment around 9.55am after Chiefuna, who was in the dock with the other six defendants, started coughing and lost balance. Justice Ojo then rose for brief adjournment as the defendant was led out of the courtroom by prison officials. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com