The Ondo State Police Command on Monday confirmed the death of four kids who were electrocuted in the Ile Oluji/Okeigbo Local Government Area of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mrs Funmilayo Odunlami, said an electric cable fell on a metal container shop where the deceased were staying, killing them. She said, “Yes, we can confirm the death of the four kids. An electric cable fell while they were inside a container. We have commenced investigation into the matter.” It was gathered that two of the four victims were siblings, who visited their aunt for the Easter holiday in the community. A source said the incident happened when six children were playing inside the container. The source said, “The electric cable fell on the container. They were rushed to a hospital, but there was no sufficient oxygen they could use for five of them. So, four gave up the ghost. But the case of the sixth child was not serious as she can walk and talk. “The remaining two were taken to the Trauma Centre in Ondo for treatment. One has been discharged, but the second child has been referred to the OAU teaching hospital for treatment.” In a reaction, the Senator representing Ondo South, Nicholas Tofowomo, said he would ensure the parents of the victims get justice if the Benin Electricity Distribution Company was found culpable in the matter. He warned residents against erecting buildings or shops under high tension cables. Also reacting, the Corporate Affairs Manager of the BEDC, Ondo State, Michael Barnabas, said the incident was fatal because the shop was under the high tension electric cable. He said, “Sadly, we received information about the electrocution of four little children within our network in Ile-Oluji due to an 11kv line that snapped. As a company, we condole with the families of the children because life is sacred and should not end prematurely this way. “According to the information available to us, the children were in an iron container shop that was directly under an 11kv line that snapped which led to their electrocution when they had contact with the wire. The deaths would have been avoided if there was nothing within the 11meter right of way statutorily required for such lines. “While we don’t have the power to relocate people directly living or trading under our electricity lines, we shall be very brutal in disconnecting such customers from the public power supply and ensure they never have access to it again which would probably lead them to relocating voluntarily out of harm’s way. By this, we believe we can prevent future occurrence of similar sad incidents.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com