Shareholders of FCMB Group Plc have approved a dividend payment of 20 kobo for the 2021 financial period. A statement said this was disclosed at the 9th annual general meeting of FCMB Group Plc, which was attended physically and virtually by shareholders in Lagos. It stated, “The directors of the diversified financial services holding company announced N3.96bn dividend payment of 20 Kobo per ordinary share to its shareholders. “The shareholders unanimously approved the dividend payout and commended the bank’s impressive performance last year.” FCMB Group recorded a seven per cent growth in gross revenue to N212bn in 2021, from N198.4bn in 2020. The group achieved a profit before tax of N22.7bn, from N21.9bn the prior year. As a result, profit after tax rose by seven per cent to N20.9bn in 2021. Presenting the report for the year ended December 31, 2021, the Chairman, FCMB Group Plc, Mr Ladi Jadesimi, said decisions made over the past few years had fostered business diversification which was driving the performance of the Group’s operating companies in a challenging COVID-19 pandemic world. Jadesimi said, “In 2021, we progressed on the path of good governance, strengthened and improved it in alignment with our long-term strategy and highest international standards. The Group Chief Executive, FCMB Group Plc, Mr Ladi Balogun, said, “We continued to see traction in our digital-led strategy. Traditionally, we have been a platform – a group of companies providing our customers with various financial services. “To fulfil our purpose, we must evolve to be more than a platform into an ecosystem of several platforms (our proprietary companies, funding, technological, channel distribution partners and agents) and customers to enable a fairer and more prosperous world.” Speaking at the AGM, the National Chairman, Progressive Shareholders Association, Chief Boniface Okezie, said, “We are very excited about the overall performance of FCMB Group in 2021. The increase in declared dividend from 15 Kobo last year to 20 Kobo this year is proof that the FCMB Group has a capable board, management and staff who are getting things right.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com