The Federal Government has said the implementation of the National Surgical, Obstetric, Anastasia and Nursing Plan for Nigeria at sub-national levels will expand access to surgical treatment and give positive outcomes leading to better health care for Nigerians. According to a statement, the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, said this in Abuja at a workshop on dissemination of NSOANP to states in Nigeria organised by the ministry. Ehanire who was represented by the Director, Hospital Services of the Federal Ministry of Health, Dr Adebimpe Adebiyi, explained that the essence was to have all actors in the surgical space on the same page for accelerated surgical care in the country. The minister expressed optimism that the workshop would come up with recommendations for better and effective implementation of the plan. He said, “You are aware that the Smile Train and other partners have been supporting the Federal Ministry of Health in driving the implementation of the NSOANP and we have the National Council for Health approval for us to take the implementation to the sub-national levels. “We need to have all the participants on the same page to the extent that we can speak with one voice, we will share the implementation plan with the states so that we can actually gain mileage in the implementation to ensure that we don’t have others moving fast and others dragging behind. We are actually behind schedule in the implementation because it’s from 2021 – 2023. But with this workshop we expect to gain mileage in the implementation as we carry the message to the sub–national levels and all the actors at the national level will be stimulated by our officers that will be going to disseminate the plan. “The objective is that we do not segregate the actions and activities of the professionals but bring everybody under the same umbrella. What we have been doing was that you are an anesthetist, you face your anesthesia, you are an obstetrician or gynecologist you face your own but now we are making it a teamwork. That’s the whole essence of the plan to the extent that the decision-makers at the sub-national levels will ensure that the experts work together as a team. It is not that we have not been having surgeries in the past but everybody has just been acting on their own but we want to really get them together as a team rather than working in silos.” Speaking on behalf of the NSOANP team, Dr. Justina Seyi-Olajide, a pediatric surgeon at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital and facilitator, noted that the plan was meant to strengthen the surgical systems of the country to ensure that universal health coverage was achieved. She said, “So, NSOANP is developed so that everybody can access health care where ever they may be. Implementation of the plan is to ensure the realisation of the goals to improve workforce, to improve infrastructure, to improve training, to improve governance, equipment’s and all the different aspect that make up the surgical systems are improved and strengthened.” Smile Train’s Vice President and Regional Director for Africa, Mrs. Nkeiruka Obi, said, “As we roll out the implementation of NSOANP and given the critical importance of health care delivery system at the state level it is imperative that the dissemination begins without further delay. We believe that this would consolidate the gains of NSOANP and at the same time help in reaching the last mile. “In the spirit of the UHC, our goal is to ensure that surgical care is accessible; people don’t have to move out from their villages to come to the city centres to receive treatment. We also make sure that surgical care is affordable. No one should go bankrupt because of their surgical treatment.”