The National Orientation Agency in Gombe State has urged consumers to patronise Made-in-Nigeria goods, adding that the state and country will be financially empowered when products manufactured locally are bought. Speaking, on Thursday, during a sensitisation programme, Gombe State Director of NOA, Adaline Patari, said no nation can truly develop when its economy is at the mercy of foreign products. The Director revealed that the most developed nations of the world are those whose economies are based on production. “This fact underscores the need for the campaign to patronise Made-in-Nigerian products and services. Direct consequences (of not patronising locally made products) include: dwindling Gross Domestic Product of the country, high rate of unemployment, industries operating at low capacity and hindrance to growth of local companies and capital flight; low value of the naira to other foreign currencies,” She said. Patari disclosed that the campaign for Made-in-Nigeria products became necessary following the negative impact of foreign items to the country’s GDP. She added, “This became necessary following the negative effects of patronage of foreign goods on Nigeria’s economy and Nigerians at large. There are many industries and commercial enterprises producing consumable goods and household products. However, not many Nigerians patronise such products. “The preference for foreign goods is based on claim that such products are of superior quality and a status symbol. Although this may not be absolutely wrong, what is worrisome and economically dangerous is to abandon domestic products and depend solely on consumption of foreign products.” Advising government agencies to emulate NOA by buying made-in-Nigeria operations vehicle, Patari noted that it would help to encourage others to follow suit. She stated that there was need for manufacturers to match foreign standards by giving users quality products. “I want to commend the National Orientation Agency; we have official cars from Innoson, Made-in-Nigeria. At least NOA is showing a good example. Manufacturers putting foreign labels should be proud of Nigeria; they should be patriotic citizens. They should be proud of what we have in Nigeria; they should provide quality. If we improve our own, they will not bring theirs. Don’t cut corners,” Patari said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com