THE Federal Government has commenced moves to boost Nigeria’s green economy through the inauguration of a waste recycling project that will empower informal sector players to recycle plastic wastes. It said the ‘Cycle Plast Project’ would scale pet plastic waste collection in Nigeria, noting that this was being driven by the Nigeria Climate Innovation Centre and funded by The Coca-Cola Foundation. The NCIC is an agency created in 2018 by the World Bank and the Federal Government through the Office of the Vice President with the mandate to lead the growth of the Nigerian green economy. It was tasked to achieve this by developing and deploying solutions to climate change challenges with footprints in venture development, green investment opportunities and capacity building services to climate-smart entrepreneurs. The agency’s Chief Executive Officer, Bankole Oloruntoba, explained that Cycle Plast Project would significantly improve the number of pets collected and aggregated for recycling, empower and organise informal sector players in the plastic waste recycling communities in Nigeria. He stated that the programme would, over time, promote a plastic waste-free environment derived through modified behaviour and proper disposal habits of communities, while creating jobs and unlocking opportunities along the plastic waste recycling value chain of Nigeria. He said the programme was being inaugurated in five states including Kano, Adamawa, Kwara, Abia, Edo and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Oloruntoba said, “According to a 2021 plastic pollution by a country report published by the World Population Review, Nigeria was identified as the 7th largest country in the world generating plastic waste amounting to about 5.96 million tonnes annually with about 70 per cent ending up in landfills and waterways. “This project will engage the general public through innovative and disruptive behaviour change campaigns on consumption and disposal patterns of single-use pet plastic bottles with the aim of encouraging plastic consumers to responsibly dispose of their plastic waste to enhance and build an effective collection system.” He added, “The informal sector is responsible for about 70 per cent of the plastic collection rate of the country and needs to be supported to do more by digitising the sector and making it more inclusive and attractive for investments.” The President, TCCF, Saadia Madsbjerg, said the foundation was glad that the support would go a long way to improving collection across Nigeria and improving behaviour towards pet disposal in particular, and waste in general. “Our commitment to Africa remains strong as we continue to support systems and initiatives that seek to build economic and environmental resilience across the continent in partnership with like-minded stakeholders,” she stated. Also, the Director, Public Affairs, Communications and Sustainability, Coca-Cola Nigeria, Nwamaka Onyemelukwe, said his organisation was convinced that concerted efforts were required to preserve the environment, noting that “through collaboration and partnership, we believe our efforts will go a long way in ensuring a more sustainable environment.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com