A presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, Peter Obi; and Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State have urged the party to embrace justice, fairness, and equity in the selection of the candidate to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 presidential election, noting that Nigerians must make sacrifices to move the country forward. Obi, who was in Edo State on Wednesday, said Nigerians must make sacrifices to overcome the country’s current challenges so as to build a better and progressive Nigeria for citizens and future generations. He stated, “As you know, I am one of the people in my party aspiring to serve this country. My aspiration is borne out of the fact that our country is going through a lot of challenges.  We will need to all make sacrifices in building a better nation for our children. “We need somebody who is conversant with the realities because of the enormity of the problems besieging this country today. If the issues are not aggressively tackled from 2023, this country will not be there for all of us.” He further stressed that the foundation of development in a multi-ethnic and diverse society like Nigeria was unity, fairness, love, respect, and inclusiveness. On his part, Obaseki said the PDP must embrace justice, fairness, and equity in the selection of the candidate to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 presidential election. He noted, “We are very grateful and pleased that Peter Obi has found it fit to come and talk and consult us on his aspiration to be the President of Nigeria. As you know, Edo is the heartbeat of Nigeria. It’s strategically positioned, both physically and politically. “For us in Edo State, it’s about Nigeria first. Whatever we are doing politically must be the one that will strengthen and preserve our country. Our view is that this country cannot be preserved and sustained if there is no fairness and equity. “We need that unity; we need to realise that, as a country, we all must feel that we are part of this country and have access and opportunities like every one of us in this country. As we approach the 2023 elections, we must realise that for us to preserve our country, all parts of this country must feel included in politics.” Also, Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State said he met with members of the National Assembly’s  PDP Caucus on Monday to inform them of his ambition to be President in 2023. A post on the governor’s verified Facebook page stated, “On Tuesday evening (April 12, 2022), I shared my vision of a better Nigeria with members of the National Assembly Caucus of the PDP. “At both meetings with the Senate and the House of Representatives Caucuses, we all agreed that for hope to be restored in our country, men of proven integrity, character and experience should be given the opportunity to serve. “Our children and even generations unborn will never forgive us if in future they discover that in our time, we shied away from the responsibility of helping to reposition Nigeria. “I thank the members of the two caucuses for the reception they accorded me and my delegation and the heart-warming sentiments they expressed on my aspiration.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com