The Kaduna State Government has partnered data experts aimed at improving the data culture of the state by using evidenced-decision to solve human-related policy issues and delivery of good governance. The data revolution in the state, launched under the Click-On Kaduna Human Capital Development initiative, is being implemented by the Kaduna State Bureau of Statistics in partnership with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Natview Foundation for Technology Innovation. The Programme Director, NFTI, Nuradeen Maidoki while speaking at the 2022 Kaduna Datathon final where data Hackers from across Nigeria convened and pitched their solutions on Friday in the state capital, said the state government took a unique approach to solve the state’s numerous challenges in evidence-based decision making by developing the data revolution plan. This, Maidoki said, was aimed at strengthening the coordination in the collection and use of data for evidence-based decision making. According to him, evidence-based decision-making helps people make well-informed decisions about policies, programs, and projects by putting the best available evidence from research at the heart of policy development and implementation. “The plan has the human capital development around data science as one of its core objectives and this is where the Click-On Kaduna Programme comes in,” he said. He noted that in 2020, the state government launched the Data Science Fellowship Programme under the Click-On Kaduna brand to train young people in the state to become world-class data scientists and support its vision. In 2021, at least the 30 pioneer cohort of the Click-On Kaduna Data Science Fellowship completed their 6-month intensive training in data processing initiated by the state to groom young people into governance. This, according to Maidoki, the state government did as part of its commitment to improving the use of evidence for decision making, adding that “30 young people graduated from the training last December and these young data scientists have so far made immense contributions to some key Kaduna Bureau of Statistics projects.” The NFTI boss further stated that across the state public sector, there are several other problems that require the creativity of young people to deliver transformational change. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com