The Independent National Electoral Commission on Tuesday released the final list of candidates eligible to participate in the July 16 governorship election in Osun State. According to the list, the state governor, Gboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress and Senator Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party will slug it out with 13 other candidates. According to the commission, only 15 political parties will participate in the election. INEC had rejected the nominations of three parties -Action Alliance, African Democratic Congress and the All Progressives Grand Alliance. The commission cited failure of the parties to comply with the guidelines on political party operations (2018) or the constitution of as reasons. While AA did not submit a nomination jointly signed by the national chairman and secretary of the party, ADC and APGA nominated candidates that do not meet the age requirements for the office of deputy governor as enshrined in the constitution. INEC’s National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, in a statement, said the publication of the final list was due to close of nominations by parties and in compliance with the Electoral Act 2022. He said, “The commission wishes to remind political parties that under Section 32(2) of the Electoral Act 2022, any party that observes that the name of its candidate is missing from the list shall notify the commission in writing, signed by its National Chairman and Secretary, supported with an affidavit not later than 90 days to the election. “Furthermore, the attention of parties is drawn to Section 32(3) of the Electoral Act 2022, which provides that failure to notify the commission shall not be ground to invalidate the election. “The final list is published in our state and local government offices in Osun State as well as our website and social media platforms for public information as required by law.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com