A Peoples Democratic Party presidential aspirant and former Governor of Anambra State, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said Nigerians were not in need of a consensus candidate but a problem solver that can fix the country. Obi, who met with PDP delegates and other officials of the party in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, added that Nigerians were looking forward to having somebody capable of making the nation productive and pulling them out of poverty. He lamented that the country is presently insecure, saying that Nigeria is unproductive, collapsing and not unified. Obi stated, “Going by the enormity of Nigeria’s problems, the citizens are not looking for a consensus candidate. They are looking forward to somebody who will start solving their problems. “The firm duty of a leader is to be a problem solver. Nigerians are looking forward to somebody that can make Nigeria productive and start getting citizens to be pulled out of poverty. That’s what Nigerians are looking for, not consensus candidate. So, I want to correct that. “Even the Northerners; everybody has a problem in Nigeria. Nigeria of today is insecure, not unified and unproductive. “It is collapsing. They are looking for a fixer, somebody who will start creating wealth. Where you come from is important, because some people can say we are looking for equity and justification, which is necessary in a diverse country. “But most importantly, we want someone who will start creating wealth in the Nigeria. “You need to check my track record. I’m a trader. I have operated in the corporate world. I have been a governor. That’s the record you need to check. You don’t need to ask me. Just check my trajectory. And I have been everywhere in the world and I believe I can fix Nigeria. “I maintain that the PDP has array of candidates who are qualified and competent and everything.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com