A former Deputy Speaker of the Imo state House of Assembly and member representing Nkwerre/ Nwangele/Isu/Njaba Federal Constituency, Ugonna Ozurigbo, has dumped the ruling All Progressives Congress and joined the Peoples Democratic Party. Immediately he joined PDP, the federal lawmaker announced his intention to seek a second term in office. He made the declaration on Saturday at his Umuozu ward in the Nwangele LGA of the state. Joined by his political associates and supporters, Ozurigno said his reelection would further position his constituency for more dividends. The lawmaker is a political protege of a former of the state and presidential hopeful, Rochas Okorocha Ozurigbo’s media aide, Philip Dike, confirmed his principal’s defection in a statement on Sunday. The statement read in part, “The member representing Nkwerre/Isu/Nwangele/Njaba federal constituency Rt. Hon. Ozurigbo Ugonna, has finally declared his intention to run for a second term for the prime House of Representatives position with the Peoples Democratic Party. “This comes months after it has been touted that he was considering taking the position after a collectively accepted wonderful performance in his yet to be concluded the first term. “Speaking at his Umuozu Ward where the declaration took place, Hon. Ozurigbo made it known that his intention to run for a second term was on the basis of the huge development he has ushered into the federal constituency which he noted will even be surpassed in his second term. “Ozurigbo who is also the man to beat at the coming PDP Nkwerre/Isu/Nwangele/Njaba House of Representatives primaries, while speaking to the Four PDP LGA delegates at their various LGA headquarters promised to do his utmost best to bring back the lost glory of PDP by ensuring the party comes first at the General elections. “He noted that this would only happen if the delegates made the right decision of sending a tested and trusted candidate to represent them rather than dwelling on dismissable prejudice of sectional positioning.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com