A presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, Aminu Tambuwal, has said he possessed the characteristics required to lead Nigeria. According to Tambuwal, he is the best presidential candidate Nigerians will elect during the 2023 election. Tambuwal said this Wednesday evening during an interactive meeting with a Forum of former Ministers of the Federal Republic of Nigeria under the platform of the PDP at Asokoro, Abuja. “What is key for PDP is a candidate that we can all work to sale together and win this election, not where the person is coming from,” the Governor of Sokoto told the former leaders of the country. Explaining that his quest for the topmost job in the country is driven by altruism, patriotism and unity of the nation, he said “it is nothing personal. It is all about our country.” Burnishing his tripodal credentials that cut across the executive, legislature and judiciary, he emphasised that he has a fair understanding of the country, where, unfortunately, “things are now getting worse.” To remedy the situation, he reiterated the need for the PDP to have a credible candidate like himself “who have done quite a lot in Sokoto, in view of the resources at the administration’s disposal,” enumerating some of these achievements as prompt payment of salary, pension and the overhauling of healthcare delivery, education and more. “I have an understanding of the Nigerian system today and can be bridge that is all-round,” he reassures, pointing out that Nigerians are now “in a ship without a captain and it is clearly sinking.” He offered that the antidote to this is for the “collective and collectivity of all in the PDP and Nigerians who understand the gravity of what is going on” to come together and salvage the country. This, he opined “can be done only through “processes and conventions that will throw up a credible candidate.” Earlier in his remarks, the Chairman of the Ministers’ Forum, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki (SAN), said the group agreed to have this sensitive interactive session with him “because 2023 is a very serious business.” Turaki, who said the Forum had turned down similar requests from other aspirants, said “there’s a failure of leadership in the country.