A former governor of Anambra State, Dr Chukwuemeka Ezeife, has advised the Federal Government to release the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. Speaking to our correspondent in Awka, on Sunday, Ezeife insisted that the current insecurity challenge in Anambra State and the entire South-East is as a result of the continuous detention of the IPOB leader. He urged the South-East governors, concerned Igbo leaders and the Federal Government to collaborate and seek the quick release of Kanu. He said, “The insecurity bedevilling Anambra State today has its root on Kanu’s detention which was why I, together with other concerned Igbo elders, have taken it upon ourselves to consult with the Federal Government and demand his unconditional release. “We are also meeting today (Sunday) to deliberate on modalities in pursuit of our efforts to secure Kanu’s release unconditionally.” He also advised Governor Chukwuma Soludo to handle the issue of IPOB with utmost care. The Bishop, Diocese of Awka, Anambra State, Most Revd. Alexander Ibezim, commended the peace and justice committee set up by the governor, adding that the most effective way to end the wanton killings and destructions of properties in the region is the release of Kanu. He said he was optimistic that the IPOB leader would be released next month judging by the way ongoing negotiations among various concerned Igbo leaders and the Federal Government. He said, “God will touch the leadership of Nigeria to release him so that this calamity that is taking place in the South-East will end. By this time next month or anytime in the month of May, we hope he will be released and there will be peace in Eastern Nigeria and Anambra State. “I’m not a politician but a prophet and when a prophet speaks, things happen.  It is time that injustice cease to exist in Nigeria. Injustice, killings and calamities will cease in southeast and Nigeria.” The state chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Venerable Joseph Nweke, stated, “The sooner they release Kanu, the better for us but the longer the delay, the worst for our security system.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com