Ramadan is here again, a holy month when Muslim faithful across the globe dedicate to fasting and praying as well as increasing their spiritual commitment to the Almighty Allah. Ramadan is particularly important to Muslim marriage couples also as it acts as a period of refinement and devotion to the fundamental principles guiding their Islamic union. Marriage constructs the main aspects of society and establishes the family structure. During the month of Ramadan, married couples are expected to practice self-control and observe the acts of patience, tolerance, kindness and most importantly the fundamental principle of love according to the teachings of Islam. Muslim couples are encouraged to look after each other and pay attention to each other’s feelings during Ramadan even though the period also forbids any form of intimacy which explains the importance of self-discipline and a deep reflection of faith in their personal and marital lives. Faith builds stronger relationship Faith is important in Islamic marriage and studies show that couples who practise similar faiths are more likely to build a strong relationship based on the principles of their faith. Such couples can focus on meeting each other’s needs and the purpose of their creator for their marriage. Ramadan provides the opportunity for couples who desire to re-dedicate themselves and present tricky situations in marriage to their creator with the hope that peace will return into their marriage again. For couples in interfaith marriage, Ramadan presents the perfect occasion to introduce your partner to share in your faith. If he/she is still on the journey of faith discovery, there is no better time to familiarise your partner with your faith than the period of Ramadan. Practise peace and compassion Marriages have special significance during the period of Ramadan and the benefits that come with it are immeasurable. In general, couples’ behaviours might suffer periodic changes during Ramadan leaving a spouse feeling irritable due to the changes in their daily routine. However, the serenity experienced during this period expresses the importance of understanding and compassion instead of criticism and conflict. Couples often build on this attitude even after the fasting period which is important in sustaining a happy and stable relationship. The period of Ramadan can be a wonderful way to give up unreasonable behaviours and obsessions that are non-gratifying by committing yourselves to fasting, praying and self-reflection reminding yourself of the things that matter most which is love, peace and togetherness. Let love dominate your acts Ramadan periods bring many wonderful messages of hope and comfort into the hearts of those who feel discouraged and others that may be going through one form of hardship or another. Sharing foods with families and friends and giving alms to the disadvantaged in the community are one of the memorable attributes of Ramadan which brings people together in the spirit of love, faith, and unity. As you continue in the spirit of Ramadan, the holy period dedicated to fasting and self- cleansing for spiritual attainment, irrespective of your religion or belief, it is vital to reflect and appreciate the purpose of Ramadan as well as embrace the spirit of love and peace. Think about the choices you make during this month and always remember to put love first wherever you go. Ramadan Kareem!  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com