Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, has given political appointees and public servants in his administration two days to resign if they have an interest in contesting any position in the 2023 general election. The Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the Bauchi State governor, Mukhtar Gidado, disclosed this in a statement made available to journalists on Wednesday night. He said that the governor’s directive to the appointees was contained in a circular issued by the Secretary to the Bauchi State Government, Ibrahim Kashim. Gidado said, “His Excellency, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, CON, (Kauran Bauchi) the Executive Governor of Bauchi State has directed that all political appointees and public servants in the Bauchi State Government who are vying for political offices in the forth-coming general election should tender their letters of resignation to the Secretary to the State Government on or before Friday, 8th April 2022. “This directive is in compliance with the electoral Act 2022 which provides that political appointees and other public servants aspiring for political offices in the 2023 general election are to resign their appointments 30 days before the conduct of Primary elections in respect of the specific posts they are aspiring for. “The directive is contained in a circular issued by the office of the Secretary to the Bauchi State Government. “It also directed Honourable Commissioners wishing to contest to hand over their offices to the Permanent Secretaries of their respective ministries, while other political office holders should, accordingly, hand over government property in their possessions to the Permanent Secretary, General Services, Office of the Head of Civil Service, Bauchi.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com