The mother of the late gospel singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu, Mrs Oriaku Nmadu, has lamented the extent of abuse suffered by the deceased from her husband, Peter Nwachukwu, saying the singer’s spouse never allowed his late wife enjoy all what she laboured for. This is as she also called for justice over the death of her daughter, who reportedly died as a result of physical abused suffered from her husband, now arrested and in police custody. Nmadu, who hails from Isuochi Umunneochi Local Government Area of Abia State, also advised single ladies to be careful while selecting their spouses. The deceased’s mother who spoke with members of the Nigeria Association of Women Journalists in Abia State, said her heart was still bleeding as a result of her daughter’s untimely death. She said, “When Nwachukwu came for my daughter’s hand in marriage, he presented himself as a pastor from Anambra State. But shortly after the marriage, Nwachukwu shut the doors to our entire family and completely possessed my daughter. “My daughter went through hell in the hands of Nwachukwu. My daughter had four children and I could not go for omugwo (baby sitting) for any of the children because her husband would not want to see any member of Osinachi’s family.” She recalled that there was an instance the singer fell sick and the husband refused any family member to check on her until after much pressure from Osinachi’s friends before Nwachukwu allowed her to vist the deceased in their home in Abuja. During her stay, she recalled an occasion after church service which the husband abandoned her and his late wife and drove home with the children. “That Sunday after church service as we were waiting for Peter Nwachukwu, he came out and ordered his children into the car, he drove off leaving me and my daughter behind. “I was shocked, because it was a well wisher that gave my daughter that car. Still yet, instead of Osinachi to complain, she rushed out and got a taxi that drove us home. “Another car a fan gave Osinachi for Gods work, Peter took the vehicle and started driving it. At every slight of misunderstanding, he abandons his wife at any point and drive away. “He never allowed the wife to enjoy the fruit of her labour.” She said Osinachi’s children are now with one of her daughters while she appealed to NAWOJ to help her get justice. The bereaved mother used the occasion to call on young ladies looking for husband to thoroughly study the kind of man they are about to marry to avoid falling into the wrong hands. “Osinachi believed in the christain injunction that says marriage is for better for worse and that was why she endured the marriage thinking that Peter Nwachukwu will change but unfortunately my daughter died.” Reacting to the incident, the Abia State Chairman of NAWOJ, Beatrice Odoemelem, described the untimely death of the gospel singer as devastating, adding that the deceased was known for her melodious voice and inspirational songs. She assured Osinachi’s mother that NAWOJ with Abia Ministry of women Affairs will not relent until justice is served. While she appealed to men to adore their wives and stop battery and violence against women. On her part, the Abia State Secretary of NAWOJ, Henrietta Ashikodi, aslo called on families to be a lifeline support to their female children facing abuse in their matrimonial homes. She said the abuse melted on the late Osinachi by her husband were well known by members of her family and friends but they all appeared helpless in saving her till death came calling. “Is time women speak out, you do not have to die the way Osinachi died. Let be our brothers keeper, let the world know when a woman who is helpless is been abused, by this we are avoiding untimely death of innocent wives and mothers,” she added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com