Federal Government has eased the limitation on religious gatherings and other events in Nigeria. This was contained in a document released by the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19 on Wednesday. The PUNCH had reported that the committee on COVID-19 had in December 2021 limited indoor religious gatherings, weddings and other events to 50 per cent with full compliance to public health measures. This is after the country recorded 3,142 deaths from 255,468 cases since the start of the pandemic, according to data obtained from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control website. Though the limitation on the number of persons and 50 per cent limit on persons attending religious gatherings was also lifted, attendees must use face masks. In a document dated April 2, the Presidential Steering Committee said the COVID-19 rules were reviewed as a result of the declining number of cases, reduced risk of importation of new variants, as well as the increasing number of people vaccinated in Nigeria and globally. “Use of face mask to be mandatory for indoor activities but at individual’s discretion during outdoor activities,” part of the document read. “No limitation on air travels – both domestic and international flights; Both international and domestic travelers must abide by all existing protocols including the use of face mask while on board and taking personal precaution measures; and No limitations on inter or intra-state travel. “However it is advisable to continue measures that will reduce congestion in office spaces such as virtual meetings, working from home or on-and-off days. “Limitation on number of persons and 50% limit on persons attending religious gatherings is lifted. Face masks must continue to be used in all indoor religious gatherings. “All recreational venues, gyms and indoor sports facilities are allowed to open at 50% capacity. “Limitation on number of persons attending informal and formal festivity events including weddings, conferences, congresses, office parties, seminars, end of year events has been lifted.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com