The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency may soon be launching a full-scale investigation into the circumstances surrounding the sinking of a gunboat in Lagos. Recall that NIMASA/Barugu, one of the gun boats in the fleet of Global West Vessels Specialists, had sunk on Sunday in the Kirikiri area of Lagos State. The boat was alleged to have been parked at the Kirikiri Terminal, behind NIMASA Resource Center. In the video circulating online, seafarers onboard the adjoining vessels blame NIMASA for negligence, saying that they have been reporting the impending disaster to NIMASA for a long time However, in a document seen by our correspondent on Tuesday, the agency said that arrangements to mitigate against pollution of the marine environment around the Kirikiri axis were being made, noting that the area had been marked as dangerous. A staff member of NIMASA, who pleaded anonymity, confirmed that all crew members on board the ill-fated boat were safe. “NIMASA can confirm that the crew onboard are safe, and preliminary arrangements to mititate against pollution of the marine environment around the Kirikiri axis are being made, while signing the area as dangerous to warn other users of the channel. “Also worthy of note is that the agency will be launching on extensive investigation into the circumstances that led to the sinking of a stationary vessel in a sheltered anchorage, free of the pearls of the sea and weather interference, in an unimaginable short time while crew members cheered on like fans in stadium watching Arsenal maul Manchester United at the Emirates. NIMASA as an Agency of Government remains committed to her statutory responsibility of administering safety and regulating the industry within the ambit of every legal framework.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com