The President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, has said that investment in agriculture and oil sectors will boost economic growth. A statement said he spoke when he led board members of Dangote Group on a visit to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (rted.), at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He also said the group  would always hold on to the President’s mantra on the economy to “produce what we consume and consume what we produce.” “With more investments in agriculture and oil and gas sectors, greater impact would be made on the economy,” he said. The board, he noted, was at the State House to express appreciation to the President for the honour to the Dangote Group when he commissioned the new 3m MTPD fertiliser plant, which was the latest subsidiary company of the Dangote Industries Limited. He said, “We also seize the opportunity to reiterate our immense gratitude for the sustained effort of your administration through various policy initiatives aimed at progressively improving the business environment and investment climate, despite some unprecedented challenges our economy has been confronted with over the past decade. “We are also deeply grateful for your direct interventions at various times when our operations were challenged by some unintended consequences of economic policy positions. Your interventions have not only helped to resolve business challenges but have been a source of great encouragement in our determination to continue to invest in our economy for the benefit of our country and our people.” Dangote said the board looked forward to the return of Buhari to commission the oil refineries and petrochemicals project, which would transform the Nigerian economy. “Through the outputs of our various businesses, our group is proud to be making significant contributions to the diversification and growth of our nation’s economy, which is second only to Federal Government in the size of our workforce,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com