The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday, enjoined Nigerians not to give up in the face of troubling challenges besetting the nation. In his 2022 Easter message to Nigerians, Buhari expressed optimism that Nigeria would soon overcome its uncertainty and insecurity problems. He called on Nigerians to continue showing love to one another, eschew hate, and also be patriotic for the greater good of society. “Easter evokes in us the resilience of the human spirit not to give up in the face of seemingly daunting challenges of life,” Buhari remarked. “This period emboldens us to believe that the current spate of uncertainty and insecurity will soon unfold a season of the triumph of good over evil; hope over despair, and light over darkness,” he said. The President also urged Nigerians, in the spirit of the season, to demonstrate ”love for one another, rather than hate – and show more patriotism, as this is the only country we have”. “I enjoin us, therefore, to live out the eternal words of Jesus Christ on the cross where he said, ‘‘Father, forgive them for they know not what they are doing.’’ “Let us remember that the scriptural emphasis of love has so much relevance for us today as a nation more than ever before,’’ Buhari adjured. Describing this year’s celebration as very unique for Christendom in Nigeria and all around the globe, the President acknowledged the 40-day Lent period as an opportune moment ”where the faithful is expected to fast, pray, assist the poor, abhor injustice and strife, give alms, and penitently engage in self-examination and repentance of sins”. “Similar values apply to the Muslim faithful, currently about halfway into the holy month of Ramadan. “For us – as a nation, the message of Easter, which commemorates the resurrection of Jesus Christ after crucifixion and burial, reminds us of the power of divine love, faith and redemption. “As we approach another season of electioneering, let the security and unity of the nation guide our actions and utterances. “I wish all Nigerians a joyful and blessed Easter,’’ the President summed. Hitherto, the Federal Government, in a statement signed on Tuesday by its Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, through the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Dr Shuaib Belgore, issued the Easter holiday timeline. The statement had highlighted Friday, April 15, 2022 (Good Friday) and Monday (Easter Monday), April 18, 2022, as public holidays – in commemoration of the Easter celebrations across the 36 states of the federation, and the Federal Capital Territory. NAN