Cyril Dessers will be up against fellow countrymen Peter Olayinka and Yira Sor when Feyenoord host Slavia Prague in the quarter-final of the UEFA Europa Conference League encounter on Thursday (today) at the De Kuip stadium in Rotterdam, PUNCH Sports Extra. Feyenoord cruised past Partizan Belgrade to reach this stage, while Slavia Prague beat LASK Linz in a dramatic two-legged affair. It will be the third time both teams will be meeting in the competition this season. Feyenoord picked up four points off Slavia Prague when both teams clashed in the group stages of the competition. The first meeting with Slavia came at home last September with the Dutch outfit prevailing 2-1, thanks to goals from Orkun Kokcu and Bryan Linssen, before forcing a creditable draw in the reverse fixture in the Czech capital. Dessers is the second joint-highest scorer in the competition with six goals from 11 shots on target in eight games and will be aiming to add to his tally today. Ola Solbakken of  Bodø/Glimt is the other player with six goals while AS Roma’s Tammy Abraham leads the chart with seven. The 27-year-old currently on a season loan from Belgian side Genk, has bagged 14 goals and five assists in 37 games. Olayinka and Sor, who were both on target for Sparta Prague when they defeated LASK Linz 4-1, will be aiming to add to their tally in the competition. Olayinka has scored three goals in eight appearances in the competition, while Sor has goals in four games. At the King Power stadium, Kelechi Iheanacho is expected to keep his place in Leicester City’s starting line-up when they host PSV today in the first leg quarter-final tie. Iheanacho was on target for the Foxes in their 1-1 draw at Manchester United last Saturday. The Nigerian has scored seven goals and made nine assists in 37 games so far this season in all competition for the Foxes.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com