Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre has charged political parties to allow for transparent primaries to enable popular candidates to emerge as candidates. The Executive Director, CISLAC, Auwal Musa, gave the charge during the training of select journalists in political integrity and political accountability financing issues held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital. Musa, who doubles as the head, Transparency International, Nigeria, frowned on a situation where moneybags push their way through to become leaders, because of the illicit money at their disposal and end up denying the people good governance. He said the country would not achieve the needed development if the political system was not free from those he described as political financiers, who were using illicit money to buy up political processes. Musa said the situation had played out at the local, state and national levels, adding, “Already, as far as they are concerned, they have given you N1,000 or N2,000 to get in there. “Therefore, they will not be accountable to you and you will not see any good governance. Not to talk of an improved healthcare system, improved education or improved transport facility, even security that affects them will not be realised.” He said CISLAC would continue to work with the civil society and the media to demand for political accountability in Nigeria. He stated, “We will not allow our country to be spending huge amounts of taxpayers’ money to conduct elections where only crooks and criminals, and people who have no accountability in their mindsets to be the ones to take over. “We will insist that there must be proper accountability. Transparency cannot be undermined in the political process generally. “Therefore, we are insisting that party primaries must be conducted within the transparency and internal democracy component. Otherwise, a lot of people, who are supposed to be there, will not be able to go, because they have no stolen money to buy votes.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com