The All Progressives Grand Alliance has said there is no factional chairman in the party and that anyone parading  as such is a  fraudster. Addressing journalists in Awka, on Saturday, the National Coordinator, APGA Media Warriors Forum, Mr Chinedu Obigwe, stated that the only chairman of the party was Chief Victor Oye. Obigwe, who described APGA as the third largest political party in the country, accused some members, including one Edozie Njoku and Nicholas Ukachukwu, as those behind the rumours of a faction in the party. He said, “They are only good at making noise during election seasons and after elections, nobody will hear from them again. No court in Nigeria gave judgment in favour of Edozie Njoku that empowered him to be parading himself as the factional chairman of APGA. The record is there in INEC and the only person recognised as the national chairman of APGA by the electoral body is Victor Oye. “Njoku’s macabre dance is stupidity of the highest order. He is not APGA’s national chairman and will never be. Glory be to God that Governor Chukwuma Soludo understands the political terrain in Nigeria and that he is not a neophyte. He cannot fall for the antics of Njoku and his sponsors.” He gave an assurance that APGA would continue waxing stronger under the leadership of Oye with the unflinching support of the members, adding that he would ensure that the party made an inroad in other states in the forthcoming general elections. “Njoku is an impostor who does not have the locus standi to dissolve APGA state working committees. He is only fooling himself and also planning to use his claim of being the factional national chairman of APGA to defraud aspirants interested in contesting the forthcoming 2023 general elections,’’ he alleged. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com