ANIMASHUN SALMAN writes on the agony of residents of the Gidan Magana area in the Shagari Local Government Area of Sokoto State, where a boat accident recently claimed lives of 29 passengers The death of a child is not what parents will ever wish as the agony will forever be etched in their memories. The household of Mallam Ibrahim Sani, who lost five siblings to the boat accident that occurred on Tuesday last week at Gidan Magana, Sokoto State and families of other victims, are still mourning the death of 29 people that died in the accident. Also hit by the tragedy is Mallam Magaji Muhammad, whose four children died in the accident. Sani in an emotion-laden voice in an interview with our correspondent described the unfortunate incident as one too many. Mallam Sani stated, “I was relaxing behind the house here when someone just rushed to me shouting that a boat accident just occurred and all the passengers  drowned in the process. “Although I did not know when they (the children) left but I was aware that they would go to the next village as usual.  I left them at home, so I did not know when they left. “Immediately, I saw everyone running towards the river side and I joined them in the rescue mission. “In actual fact, I couldn’t join them in the river as I was just sitting down close by watching the rescue mission. All the children in our compound were involved in the accident. “When they brought all of them out and I saw the corpses of my children lying down on the ground. You can only imagine the situation. “The driver of the boat, according to findings, tried all his possible best, looking for assistance but all efforts to avoid the accident were not successful. “I lost Mariam, Habiba, Umar, Atiku and Farida to the unfortunate incident. They all went to go and fetch firewood from the other village (Falke) but all of them  met their untimely death.” Sani, however, said he had accepted his fate on the development as one of those things that would happen to a true believer. He commended the state Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, for taking time out of his busy schedule in Abuja to commiserate with the people of the village. Also narrating his experience, Mallam Magaji Muhammad, who also lost four of his children in the accident, described the day as the worst in  his life. He said he was sleeping at home when people woke him up to tell him about the accident which unfortunately claimed the lives of his four children. Muhammad said he was aware of their usual journey to the next village through the river but was not informed of the trip on the said day. “I knew they normally went to the next village to buy firewood and sell here in our village but on that day, I was sleeping at home when they left. “When we all rushed there, the boat had already capsized and all the passengers who were on board without  jackets were drowned,  except  one little girl who was rescued. “Even as I am talking to you now, the boy that drove the boat has not been seen till. “Our belief is that when he saw the extent of the accident, he ran away. Though, he also has two siblings  among the victims. “The oldest one among my children was about 18 years old, while the youngest one was about eight years. Their names were Hawau, Aisha, Aminat and Khadija.” Muhammad, while appreciating the Sokoto State Government led by Tambuwal and his Deputy, Manir Dan’Iya, for their prompt condolence visit, appealed to the government to make available live jackets for the boat passengers. He said the only means of transportation to the next village (Falke) was through the river as there was  no road network in the area. He however maintained that despite the accident, residents of the community could not  abandon the water transportation in the area. While confirming the incident, on Tuesday evening, the Chairman of the Local Government Area, Aliyu Dantani told newsmen in a telephone conversation on Wednesday that no fewer 29 teenagers were killed. According to him, although the total number of passengers in the boat was not known, 29 corpses  including five children had so far been recovered. He added that officials of the local government and members of the communities went in search of the missing persons. “We recovered 29 people so far. Twenty of them were females while six were males. They were all young people. Earlier in his remarks, the District Head of the community, Alhaji Abubakar, said he got  information from the Magaji of Gidan Magana, that a boat had all accident and all the passengers  drowned. He said he alongside elders of the community quickly mobilised local divers to help rescue the victims. He denied the rumour that the boat capacity was overstretched with the passengers on board. “Honestly, the boat capacity is more than 12 they are talking about. The boat is a big one, I believe you have seen it yourself.” “According to the information I gathered, all the passengers on board including the driver were 31, while the driver ran away after the accident.  We were able to rescue only one girl alive while the corpses of the remaining 29 people had been buried in accordance with the Islamic rites.” When asked if there were adults on board the boat before the accident, he said the eldest one among them was 18 years old, while the majority of them were between ages 8 and 13. “Where he had the accident, there was this date palm and there was a sign of no way in the area, but I believe maybe the driver did not see it or maybe the sign was no more there before the boat had a collision with the tree. He further called for the construction of a motorable road between Dadin-Mahe and Gidan-Magana, to aid the movement of the people of the area. Abubakar Tudun was one of the local divers who immediately after the accident dived into the water for the rescue mission. He said the incident happened in a deep area which affected the rescue. He said the cry of the villagers alerted him to the riverside and being an experienced diver, he had to join others in the rescue mission. “I had to look for a jerry can which I climbed to enter the water and I was able to rescue the only survivor. “When we got the information, all the passengers were already inside the water as the boat had tumbled already. “I tried all my possible best before I could rescue the only survivor.” Tundun further confirmed that the boat hit a date palm inside the water which resulted in the fatal accident which claimed 29 lives. Talking about the fleeing driver of the boat, he said efforts were being made to locate his whereabouts before he caused or harmed himself in his hideout. Meanwhile, the state Emergency Management Agency has faulted the villagers on the capacity of the boat which capsised and killed 29 teenagers. While reacting to the incident, the Director disaster management SEMA, Mallam Abubakar Umar, said the boat was originally designed to carry 12 passengers, but there were 31 passengers on board. Talking about the safety jackets promised by the governor over a year now, Umar said it had not been delivered to the office of SEMA. He however assured that the agency had sent a new memo to the appropriate authority to ensure quick release of the safety jackets and other safety equipment to avert such calamity in future. While commiserating with the relatives and people of the state, President Muhammadu Buhari, lamented the death of 29 people in the boat accident. In a statement by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, the President expressed condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in the accident. Buhari sympathised with the Village Head and other residents. Tambuwal also condoled with the people of Gidan Magama over the accident. Tambuwal applauded those who helped in rescuing some travellers in the ill-fated boat, thereby helping in reducing the casualties.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com