THE 1980-1983 set of Faculty of Law, University of Lagos, Alumni Association, will be celebrating its 13th to 15th combined annual reunion in Lagos from April 8-10, 2022. Tagged “Eko 2020-2022,” the reunion will hold at The Radisson Blu Hotel, 38-40, Isaac John Street, Ikeja GRA, Lagos, Nigeria. The highlights of the event with the theme “Celebrating 40 plus years of Friendship” starts with a welcome party on Friday, April 8  whilst the Annual General Meeting holds on Saturday, April 9. The reunion will end with a grand finale dinner same day. There will be a thanksgivings service on Sunday, April 10 at the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Rose of Sharon, Adekunle Fajuyi Way, Ikeja GRA, for Christians, while Muslim members will hold prayers at the Raddison Blu Mosque within the Radisson Blu Hotel premises. A release jointly signed by the Chairman, Local Organising Committee, Hon. Justice Idowu Alakija, and the National Publicity Secretary, Francis Effanga,  stated that the event would have in attendance all members of the UNILAG flagship Law  Class, both at home and abroad. Amongst  the invited guests are the  class’ former lecturer  on Law of Evidence,  now the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,  ProfYemi Osinbajo, SAN GCON;  the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila; a member of the flagship Law Class, the Executive Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, amongst other dignitaries. Other dignitaries expected are the Vice- Chancellor, University of Lagos, President of the Alumni Association and President of Channels TV, Dr. John Momoh, OON; the Dean, Faculty of Law and other renowned  Professors of Law from UNILAG. The Class President, Hon. Justice Mobolaji Ojo, who is expected to hand over to a new President at the AGM on Saturday, April 9, said the Eko 2020 to 2022 Reunion  would provide a unique opportunity for the closely knit flagship class to celebrate and meet again  after almost three years of break due to COVID-19 pandemic and it would give the class another opportunity  to  discuss latest legal and other social developments from around the world and discuss further ways of assisting the Law Faculty. Activities for the reunion week starts on April 6 with a courtesy visit to the Faculty of Law so as to hold a meeting with the current  Dean of Law and the Faculty Management and a visit to the President, UNILAG Alumni Association, Dr. John Momoh.Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com