A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Chief Alex Otti, has declared his intentions to contest the 2023 governorship election in Abia State. Otti, who made his intentions known on Sunday in Umuahia, the state capital, said his declaration, which coincided with the Easter celebration, would mark the end of the crucifixion of Abia State. He alleged that the economic woes facing the state stem from the choice of bad leaders foisted on the people of the state by the political class. The former banker revealed that his quest to change the political trajectory of the state informed his decision to leave his flourishing banking career as a Managing Director to join politics in 2013. Otti added that his efforts to take over the leadership of the state had experienced strong opposition from political kingmakers, who foiled his election in 2015 and 2019 by invading the Independent National Electoral Commission zonal head office in Umuahia and the burning of two of her Local Government offices to destroy evidence that he won the election. He said he was not deterred by the challenges of his past efforts to transform the state because Abia was still lagging behind among many states in the country in terms of development. “We have resolved to bring change to Abia State by pursuing clear economic policies that will bring prosperity to Abians. “We plan to reduce the unemployment rate of the state which is currently 53% above the 31% national average by restoring moribund industries in the state and building new ones. “We intend to respect the principle of separation of power among the three tiers of government to allow check and balances and good governance. “We will provide quality education with an emphasis on youth empowerment for a productive economy. “We will pursue infrastructural development and take Abia from one of the dirtiest states in the country to one of the cleanest in Nigeria,” Otti said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com