The Serving Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church, Pastor Tunde Bakare, has said irrespective of location, Nigerians will be proud to identify with their country if he is elected as president in the 2023 elections. The cleric gave the assurance during a virtual meeting tagged ‘Unveiling Project 16 to Nigerians in Diaspora’, with the theme ‘The portrait of a new Nigeria’, organised by the PTB4Nigeria in diaspora group on Saturday. Bakare, who declared his intention to contest the 2023 presidential election during the meeting, was a running mate in 2011 to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), under the platform of Congress for Progressive Change. Speaking on his plans if elected as president, the cleric noted that his administration will make the “New Nigeria” dream a reality. He said, “The message is simply “A New Nigeria for Every Nigerian.” The sixteenth dispensation will be about making the New Nigeria the reality of every Nigerian. This is what the PTB brand stands for. “It means that no part of our nation – North, South, East or West – should feel marginalised in Nigeria. “It means that no matter where you are in the world, the power and wealth of the Nigerian nation will be deployed for your protection and benefit. “It means that every Nigerian will be proud to say “I am a Nigerian.” Bakare added that the current challenges facing the country remain an opportunity for the right individuals to take mantle of leadership in the country. “The factors that have thus far shaped our national trajectory are converging towards a tipping point. I am confident that “the darkest nights produce the brightest stars.” “The worsening challenges that now confront us as a nation on the eve of the sixteenth dispensation are indicators of an opportunity for the emergence of stellar nation-builders at home and in the diaspora. Now is the time and this is the moment for such nation-builders to work towards one objective: the emergence of a New Nigeria. “Inspired by my childhood dream and in line with my trajectory in bringing together the best of the North and the best of the South, it would be the honour and privilege of my life to facilitate this coalition of nation-builders as we collectively take the sixteenth step or leap towards the Nigeria of our dreams. “As I have said in times past, the best dreams come to pass when you are awake. It is the dawn of a new day in Nigeria and I am willing and prepared to rise to the occasion.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com