The Interim Administrator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Col. Milland Dikio (retd.), has asserted that intellectual approach rather than violent methods in the Niger Delta struggle will attract better deals to the region. Dikio made the assertion while delivering a keynote address on the topic, ‘Peace: A priceless asset for Niger Delta growth and development,’ at the inaugural edition of the Boyloaf annual lecture, formal launch of the Boyloaf Foundation and 50th birthday celebration of Ebikabowei Victor-Ben also known as ‘General’ Boyloaf in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. He remarked that peace remained indispensable in the quest to make the Niger Delta the safest place to live and do business. Dikio said the struggle for a better deal for the region could be achieved if there was a change of approach and tactics. He said, “Can we change tactics? Can we rely more on brain power than muscle power? We need to review our approach so we can attract better deals. What we need here is peace and development of the region. This can happen if we showcase what we have. “It is when you are buoyant that you can negotiate. It is when you are buoyant that you can make projections for development. The Niger Delta will be the best place to live and do business in Nigeria.” The PAP boss, who said he was excited about the achievements of Victor-Ben after leaving the creeks and dropping his weapons, urged him to continue to be a worthy example and lead the way for others to follow. He also commended Boyloaf and other ex-creek warlords for their efforts which brought the attention of the world to the issues affecting the region, adding that there was still a lot to be done for the Niger Delta. Dikio further said, “Ebikabowei Victor-Ben, Tompolo, Bibopere Ajube and others have fought their own battles. This generation and future generations will also have their own battles to fight. “The present and future battles cannot be fought the same way; they are more intellectual and economic battles than muscle. We need to prepare and get into the space where we can win and win for the region and Nigeria in general.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com