Former President Goodluck Jonathan, state governors and former Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki, on Friday in their various Easter messages preached the message of hope, peace and tolerance to Nigerians. They congratulated Christians across the country on the remembrance of the death and ascension of Jesus Christ. Jonathan stated this in his Easter message in which he charged Nigerians to act in faith towards God and fellow citizens, and be confident that the nation would overcome its current challenges. He further noted that Easter teaches hope, forgiveness and love and urged Nigerians to “pursue peace at all times and work towards resolving our common challenges.” The former president wrote: “I celebrate with Nigerian Christians and others across the world on this year’s Easter. This should be a moment of sober reflection on the many lessons of the death and resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ.” Also, former President of the Senate, Saraki and his family congratulated Christians across the nation “as they celebrate Easter”. In a statement by his Media Office in Abuja, Saraki, who is also a former governor of Kwara State, stated that this year’s Easter celebration, which also coincided with the Holy Month of Ramadan, was a critical intersection of Nigeria’s two major religions. He said, “Let us all remember that though we are of different faiths and religious practices, as Nigerians, we share common values and collective national aspirations. We all want our families and communities to be safe; we all want a thriving economy, and we all want a nation with ample opportunities for everyone.” Akeredolu urges Christians to show forgiveness, love In his Easter message, the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, urged Christians in the state to reflect on the reason for the season by showing love, forgiveness and compassion to one another. Akeredolu, in his Easter message, issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Richard Olatunde, admonished the people to reinforce their trust and hope for greater Nigeria. The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in his Easter message, called on Christians in the state to emulate Christ’s virtues of love, peace and sacrifice. Sanwo-Olu made this call in the message on Friday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile. The governor implored Nigerians, especially Christians, to use the occasion to seek the face of God for continuous peace in Lagos State and end to insurgency and other insecurity challenges in Nigeria. Similarly, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has felicitated with Christians on the celebration of Easter, urging them to emulate Jesus Christ by making sacrifices that will advance the course of development. In the same vein, the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has enjoined Christians across the country to emulate the virtues of tolerance, love and selflessness as espoused by Jesus Christ in commemoration of Good Friday. Obaseki gave the charge in a message to mark Good Friday, a Christian holiday in preparation for the Easter celebration. However, Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel, charged the church to rise to it divine responsibilities of helping the government to shape up the society and upholding leaders in prayers. He gave the charge on Friday at Qua Iboe Church, 2 Abak Road, Uyo, where he, in company of his wife, Dr Martha Emmanuel, and members of the state Executive Council, attended a special Good Friday service, to commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus Christ.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com