The Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs has announced that 1443AH Ramadan will start in the country on Saturday, April 2, 2022. The NSCIA President-General and Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, announced this on Friday in a broadcast. He said the new moon of Ramadan was sighted in different parts of the country and that reports of the moon sighting were received from Muslim leaders and organisations across the country. “After due verification and authentication by the national moon sighting committee and states committees’ confirmation, as well as routine scrutiny, I hereby announce the sighting of the new moon of Ramadan signifies the end of Sha’aban 1443 AH. ”In accordance with Islamic law, Muslim ummah is to commence fasting on Saturday accordingly,” he said. The Sultan enjoined Muslim faithful to devote themselves fully to the worship of Allah throughout the holy month, urging them to use the period to pray for the progress, peace and prosperity of the nation. He called for sustained prayers for leaders to enable them to lead the country to prosperity. “We further call on Nigerians to continue to live peacefully with one another irrespective of religious and tribal difference,” he added. Abubakar further urged wealthy individuals to assist the poor and stressed the need for increased religious tolerance and brotherhood in Nigeria. Meanwhile, the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan also starts on Saturday in Saudi Arabia and some Arab countries. Ramadan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar, observed by Muslims worldwide as a month of fasting, prayer, reflection and community. During Ramadan, adult Muslims, who are not acutely or chronically ill, elderly, breastfeeding, diabetic, or menstruating, are to abstain from eating, drinking, and smoking from dawn to sunset.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com