Actress, Shirley Igwe, says working in the administration of a former Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, gave her a better understanding of how people behave in the corridors of power. She told Saturday Beats, “My experience as a government appointee during Rochas Okorocha’s administration exposed me to how people behave in the corridors of power, as well as the things that go on in politics. I can literally forecast politics at the snap of a finger now. I am grateful for that (experience). On if I desire to be an appointee again; of course. But, maybe not now. I always lookout for opportunities to be a helping hand to mankind. I helped a lot of people at that time.” Igwe also maintained that entertainers campaigning for politicians were not always influenced by money. She said, “Campaigning for a political candidate is not about the money. That would be selling oneself and one’s generation short. If any entertainer comes out tomorrow and starts campaigning for a candidate, I would not assume that they were paid for it because it would be shameful to know that they were paid. “If one is supporting a candidate, it should be about what the candidate can offer the masses, not what one is paid. I don’t have to be paid to support any politician.” On her current projects as an actress and filmmaker, she said, “I started as a producer and I got to understand that there is so much involved in filmmaking. It is not about the quantity of films one makes; it is about the quality. I have been good, without being in every project, like some people. The elements one should have (to succeed) are God, patience and perseverance. One also has to be very good at one’s job, and not involve oneself with gossip. I have friends but I don’t let my personal relationships get in the way of my work. “I have acted in several films this year already, including ‘War of Bloods’, and ‘Tears Forever’.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com