The Yoruba Stakeholders Summit Group and the Coalition of Pro-democracy Groups have charged the National Judicial Council to probe Justice Evelyn Anyadike of the Federal High Court, sitting in Umuahia, Abia State, for nullifying the provisions of Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act 2022. They urged the National Assembly to approach the Supreme Court to seek clarification and interpretation of the controversial ruling. Rising from its expanded meeting held in Osogbo, Osun State on Monday, the groups in a communiqué jointly signed by Ologun Ayodeji and Ganzallo Gbenga Antonio urged the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to caution the Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Mr Abubakar Malami SAN. The president was also urged to order an investigation into the roles played by politicians in the controversial judgment. Justice Anyadike had held in a judgment that provisions of Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act 2022 is unconstitutional, invalid and illegal, thereby empowering Malami to delete the section from the Act. The section in question bars political appointees at any level from voting or being voted for in primary elections of political parties. The statement read, “As Nigerians and key stakeholders in the electoral process, we take strong exception to the ruling of the Federal High Court, Umuhaia over this matter. “We wish to state that there was a miscarriage of justice in the ruling, particularly as it regards the sections of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria relied upon in the ruling, that is, Sections 66 (1) (f), 107(1) (f),137 (1) (f) and 182 (1) (f) “We considered the ruling as another in the series of attempts by some politicians to perpetuate themselves in office, most importantly for the reasons of spending funds and other resources of the state in advancing their individual ambitions. “The provisions of section 84 are very clear and simple enough, even to the least knowledgeable, and the options available for the political appointees, especially those behind this infamous Abia Federal High Court ruling, is either to retain their current political office or to seek elective office, but certainly they cannot combine both. “We are worried that the court did not in any way consider the need for participation by other stakeholders including the National Assembly before arriving at the hurriedly delivered ruling. “As law-abiding citizens, we have therefore resolved to demand a probe of Justice Evelyn Anyadike of the Federal High Court Umuahia by the National Judicial Council without further delay. We are convinced that there is more than meet the eyes with that particular ruling of her court, especially with the speed with which the suit was filed, processes exchanged and judgment delivered. “As guardians of democracy, we are urging President Muhammadu Buhari, to immediately caution the AGF and order a thorough investigation into the role played by politicians, especially those nursing presidential ambition within his party, in this unfortunate attack on our law. “We commend the All Progressives Congress for not allowing its recent national convention to be used to condone arbitrariness and disregard for our law by his decision to exempt aspiring members of the party from participating as delegates at the convention. “We urge the National Assembly to immediately approach the Supreme Court to seek due clarification and interpretation of the controversial ruling over Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act.”