A non-profit organisation, Cascador, has opened its 2022 applications for Nigerian mid-stage entrepreneurs. Cascador is a programme that helps African entrepreneurs to grow their businesses and improve their leadership skills by working with successful American and Nigerian entrepreneurs Cascador, launched in 2019 and now in its third year, will host 10 entrepreneurs at the Lagos Business School from October 31st – November 4th 2022. Application deadline for interested participants is slated for July 1st, 2022. According to the statement, the Cascador programme had elevated two successful cohorts of entrepreneurs and their companies through a unique blend of education, mentoring, pitch training and personalised support. While commenting on the initiative, a biotech entrepreneur, Cascador Co-Founder and CEO of Immunext, Dave DeLucia, said that “Cascador was founded to fill a notable gap in the accelerator space between start-up-oriented programmes and accelerators for more mature businesses that extend capital and take equity upon acceptance. “Every Cascador faculty member and mentor is driven to help African entrepreneurs succeed by leveraging our years of experience and knowledge base. “Many of our fellows have participated in early-stage accelerators and use Cascador as a springboard to fast-track organic business growth or to prepare for global accelerators like YC, Harambe and TechStars. It really meets a unique need. “The preliminary coaching in business fundamentals precedes an intensive week of in-person training, sharing and practice. After the live programme at Lagos Business School from November 1st through 5th, we follow up with six months of post-program mentoring and quarterly group learning sessions. It’s a formula designed to turbo-charge small businesses and make a powerful impact on their leaders personally.” The Cascador Faculty and former Managing Director of GlaxoSmithKline Nigeria, Chidi Okoro, noted that “We consciously target mid-stage entrepreneurs who have a track record of sales and fundraising.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com