Quickteller Business has unveiled a smart point of sales device to enable small and medium enterprises and merchants to accept payments seamlessly and manage their transactions better. According to the firm, its device is powered by Android Operating System and equipped with a high-voltage battery for long-lasting performance. It said the device had been integrated with software that enabled users to carry out multiple functions as well as accept a wide range of payments, including cards, electronic transfers, QR codes, Verve Paycode and USSD. In a statement, the Group Head, Quickteller Marketing at Interswitch Group, Olawale Akanbi, added that the device was an intelligent business infrastructure that could serve as a backbone for enterprises, equipping them with tools for market expansion. He said, “Our commitment to enabling businesses to remain competitive in the market inspired the introduction of Smart POS terminals that offer more features than before. The terminal is an all-in-one solution for business owners to enjoy the luxury of safe, easy, and fast sales. “As digital payments accelerate, we will continue to help enterprises better navigate the challenges around payments, inventory, sales records, and other day-to-day business operations.” The firm added, “With the cutting-edge features on the smart device, businesses can accept all major international cards, access business reporting tools, online and in-store storefronts, manage transaction disputes on their devices and enjoy uninterrupted network availability. “The combined use of the intelligent payment tool and the Quickteller Business platform saves time for business owners and allows them to focus on growing revenue while delivering exceptional service to their customers.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com