The Association of Water Well Drilling Rig Owners and Practitioners has called on the Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, to withdraw the N30,000 levy imposed on drilling of boreholes in the state. The President of AWDROP, Mr Micheal Ale, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday, adding that the number of Nigerians without access to safe drinking water had increased to 70 per cent as against 55 per cent in 2020. Ale advised Makinde to withdraw such a law if it had been passed and made public or reduce the amount drastically, especially to citizens. He stated, “Several Nigerians are left to their fate when it comes to water supply, especially the good people of Oyo State in the South-Western part of the country. The unfortunate scenario is the issue of taxes and the levies on citizens before they can access the natural resources graciously given by God, because the government has failed in their responsibility to provide pipe-borne water supply. “When permits are made by law, they are made to serve as an instrument for safety and not for financial inducement. The Oyo State Ministry of Environment and Natural resources, through their respective consultants, have perfected the means to make life unbearable for the citizens through their draconian law which speculated that before anybody could engage in borehole drilling, a sum of N30,000 must be paid. This is outrageous and will make life unbearable for the good people of the state. “Even in states where regulations work by the establishment of agencies, nobody charges that amount of money in this hard time. This is a call to the Governor Makinde to temper justice with mercy and withdraw such law if it has been passed or made public or better still, reduce the amount drastically especially to citizens whose salary is just a take home and cannot drill a well.” Ale explained that the government should not generate revenue at the expense of the rights of residents. “Oyo State has the highest number of drilling rigs in Nigeria, numbering to 109, hence, the need to regulate drilling operation is inevitable, but this law should not be seen as a means of making money for the government at all cost.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com