Relatives of the kidnapped victims of the terror attack on a Kaduna bound train from Abuja have accused the Federal Government of insensitivity towards the plight of the victims two weeks after the incident. They also said that since the incident, the Nigerian Railway Corporation had yet to reach out to them on efforts made to rescue the kidnapped victims. Consequently, the relatives handed down a 72-hour ultimatum to the Federal Government to ensure the safe rescue of their beloved ones from the den of the terrorists, adding that failure to listen to them, would force them to decide on how to rescue their loved ones. They stated this shortly after their meeting on Monday in Kaduna, adding also that they had yet to be contacted by the terrorists for negotiation. Dr Abdulfatai Jimoh, who led and spoke on behalf of the kidnapped relatives, said they were yet to establish contact with their beloved ones or even the hoodlums since the incident on March 28, 2022. According to him, it is better for the government goes into negotiation with the terrorists as they have demanded in a recent viral video, to secure the release of their loved ones alive. This, he said, was not out of place since the federal government seemed incapacitated to protect the lives and property of the citizens. He said, “This incident happened on the 28 of March, a day or two after, most of had communication without relatives. The kidnappers said that we should be ready that they are going to contact us. And we have not heard any communication from them since then. “Since this incident happened, we expected that by now, the government, the Nigerian Railway Corporation and the Federal Ministry of Transportation are supposed to have identified relatives of the victims to tell us what effort they are making or not to rescue our loved ones unhurt. “In fact, the primary duty of any government is to protect the lives and property of citizens. We believe our government can do it and it’s capable of doing it, until a few days ago we had been expecting telephone calls from the abductors because that’s what they promised us but when we saw the video, they made it very clear that they want to discuss with the government; that they have something with the government. “We don’t know what they want from the government. But it’s now an opportunity and a window for the government to rescue our loved ones by opening a channel of communication with them(terrorists). This is not out of place. It is done anywhere in the world. “Even the US, Israel and the most powerful nations of the world, do negotiate when they have issues like this to preserve the lives of their citizens. This, we know our government can do and we are appealing to them to do it. We don’t know what is between them but it is something that can be resolved in the interest of the lives of Nigerian citizens. Life is very sacred even if it is one life that’s involved. “We are appealing to the Nigerian government to do everything within its powers and it is something that’s not beyond the government to do. We are appealing to them to come out to open a channel of discussion with the bandits and get our loved ones out as quickly as possible. “We have been in serious anguish in the past 15 days. Many of us have not been sleeping, we have not been sleeping. We are like living corpses. We have decided collectively that we are giving the government 72 hours to do everything necessary to rescue our loved ones.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com