It was a weekend of mixed performances by Nigerian players in Europe after the nine-day international break, but the highlight was Taiwo Awoniyi entering Union Berlin’s folklore with his goals. From this edition, we begin the women’s segment brought to you by JOHNNY EDWARD and KELVIN EKERETE ENGLAND Alex Iwobi (Everton) Iwobi was on for the entire duration as Everton’s survival battle suffered a huge blow after their 2-1 loss to West Ham United in the EPL on Sunday. Iwobi could have gotten at least two assists in the game but both fell to Dominic Calvert-Lewin, who failed to get the ball on target. Iwobi was guilty for West Ham’s second goal after the Nigeria international failed to hold on to the ball from Michael Keane’s pass. It was Iwobi’s 17th game of the season. He has scored two league goals and provided one assist. Iheanacho, Lookman, Ndidi (Leicester City) Kelechi Iheanacho scored his third Premier League goal of the season in his ninth start for Leicester City, who drew 1-1 against Manchester United at Old Trafford on Saturday. The 25-year-old stooped low to head in a brilliant James Maddison cross at the far post and hand the Foxes the lead in the 63rd minute before Fred restored parity two minutes later from close range. The goal was Iheanacho’s fourth in 10 games against Manchester United since he made his debut in the EPL. The Nigeria international was replaced in the 90th minute for Patson Daka, in what was his 20 EPL appearance this season. Iheanacho has now scored seven goals in 33 appearances across all competitions. His compatriot Ademola Lookman was an unused substitute in the draw, while Ndidi was not listed in the match-day squad as he is undergoing rehabilitation from a knee injury he sustained March 17. Dennis, Troost-Ekong, Etebo (Watford) Emmanuel Dennis came on as a 78th-minute substitute for Cucho Hernandez in Watford’s 2-0 loss at Liverpool on Saturday. His introduction, however, couldn’t stop the Reds from extending their winning streak to 10 games in the EPL. Dennis has played 28 games and scored nine times, providing five assists. His compatriots William Troost-Ekong and Oghenekaro Etebo were not listed for the encounter. While Troost-Ekong is yet to make an appearance in 2022, Etebo’s only minutes this year was a 17-minute cameo against wolves, which ended in a 4-0 defeat. Frank Onyeka (Brentford) Onyeka missed Brentford’s 4-1 thumping of Chelsea at Stamford Bridge on Saturday due to an ankle injury. The midfielder has made 20 Premier League appearances chalking up four yellow cards. The 24-year-old last game for the Bees was against Manchester City in their 2-0 loss on February 9, 2022. GERMANY Taiwo Awoniyi (Union Berlin) Awoniyi grabbed the match winner — his 12th Bundesliga goal of the season in 25 games — on Friday to help Union Berlin end their three-game winless run and help Urs Ficher’s side move into the top seven following a 1-0 win over Koln – a side they have never lost to in the topflight division. It was the seventh time this season that the Nigerian was scoring the first goal for Die Eisernen, as many times as Robert Lewandowski and Anthony Modeste. Awoniyi’s strike equaled Sebastian Andersson’s club record of 12 goals in a season back in 2019/20 season and also move ahead of Max Kruse as Berlin’s highest scorer in the Bundesliga with 17 goals. Aremu Afeez (St Pauli) Aremu played for 65 minutes before he was substituted for Rico Benatelli in his side’s 1-0 loss at Hansa Rostock on Saturday. The game was his 17th of the Bundesliga 2 season. He is yet to score a goal from his defensive position in three seasons. ITALY Ebuehi, Okereke (Venezia) Eagles duo David Okereke and Tyronne Ebuehi played for 90 minutes for Venezia, who suffered a 1-0 loss at Spezia. Emanuel Gyasi pounced on a double Venezia defensive error deep into stoppage time to score and help Spezia move out of the relegation zone. Right-back Ebuehi has made 17 appearances in the Serie A and 18 games in all competitions, while it was the 25th game of the season for striker Okereke, who was cautioned in additional time of the encounter. Ola Aina (Torino) Aina watched from the substitute’s bench as Torino defeated Salernitana 1-0 in the Serie A on Saturday. The right-back, who featured in the Eagles play-off clash against Ghana last month, last played a Serie A game for Torino in their 1-0 loss to Inter Milan at the San Siro. He has made 16 appearances this season and has been booked four times. SPAIN Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal) Chukuwueze was missing in action for Villarreal, who lost 2-0 loss away at Levante,  due to a muscle injury he sustained while in action for the Eagles in their futile World Cup play-off versus Ghana in Kumasi. He has scored twice and assisted five times in 29 games for the Yellow Submarines this season. FRANCE Moses Simon (Nantes) Simon was an unused substitute in Nantes 3-2 win over nine-man Clermont Foot in the French Ligue 1 on Sunday. The Nigeria international arrived France last Thursday after the international break and was rested for the encounter. Although Simon has been an integral part of the team’s success this season, he has failed to score or provide an assist in Nantes’ last five games. Overall this season, Simon has had 10 goals contribution for the club (three goals and seven assists) in 24 game, and has been cautioned on thrice. HOLLAND Maduka Okoye (Sparta Rotterdam) Okoye’s hopes of earning his third consecutive clean sheet was ruined on Sunday by Amin Sarr as Sparta Rotterdam were held 1-1 by visiting SC Heerenveen in a Dutch Eredivisie encounter. Okoye, who missed Nigeria’s Qatar 2022 World Cup play-off against Ghana due to COVID-19, returned to action against Heerenveen after testing negative before the game. The Nigerian could do nothing about Amin’s goal in the 67th minute but will be happy with his overall performance. He has kept five clean sheets this season, while conceding 30 goals in 24 league games. Cyriel Dessers (Feyenoord) On-loan Dessers played for 73 minutes before he was replaced for Bryan Linssen in Feyenoord’s 2-0 home win over Willem II. It was his 22nd league game this season. He has scored six times and made two assists in the Eredivisie. TURKEY Ahmed Musa (Fatih Karagumruk) Super Eagles captain Musa was an unused substitute as Karagumruk lost 2-0 at Galatasaray. The forward has made 19 appearances this season scoring once league goal. Olanrewaju Kayode (Sivasspor) Former Flying Eagles striker Kayode scored the opener for Sivasspor in the 39th minute of their 2-2 stalemate against Giresunspor in the Turkish Super Lig on Friday. The goal was Kayode’s sixth of the season in 29 league games. The former Manchester City attacker saw action for just 45 minutes but had done enough in the game, opening scoring in the 39th minute before being substituted. SCOTLAND Aribo, Balogun, Bassey (Rangers) Trio Leon Balogun, Joe Aribo and Calvin Bassey were all in action for the entire duration as Glasgow Rangers’ bid for a back-to-back title took a big after their 2-1 loss to archrivals Celtic in the Old Firm derby in the Scottish Premier League on Sunday. Balogun and Bassey were in defence at Ibrox, while Aribo played in the midfield. The game started brightly for Rangers after Aaron Ramsey put them in front in the third minute, but the visitors scored the equaliser four minutes later through Tom Rogic, before central defender Cameron Carter-Vickers grabbed the winner in the 43rd minute. Rangers are currently six points behind Celtic, with six games before the end of the season. WOMEN Spain Real Betis English striker of Nigerian descent Rinsola Babajide grabbed the opener in the 1-1 stalemate against visiting Atletico Madrid, who paraded Super Falcons striker Rasheedat Ajibade, in their LaLiga Femini clash on Saturday. Ajibade was substituted late on as third-place Atletico claimed a valuable point away from home. Rita Chikwelu was on from start to finish in Madrid CFF’s 1-0 win at second-place Sociedad. On Sunday, forward Charity Adule was missing from struggling Eibar’s line-up against Osinachi Ohale’s Alaves. That, however, did not deter Eibar, who won 2-0. Eibar are 15th in the 16-team league with 19 points, and are ahead of bottom-place Rayo Vallecano, who have a game in hand, with eight points. England Leicester City defender Ashleigh Plumptre had a miserable Sunday when she scored an own goal as Arsenal hammered the Foxes 5-0 in the FA Women’s Super League. The centre-back diverted the ball inside her own net, for the Gunners fourth goal in the 79th minute.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com