Some leaders of the All Progressives Congress in Borno State have tipped Chairman of the Committee on Appropriations, Aliyu Betara, to be the next Speaker of the House of Representatives. A delegation of leaders and loyalists from Biu/Bayo/Kwaya Kusar/Shani Federal Constituency in Borno, led by a former Deputy Governor of Borno State, Adamu Shettima Yuguda, on Thursday bought nomination and declaration of interest forms of the APC for Betara to seek re-election to the House in the 2023 general elections. Addressing journalists after obtaining the form at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, Yuguda noted that Betara’s constituents contributed the money to purchase the form for the lawmaker. He said, “I am part of the delegation that has come to pick forms for our own representative that is in the Holy Land now (Saudi Arabia) for Ummrah. As his community and constituents, we are here to pick the forms for him. We are a delegation of millions of people. “We want him back because of his history and antecedents. He has done a lot and our people, beginning from N20 up to N10m, contributed money. He is not even aware that we are here today. We have come here to pick up the forms on his behalf. “This is just picking the forms. The grand finale for the presentation to him would be done at our Local Government Area. The community sent us; the community contributed from N10 up to N10m. We had the money, we paid and we have picked up the forms now. Our people want him back.” Another leader in the delegation, Mustapha Mohammed, said, “I think he was the right to aspire to any position in this country. So, we are in support of his attaining the position of speakership in the National Assembly because he has the experience and the capacity, and he has demonstrated it. His colleagues can testify to that and we are fully behind him to attempt any position of authority in this country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com