The Prelate, Methodist Church of Nigeria, His Eminence, Samuel Kanu, on Friday said only God could save the country at this time. Speaking at the 60th Synod of the Ibadan Diocese of the church, Kanu also called on members of the church that are of voting age to get their Permanent Voter Card. The News Agency of Nigeria reported that the synod had as its theme ‘Preparing for the Second Coming of Jesus Christ (Rev. 22: 12)’. The Prelate, represented by the Synod Secretary, Very Revd Davidson Aluko, called on all faithful not to sell their votes during elections to enable the country to enthrone righteous administration. He said, “In this way, we will help enthrone an administration that will usher in adequate security and economic buoyancy, which will enable us to enjoy the full dividends of democracy. “We need more men and women with the heart of sincerity, while citizens are enjoined to pray for good people that will occupy leadership positions in all sectors. “Only God can save Nigeria during this time and give us leaders who will always be sincere to the plights of the citizens. “Hebrews 11 to 12 encourage us to focus on Jesus Christ, as we equally learn from the experiences of our forebears and contemporaries in the faith, who are going through storms, experiencing the pandemic of life.” The Archbishop of Ibadan Diocese, Most Revd Olumuyiwa Odejayi, called on people to prepare for the second coming of Christ. “To be careless, lukewarm and unprepared is the height of folly which can certainly lead to everlasting shame, sorrow and suffering,” he added. The Synod host, Very Revd Oluyinka Akande, said events unfolding globally were enough sign that Jesus would return soon. “Anyone preparing for Christ’s coming won’t make fake promises whether during election campaign or when seeking favours,” he said. Akande added that anyone conscious of Christ’s coming would not take to corruption, nepotism, kidnapping, armed robbery and other vices. According to him, one prepares by turning away from sin, turning to God in faith and purifying his/her by humility and holiness. “If we know that our deeds will be evaluated and judged at the return of Christ or what Muslim called ‘Agbende Alikiama’, which is similar to rapture, no one will kill another,” he said.