Ex-internationals have urged the Nigerian Football Federation not to dwell on the Super Eagles’ failure to qualify for the Qatar 2022 World Cup but focus more on preparing the team for the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers, which kicks off in June, The PUNCH reports. The Eagles lost the World Cup ticket on the away goals rule after Ghana held the three-time African champions 1-1 in the second leg in Abuja March 29. The first leg in Kumasi four days earlier ended goalless. Former Eagles goalkeeper, Ike Shorunmu, said the players must rededicate themselves to the team and ensure such setback don’t happen again. “I am confident the Eagles will bounce back, but they must show courage to do that when the AFCON qualifiers start.” another ex-Eagles star Garba Lawal stated, “I don’t think the NFF should still be thinking of Nigeria’s failure to qualify for Qatar 2022 when we know that the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers will commence soon. “Yes, it is sad that the Eagles won’t be at the World Cup, however, we don’t have the time to start crying over spilled milk. “Eagles will rise again in a matter of time and I know the team will make up for their mistakes.” Former Eagles left-back, Ifeanyi Udeze, believes the team needs a bit of reorganisation to excel. “The team needs to a bit of reorganising. It is unfortunate that the team failed to qualify for the World Cup and that is in the past now. We must put that behind us and help the Eagles excel again. “The AFCON qualifiers will start soon, so the boys and the NFF must start preparations to avoid another setback. The players themselves must show character when playing for the country.” The Eagles will know their group opponents in the qualifying series for the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations in Ivory Coast after the Confederation of African Football last Friday announced that the draws for the phase would hold April 19.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com