The Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs has felicitated Nigerian Muslims on the Edil Fitr. The President-General, NSCIA, and Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammed Sa’ad Abubakar, prayed to Allah to grant Muslims in the country and the rest of the world the opportunity to witness more of the occasion. In a statement made available to Saturday PUNCH on Friday by the Director of Administration, NSCIA, Zubairu Usman-Ugwu, the Sultan urged Muslims to observe Zakat ul Fitr, a mandate by the holy Quran to give food to the underprivileged two days to Ramadan. The statement read in part, “Consequent upon the advice of the National Moon Sighting Committee, the President-General enjoins the Nigerian Muslim Ummah to search for the crescent of Shawwal 1443 AH immediately after sunset on Saturday, April 30, 2022, which is equivalent to 29th Ramadan, 1443 AH. “If the crescent is sighted by Muslims of impeccable character, then His Eminence will declare Sunday, May 1, 2022, as the first of Shawwal and the day of Idul Fitr. However, if the crescent is not sighted that day, then Monday, May 2, 2022, automatically becomes the day of Idul Fitr.” The NSCIA also expressed great concern on the happenings in the country, especially the hike in food prices, free and fair elections, and freedom of political participation. It urged the police to allow the use of the hijab by female Muslim personnel, while castigating the persecution and killing of Muslims in Bauchi, Rivers and others states of the federation. The statement also urged the Federal Government to address the security situation in the country, while also finding an amicable solution to the lingering strike of the Academic Staff Union of Universities. Meanwhile, the traditional Sallah homage to the President by residents of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja returns to the Aso Rock Villa two years after the lockdown triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic led to its suspension. The president, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) would host about 100 guests at the New State House Banquet Hall at 3pm on Sallah day. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, disclosed this in a statement on Friday titled, ‘Two years after, Sallah homage returns to the Aso Rock Villa’. Shehu stated, “Although this is a sign of the return to normalcy as infection rates fall to their lowest, those coming on invitation are still required to wear face masks and undergo the linear COVID-19 test at the State House Conference Centre to obtain a negative test result as condition for admittance to the event. “President Muhammadu Buhari is set to receive the visitors, numbering about 100, at the New State House Banquet Hall at 3pm on Sallah day (Sunday or Monday), itself to be determined by moon sighting to be announced by Islamic authorities in the country. “Invited guests for the event, led by the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Muhammed Bello, include the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and the Head of Service, the senator and House members from the territory, leadership of the FCT judiciary, members of the cabinet, service chiefs and heads of security agencies, Muslim and Christian leaderships in the FCT, council chairmen, traditional rulers and others who received invitations as listed on the manifest.”