A group, the South-East Renaissance Assembly, on Thursday, warned that the continued detention of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, is ruining development of South East and its economy. The group’s National Coordinator, Chief Nweke Gbazuagu, stated this while answering questions from journalists during a press conference on the state of Igbo nation in Nigeria and the continued every Monday sit-at-home in the South East. While lamenting that Igbo nation currently lacks visionary leadership that can inspire unity, single-mindedness and patriotism which stood Ndigbo out as a unique race, Nweke said political solution remained the best option to address the Kanu and IPOB issues with Nigeria. He said, “Nnamdi Kanu’s situation concerns every Igbo man for many reasons – Ohanaeze Ndigbo has spoken about it, the bishops, the cleric has spoken about it, eminent Igbo sons and daughters have spoken about it. Last week, Governor Chukwuma Soludo spoke about it. “We say ‘try him through the normal process expeditiously.’ His continued detention does not help the matter in anyway. “So, we support the view that political solution be adopted to resolve the impasse because the process of trial takes a long time. “So, for this group, first and foremost, we must continue to ask for political solution and it is not impossible to actualise. But where it failed, his trial should be expeditious. His incarceration by the DSS is not helping us (South East) and it is not helping the country either.” Nweke explained that the group was established to “re-awaken the consciousness of Ndigbo to rise to the challenges of our time in Nigeria; mobilise Ndigbo to stand up to defend our fatherland and protect our interest in Nigeria. “To forge strong partnerships with like-minded regions, organisations and groups in our collective effort to build a united Nigeria in which every citizen will have a sense of belonging on the basis of justice, equity, fairness and inclusiveness.” Nweke claimed that the South East geopolitical zone has been suffering and has become disadvantaged in the current political calculations in Nigeria. He added, “We remember with nostalgia, the robust, focused, forceful, purposeful and visionary leadership Igboland enjoyed during the times of Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, Dr M.I Okpara, Dim Chukwuemeka Ojukwu, and Dr. Alex Ekwueme of blessed memories. “Unfortunately Igbo land today lacks that kind of leadership that can inspire unity, single-mindedness and patriotism which stood Ndigbo out as a unique race. If we have to survive in this country where the odds seem to be heavily stacked against us, we must, as a matter of urgency, rediscover our sense of unity and collectivism.” Copyright PUNCH. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com