Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, has felicitated with Ndi Anambra on the occasion of the Easter celebrations, while seeking their support in the fight against insecurity and criminal elements across the state. Soludo in a message made available to journalists on Saturday by the Head of Soludo Media Office, Joe Anatune, said the solemn occasion of Easter called for a self introspection and deep sober reflection. He pointed out that the occasion is symbolic because it marked the suffering, crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ. He also noted the period marked exactly a month he assumed office as the governor of Anambra state. He said, “It is therefore of utmost importance for us to inculcate and emulate the noble virtues of our Lord Jesus Christ and the symbolism of His Crucifixion in the redemption of mankind.” The statement further read, “Therefore, on this special Easter celebration, I call on everyone of us to imbibe the spirit of this solemn occasion as we rededicate ourselves collectively to the onerous task of building a prosperous, safe and livable homeland for our children, great-grand children and the  generations to come. “Let me again, reassure that our dear state will continue to thrive on the trajectory of growth, peace and development despite the current wave of insecurity which is drastically being addressed. “And in this spirit of Easter, I call on those who are still in the bush to surrender their arms and accept the olive branch which has been offered to them. “Let me reiterate that as a people, we will never cede or yield our homeland to criminals. The irrepressible spirit of the good people of Anambra State shall always triumph. “I therefore urge you all to continue to live in peace and harmony as you also extend love to one another on this special occasion.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com