The Ogun State Police Command has arrested a 65-year-old landlord, Samuel Adekoya, for alleged child abuse and physical molestation of 11-year-old twins, Taiwo Olishe and Kehinde Olishe. Adekoya was reported to have tied the victims with a rope and dragged them to the ground for excreting in his compound. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Friday. Oyeyemi said the suspect was arrested following a complaint lodged at Ijebu-Ode Area Command by the twins’ mother, Gbenisola Olishe. The PPRO explained that the victims’ mother reported that “while she was away on her business, she received a phone call from a good Samaritan, informing her that her landlord was seen tying her twins’ hands and legs like goats and dragging them on the ground with the rope after beating them with a cable wire. “The suspect was also video recording the cruel act while carrying it out. She stated further that the twins sustained varying degrees of body injuries as a result of the wicked act meted on them by the landlord. “Upon the report, the Area Commander in Ijebu-Ode, Adeniyi Omosanyin, deployed some policemen to the scene where the two boys were tied on both legs and hands. They were rescued and taken to the hospital for treatment. “The suspect, who happened to be the landlord of the victims’ parents were promptly arrested and taken to the station. “On interrogation, the suspect explained to the police that he was informed that one of the twins excreted within the compound despite his warning that the compound must be kept clean always. “When asked to take policemen to where the point where the victim excreted, he said the boy had already washed it. One of the twins is currently on admission at Ijebu-Ode General Hospital due to injuries sustained while he was being dragged on the ground by the suspect.” Oyeyemi, however, said the Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole, had ordered that the case be thoroughly investigated and that the suspect must be arraigned in court as soon as the investigation was concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com