The Senate, on Wednesday, held a valedictory session in honour of three members who left the chamber for other public offices. The former members include the new Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Abdullahi Adamu; the new Deputy National Chairman (North) of the APC, Senator Abubakar Kyari; and the new Deputy Governor of Zamfara State, Senator Hassan Nasiha. The session, which began at 11.45am and ended at 1.58pm, commenced with a presentation from the Majority Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi, who congratulated the former lawmakers on their new offices. The Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, urged Adamu to deepen democracy in the discharge of his duties as the National Chairman of the APC. Former Governor of Kebbi State, Senator Adamu Aliero, who commended Adamu for laying the foundation of Nasarawa State and strides in developing the education sector, noted that as the first Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Adamu ensured harmony among members irrespective of diverse political persuasion. The Majority Whip, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, urged Adamu to bring his wealth of experience as former Chairman of the NGF to bear in the administration of the APC. A former Governor of Gombe State, Senator Danjuma Goje, stated that Adamu was eminently qualified to lead the ruling APC to victory in 2023. He also noted that it was the first time that members of the Senate were elevated to serve in higher capacities. In his remark, Senator James Manager urged the new APC national chairman to maintain “Senatorial integrity” in his service to Nigerians, adding that doing so would boost confidence in members of the National Assembly. On his part, Senator Ali Ndume urged Adamu and Kyari to protect the sanctity of the National Assembly, saying it is the most vulnerable arm of government. A frontline aspirant for the national chairmanship of the APC, Senator Sani Musa, said the emergence of Adamu for the position was the best decision made by the ruling party. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, described the emergence of four members (serving and former) of the National Assembly as party executives of the APC as a remarkable development in the political evolution and history of Nigeria. Lawan said, “That the National Chairman, Deputy National Chairman (North), National Secretary and National Auditor are all people who are either completing their service in the Senate or were here before; what this goes to show is that the legislature is coming of age; that the legislature is now contributing to the political development and stability of our country, and we shouldn’t take this for granted. “Even though the legislature has been the most disadvantaged arm of government out of the three, but I think it is rapidly developing.” Adamu, in his response, stated that the newly-elected officials of the APC would protect the integrity of the National Assembly within the confines of the party and its processes. The National Chairman also extended a hand of friendship to lawmakers in the minority party to become members of APC. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com