The Anambra State House of Assembly on Thursday confirmed all the 20 commissioner-nominees presented by Governor Chukwuma Soludo. The confirmation followed the adoption of the report of the assembly screening committee at plenary on Thursday in Awka. Presenting the report, the Chairman of the Screening and Election Committee Matters, Pascal Agbodike, said that the 20 nominees met the requirements needed to be members of the state executive council of the state. Agbodike, who is also the Deputy Speaker of the House, said they had all attained the mandatory ages required for appointment as commissioners in the state and showed the ability to serve. Supporting the claim, Emeka Aforka, representing Orumba North constituency, urged his colleagues to support the motion to allow the governor implement his developmental projects in the state. The lawmakers, thereafter, confirmed the nominees through a voice vote. In his remarks, the Speaker of the Assembly, Uchenna Okafor, urged the nominees to see themselves as agents of positive change in the state. Okafor also urged them to support governor Soludo in implementing his policies and programmes to uplift the living condition of ‘ndi Anambra’. He said the governor also sent another letter requesting the screening of a new Commissioner for Special Duties, Silvester Ezeakenwa, for subsequent confirmation. The nominees are; Ifeatu Chinedu (Finance), Prof. Ofonze Amucheazi (Lands), Ifeanyi Okoma (Works), Chiamaka Nnake (Budget), Dr Afam Obidike (Health), Patrick Agha-mba (Youth Development), Ifeyinwa Obinabo (Women/Children Afairs), Dr Obinna Ugonnadi, Julius Chukwuemeka (Power/Water Resources), and Prof. Ngozi Chuma-Udeh (Education). Others are Paul Nwosu (Information), Dr Foster Ihejiofor (Agriculture), Patricia Igwebuike (Transport), Felix Odimegwu (Environment), Chikodi Anara (Home Land Afairs), Prof. Chika Ifemeje (Attorney General/Commissioner for Justice), Collins Nwabunwanne (Local Government Affairs), Donatus Onyeji (Culture/Entertainment), Anthony Ifeanya (Petroleum), and Paulinus Onyeaka (Housing). The Commissioners pledged to work for the collective development of the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com