Children’s International School, Lekki, Lagos, has won four trophies and several medals in the 2022 World School Games held in Dubai, UAE. The trophies won include second in athletics under-13, second place overall under-13, third place in football under-13 and second place in athletics under-15. Speaking during a reception held for the students who participated in the competition, Principal, CIS, Mr Stewart King said the school ensured that sports were a major activity in the school activity. He said, “We recognise our athletes, sports are not activities we reserve for the weekends at CIS, it is part of what we are, each one of the young people who prosper and received medals didn’t go to Dubai to win medals but they represent every single person here.“ He advised the students to be reflective and appreciative of the people who assisted achieve success in the games, saying CIS ensured it gave the best educational training to its learners. “Do a self-reflection of every person who was involved with helping you get the medals around your neck nobody wins a medal in the vacuum. It is the encouragement of people around you, appreciate them also. The standard I expect from these children is the standard I give and live by. If it is good for my children it is good for another person’s children. “Parents have entrusted the most important thing in their lives to us, we have to give them the best. Here, we appreciate parents’ willingness to be involved directly in their children’s education.” A parent in the school and Managing Director, First Custodian Pension, Mr Timi George, whose organisation was one of the sponsors of the competition said education was the future and as such, should be supported by all and sundry. “It is such an amazing moment. We are glad we are part of this. You have not just done your school proud, you have done Lagos proud. Pension is a lifelong and lifetime activity, we feel the need to support the discipline, vision, the success we are seeing today, we are doing this to encourage the students. Education is the future, every organisation should support education because when you support education, you support sustainability.” Chairperson, Parents Teachers Association, CIS, Mrs Winifred Mena-Ajakpovi,  advised parents to support their children’s talents and gifts. “Sports are a critical part of a child’s development, we have been attending world school games in CIS, and I’ll ask parents to find out the games their children love”. The captain, under 15 girls, Mary Obi, said, “I feel relieved, all our efforts and training paid off. I advise other students never to give up on the sport or anything they are involved in. Sometimes, you may fall down but keep going.” The school’s coach, Mr Ignatius Okeke, said, “Our experience was phenomenal, we trained well since May, last year. If any school is considering just academics they should reconsider because through sports, our students get scholarships, everyone should support sports.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com