GUNMEN on Thursday killed an official of the Independent National Electoral Commission in Imo State. Our correspondent gathered that the INEC staff member, Anthony Nwokorie, was in charge of the polling unit where the gunmen attacked. The tragedy occurred at Isinweke, the headquarters of the Ihitte/ Uboma Local Government Area of the state. The registration of Permanent Voters Cards was ongoing when the gunmen, over 10, stormed the scene, killed one person, and dispersed the crowd. They were said to be angry with the ongoing registration and transfer of PVCs by the area residents ahead of the 2023 general election. The deceased was shot in his chest, and he died on the spot; an eyewitness who does not want to be mentioned in print confided in our correspondent. The source said, “The registration was ongoing when gun-wielding men stormed the arena and opened fire. They shot one of the INEC staff in the chest, and he died on the spot while others who scampered for safety sustained injuries. “They were angry that INEC was carrying out the exercise in the area. Their mission from the way they operated was to disrupt the exercise, which they succeeded in doing. This is not good for our people as we call for a president of South East extraction in 2023.” The police spokesperson for the command, Micheal Abattam, confirmed the attack when contacted by our correspondent. The member representing Ihitte Uboma LGA at the state House of Assembly, Onyemaechi Njoku, who confirmed the death of one INEC staff member to our correspondent, described the attack as senseless and provoking. He said that INEC would lodge an official report with the police. But INEC said that apart from the death of one of its staff members during the attack, two other members of the electoral umpire were missing. A statement issued by INEC’s national commissioner and chairman information and Voter Education committee, Festus Okoye, said that the commissioner had suspended the continuous Voter Registration Exercise in the Ihitte Uboma LGA following the attack.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com