The Federal Government has detected over 1,500 workers who joined the Federal Civil Service with fake appointment letters in one year. Over 1,000 culprits were discovered in one ministry; while 500 workers were found in other ministries, departments and agencies through a service-wide verification exercise. The culprits would be delisted from the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System. The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan, revealed this in her keynote address at the ‘National policy dialogue on entrenching transparency in public office recruitment in Nigeria,’ organised by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, in Abuja, on Tuesday. The programme was attended by the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, the Provost, Anti-Corruption Academy of Nigeria, Prof Olatunde Babawale, Prof Isaac Obasi and other dignitaries. Yemi-Esan explained that her administration had taken decisive steps to nip in the bud the alarming sharp practices and acts of impunity being perpetrated on the IPPIS, so as to purge the system of all infiltrations. She stated, “It would be recalled that in March last year, the office was informed of the detection of fake letters of employment presented in some ministries. For instance, in the past year, in one ministry alone, over 1,000 individuals bearing fake letters of appointment were detected. “In the light of the aforementioned, it is disheartening to point out that the office recently received a report from the Federal Civil Service Commission forwarding the names of over 500 persons in various MDAs in possession of fake letters of appointment and are to be delisted from the IPPIS platform. “Similarly, following the outcome of the service-wide verification exercise for officers recruited between 2013 –2020, the FCSC has also requested the suspension of the salaries of over 3,000 officers across the MDAs who failed to appear for the exercise, pending further clearance.” According to her, the government’s effort to stop financial leakages in the civil service had created a gap leading to a series of implementation issues, adding that as of March 2022, over 380,000 officers had been captured on the IPPIS payroll comprising 66,000 and 320,000 for core and non-core MDAs respectively. Yemi-Esan added that her office was carrying out a mop-up exercise in the core and non-core MDAs which would be rounded off in September. Speaking on global best practices in public service recruitment, the HoS noted that the Indian public service recruited only competent workers, compared to the Nigerian system which was based on federal character principles and nepotism. She recalled her discussion with the chairman of the United Public Service Commission, who reportedly told her that the recruitment of officers into the Indian civil service involved a decentralised examination aimed at selecting the best candidates, stressing that the process was devoid of any form of external interference. The ICPC Chairman, Prof Bolaji Owasanoye, said the policy dialogue was meant to deliberate on systemic and institutional improvements and offer practical solutions relevant to the policy. “Indiscriminate recruitment has impacted the personnel budget such that the government personnel budget has continued to rise geometrically, almost doubling from N1.832 trillion in 2015 to N3.494trn in 2022. To underscore the corruption prevailing in the process, ICPC has received and is investigating almost 100 petitions on recruitment scam from victim institutions and complicit individuals,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com