The Bauchi State Police Command has arrested two suspects who allegedly conspired and slaughtered a 20-year-old commercial motorcycle rider, popularly called okada, and stole his bike. The Public Relations Officer, Bauchi State Police Command, SP Ahmed Wakil, who disclosed this in a statement made available to journalists on Thursday, said that the suspects stole the motorcycle worth N300,000 and sold it for N90,000 and shared the proceeds. He said, “On 23rd March 2022, intelligence report at the disposal of the Command revealed that one Nura Ibrahim and Auwalu Manu of Walakero village, Futuk ward Alkaleri L.G.A criminally conspired among them and lured one Auwalu Gidado (20) of the same address, who happens to be a commercial motorcycle rider, aka Achaba, from Walakero village to Balande village, of Alkaleri LGA. “On their way, the two suspects, Nura Ibrahim and Auwalu Manu, mercilessly slaughtered the said motorcycle rider, Auwalu Gidado, with a sharp knife, abandoned the corpse at a nearby bush and stole his motorcycle to an unknown destination. “On receipt of the report, Detectives of the Command moved swiftly and investigation commenced in earnest where both suspects were tracked down and arrested. “During interrogation, the suspects voluntarily confessed to have killed Auwalu Gidado (Victim) and made away with the Bajaj motorcycle valued N330,000 and sold it at Talasse village in Gombe State, at the rate of N90,000 and shared the proceed between themselves.” Wakil said that on 2nd January 2022, at about 11.58pm, a distress call was received at Warji Divisional Headquarters that on the same date at about 11:00pm, one Ya’u Mohammed of Katangar Warji, Warji LGA Bauchi State, and one Shua’ibu Idris of the same address fought and the Ya’u Mohammed hit Idris with a stick on his neck, as a result, he sustained serious injuries. He said the victim (Idris) was rushed to the General Hospital Warji where he was certified dead by a medical doctor adding that the suspect was arrested and he voluntarily confessed to the crime. The Police spokesman also disclosed that a 20-year-old man was arrested for having unlawful carnal knowledge of a minor in Ligada Jula village Giade LGA, Bauchi State. He added that on 20th March 2022, a 30-year-old man lured a 12-year-old boy into his shop and had carnal knowledge of him at his shop in Unguwar Sarkin Hausawa Miya village of Ganjuwa LGA, Bauchi State. “On the 18th March 2022, at about 2.40pm, one Abdullahi Ahmadu (70) of Ligada Jula village Giade LGA, Bauchi State reported that on the 16th March 2022 at about 5:00pm, one Musa Saleh (20), of same address, lured the victim by name Hajiya (not real name) and had unlawful carnal knowledge of her without her consent. “However, preliminary investigation reveals that the victim stated that the suspect wrestle with her and started removing her skirt in that process he tore her clothes and overpowered her. He was arrested and during interrogation, he voluntarily confessed to committing the crime. “Also, on 20th March 2022, at about 9:00am, one Abdullahi Kani of Unguwar Sarkin Hausawa Miya village Ganjuwa LGA, Bauchi State reported at Ganjuwa Divisional Headquarters that on 19th March 2022, at about 9.30pm, one Yahaya Musa (30) of same address, lured Abdulkadir (not real name) (12) of same address into his barbing shop deceitfully and forcefully had anal sexual intercourse with the victim twice,” he said. Similarly, Wakil said that on 20th March 2022, at about 1:00pm, one Liatu Gaius of Bayara Bauchi State, reported at E’ Division Yelwa that on 19th March 2022 at about 11.00pm, one Jonathan Manasseh (20) of Yelwan Kagadama Bauchi State, abducted her daughter Christiana (not real name) (17) to his room at Yelwan Kagadama and had carnal knowledge of her without her consent. The Command’s spokesman said that all the suspects voluntarily confessed to the crimes and would be charged to court for prosecution after investigations have been concluded. He assured the public of the Command’s endless and tireless commitment to the security of lives and properties in the state urging citizens to continue being vigilant and security conscious. “There will be no hiding place for criminals in the state as the Command stands ever ready to flush out all forms of criminality bothering our domain,” he declared. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com