THE Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers has lauded the President, Major General.Muhammadu Buhari (retd), for signing Executive Order 11. The President, NIESV, Emma Okas–Wike, who made the commendation at a media briefing in Port Harcourt, Rivers  State, described the policy as the first of its kind in terms of maintenance of national infrastructures. Okas-Wike urged members of the institution to embrace the government initiative and offer the best professional services in the interest of the country and the profession. Oka-Wike said Executive Order 11 would address the deplorable state of public buildings, strengthen and sustain its development and develop infrastructure in the country. He noted that building maintenance, which was an important aspect of building management, was often neglected, saying that NIESV expected that implementation of the executive order would give a facelift to public buildings across the country. “With institutionalisation of maintenance culture, buildings would retain their economic life and there would be lower depreciation cost and consequently higher productivity and profitability. “In other words, proper maintenance would ensure lower expenditures on replacement and would allow more expenditure or funds for incursion into new productive ventures and investment. “As a dependable partner with the federal and state governments for about 53 years of our existence in policy formulation, land administration, infrastructure and facility management for public and private assets, property management, housing and project development in general, NIESV fully endorses this unprecedented approach to maintenance in the history of our country. “We are also ready to partner with the government in the implementation of this well-intentioned policy. “Estate surveyors and valuers across the length and breadth of Nigeria are adequately trained to undertake property and facilities management of all assets in the best global practices, and in strict compliance to our Code of Professional Ethics,” he stated. Okas-Wike announced that the Rivers State branch of the NIESV was gathering housing data in Port Harcourt which would be useful to the government in the area of taxation, urban planning, and prompt response. Executive Order 11 is a landmark order which focuses essentially on the maintenance of public buildings. It was enacted as a result of the dilapidating state of public buildings across the country. The order expects Ministries, Departments, and Agencies of government to set up maintenance departments; gives legal backing to the country’s national maintenance policy, and also expects the office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation to establish a department of federal public assets maintenance.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com