Easter celebration is here again, a time when Christians faithful around the world celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ after his crucifixion. Easter is a celebration which represents the victory over death and a new beginning full of hope which is symbolised with Easter eggs representing fertility and rebirth of a new season. This is also significant in the world today after two years of isolation and uncertainty due to the pandemic, a suitable time to celebrate the defeat of the last years and a hope for a better and safer world for humanity. The story of Easter is relevant in everyday life when you set your faith aside, you will realise that it is a story of change so that love can occupy the right places in your lives, home, and relationships with others. Easter comes with new beginning The story of Easter is built on an extraordinary life of commitment towards compassion, social justice, peace and change especially in a world full of unfairness and violence again humanity. Good leadership is one of the values of the Easter story, a true leader must be courageous, compassionate, and sensitive to the needs of the people and practise fairness to promote peace and unity. A good leader must be ready to humble himself like a servant leader who is prepared to serve the greater good of his people and country. Leaders have broken promises and their words have become empty, Easter brings the hope of a new beginning and promises of a better nation and a happy people. Easter brings restoration In marriage and relationships, the story of Easter is a story of love and forgiveness especially in a world that no longer values the institution of marriage and the notion of making sacrifices in marital relationships. It is important to protect your marriage from external forces and influences who no longer see the good in their own marriages and are looking for accomplices to join their campaign for the dissolution of marriages. No two marriages are the same and if you have constantly broken your promises to your spouse, Easter brings you hope of change and the end of conflicts in your marriage. Nobody said marriage was easy in the first place, but a successful marriage comes with its own hurts and betrayals which make many marriages even stronger when couples are honest and forgiving about their past mistakes. Easter is a time of gratitude However, if you plan to spend this Easter either alone, with spouse, families, or friends, remember to express gratitude looking back at the last few years and the freedom to celebrate Easter again. Study the familiar story of Easter and use the experiences of the past year to gain a new meaning and perspective of life after death and freedom after restrictions in gratitude and self-reflection. The story of Easter does not end with death, it ends with the promises of renewed hope and a new life that you can embrace even in the challenging situations. Remember to reach out to your families and loved ones this Easter with Easter eggs and words of love and appreciation. Spend the day out in the sunshine, eat to your heart’s delight and enjoy, inspire, and make memories together again. Happy Easter!  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com