From May 10 to May 12, 2022, industry leaders will gather for the Securex West Africa International Exhibition and Conference. The event, which will be held at the Landmark Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos, will start with a focus on Protecting Critical National Infrastructure. According to a statement on Tuesday, the opening will feature keynote addresses from the Commandant General, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Dr. Ahmed Audi; Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Abiodun Alabi, and the Commandant, Lagos State, Federal Fire Service, Agasa Kehinde. On the same day, the conference will focus on the security landscape and the fire and safety industry in Lagos with further high-profile dignitaries from the public and private sectors. Later in the afternoon, a security company, Asis International Nigeria Chapter will be hosting a session on ‘Global Trends in security technology and implications for Nigeria’s security industry’ with speakers from Asis, Coca-Cola, BAT, and PR24 Nigeria. Those to speak at the conference include the Director-General, Lagos State Security Commission, Mr. Lanre Mojola, and MD, Surveillant Fire, Jumade Adejola. The second day will feature a keynote address from the Director of Communications, Office of the National Security Advisor, Brigadier General Samad Akisode. It will also witness a session, with the support of CyberSoc and the British High Commission, on how companies can prepare for a cyber emergency and what protective measures SMB’s should take to protect their businesses. The CEO of Bulwark Intelligence, Tanwa Ashiru will then lead a focus on Women in Security and Strategies for elevating female voices in security operations. On the final day, the focus of the sessions will be on Smart Cities and Buildings. The line-up includes a state government address on Lagos Smart City Initiatives and Investment opportunities, followed by a keynote by Stanley Jegede, Executive Chairman of Phase3 Telecom, on the Security of Critical Digital Infrastructure across industries. Speaking about the quality of this year’s conference sessions, the organisers, Afrocet Montgomery, through the Regional Director, George Pearson, said, “It’s been a lot of work. We’re really excited to have such an incredible lineup of speakers for this year’s conference and are really happy to be working with the key partners in each of the industries. We know each of the sessions will be hugely insightful. By providing the platform for the speakers to really engage with the audience, we know all those in attendance will be able to take a lot from their visit.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com