Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, has assured Abians of a better and more prosperous tomorrow judging from the available positive macro-economic indices in the state. Ikpeazu handed down this assurance in his message to Abians on the occasion of the 2022 Easter celebration and expressed his hope that “before the end of this year, a huge part of our state will become illuminated with uninterrupted electricity as the Geometric Power Project will fully come on stream. “The socioeconomic quantum leap this will come with can only be imagined. As a state with great potentials in small-scale manufacturing and commerce, steady power will redefine our entire existence. “When added to the fact that several key strategic infrastructural projects that will further boost commercial activities, especially in Aba, will be commissioned in the next few weeks, it becomes even clearer that we are marching forward as a state and as a people”. The governor also used the opportunity to appeal to the political class to tread with caution as they got ready to commence political activities for the 2023 elections. “In the last seven years, we have, by the grace of God Almighty and a deliberate and painstaking planning, managed to keep Abia as one of the states with most stable sociopolitical environments. “We have, by the kindness of God, kept our state peaceful and safe, when compared to our neighbors. “I, therefore, appeal to our politicians to be mindful of these as they plan to go into full scale politicking. Any acts capable of plunging our dear state into avoidable chaos must be avoided. The peace and security of our people must remain the most paramount consideration”, Ikpeazu said. Ikpeazu assured Abians that he remained irrevocably committed to their welfare, even as the state grappled with scarce resources.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com