Former President Goodluck Jonathan says he can’t tell if he will be contesting the 2023 presidential election. He said this while replying supporters who protested at his Abuja Office on Friday, demanding that he should declare for the 2023 presidential election. Jonathan, however, told the supporters to “just watch out”. Before coming out to speak, the supporters had chanted and screamed the President’s name for minutes. The former President acknowledged that the youths want him to contest, but gave reasons why he had not made any comment on demands for him to contest the 2023 presidential election. He added, “I cannot declare because some processes are still ongoing. “Yes, you are calling on me to come and declare for the next election. I cannot tell you I’m declaring. The political process is ongoing; just watch out. The key role you must play is that Nigeria must get somebody that will carry young people along.” A spokesman for the group, Mayor Samuel, who is also the convener of the Youth Compatriots of Nigeria, had said, “We were deceived and brainwashed by those who claimed they could do it in 2015. “Now, we know better, under Jonathan, the minimum wage could buy one or two bags of rice. What do we have today? We are begging President Jonathan to forgive us; we have realised our mistakes; we want him back to complete what he started.” The supporters, comprising a group of women and youths, had demanded the return of the former President in 2023. They arrived in four buses and carried placards at Jonathan’s Taraba Close, Maitama office, according to reports. Some of the placards read, “Goodluck declare now”; “We are sorry, Goodluck, don’t abandon us, come back”; “Goodluck please come”; and “Goodluck we love you” among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com