Nigerian rapper, Eva Alordiah, has urged Nigerian parents to start having sex education conversations with their children because it is their responsibility. She said parents were often misguided that children should start learning about sex when they get to a certain age. The rapper, however, noted that the inception of the internet had made sexual content easily accessible to people including children, adding that issues bordering on sex should be discussed in an open, intuitive and respectful way. Alordiah said, “I hope that more Nigerian parents will stop hiding behind the curtains of hypocrisy and righteousness, and begin to have real conversations with their own children about sex. We are sexual beings by nature. Heal your own shame and traumas and teach your kids about their sexual nature. “In a world where information is rampant and easily accessible, where most children today are gifted Ipads before they are gifted books, where sex is on ever ready display at the click of a button, it is even more urgent that we discuss sex in an open, intuitive and respectful way. “Unfortunately, most Nigerian parents fold their arms and hope their children learn about sex at the right time. When? They hope the pastors promising hell as penalty for sin will twat the ever-raging curiosity of children.” Alordiah, however, stated that the desire for sex was greater than the fear of hell, adding that our God-given sexual nature as humans could not be suppressed. She said, “The fear of hell is not as great as the desire for sex. We seriously need to stop with the damn hypocrisy and learn and teach about our God-given sexual nature as humans. Preaching “suppression” is just as well as begging people to explode with reckless abandon. “You cannot suppress nature. To think that children are “just” children is to set yourself up for a rude awakening. Children know so much more than you give them credit for. It is better to have real, intentional relationships with your children, founded on love and mutual respect. “You give children the most expensive schools, Ipads, Internet, gadgets, teachers, pastors, but you don’t give them your own counsel as parents. Dear Nigerian parents, please, it is your responsibility to teach your kids about sex. If you don’t, they will learn anyways.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com