Leaders of the All Progressives Congress in Akoko-Edo Local Government Area of Edo State on Thursday said it has zoned the seat of its federal constituency to the Northern part of the LGA ahead of the party primary election. The leaders took the decision during a caucus meeting of the local government zone of the party, led by Sen. Domingo Obende. In a communiqué signed by the LGA party Secretary, Chris Ekuafeh, which was made available to newsmen, the decision by the leaders to zone the House of Representatives position to the North is as a result of the South occupying the position for the past 12 years. The communique which was copied to the Edo North Senatorial leader of the party, Hon Anselm Agbabi; Leader of the party in the zone, Prince Malik Afegbua; Secretary Edo North Senatorial Caucus of the party, Dr. Tony Aiyejina; and State Chairman of the party, Col David Imuse (retd) said, “By the virtue of Article 12:15 of the All Progressives Congress Constitution (as amended), after exhaustive deliberations on the political issues and happenings in Akoko-Edo Local Government, agreed and resolved as follows: “The position of the House of Representatives for Akoko Edo Federal Constituency, having domiciled for 12-years in the South of the Constituency and there is need for a change. “The leaders resolved and agreed to zone the position of the House of Representatives to the North Constituency and it was so zoned.” Ekuafeh also called on the National and State working committee of the party to look into the issue of who is the authentic LGA chairman of the party before the party primaries and election, this it said is needed to ensure harmony in the party. With this decision, the fourth term ambition of the Deputy Majority Leader of the House of Representatives and the member representing Akoko-Edo federal constituency, Hon Peter Akpatason may not come to fruition. The zoning decision, if it scales through, would also nail the ambition of the former Chief of Staff to Governor Godwin Obaseki, Taiwo Akerele, who recently declared to contest for the same position. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com