A technology-driven knowledge institute, Financial Institutions Training Center, is championing the development and implementation of technology-driven staff promotion exercise. The exercise complements performance management system in Ministries Departments and Agencies and other public sector entities. In a statement on Sunday, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of FITC, Ms Chizor Malize, said that the organisation over the past 20years had successfully supported ministries, departments, agencies and regulators in the public service to implement a robust and technology-driven staff promotion process  based on the globally recognised FITC assessment methodology that supports government desire in achieving a world-class public service. “FITC assessment-based staff promotion methodology and tools ensure unbiased assessment that adds value to the organisations with outstanding level of quality and professionalism. Beyond assessment, the outcome of FITC exercise identifies talent management issues and practical interventions for remediating or managing those issues for effective workforce management. These issues cut across recruitment, workforce planning or manpower planning (for both numbers and quality of staff), career management, succession planning, organisation structure, job design, staff-job-fit, HR transformation etc.” Malize noted. Explaining further, Malize said that part of the FITC staff assessment methodology was an objective and indepth review of the organisation examination syllabus or curriculum. “Part of the FITC Staff Assessment Methodology is an objective and in-depth review of the organisations’ examination syllabus or curriculum to ensure it is skills-based. Experience over the years has shown that most organisations have knowledge-based curricula which makes employees only read and pass examination without adding value to their current job or the new roles or grades on promotion. “This has further impacted the level of staff productivity and proficiency of the workforce for effective staff performance. Invariably, there is no value added to the organisation as either performance remains the same or the employee struggles to perform at the higher level when promoted. FITC has therefore distinguished itself by introducing the Skill-Based assessment curriculum for staff promotion. This ensures that employees within the public service are assessed based on skills as applicable to their job function or demonstrable skills for higher levels of responsibility. “While the pandemic has redefined learning, assessment, and other talent management imperatives, FITC as a technology-driven and innovation-led organisation was prepared and well-positioned for remote assessment”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com