No fewer than 11 National Youths Service Corps members of 2021 Batch “A”, Stream II have had their service extended, while seven others have absconded out of the 683 who completed their one-year service in Gombe. Addressing participants at Gombe Stadium, Pantami, State Coordinator of NYSC, Ada Imoni, revealed that the measures were taken after erring members faced the corps disciplinary committee. Imoni said, “A total of 683 corps members are set to pass out today for 2021 batch A stream II service year, out of which seven absconded and 11 got an extension of service for various offences committed, after facing the corps disciplinary committee. “Let me put on record that while the scheme rewards hard work to serve as a morale booster. It also disciplines erring corps members to serve as a deterrent to others. I, therefore, call on other serving corps members to adhere to the rules and regulations guiding the operations of the scheme at all times.” Imoni called on the corps members to uphold the aspiration of the scheme by creating jobs for themselves instead of waiting for white-collar opportunities, stressing that the soon-to-be-signed Trust fund would empower them. “At the moment, the NYSC is hopeful that the NYSC Trust Fund Bill gets assent of the president, Muhammadu Buhari, in order to provide start-up capital for corps members after passing out to enable them to establish businesses for self-reliance. While we pray, the scheme will continue to equip corps members with necessary skills for self-reliance through the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Programme,” Imoni added. Also speaking, Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, said the scheme has continued to build bridges, adding that it has entrenched tolerance and unity which are hallmarks of NYSC. The governor also donated N50,000 to Joshua Adama, the overall best corps member out of 20 others who received certificates of honour. Represented by Commissioner for Youth and Sports, who is also Chairman NYSC Gombe governing board, Abubakar Musa, the governor disclosed that efforts were on to build a permanent orientation camp to accommodate about 4,000 corps members soonest. Yahaya said, “The completion of your National Service represents a new phase in your life. You are expected to build on your experiences to solve real-life problems.” The governor added, “I call on you to be innovative, just like our challenges are enormous. Key into policies of the Federal Government, and remain good ambassadors of the scheme.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com