The Court of Appeal in Ilorin has dismissed the appeal filed by the Kwara State Government over the appointment of Transition Implementation Committee in the 16 local government areas in the state. While ruling on the appeal, Justice K.I. Amadi, who delivered the judgment via zoom on Thursday, upheld the judgment of the Kwara State High Court by Justice Hamed Gegele in favour of the Elites Network for Sustainable Development in October, 2021. ENetSuD, an anti-corruption Civil Society Organisation had dragged the state government to court over the appointment of the Transition Implementation Committees. Joined in the suit as co-defendants were the state governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq; and the state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Salman Jawondo. In the suit filed by its Director of Legal Services, Luqman Raji, ENetSuD challenged the governor’s power over the illegal dissolution of the elected chairmen and councils in the 16 local government areas of the state as well as the appointment of the TIC members. It said that the governor abused Sections 29 (1) to (5) of the Kwara State Local Government Law, 2005 and Section 7(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) by dissolving the democratically-elected LG councils and replace them with Transitional Implementation Committees/ Caretaker or whatsoever name called appointed by the governor or any other body. Justice Gegele of the State High Court in his judgment delivered on October 8, 2021 ruled that it was illegal for the governor to suspend or dissolve a democratically-elected local government council and replace them with an illegal TIC that is not known to any law. The state government however appealed the judgment. The Court of Appeal in its decision delivered by Justice Amadi on Thursday, dismissed the state government’s appeal and ruled in favour of ENetSuD.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com