The Commissioner for Information and Tourism, Dr Wasiu Olatubosun, has said the second term bid of Governor Seyi Makinde was unstoppable. The commissioner, who recently joined the Peoples Democratic Party officially from the African Democratic Congress, said this in an interview with journalists on Monday on the sidelines of the second term bid and inauguration of GSM Teachers Marine. The teachers trooped out in large numbers and promised to support the governor to win his second term election in 2023. He said the state’s people loved the governor because of his high performance. Still, he said he and others would not only rely on that, saying they had started engaging people in all sectors to convert them to foot soldiers for the governor. He said, “The APC is not a threat to Governor Seyi Makinde. He has done very well, and the people love him, but we won’t rely [on that]. Nobody can stop GSM’s second term, and God ordained it. “When I was in APC, I changed the winning strategy we used against PDP in 2011 and 2015, but as of 2019, I wasn’t with APC, and they were not aware that I had also changed the winning gimmicks. “We have our gimmicks; one of them is what we are currently doing. We engaged people and have been to Oyo, Ogbomoso, Ibarapa, Ibadan, and Oke-Ogun to interact with people. The meetings were purely interactive. “Marine is my initiative, which means foot soldiers (canvassers). We need the foot soldiers for us to emerge in 2023. They will be going from house to house to spread the gospel of Seyi Makinde. The support we have been receiving from the teachers is overwhelming. The chairman of the Teaching Service Commission in the state, Akinade Alamu, urged teachers to support the governor for a second term to continue the transformation being enjoyed in the education sector. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com