The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Emefiele; the founder of Krystal Digital Solutions Limited, Mr. Temitope Ogunsemo, among others, have been listed in the Forbes Africa Undiscovered Series for Nigeria. In a statement made on Friday, in Abuja, by GLG Communications, a consultancy firm, Mr. Uri Onojake disclosed the list of Nigerians who made the series. He said that the undiscovered series was part of an exclusive list of Nigerians who had been crucial in rebuilding and contributing to the Nigerian growth story in recent times. Onojake explained, saying each year, Forbes Africa looks for resilient game-changers, self-starters, innovators, entrepreneurs, and disruptors who have been leading ideas and industries while purposefully contributing to nation-building and positively impacting the lives around them. He said that the 2022 list was a selection of Nigeria’s brightest achievers spanning real estate, oil and gas, corporate leaders, technology innovators, business people, media professionals, policy shapers, and advocates. Onojake said, “Alongside Ogunsemo, public and private sector leaders from business technology, education, the arts, and health sectors were also listed. “Some of these names include Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Cosgrove, Umar Abdullahi; Founder and CEO of Flutterwave, Olugbenga Agboola; GMD/CEO of Zenith Bank Plc, Ebenezer Onyeagwu, amongst others. “Ogunsemo was recognised in the field of information technology for his tenacious leadership and remarkable contribution to Nigeria’s educational sector with the “MySkool Portal” app. “Ogunsemo has over the years shown his undiluted commitment to making the dreams of vulnerable persons a reality through access to quality education, empowerment, and mentoring. “Krystal Digital is “empowering Nigeria’s population of over 200 million people, providing them with the resources, education, training, and access they need to succeed.” Speaking on making the coveted list, Ogunsemo said, “I’m very honoured to have been listed on the Forbes Africa Undiscovered Series. “It’s a big win for not just me but the amazing team at Krystal Digital Solutions Limited. “It’s been a turbulent year for businesses and startups, but through it all, we have trudged on with passion and grit. And this award has proven that, although it has not been easy, it was worth it.” NAN