No fewer than 65 National Youth Service Corps members would repeat their service year in various states for engaging in actions that contravened the bye-laws of the scheme in the country. The PUNCH confirmed the development during the passing out parades that took place across the country on Thursday. The offences committed by the sanctioned corps members include absconding from service, unauthorised journeys, and other miscellaneous offences that violated the laws of the scheme in Nigeria. Speaking during the passing out parade in Abia State, the state Coordinator, NYSC, Jingi Denis, said nine of the 870 corps members of 2021 Batch A, Stream II, will repeat the service year for absconding from service. Denis said the measure was in line with the NYSC rules and regulations. He, however, noted that a corps member would be awarded by the state “in recognition of his outstanding performance during his stay in Abia State,” while five others would receive commendation certificates. In Enugu State, the state Coordinator, Sam Ujogu, said 12 corps members who absconded from service will be remobilised to start service afresh whenever they resurfaced. Ujogu, who made the statement during the passing out parade on Thursday, also said 38 corps members, who participated in the 2021 Batch A, Stream II, NYSC, had their services extended. Ugoju said he regretted that a corps member, Onuegbu Amarachi, with Batch EN/21A/1303, who was serving at Enugu North Local Government Secretariat, died on September 5, 2021. The PUNCH also gathered that 14 of the 1, 260 corps members deployed to serve in Ondo State will repeat their service year, while the service year for 13 corps members was extended. Addressing the corps members, Ani, who was represented by the Assistant Director of the corps, Adejoke Fashola, said the sanctions were subject to approval of Directorate Headquarters, Abuja. She said, “The scheme wields big stick against recalcitrant members of the service corps who fall short of expected behaviour and performance. Out of 1,260 due to pass out of service today, 13 corps members would have their service extended for various misdemeanours. “14 corps members who absconded from service would have to repeat the service subject to the approval of Directorate Headquarters, Abuja.” Also, the state coordinator in Ebonyi State, Bamai Dawuda, on Thursday, stated that 18 corps members will repeat their service year in the state. Dawuda made the disclosure while addressing the corps members during their passing-out parade, adding that their offences ranged from abscondment from service, to unauthorised journeys, and other miscellaneous offences. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com