The Katsina State local government election on Monday was marred by voters’ apathy and delay late arrival of election materials at various polling units. This was as political parties complained about the non-availability of election results sheets, among others. The situation was virtually similar in all the polling units visited in Katsina, Batagarawa, Kankia and Safana Local Government Areas. While the agents of the Peoples Democratic Party at Wakili Gabaz 1 and 2 in Katsina Local Government Area complained of non-arrival of election results sheets at 8.45am when our correspondent visited the units, the All Progressives Congress agents at Turawa A and B polling units in Batagarawa LGA, who spoke on condition of anonymity, also made similar complaints. The accreditation of voters was yet to commence at many polling units at 9am despite the fact that the election was slated for 8am-3pm. It was also observed that fewer voters turned up at the polling units despite the declaration of Monday as work- free to allow people to perform their civic responsibility. Trading and commercial activities were also observed in Katsina by 10am and in the surrounding towns of Batagarawa, Kayaoki, Charanchi and Kankia, notwithstanding the police restriction on both human and vehicular movements within the state. Attempts to speak with the Chairman of the Katsina State Independent Electoral Commission, Ibrahim Bako, were unsuccessful as he was said to have gone out to inspect the exercise. Meanwhile, a joint team of security operatives was seen patrolling various locations in Katsina and the surrounding towns and cities. No fewer than 3,187,988 registered voters in the state were expected to participate in the election which would produce the chairmen for the 34 LGAs and 361 councillors. Twelve political parties participated in the election, although only the APC and PDP  reportedly fielded candidates for both the chairmanship and councillorship seats. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com