In this interview with ADELANI ADEPEGBA, Brig Gen Peter Aro (retd.), who held various strategic appointments in the Nigerian Army, says Russia only wants to be recognised as a super power with its ongoing invasion of Ukraine Is there any way out of the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine? Yes, it cannot last forever but the way President Putin has approached it, he has sold his country to acts of terrorism to those Ukrainians that would want to retaliate. If you look at the history, Ukraine and Russia are almost kiths and kin. Putin might have his reasons for doing what he is doing but there are better options. An option he could have taken was what happened in Cambodia when the Americans were influencing the government of Cambodia. The Soviet Union then supported some separatists that fought against the Americans and they won the war;  just like what happened in Vietnam. Putin could have sponsored an insurrection but the way he came in, he is showing the world that any country could invade a sovereign state. You must have a very strong economy to fight a successful war. With the sanctions placed on him, though the West is losing, the Russians are losing more. When they don’t have the economic power to prosecute the war, at a point in time, they would tactfully withdraw because the Ukrainians are putting up a strong resistance against the Russians. In the past, the Ukrainians were the one doing the mercenary jobs for the Russians. We had an encounter with them in Sierra Leone, they were the ones fighting alongside the rebels of Fonday Sankoh. So, they have experience when it comes to guerrilla warfare. One way or the other, the two gladiators would sheath their swords but it may not be the way it would be expected. What do you think is motivating the Ukrainians to put up a stiff resistance against the Russians? It is about nationalism, having a country you want to identify with. If you ask a Ukrainian where is he from? He would tell you he is a Ukrainian, not from the South or West. So, they have a reason to fight for their country. That’s the truth. It is not like African countries, I don’t want to mention names; where people would identify themselves by tribes. They are united against aggression; they believe Russia coming into their country is an aggression against their sovereignty. That’s what they call nationalism. Do you believe Putin might nuke Ukraine? He is just saying that to frighten politicians that don’t have military backgrounds. It is not a one-sided thing. Any country that fires nuclear weapons will be responded to by other countries with nukes. They (Russians) don’t have a nuclear shield. It was just a threat. Putin is not Russia, he cannot speak for the majority of Russians because there would be a backlash. It was like what happened when the atomic bomb was thrown on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The Japanese didn’t have the capability to respond and that was why it was one-sided. Right now, some countries and the US have nuclear weapons and if he (Putin) fires at them, they would retaliate and it would be very devastating. The Russians too would be affected; so, he cannot do it. Nobody wants to die. What would be the fate of the world if there was a nuclear war? Well, it depends on where it is fired at because it has a beating zone. It would not engulf the whole world. If there is a response, it would not affect the whole world. It would be a catastrophe to those countries around the general area but I think to a large extent, the West of Africa, South of Africa would not be affected directly but there could be long economic effects as well as pollution of the atmosphere which might be injurious when inhaled. What will likely be the implications of a nuclear war for global politics and economy? The world economy would crumble. The medium of exchange is dollars and in the time of war, there would be serious inflation. It would be devastating, we don’t pray for that. Even, the countries that are self-sufficient, it would affect them too, so they wouldn’t want to crave for that. China, for instance, according to opinion widely expressed in the public domain wants Russia to succeed in Ukraine because they want to attack Taiwan. If Russia could succeed in Ukraine, they (China) would feel they have the right to go after Taiwan. Though, it would not be as easy as what is happening in Ukraine because Taiwan is advanced. Again, when the nuclear weapons are fired, it would affect their economy and people too. So, the world would be devastated and no one would want such a thing to happen. Nobody wants a world war again after the bad experiences of WW I and WW II. Why do you think Russian military generals are still supporting Putin when they know his attack on Ukraine is indefensible? You have an allegiance to the country, which is represented by the President. If they have a reason to go against the government, it would not be so obvious because it would be an act of treason and also the FSB (secret police) just like the former KGB is keeping close tabs on all the general and those with strategic appointments so they cannot make an attempt (on Putin’s life). If there would be anything that would affect Putin, it would come from his close security men/details. What do you make of President Biden’s statement that Putin cannot continue to remain in power? With due respect, I think it was a reckless statement. The President of a revered country shouldn’t have made such a statement and even if he has to say it, it should be in a diplomatic manner. With that kind of personal attack, Putin might have more sympathisers back home so they might not support the American government’s bid to oust him. Though Biden said it was his personal opinion, could it be taken to mean that the US is plotting against the Russian President? If the President of a country like America made a statement like that, it is not just his personal opinion; it could be a slip of tongue. It is not easy to be the US President and for everything you want to say, you must say it in a diplomatic manner. Sometimes, these world powers engage in a lot of chess play and mind games. How soon do you think the Russian people would get to the point of resisting the war? When the economy bites hard on the people; it is not like in Africa where you have serious economic issues, you start reverting to God, and say, ‘God’s willing.’ When the economy is affecting them, they would react. America and Europe knew what they are doing by making sure Russia is isolated. Though, they have a way they can support their currency but the poor man in Russia would be hard hit by the sanctions than the rich men. Yes, they have raw materials but are they processing the raw materials at home? When foodstuff and luxury things people used to get at cheap prices become very expensive, people will revolt. Remember what happened during the period of the SARS (protests), people revolted. So, there could be a total mass movement. It is not like Nigeria where if anything happens, people would say it is ‘God’s will,’ ‘God giveth, God taketh.’ They will not fold their arms, something might happen. Do you fear the military might overthrow Putin in view of Russia’s losses in Ukraine? There are things a military officer considers when joining the armed forces; you signed to be committed and loyal. The Russian military is not like the militaries of Africa that would just plan a coup. They are fighting for recognition, to be respected worldwide. At a point, people were not recognising Russia as a super power; it became a mono-polar world where the US was trying to be the police of the world whereas, they are not a saint. Putin is the first person after former Russian leader, Joseph Stalin, to put Russia on the world map as a super power. To be honest, the West is not being honest with what they are doing in Ukraine. The President of Ukraine did not have sufficient discussions with his think tank before this war started. I think he was pushed into it unnecessarily. You have the intention of joining NATO; why do you want to join NATO?   You can as well bargain with Russia, so I don’t blame this man (Putin) for reacting. Remember the Bay of Pigs in Cuba where missiles were being deployed in Cuba, off the shore of the US and America resisted it. What did they do? They sent invaders to quash it. If Putin is reacting this way, he has the right to react. I think Ukraine should have dialogued with Russia and then keep their own part of the bargain.    ,,  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com