Billionaire Realtors Group, a network of Nigeria’s leading independent real estate marketers, has signed a partnership with the Metropolitan School of Business and Management, United Kingdom. A statement said the partnership, which was signed in Dubai, aimed at equipping over 75,000 realtors with contemporary and relevant education in order to propel them in their businesses and personal lives. President, Billionaire Realtor Group, Mr Tony Kolawole, noted that the successful partnership was a major milestone for the group. He said, “As a network, we are very intentional about the development of our realtors and this partnership is a major step in the right direction for us. “I am so excited at this collaboration with the Metropolitan School of Business and Management, United Kingdom and I am certain that it will result in tremendous results. “We are looking at working with experts, highly certified teachers and professionals who would be handling the courses. With this improvement in our quality of training at the BRG academy, there is no doubt that our realtors will stand out in the industry.” Speaking on the partnership, Head of Academics, Metropolitan School of Business and Management, Azmat Qayum, said that the academy was enthusiastic about the initiative taken by BRG in equipping its registered realtors. Qayum said, “We are pleased with this partnership. This is going to be a major training channel for realtors and would contribute immensely to their development. “The curriculum is strategically designed to equip the students so that they can have a global competitive advantage. The goal is to produce well-rounded realtors by the end of each session and we are confident it will be successful.” A member of the Billionaire Realtors Group, Dr. Emmanuel Abikoye, said, “This is a laudable venture that we have embarked on and we are so elated to have this partnership with the Metropolitan School of Business and Management. “This partnership is pivotal to the Nigerian real estate industry as it would definitely impact our market here. There is so much value to be gotten from this partnership for the realtors who would go through the training and we are very optimistic about this.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com