A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory has barred the Federal Capital Territory Administration from taking over Garki Hospital which is currently under the supervision of Nisa Premier Hospital Limited. Justice Charles Agbaza gave the order of interim injunction following a motion ex parte filed by Nisa Premier Hospital Limited which has been running the hospital for the last 15 years. In the suit marked FCT/HC/CV/954/2022, the applicant sought an order of injunction restraining the FCT Minister and the FCTA or their agents from implementing their March 1, 2022 letter on the concession agreement between the FCTA and Nisa Premier on the custody of Garki General Hospital pending the determination of the motion on notice. The court subsequently fixed April 6, 2022, for hearing after the expiration of the initial order. The FCTA and Nisa Premier had entered into a concession agreement for Public Private Partnership in 2007 for a period of 15 years which was to expire in March. The FCTA had moved to bring the concession to an end, a move which experts say could cause hundreds to lose their jobs. Two weeks ago, the House of Representatives also mandated the FCTA to suspend action on the termination of the concession agreement pending the outcome of its investigation into the matter. However, the FCTA said in a statement on Thursday said it had no plans to shut down the hospital. The FCT Minister, Muhammad Bello, said this when the FCT branch of the Nigeria Medical Association led by its Chairman, Dr. Enema Amodu, paid him a courtesy visit. The minister said the concession agreement had an expiration date as assented to by both parties The statement which was signed by the minister’s Chief Press Secretary, Anthony Ogunleye, stated that the minister dismissed fears that the end of the concession agreement between the FCTA and Nisa Premier would lead to job losses. “The situation is that an agreement was entered 15 years ago and mutually accepted by the FCT Administration and the Nisa Medical Group. It was an agreement that has a commencement date and an expiration date. “So, by virtue of the agreement, it is supposed to expire on Thursday, March 31, 2022, a natural termination. So, it’s not the FCT terminating the agreement. That’s what we need to understand,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com