Absa, a pan-African bank with footprint across the African continent, has advised policymakers to prioritise the growth of the Contributory Pension Scheme to ensure that the pension sector maintains a healthy growth trajectory. The banking group operates two licensed subsidiaries, Absa Capital Markets Nigeria Limited and Absa Securities Nigeria Limited, according to a statement. It said the Country Head of Equities and Fixed Income Sales, Simi Ojumu, while speaking on strategies to improve pension business in the domestic market, had noted that the pension industry had maintained an impressive growth curve since the enactment of the Pension Reform Act of 2004. The law, she said, made it mandatory for every employer with more than five employees to enroll each one and make a consistent contribution to the pension fund. She said, “The CPS, through the multiple operators and agencies, the Pension Fund Administrators, Pension Fund Custodians, Closed Pension Fund Administrators, and the regulator, the National Pension Commission, has created an ecosystem of career path, employment, business and investment opportunities for several Nigerians.” Citing recent reports, she explained that the robust policy intervention in the pension sector led to a jump in Nigeria’s net assets value of pension assets from a deficit position two decades ago to N13.6tn valuations in 2022, while scaling the sector’s overall contribution to the GDP from 0.9 per cent in 2004 to nine per cent in the current year. Despite the recent growth, she admitted that the CPS had continued to face some challenges which included low coverage, inadequate awareness of the scheme’s benefits and the inability to ensure strict compliance by the parties. Ojumu said, “The most important thing would be to ensure the sustainability of the contributory pension scheme. “Ensuring participant compliance by the federal, state governments and the private sector, creating awareness of the benefits, and creating an investor-friendly environment are some of the ways that policymakers can ensure that the pension sector continues to thrive and improve its contributions to the country’s GDP.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com