The Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria has called on the Federal Government to take deliberate actions towards ensuring compliance with the nation’s tax policies among multinational companies. The President of the institute, Mr Adesina Adebayo, made the call while reacting to the directive of the Senate to the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission to stop international oil companies evading taxes from lifting crude oil from the country until they showed evidence of tax payment. The Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance, Senator Solomon Adeola, had during an interactive session with the Chief Executive of NUPRC, Gbenga Komolafe, said defaulting IOCs must pay the tax required by law to the Federal Inland Revenue Service before they would be allowed to continue their business operations. Adeola had said at least over 100 of entities had been lifting crude oil in Nigeria without paying a dime in taxes, adding that one of the IOCs with 14 paid about $10 million in tax liabilities to FIRS for a back duty investigation of five years. “From what I read (the Senate committee’s position ), it is clear that this thing has been going on for some years and we did not, as a result of a deliberate compliance strategy, get them out to comply. We created a crack and defaulters are busy feasting on that. They are operating within our territory and enjoying the benefit of our infrastructure without paying any form of tax. The CITN also decried the rising debt profile in Nigeria, lamenting that Nigeria was almost borrowing itself out of existence. He said, “Nigeria has a growing population. We have a debt challenge and for development to take place, revenue has to be generated or borrowing has to take place. We are almost borrowing ourselves out of existence.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com