A prominent Ifa priest and Araba Awo of Osogbo, Chief Ifayemi Elebuibon, has said that there is nothing suspicious about the demise of the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi; the Soun of Ogbomosho, Oba Jimoh Oyewumi, and the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, all within the last five months. Alaafin died on Friday, April 22, 2022, while Soun and Olubadan died on Sunday, December 12, 2021, and January 2, 2022 respectively. Speaking to The PUNCH on their demise, Elebuibon stated that it was their time to answer the call of their ancestors as they were all elderly and that there was nothing significantly hidden or mysterious. “There’s nothing suspicious about their death. It was their time. Their ancestors called them to come home, so they returned. That’s it,” he said. When asked if the death of the monarchs would create some vacuum in the state, Elebuibon said, “Yes, the deaths will create big vacuum because of the roles they played, the positions they held among the kings in the Oyo Council of Obas, and their roles in their kingdoms.” On the bees that reportedly chased away some mourners who gathered at the palace of the Alaafin, Elebuibon stated that there was nothing supernatural about the incident. He said, “It was somebody that caused it. The person went to where the bees were and forced them to come out. Maybe the intention was to scare the people. “Whatever it was, it had no spiritual correlation with what was going on in the palace.” Ogun traditional rulers mourn Oyo monarch The Ogun State Council of Obas, on Tuesday, sympathised with the Oyo State Government, families and people of Oyo state on the death of the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III. The PUNCH earlier reported that the Alaafin did on Friday at the age of 83. In the condolence message signed by the Chairman, Ogun State Council of Obas, Oba Babatunde Ajayi (Torungbuwa II), and made available to The PUNCH on Tuesday, the council acknowledged the achievements of the late monarch in promoting the peace and development of Oyo State and by extension the entire Yoruba community. The statement partly read, “The Ogun State Council of Obas commiserates with the Executive Governor, families and people of Oyo and indeed the whole Yoruba race on the passing away of Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, Alaafin of Oyo. “His long reign brought peace, stability and development to his kingdom.” The statement noted that Nigeria had lost “a strong stabilising voice in culture and governance”, adding that the late monarch’s “repertoire of history and valuable advice shall be sorely missed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com