The leadership of Imesi-Ile Progressives Association has been urged to consider the creation of a market in Osogbo, Osun State capital, to sell farm produce. The suggestion was contained in a paper presented by a former President of the association, Benjamin Olamijulo, at the 2022 Imesi-Ile Economic Summit with the theme, ‘Imesi-Ile: Paradigm Shift for 21st Century Economy,’ held in the community on Saturday. Olamijulo also advised the community to work towards large scale food production, adding that the youth should be encouraged to go into modern poultry and fish farming. In the paper titled, ‘Imesi-Ile: An inquest into 19th and 20th centuries’ growth and commercial rise and fall: Historical lessons and the way forward,’ Olamijulo said the community should be made more accessible through the construction of more roads. He stated, “Imesi-Ile has come a long way and no doubt in need of right perspectives in the 21st Century and beyond. The town is no more in obscurity despite our location and terrain challenges. We have overcome many obstacles that could have made many communities irrelevant. “Agriculture remains our best trade. Our climate remains clement for rearing animals. Only Jos and Mambilla have similar terrains of all year round coolness. Let’s strengthen animal husbandry. “We need a ring road behind our hills probably by collaborating with the Rural Access and Mobility Project and the state government. We need to document our land ownership against boundary encroachment. “We need to reinforce the cooperative system for loan access. We need to create a fund for our indigenes to return home as a soft landing platform. We need to settle intra and inter family disputes. We need education on irrigation along our rivers, especially Osun, Uwoja, Uwo, Asasa and Egudu. “There must be deliberate actions in renovating old houses to accommodate visitors, creating an Imesi market on the outskirts of Osogbo. We need to carry out research on the best crops for our land rather than depending on our forefathers’ trial and error system. “We need to plant what sells and feed cottage industries with produce such as lemon, ewe ori, orogbo, obi, ginger, garlic. We need to launch an endowment fund to finance all these.” The IPA National President, Rev. Oluseun Adeniyi, who said it was necessary to discuss ways to improve the economy of Imesi-Ile, added that the summit had provided an avenue where a blueprint for a clear and modern technologically-based economy for the town would be developed. The Owa Ooye of Imesi-Ile, Oba Enoch Akinyemi, commended the IPA for organising the summit and called on all indigenes to support initiatives that would aid the economic growth of the town. In their separate remarks, the Orangun of Oke Ila, Oba Adedokun Abolarin, and a professor of Economics, University of Ibadan, Oyo State, Ademola Ariyo, called for a careful implementation of the recommendations of the summit. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com