•Say such vagina put men at risk of penile fracture, bruising Sexual health experts have warned women against using products that claim to tighten the vagina, noting that such products rather than increase sexual pleasure make sexual intercourse more painful. According to the experts, vaginal tightening products do not tighten but rather dry up the vagina making sex painful. Men who engage in sex with the women who use these harmful products are not left out of the negative impact as they stand a risk of suffering penile bruising or even penile fracture, the experts warn. The experts who spoke with PUNCH HealthWise in separate interviews were a Sexual and Reproductive Health Specialist, Dr. Yemi Adeyemi, and a Certified Holistic Sex Educator, Sanasi Amos. According to the experts, the vaginal tightening products which come in the form of gels, creams, or syrup are not good for the vaginal health of women, noting that women using them are also more prone to infections. Speaking with our correspondent, Dr. Adeyemi cautions women against inserting things into their vaginal, stressing that the vaginal is a very sensitive organ that should be properly cared for. Adeyemi urged women to disregard the lies that are being constantly peddled that women’s vagina gets loose after sex stating that “the vagina is elastic so it would take a whole lot for it to be ‘loose.” According to Adeyemi, most of the products advertised as vagina tighteners create a hostile environment for the vagina and make it susceptible to infections. Speaking in the same vein, Amos, who holds a degree in Sexology and Sex Counselling, also warned women who use vaginal tightening products to desist, noting that they risk their vagina feeling dry, painful and uncomfortable during sexual intercourse. According to Amos, a woman also risks getting infections due to the dryness of the vagina. “Your vagina produces secretion, some of which prevent the growth of harmful bacteria. So, when you use vagina tighteners there is always no discharge from the vaginal. “This cannot only make you prone to contracting infections, your vaginal walls will become irritated, the vagina feels sore and painful,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com