Former Manchester City forward, Mario Balotelli, is trying to convince Nigeria international Henry Onyekuru to join Adana Demirspor ahead of other suitors with the 2021/22 season drawing to a close. Newly crowned champions Trabzonspor are eyeing the Nigerian as a possible replacement for compatriot Anthony Nwakaeme, who is set to leave the club when his contract expires at the end of the season, with Turkish giants Fenerbahce and Besiktas have already been linked with the former Monaco winger. The 24-year-old winger has a contract with Olympiacos until June 2025. Despite having a difficult first season in Greece with Olympiacos, Onyekuru tops the summer transfer shopping list of Adana Demirspor, who have stunned everyone with their performance despite playing their first season in the topflight. Since gaining promotion to the Super Lig last year, Demirspor have invested hugely by signing some top players with ex-Chelsea star Loic Remy, and former City player Balotelli in their ranks. Vincenzo Montella’s side are sixth on the Super Lig table with 52 points from 35 games with just three games to the end of the current campaign. With the season yet to come to an end, Demirspor have shown its title ambition by preparing for the next season and are banking on one of their key players, Balotelli, to help lure Onyekuru to their side. According to a Turkish website, Cumhuriyet, the Italy international had a phone conversation with Onyekuru in an attempt to convince the winger to join him. “After bringing Vincenzo Montella to the head of the team, Adana Demirspor, which have achieved a great break and is in the Top 5, have already started the transfer studies for the new season,” the website wrote. “The Italian star of the team, Mario Balotelli, also stepped in for the transfer. Balotelli invited Henry Onyekuru, who plays for Olympiakos, to Adana Demirspor. “According to the claims of the Greek press, Balotelli; he called Onyekuru, who is on the transfer list of Galatasaray, Fenerbahçe, and Başakşehir, to play in Demirspor. It is stated that Onyekuru looks forward to wearing Adana Demirspor jersey next season.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com