The Chairman, Edo State chapter of All Progressives Congress, Col. David Imuse (retd.), has urged residents, particularly Christians in the state to pray against bad government and leaders in Edo. Imuse made the call in his Easter message contained in a statement and signed by the APC Assistant State Publicity Secretary, Victor Osehobo, titled, ‘Edo APC boss, Imuse urges Christians to show love’, on Sunday. Calling on Christians to pray for God’s intervention in the governance of the state, he advised the residents to get their Permanent Voter’s Card ready for the next election in the state. Imuse claimed that the call for divine intervention became imperative after the state Governor, Godwin Obaseki, “abandoned his duties in favour of politics”. “From all indications the Edo State governor cannot differentiate politicking from governance as he has forgotten that he is serving his second and final term in office and cannot secure tenure elongation in any guise,” the statement read in part. He, however, urged Edo people to keep hope alive, adding that with their PVC, they would soon have the opportunity to show the Peoples Democratic Party-led Edo State Government which has “failed to deliver on its Make Edo Grounded Again MEGA manifesto the way out”. “I want to also urge us, especially those who have not done so to go ahead and follow the INEC instructions on getting our Permanent Voters Card, PVC. It is our only weapon against the MOU government of Mr Obaseki,” the statement added. Meanwhile, Imuse advised Christians faithful in the state not to lose sight of the lessons of love and sacrifice which are the hallmarks of the annual festival of Easter “The Easter season should serve as a reminder of the selflessness, love, sacrifice, and tolerance of Jesus Christ throughout His earthly sojourn, his death, and his resurrection. “Our Lord and saviour Jesus Christ exemplified the virtues of selflessness, love, and tolerance during his period on earth. As followers of Jesus Christ, all Christians should use the season as a period to reflect on their individual and collective roles in promoting and sustaining love, peace, and harmony in our various communities.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com