A former Military Governor of Oyo and Ogun states, Major General Oladayo Popoola (retd.), has described cultism and internet fraud as real threats to security in Nigeria. Popoola, who was conferred with honorary doctorate by the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso, said this on Saturday in an interview with journalists on the sidelines of the 14th combined convocation of the university. Special counsel for the Oyo State Governor, Chief Bolaji Ayorinde (SAN), former Nigerian Ambassador to Zambia, Ambassador Ibironke Adefope, and Dr Bayo Olugbemi, among others, were also  honoured with honorary degrees. The retired general stated that asides insurgency and banditry ravaging the North, cultists, teenagers and youths, who were engaged in Internet fraud and killings for money rituals, had become terrors to the people. He said parents, teachers and lecturers had a role to play to curb cultism and money rituals which had claimed many innocent lives. Popoola stated, “I want to challenge parents, children, teachers and lecturers from the years past that there was nothing like cultism or yahoo yahoo in all these institutions that I mentioned. If you go to our schools now you will see the presence of these social vices. Those are the bane of insecurity in Nigeria apart from what is happening in the North which they call banditry. “Everybody has a role to play to retrain our children. Most children are not looking forward to riding a bicycle, motorcycle or small car but they want Special Utility Vehicles. “The military is doing their best to end insecurity. They need to be more dedicated and take control. You know the military is under a civilian government and they have to work under instructions.” The Pro-chancellor and Chairman, Governing Council, Prof Ayodeji Omole, commended the present administration in the state, saying that eight months salary arrears inherited by the Council had been cleared. He added members of staff were being promoted as and when due, while all categories of workers in LAUTECH continue to enjoy the regular payment of salary as stipulated by the governor. “Let me, once again, eulogise the governor by saying that today’s event is further evidence that the pursuit of qualitative education is one of your priorities. This event is a milestone for you, the university and Oyo State,” Omole stated. The Acting Vice-Chancellor, Prof Mojeed Liasu, said 24,704 students of the university were awarded degrees. Out of the figure, the 753 graduands across the faculties who made First Class degrees were given special recognition. He said the university had recorded many achievements which he traced to the efforts of the governor to make the university rank among the best in the world very soon.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com