Following the Super Eagles’ inability to qualify for the Qatar 2022 World Cup, majority of fans of the three-time African champions have advised the Nigeria Football Federation to employ a ‘tactically and well respected’ foreign coach to lead the team, The PUNCH reports. The Eagles were eliminated on the away goal rule following a 1-1 draw with Ghana in Abuja in the second leg of their play-off on Tuesday in Abuja. Interim coach Austin Eguavoen stepped down from his position on Thursday after the Eagles failed to qualify for the 2022 World Cup. Eguavoen’s coaching staff Emmanuel Amuneke, Joseph Yobo, Alloy Agu and Salisu Yusuf were also dismissed by the NFF and the offer of two-and-a-half-year contracts also withdrawn. A statement from the NFF said a new management team would be announced “after a proper review” and would be charged with “reinvigorating the Eagles to face future challenges appropriately”. A Twitter user with the name Eyenidara Essien said, “Get us a competent foreign coach to lead the Eagles. Our local coaches should first prove themselves in our local league before getting a chance with the national team.” Segun Sorunke added, “There is too much talent within the Eagles for them not to qualify. Get a foreign coach that will be respected by the boys.” Sebastine Ebhuomhan believes the squad should be disbanded in the wake of their failure to qualify for the Qatar 2022 World Cup. He wrote on Twitter, “Disband the team, get a sound local or foreign coach and invite new bulk of home-based players with a sprinkle of foreign stars.” Captain Slim said, “The NFF should appoint a competent coach with a public record of a successful coaching career for the Eagles Another user with the handle @Mohlee44 wrote, “Our federation has not taken our football seriously because they see it as another means of looting fund. We just don’t need a foreign coach we also need foreigners to lead the NFF.” Omoniyi Isaac also wrote on Twitter, “A competent foreign coach should be next on the agenda because we’ve tried local coaches and got no tangible results. They are all bad.” @makito2001 also said,” Even if we give our opinion, it wouldn’t stand. So NFF should make their decision themselves but a foreign coach should be appointed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com