Controversy is trailing the supply of drugs allegedly worth N7m by the National Primary Health Care Development Agency to Arigbajo Primary Healthcare Centre, located in Ewekoro Local Government Area of Ogun State. The lawmaker that facilitated the procurement is alleging that the medicines supplied are not useful to the centre while health workers of the PHC fear that some of the medicines that have been under lock and key for about three months may soon expire. AMARACHI OKEH reports Tracka, a non-governmental organisation that tracks the implementation of budgetary provisions and constituency projects, recently raised alarm over unused drugs at Arigbajo Primary Health Care Centre in Ewekoro Local Government Area of Ogun State. The NGO had alleged that the PHC was not allowed to use the drugs worth N7m because “the facilitator (lawmaker), instructed that they should not use it pending the commissioning.” According to the budget document obtained by PUNCH HealthWise, the Federal Government had earmarked N7m for the supply of drugs to Arigbajo PHC in the 2021 Federal Government Constituency Project in the state. The implementing agency for the project is the National Primary Health Care Development Agency. The allocation for the constituency project is listed in the budget document with the unique code ERGP25160687 under the ministry of health through the National Primary Health Care Development Agency. The budgeted N7m was described in the ERGP line items as ‘Supply of Drugs for Arigbajo PHC in Ewekoro Local Government’. Lawmaker indicts NPHCDA Every constituency project is facilitated and monitored by the lawmaker representing the constituency at the Federal House of Representatives. Following the allegation by Tracka, PUNCH HealthWise correspondent reached out to the member representing Ifo/Ewekoro constituency, Hon Ishiaka Ibrahim. According to the lawmaker, the drugs have not been put to use due to the complaints by the PHC that the medications they received are not useful to their centre. According to him, what the NPHCDA delivered to the PHC was not what could be used by the centre. He said, “The drugs are not yet in use because they told me that what the primary health care development agency delivered is not what they can use. “I have already contacted the PHC so when I’m around they will send their representative from the state so that all of us will have a physical check. “That is why it is with them, it is in the hospital there, it is not in anybody’s house. “I told the NPHCDA to get a list of what is needed from that hospital which they failed to do and the hospital told me that some of the drugs they brought are not what they can use. “I don’t want any mix-up. Once I am back, the representative of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency in the state will have to come with the local government chairman and the councilor for health and perhaps the ministry of health in the state, so that everybody will be on the same page. “That is why I told them to deliver it. I want the PHC to sign for it. We will conduct a joint inspection and they will make their comment.” He, however, stated that he is not aware of the allegations that the seven-million-naira drugs delivered were not up to the total sum. A visit to the PHC To unravel the mystery concerning the drugs, PUNCH Healthwise visited the Primary health centre in April and confirmed that the drugs supplied since February 2022 have not yet been put to use by the facility. Multiple sources at the hospital who spoke with our correspondent confirmed that the drugs have been received and remained unused. They also alleged that there were discrepancies in the procurement process and claimed that the drugs supplied were not worth N7m. Another staff at the hospital speaking under anonymity also claimed that the drugs supplied are not what is needed at the centre. PUNCH HealthWise also found out that the challenge facing the PHC is not just of lack of needed drugs. PUNCH HealthWise findings revealed that beyond the need for drugs and other commodities, the PHC is also in dire need of infrastructure refurbishment as the centre is now in a poor state. The Arigbajo PHC is located on a street that is not far away from the busy road linking Lagos to Ogun state through Sango Otta. When our correspondent visited the centre last Friday, it was empty save for three workers on duty, a new mother who had just delivered her son in the early hours of that Friday morning and two other family members who had spent the night with the new mum. While the new mum and family members praised the effectiveness of the health workers stationed at the PHC, they lamented the lack of equipment at the hospital. The new mother who simply herself as Kehinde Smart bemoaned the infestation of the PHC by mosquitoes but lauded the workers at the PHC for being efficient with the little they have, praising them for helping to deliver without complications. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com