In line with its goal of creating lasting solutions to real-life marketing challenges, Eko Innovation Centre in collaboration with GDM Group has launched the maiden edition of its Media and Marketing Hackathon tagged MarkHack 1.0, In a statement, the organisations said they are prepared to change the marketing and media landscape with tech solutions that would disrupt and tackle some of the challenges faced in the industry. The launch of the hackathon which was held in Lagos was well attended by innovators, entrepreneurs, policymakers, marketing, and media professionals while many others across the world joined the event virtually. Organizers of the event revealed that over 500 individuals registered to participate in the hackathon from 72 locations, five countries which are Nigeria, California, Kenya, Pakistan, and London, and three continents Africa, Europe, and North America. It also announced that the best 10 teams with the most viable concepts would qualify for the final event in May for $20,000 prize and an acceleration programme with up to $50,00 equity investment to get their products ready for the market among other benefits. Speaking at the event the Founder, Eko Innovation Centre & Curator, Art of Technology Lagos, Mr Victor Afolabi, said that marketing is the most effective engine of economic development as it can rapidly develop entrepreneurs and managers. He said the industry is yet to see a technological breakthrough within the country considering the growth of Martech globally, an industry estimated at $344.8bn in 2021 according to Martech Alliance (2021). Afolabi said, “The Nigerian marketing industry has started to see preliminary innovation but acceleration is slow to disrupt the future in line with changing consumer behaviour. “We are yet to experience notoriety for a homegrown technological breakthrough at a remarkable scale in the marketing industry.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com