The pan-Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere, has said the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, was part of the security problems in the North-West because of his lack of forthrightness on issues concerning national security. The group urged El-Rufai and the other governors of his region to set up a security outfit like Amotekun in the North-West. It recalled that the leaders of the South-West region launched Amotekun in order to tackle the security challenges of the region. El-Rufai had said in an interview that if the Federal Government did not end the ongoing spate of terror attacks in the region, Kaduna State Government and the South-West would engage foreign hands to tackle the problem. Reacting to the governor’s statement, the Secretary-General of the group, Sola Ebiseni, in an interview with one of Saturday PUNCH, said it was the fault of the leaders of the region. Ebiseni stated that the terrorists were “pampered” by the region, adding that the situation emboldened them (terrorists) to cause more damage to the country and her citizens. “El-Rufai and his colleagues are part of the problems that led us to where we are, because of their lack of forthrightness on national (security) issues. Two issues are particularly germane here. On ways to tackle the problem, Ebiseni noted, “One of the ways by which insecurity can be tackled is to allow states to have their own police. Most of these northern elders were those who frustrated the idea. “I will advise him to copy the South-West governors; set up a brand of Amotekun as their own regional security to support the Nigerian police and military in internal security.” “Rather than seeking help from above; there is no war that any mercenary can fight. That statement of El-Rufai is a vote of no confidence in the Nigerian military, and it is most unfortunate. “Apart from the fact that he does not have the power under the law to do so, it would amount to insurrection against the Nigerian state for any of the governments of the constituent states to invite foreign military either in terms of organised military or as soldiers of fortune who may not understand the territory of Nigeria.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com