One of the phrases I grew up to cherish was, ‘And they lived happily ever after’ which was used to indicate that a couple lived together in peace for the rest of their lives after they got married. It gave us (young ones) such delight and we looked forward to having that same experience. Also, the marriages we used to read about gave the couples in them a sense of comfort, protection and love. However, recent events are starting to prove otherwise. Without a doubt, the institution of marriage remains a good haven for some. But, for others it is akin to sitting atop a keg of gunpowder. It is funny how what is supposed to nourish life ends up depleting it, either through damaging words or outright physical assault. Is marriage not supposed to be a union of two people who seek for ways to love each other? How did the love between couples become so sour to the extent that it is taking the lives of many? The news of domestic violence we are constantly bombarded with baffle me. With the quality of education and exposure now available, one would think it is only illiterates that have such experiences, but the demise of gospel singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu, is an indication that it is not limited to any particular set of people. Domestic violence is not a fate that should be accepted or endured under any guise. It is an anomaly and even though women are usually at the receiving end, cases of men going through have also surfaced online. Now, the big question is— why has society allowed it to linger? It is disheartening that society shames the victims of such dastardly abuse, while exonerating the real culprits. The way people canvass certain reasons to try to justify such bestial acts beats me. The victims are usually told things like, ‘You should be humble enough to calm him down’, and ‘You ought to know his threshold, so you should know when to stop talking.’ Domestic violence is not just a physical assault. It also has mental implications and can/does lead to loss of lives. It is therefore not something to be handled with levity. People at the receiving end of such battery should be allowed to make choices that guarantee their freedom without any extra baggage of culture or religion. If we see domestic violence as the crime it truly is, then the relevant stakeholders will give it the same attention given to other criminals. When a crime is not quickly punished, people feel it is safe to continue doing wrong. Religious organisations, cultural representatives and even the laws of the land need to be worked on to reflect the seriousness of this menace. Domestic violence is not right, and it is high time we stop granting it approval through our actions. Domestic violence is not normal and we as a people need to act decisively so that the younger generations don’t see it as being normal. Marriage is honourable but there is nothing noble about staying in a life-threatening situation. Anuoluwapo Godfrey Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com