The newly elected factional Chairman of the Ondo State Chapter of Social Democratic Party, Mr Stephen Adewale, said the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party of Nigeria poorer and backward since 1999. Adewale stated this on Saturday while addressing the party delegates after he emerged as the state chairman during the state congress of the party, held in Akure, the state capital. Other members of the state working committee of the party were also elected at the congress. He charged members of the party to work in unity to oust the ruling APC in the forthcoming general election in 2023. He said, “You will need to do feasibility studies if you wish to launch a new profitable firm. On this basis, we have done our homework and discovered that Nigerian political parties (the APC and PDP) have been using the incorrect formula since 1999, and that their incorrect formula has left Nigeria poorer and more backward than when they arrived, and that their bad policies have satisfied no one, enraged everyone, and succeeded in deepening the cleavage of the very crisis they were supposed to solve. “I, together with other members of our newly elected state working committee of our great party, express our gratitude to the delegates of our great Congress. We acknowledge the responsibility they have bestowed upon us, and we will strive tirelessly to meet their goals for the growth of our great party in Ondo State. “In the following days, we will knock on every door in the state, demolish every stronghold, and visit every nook and cranny in order to ensure that the SDP is registered in the minds of the people of Ondo State.” The new chairman enjoined members to close ranks and work in one voice to serve quit notice to the APC’s hold on governance in the state and at the federal level. “A wind of change is blowing all over the South-West and that now was the time for party members all over the state to put away all forms of rancour and forge a new path that will make the SDP the party of choice in Ondo State,” he charged. However, it was gathered that the congress was disrupted by protest from the members of the other faction of the party as they said there was a court injunction restraining them from holding the congress. In a reaction to the incident, the state Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Remi Olayiwola, who confirmed the incident, also confirmed the court injunction against the congress. He said, “The incident was the handiwork of those who are bent on using the name of the rising profile of the party to  dupe unsuspecting aspirants as the 2023 Presidential election draws near.”