The Director-General of the Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation, Hafsat Abiola, has said her late father and philanthropist, Chief Moshood Abiola, shared similar qualities with Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello. The DG explained that she studied the presidential aspirant and saw that he is the best man needed to take Nigeria to its right destination. Abiola disclosed this during an Arise TV’s ‘This Day Live’ on Sunday. She expressed the confidence that Bello would clinch the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress irrespective of the zone where the party’s national chairman hails from. She said, “Nigerians must be given the free hand to choose their leaders. That is the meaning of democracy. My father did not contest to represent zoning interest. His interest was Nigeria and Nigeria alone. Another similarity was that the late Moshood Kashimawo Olawale believed in a united Nigeria, just like Bello, and he also treated everyone around him with respect regardless of their social standing. “These are the same qualities I have seen in Governor Bello. He dared to contest, not minding that he was from a minority tribe in Kogi and won, and he has come out again. My father did the same, when it was believed that a Yoruba man could not be President. “Yahaya Bello is the best man for the job. And you know me; I am not driven by pecuniary considerations. I do what I believe in. In the next seven weeks, we would be working hard, and when we emerge, we will deliver a Nigeria of our dreams.” Abiola added that her appointment as the DG of Bello’s presidential campaign indicated his inclusion of women. “My father would have been happy to see that a young, courageous man like the governor had done everything to bring back his Hope ‘93 in Hope ‘23, with the same person that did the manifesto on board – Senator Jonathan Zwingina. “The presidential aspirant had the right marks where the votes were – women and youths – and being the first female Director-General of a presidential campaign organisation was an attestation to governor Bello’s unrivalled record in women inclusion,” she said. The PUNCH had reported that Bello, on Saturday, formally declared his intention to contest the 2023 presidential election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com