Former Vice-President and presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, has said some of his goals for the next four years from 2023 would include the enforcement of quota system and meritocracy, a judicious fight against corruption and introduction of diaspora voting into the electoral process. In his mission statement posted on his website and circulated across emails, Atiku said some of his goals for the next four years from 2023 would include the enforcement of quota system and meritocracy, a judicious fight against corruption and introduction of Diaspora voting into the electoral process. The former Vice-President, who was one of the presidential aspirants screened on Friday by the party ahead of its presidential primaries on May 28 and 29, said he and his team had branded his campaign with the message of unity. He said to rebuild the country would require restoring its broken bond of unity amongst its diverse people. “A house divided is an enemy onto itself. So, to truly stop the spiral of insecurity in Nigeria and restore confidence in our economy must begin by strengthening the bond of our national unity,” he added. Highlighting his goals, Atiku said he would “fix Nigeria and get it working for the greater good; unify the country and get its people talking about unity and development; rejig and rejuvenate the comatose economy; diversify and liberalise the economy to generate jobs and create new revenue avenues, enforce the true principles of federal quota system with emphasis on meritocracy.” He said further that he would declare national emergency on energy, security, education, public health and agriculture, among other critical sectors. He also said he would ensure women and youths’ inclusiveness in politics and business and the prompt payment of pensions to retirees. The former vice-president said he would “bequeath a legacy of good governance and real dividends of democracy, fight corruption judiciously, invest in edu-innovation and plug into global e-commerce. He added that he would “ensure food availability and sustainability, adequate national security and citizens’ welfare; upgrade and improve the living standards of security personnel and equipment for the Armed Forces; explore mutually beneficial foreign affairs policy, both at sub-regional, continental and international levels, revamp Nigeria as the giant of Africa, enrich and enlarge the coast of electoral process like due diligence, fairness and equity, plus the introduction of high-tech into elections in the country, like Diaspora voting.” Meanwhile, as the National Executive Committee of the party meets next week, the former Vice-President has urged the committee not to experiment with zoning ahead of the 2023 forthcoming elections. He was quoted to have said this in a statement titled, ‘Prioritise winning over zoning, Atiku tells PDP NEC’, by the National Publicity Secretary of the Atiku Support Organisation, Dr Victor Moses, a copy of which was sent to Saturday PUNCH. PDP NEC will meet on Wednesday to decide on the issue of zoning its presidency to a particular region or allow every presidential aspirant to contest the primary. Atiku also noted that the battle ahead in 2023 was not one for trial and error, but one to save the “soul of Nigeria”. He further called on the National Executive Committee of the PDP to eschew regional and primordial sentiments and throw open the contest for the presidential ticket to interested aspirants. Part of the statement read, “The battle ahead in 2023 is not one for trial and error, a test run or experimentation or is it one for young or old. It is essentially a battle to save the soul of Nigeria. It is a battle to save our children and the next generation to come. “Therefore, it is either we field our best to reclaim the seat of power and fix Nigeria or remain in the wilderness ad infinitum and watch the APC destroy us, the economy, and the country in general.” “History will beckon on the leadership of the PDP as what will soon be decided on zoning (in the coming week) will not only have a major impact on redirecting Nigeria’s path to greatness but also prove the readiness and preparedness or lack of it of the PDP to reclaim power in the 2023 presidential elections. “Nigeria is bleeding, fatally haemorrhaging and desperately needs a saviour. The destiny of over 215 million Nigerians hangs on your shoulders. As a party aiming to return to power in 2023, the PDP must not make a mistake that will cost it dearly and hurt Nigerians. “Therefore, we encourage the leadership of the PDP to eschew regional and primordial sentiment, jettison selfishness, and throw open the presidential ticket to all interested aspirants so that the best can emerge to lead the party to victory. “To secure victory in the 2023 elections, we need to follow vigorously and with all our strength to support a candidate with the needed capacity, mass following and national appeal to give us the desired victory in the 2023 presidential election against the disastrous performing APC-led government. “I am the man who the cap fits to unite and rebuild Nigeria. The stakes are high in 2023, therefore, we cannot afford to start from square one,” part of the statement read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com