The National Pension Commission on Tuesday approved Norrenberger’s acquisition of IEI-Anchor Pension. A statement from the firm on Sunday said by this move, Norrenberger through its acquisition of IEI Insurance, had become the largest shareholder of the Pension Fund Administrator. It stated, “Norrenberger has obtained all necessary approvals from the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the National Insurance Commission for the acquisition. “The acquisition is driven by efforts to meet IEI’s capitalisation requirement as required by NAICOM and signifies Norrenberger’s entry into the pension and insurance sectors of the financial services industry.” With the acquisition, it said, Norrenberger would expand and further strengthen its business model to improve product and service distribution to clients across Nigeria. It would aggressively create and develop new opportunities for its stakeholders by utilising technology and other digital assets to revolutionise the pension and insurance markets. The statement said IEI- International Energy Insurance started operations in Nigeria in 1969, as the country’s first energy-focused insurer focusing on offshore and onshore risks alongside general insurance services. Commenting on the acquisition, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Norrenberger, Tony Edeh, said, “Norrenberger has a proven track record of acquisition and integration with a clear growth strategy for the organisation, which supports our acquisition of IEI. “Thus, the acquisition of IEI, a company with a rich heritage and experience in pensions and insurance, will further strengthen our Group’s mission to unlock investment opportunities in our society for our clients. “Norrenberger has a robust financial profile with a solid risk assessment framework, and we believe this acquisition will provide a wide range of benefits and opportunities to both companies’ staff, clients, and stakeholders.” The Chief Executive Officer, IEI Insurance, Mr Ebun Ayeni, said, “The board of International Energy Insurance is in solid support of the acquisition by Norrenberger, which will provide a strategic opportunity for all stakeholders in both businesses and change the perception of the Insurance group. “We are looking forward to the exciting opportunities which this acquisition would provide.” Norrenberger is a leading, independent financial services group, the statement said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com