A coalition of Civil Society Organisations under the aegis of Civil Society Forum of Nigeria, on Wednesday, demanded the immediate resignation of the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, over the recent attack on Abuja-Kaduna train. The PUNCH reported that many persons were killed and others missing on March 28 when terrorists detonated a bomb on a rail track and opened fire on a train linking Abuja with Kaduna. The Executive Director of Voters Rights Assembly, Yinka Dada, at a press conference on behalf of the CSFoN, alleged that the
Federal Executive Council rejected the N3.7 billion proposal for the procurement of security equipment because Amaechi placed personal interest above national interest. According to him, the attack on the train might have been curtailed if there were surveillance systems in place. Dada wondered why the the Minister refused to accept responsibility for the security lapse instead of accusing other authorities within the government of sabotaging efforts at mounting surveillance equipment systems at the rail lines. He said, “It is evident that Amaechi did not put national interest forward. It is clear that all he attempted to do was favouritism. It is even crystal annoying that after the attacks, he insulted the sensibilities of Nigerians by justifying his personal interest for the attacks. “Nigerians are dying daily and our nation is now watered with the blood of citizens whose government seems incapable of protecting their lives. “In a saner clime, Amaechi should have turned in his resignation by now. And since he has refused, the citizens owe it a duty to ask for his resignation. “Our lives are precious and the sovereignty of this nation must not be continually subjected to the dictates of banditry and insecurity of any form. The dignity of Nigerians is waning and this is the time to show that no Nigerian is more Nigerian than the other.” While demanding for the resignation of Amaechi, Dada called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to sack him if he refuses to resign. He said Nigerians were tired of condolences emanating from the presidency and are now demanding for action. “In the next few days, the citizens will respond peacefully through collective struggle for emancipation from the grip of non-state actors by demanding the sack of appointees who have shown clear negligence in their line of duty,” Dada said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com