The Indigenous People of Biafra has condemned the attacks and killings going on in Imo State. The group accused the Nigerian military and Ebubeagu Security Network of being behind the attacks. IPOB alleged that military personnel now go from house to house searching and killing innocent citizens because they are Biafrans. In a statement on Wednesday, the group’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, said the activities of the military and the ESN were being financed by state politicians and their collaborators. Powerful said Obowo and Orlu residents were facing hard times, and the security agencies, especially the military had already marked out those communities for total destruction. He stated, “Our people are under severe attack and torture anywhere they are seen. We are dying every day while the world is looking the other way. “They should stop feeding lies to the public. Nigeria Joint Security Forces, especially the Army and police, did not clash with unknown gunmen, ESN or civilians, instead soldiers invaded Orlu and Obowo LGAs and its environs, burnt 17 innocent citizens alive and destroyed property.” The group, therefore, called on the international community, Amnesty International and human rights organisations across the world to take note and prevail on the Federal Government and its security agencies to leave the Biafran territory. The group reiterated that IPOB members were not terrorists, claiming its members were present in over 100 countries without being treated as criminals. It claimed that the people living in Orlu and its environs were under siege and pressure to leave their ancestral lands because of the Federal Government and its security agencies. Powerful said soldiers were busy killing innocent citizens simply because of their suspicion of being IPOB members without confirmation. The statement read in parts, “It is no longer news that the Nigeria Army, in collaboration with Ebubeagu militia, are burning down people’s property and have metamorphosed into burning human beings alive in Obowo and other communities in Biafra land. “Two days ago they burnt 17 persons alive in the Orlu LGA and its environs, with many houses and property of innocent citizens destroyed completely. “The world should come and rescue Biafrans because they are facing difficulties in the hands of the Federal Government at this time. We need help from the international community to rescue us by separating us from Nigeria. “The Army are now going from house to house, searching for and killing innocent citizens just because they are Biafrans. They should stop murdering our brothers and sisters. “Terrorists have continued to kill innocent Nigerians, mostly Christians and non-Muslims in the North, but no security agency has ever moved into those theatres of war to kill innocent citizens. Is it because we are Biafrans? There is genocide going on now in Biafra land by Nigeria security agencies. The world must come to our rescue now.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com