In recent times, I was invited to speak with the teenagers at a Methodist Church in Lagos and a girl asked me why a teenager could get addicted to sex! My response was as follows: I joyfully gave each of the girls a copy of one of my new books; “Wisdom for Girls,” to reset their confused and possibly distorted souls! A few days later, a musician whom I had always suspected was reacting to a childhood trauma with her sexual orientation and the mournful spirit she exudes told the world she was abused by her stepfather between 11 and 17 years and her mother refused to believe her. Her life was stolen from her before her mother’s eyes and her mother chooses not to believe her! How cruel. Barely 48 hours after her story went viral, another story of minors of a prominent school engaging in sex when they went for a competition in Dubai last month and the video of the act went viral. As usual, the girl-child is the one bearing the brunt! How can any mother sleep well knowing her baby is with strangers outside the country? What type of child would be so daring to leave her hotel room and go to another room seven floors away from hers to engage in sex? What spirit is she possessed with? Which spirit is controlling her life because she’s certainly not herself? I have never in my life heard of any child described contemptuously as the little girl was described on social media. Her picture has since gone viral and people are not sparing her parents, especially her mother. Many adults I must say with questionable characters who watched the video said she wasn’t raped as her mother cried that she in fact was the one who was harassing the boy or boys she was engaging in sex with and with different styles. It was later discovered that she has a social media account where she posts erotic dances she records in her home and tells you to download for daily madness and cringe and has gathered over 24,000 likes at that age! But how can a 10-year-old be talking about entertaining you with madness and cringe? Isn’t this also as a result of her exposure to smartphone? Even if she needs a smart gadget for school work, can’t she be given an iPad or tablet that’s child-friendly? Believe me, with the permissiveness of today’s parents, we might end up having more “yahoo boys” and porn stars than professors, scientists, lawyers and engineers in future. Yes! This is because those who are to birth the future generation are daily being messed up by those who brought them to the world who can’t ensure they follow the right path! I’m talking about parents who would watch BBN and idolise the house mates and unconsciously carve a role model out of them for their children who are listening, parents who would wear indecent clothing and dance to crazy, indecent lyrics which turn the female to sexual objects! Or parents who themselves are serial adulterers oozing the spirit of lust and transmitting the same to their offspring. I could go on and on! The thought that the children could engage in such an act is so heartbreaking and painful because they certainly don’t know what they’ve been doing. My business at Girls Club is the girl hoping someone else is looking out for the boys and I must say someone perhaps in the family must have abused her at a young age and set her on the ruinous path that she is.  Indeed a lot of parents are responsible for their children’s sexual immorality and pervasiveness and many youths aren’t happy they’re addicted to sex either and have to wear their hearts and body out! To be continued! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowotemilolu Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com