A governorship aspirant in Delta State under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Honourable Bright Edejewhro, has said that the state needs an energetic and grassroots mobiliser to take over from the incumbent Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, to fast track socio-economic development of the oil-rich state. Edejewhro made the statement on Wednesday in his address to the PDP delegates across the 25 local government areas of the state during his visit to Ekpan in Uvwie local government area Ward 9/10. While urging them to take him as their preferred candidate during the party primaries, he explained that he had decided to run for the governorship after he had already sought the face of God on the project. He assured that he would consolidate on the achievements of the incumbent governor if elected come 2023. He said, “Delta State needs a young chap who has been in the political circle, dine and wine with the old and the young and has held political offices both in elective or appointee, to take over the mantle of a servant leader as the next governor of Delta and should be within the bracket age of 50s.” Edejewhro noted that he was once a Councilor, from where he became leader of the Legislative Arm, then, Chairman of Uvwie Local Council, and then a Commissioner in the State Government. He further stated, “I have come to appeal to the delegates not to be confused but to give their votes to me during the governorship primary because God has confirmed me as the next governor of Delta State. I am the youngest of the aspirants vying for a seat. I am not dragging the governorship with anybody but they are the ones dragging it with me. “Deltans need energetic and grassroots young chap who has been in the political circle, dine and wine with the old and the young and has held political offices both in elective or appointee to take over the mantle of a servant leader as the next governor of Delta and should be within the bracket age of 50s. “This is a race of destiny and it is my destiny. The game will soon start and the U-turn that will take place will break some people’s waists because I’m the David of our time and will ensure I defend Deltans from the hands of killer Herdsmen. I will promote and sustain relative peace across all ethnic nationalities and I promise not to disappoint my people by providing dividends of democracy to their doorsteps.” Earlier, two of the members of his campaign organisation, Mr. Great Okubeya and Endurance Mighwu, while expressing joy at seeing the multitude that received their principal, assured that the governorship aspirant had all it took to govern Delta State. They also noted that he had been loyal in the course of his service to the people in his earlier public offices. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com