The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, Thursday, unveiled the Edo State Social Protection Policy to check social vices and protect vulnerable persons in the state. Obaseki launched the policy at a town-hall meeting tagged, ‘Welfare Enhancement and Sustainable Development in Edo State,’ held at the Government House, Benin City. Stakeholders at the town-hall meeting were drawn from the judiciary, Civil Society Organisations, security agencies, government Ministries, Departments, and Agencies, as well as religious, traditional, and political leaders, among others. The governor, represented by the Commissioner for Social Development and Gender Issues, Maria Edeko, said the town-hall meeting was to deliberate on policies, programmes, and initiatives embarked upon by his administration to engender social development in Edo State. She said, “As government, we understand the enormous task of protecting the lives and property of our people, and we count on the active support of all stakeholders to deliver on our mandate. “Edo State is blessed. Our people continue to champion innovation and push the boundaries of what is possible in terms of human welfare, both in Nigeria and across the globe, but we are not oblivious of contrasting stories of drug abuse, child labour, begging, Sexual and Gender-Based Violence, human trafficking, and other challenges faced by vulnerable persons in society. The increased incidence of cybercrime and the near-total breakdown of our value system are also worrisome and unnerving. “The remedies we are deploying to deal with the problems of social dislocations are multi-pronged, including efforts to improve education at all levels; embark on a multilateral approach for skills development focused on leveraging Information Communication Technology (ICT); strengthen rehabilitation services; improve access to quality and affordable healthcare, and build formidable food systems.” “This policy is built on five major pillars to include Social Assistance, Social Care, Social Insurance, Labour Market Intervention, and Traditional Family and Community Support,” she added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com