Anambra State Government  has stepped up efforts at clearing refuse in its communities, but the efforts are not adequate as indiscriminate waste dumping still persists in the state, IKENNA OBIANERI writes Anambra State, particularly the major communities, has been battling heaps of refuse for months. The state’s poor management of waste and the obsolete means of evacuation have led to the waste becoming as tall as storey buildings in some places.  Because of the abandonment by the relevant agency, the waste has assumed a frightening dimension, encroaching on  roads and blocking drainages. Apart from hampering the free flow of vehicular and non-vehicular movements, the eyesore and the environmental hazards it constitutes are causing fear among residents.  The negative impact on food, air and water is also worrisome especially as the rainy season begins. Although the state government, through the Anambra State Waste Management Authority has stepped up efforts in clearing the communities of this menace, the exercise may end in futility, especially as there is no yet sustainable measures  put in place to contain the indiscriminate dumping of the waste. For instance, residents are lamenting that despite the huge refuse bills they pay monthly, the management of ASWAMA does not come as and when due to evacuate the waste, a situation, they say, always leads to the huge accumulation of the waste on the roads. Having seen the massive heaps of refuse that adorned the communities and their effects on the drainage system during his official visit to Okpoko community in the Ogbaru Local Government Area, on the second day after his inauguration, the state Governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo,  directed a partial lockdown on four communities, including the Onitsha North, Onitsha South, Idemili North and Ogbaru. The lockdown was to give room for an uninterrupted evacuation of the waste given the enormous task to be carried out. While addressing the residents, Soludo appealed to them to stop the indiscriminate dumping of refuse as it portended risk to their health and danger to the free flow of water. He promised that the government was making moves to provide waste bins at strategic locations for proper management and ease of disposal of the waste. The lockdown which was observed in the first week of April, enabled the authorities concerned to evacuate the refuse. The affected communities, are believed to contribute over 50 per cent of waste generated in the state. Before the efforts by the state government at getting rid of waste at the Ogbaru communities, other major parts of the state like Nnewi, Oba, Onitsha and Awka, had heaps of refuse encroaching half of the streets and defacing the aesthetic of the neighbourhoods. Our correspondent who monitored the exercise, observed that in some locations, the waste management workers did not do a thorough job as they left over a half of the waste unattended to. Although sophisticated machines were used during the special exercise organised by the state government, it was a sharp contrast to the obsolete tippers and shovels which were always being used by the refuse collectors prior to that. Refuse on  major roads and locations like the Upper Iweka end of the Aguata road, MCC, Cemetery road, Eggerton was not totally removed and the waste is rapidly rising almost back to its former height with the refuse collectors men not in sight. Burning of the dumped solid waste at the dump site is now common in the state. An Awka-based environmentalist, Dr Joseph Uko, who spoke to our correspondent, however, warned that open dumps and burning of solid waste had serious negative impacts on the environment. Uko said waste should not be burnt in residential areas as the smoke from plastics and other solid components could badly affect the lungs. He stated, “Indiscriminate burning and dumping of waste creates toxic gases emitting from dumps that are continuously exposed to the atmosphere. Rainwater through the open dump contaminates groundwater resources.” It is also disheartening to note too that in  the Upper Iweka lane of the Aguata road through the bumpy section leading to the Queen of the Rosary College,  waste there has overshot its boundaries and almost encroaching the school premises. Although, the one near the Dennis Memorial Grammar School inward Awka road, is still at a low level,  it is increasing fast. Some of the residents who spoke to our correspondent, lamented that if the indiscriminate dumping of refuse on the roads and canals were not urgently and properly controlled, then the people should brace for whatever challenges that might come out of it, especially as the rainy season beckons. Behind the motor parks at the Upper Iweka on the Onitsha-Owerri Road, flood pushed heaps of refuse and dumped them inside the drainage. A resident of Aguata Road, Mrs Joy Eze, blamed the situation on the refuse collectors whom she said did not come as and when due to evacuate the waste, despite the huge bills they paid to the ASWAMA every month. Eze said, “The poor management of the refuse is what is causing the problem for us. We can no longer open our doors and windows because the stench is killing. Most people have abandoned their homes because of the situation. For over five months, the waste managers did not come to clear the refuse, despite the monthly bills we paid. They have started burning refuse in some of the dumpsites, thereby causing pollution, which is not good for our health. “Even when they come, the method they adopt in clearing the refuse is also another cause for worry. They use shovels and will be loading the waste into their trucks and when they eventually carry the refuse, you see them spreading the garbage on the roads and this is not good at all.” Another resident in Nkpikpa area, who identified himself as Anthony Nwabueze, lamented the situation, saying that if nothing was done urgently, “It is going to be more hazardous. The food, water and air might get contaminated. “Since December, the waste managers have been burning refuse in dumpsites virtually in every dumpsite. Most of the vehicles the contractors use in evacuating waste are so aged that they keep breaking down on the roads. When they carry refuse you see them spreading it on the roads and this is disappointing. The last time they came for the clearing and evacuation, they did a shoddy job as some of the places were not touched.” A public health consultant, Dr Ibe Nwankwo, advocates the need for people to be more conscious on the things they do that hurt the environment. He advised the people to learn to manage their empty bottles properly as the degradation of plastics takes a very long time. “Look at all the gutters on our roads you see all these plastics that litter everywhere and the degradation of plastics takes a very long period. Government needs to educate the people to segregate the waste at the point of generation so that if you come to the disposal point, you will see the waste from the kitchen and those for recycling,” he added. Efforts to speak with a top management in ASWAMA, through the phone number that was displayed on their website and the boards proved abortive as the person who answered the call said they were contractors to ASWAMA and not authorised to speak on their behalf. And when our correspondent visited the ASWAMA office at Onitsha for further enquiries, a staff member, who spoke on condition of anonymity said measures were being taken to correct the noticeable lapses in the evacuation of refuse in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com