The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, has thanked his supporters for the victory recorded before Justice Binta Nyako of a Federal High Court in Abuja. The judge had while delivering her ruling on Friday struck out eight of the 15 terrorism count charges. “In this instant preliminary objection application, I have read the counts and come to the conclusion that counts six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12 and 14 have not disclosed any offence against the defendant. “‘Counts one, two, three, four, five, eight and 15 show some allegations, which the defendant has to answer. “The court shall proceed to try the defendant on those counts,” Nyako had said. She, therefore, ordered that counts six, seven, nine, 10, 11, 12 13 and 14 should be struck out. Nyako also ruled that the order proscribing IPOB as a terror group still subsisted until it was vacated since the issue was still on appeal. While giving an update of their routine visit to Kanu in the Headquarters of the Department of State Services, his lawyer, Ifeanyi Ejiofor in a statement issued on Monday night said the IPOB leader was appreciative of the mammoth crowd who graced the court on Friday. He said, “Our court-ordered routine visit to our amiable client – Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu was conducted on Monday. “It was conviviality of a sort, as gains recorded in the last court appearance were noted, applauded, and consolidations on the gains towards the future legal onslaught accordingly reviewed. Onyendu was exceptionally enthused with the mammoth crowd of Ezigbo Umuchineke witnessed within the vicinity of the court during last Friday’s outing, as you all thronged in solidarity. He was visibly delighted and appreciative. “Onyendu specifically commended you all for your peaceful conduct and solidarity. He also expressed his heartfelt gratitude to everyone who, regardless of their envisaged economic loss, inherent in closing their various places of businesses on that special outing but chose to stand shoulder to shoulder with him in solidarity. “Onyendu recognizes the fact that these sacrifices are unquantifiable/unequal and huge, and remains profoundly grateful to you all. This phase will soon come to pass. “Onyendu emphatically noted that your sacrifices are not taken for granted, as he prayed to God Almighty to abundantly reward you all, and replenish this huge sacrifice in thousand folds. Onyendu is no longer in doubt that the coast is getting clearer and in no distance time, his freedom will take place. Onyendu urged you all, his supporters, followers and all Ezigbo Umuchineke to remain focused as the journey to his freedom is gathering momentum. “Be assured that your prayers are tremendously impacting positively. Hence, please do not relent nor despair Ezigbo Umuchineke, because it will surely end in victory soon. “Onyendu, once again, commended Ezigbo UmuChineke for their extraordinary show of discipline, courage and selflessness thus far, and urged you all to keep up the good work. “We remain eternally grateful to you all, Ezigbo Umuchineke for your solidarity, prayers and support thus far demonstrated. We, in the legal team are not taking it for granted too. “Please note that we are emboldened the more by your kind gestures and support. Be assured that the best is yet to come, and it will come very soon. “Forward ever and backward never. We will not relent in our resolve to ensure that Justice is done, and manifestly seen to have been done in Onyendu’s case. “Thank you all and remain exceedingly blessed, Ezigbo Umuchineke. We move to victory!!!” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com