Four games were decided on Monday in continuation of match-day 25 of the Nigeria Professional Football League encounters spread through the week. The fixtures commenced Monday with three games and ended in victories for home teams except in Kaduna, where Heartland squeezed a draw against Wikki Tourists. Pick of the matches were the ones involving title-chasing Rivers United and Plateau United where both teams recorded victories. While Rivers had it rosy against Niger Tornadoes in Port Harcourt, Plateau United laboured to claim the match points against continental hopefuls Remo Stars. Rivers too strong for Tornadoes League top scorer, Ishaq Kayode, put Rivers United in front a minute after the hour mark as he finished off a through pass from Maurice Chukwu with a chip over Lucky Jimoh. The home side then doubled their lead two minutes after as Nwagua Nyima tapped in a low cross from Chijioke Akuneto, following a spill by Tornadoes goalkeeper in the box. With 10 minutes left, substitute Konan Ruffin Ngouan put the icing on the cake for the leaders as he stabbed home Rivers’ third after he was released by Nelson Esor in Tornadoes’ box. The victory meant Rivers retained their top position on the log with 55 points after 25 league games. Plateau too high for Remo Plateau United kept the chase on leaders Rivers United following a hard-earned 1-0 win over Remo Stars in Jos, thanks to a second-half header from Ibrahim Buhari. The hosts could have taken the lead within the opening five minutes but Jesse Akila’s goal was chalked off for offside after the referee spotted an infringement in the buildup to the goal. Plateau dominated for the most part of the first half but met a strong Remo rear line with goalkeeper Kayode Bankole thwarting their efforts. Whatever Fidelis Ilechukwu told his boys in the dugout worked for them as they used it to raid Remo’s defence to earn the lone goal in the 55th minute. Free-scoring defender Ibrahim Buhari rose highest to prod home from Akila Jesse’s cross for his fourth goal of the season. Remo rallied late in the game with moments of dominance but the hosts held on to secure the match points. Plateau are still within distance of Rivers with 51 points from 25 games. 3SC shoot down wobbling Elephant The Oluyole Warriors outsmarted the wobbling Elephants of Aba in Ibadan with a convincing 2-0 win to push up on the log. Enterprising midfielder Moses Omoduemeke combined well with Lucky Moses to give Shooting Stars the lead in the 14th minute. The goalscorer would then become the provider for the second goal five minutes before the break when he fed Emmanuel Lucky, who made a simple tap in to send the home fans into a frenzy. The second period was more of an exchange in control, with Enyimba making a series of incursions to stage a comeback but it was too late for George Finidi’s side, as Shooting protected their first-half goals. Struggling Heartland hold Wikki The last match on the card for Monday ended scoreless between Wikki Tourists and Heartland FC in Kaduna. The hosts were seeking to consolidate on their last win at MFM but found their visitors unyielding and would remain 10th on the log. Heartland have moved a step up on the log but still in the red zone. Matches continue on Tuesday (today) through Thursday, before the conclusion of match-day 25 games.