Nigerian legends Nwankwo Kanu and Austin Okocha are among several people who reacted online after former Super Eagles striker Emmanuel Emenike posted a video of himself receiving treatment in an unknown hospital and lamenting his health condition. Emenike, was tournament’s top scorer with four goals as the Eagles won a third Africa Cup of Nations title in 2013 in South Africa. But the 34-year-old forward is experiencing a twist of fate, as he is currently battling an ailment, which according to him, seems serious. The former Fernabache forward posted a video of himself receiving treatment, with a nurse attending to him. “God is good, the pain is too much for me and my heart cannot carry it anymore,” Emenike wrote alongside the video he posted on his official Instagram account. The video has gone viral and has sparked reactions from Nigerians, who expressed concern over the retired footballer’s health and prayed for his quick recovery. Peter Okolo wrote, “Lord, have mercy on him and let your healing power rest on him.” Another Twitter user with the name Jude Nwanyanwu added, “We your people are all praying for your healing Nwanne, you have been kind to us. Free water, a good Xmas tournament and others. May God hear our prayers and heal you.” Tope Adebayo said, “May Almighty God heals you for whatever sickness you might be having. You are so good and I admired you a lot. God, please answer our prayers over you. Ameen.” Also joining others to pray for Emenkike is Marley Davidson, who wrote, “Wish you speedy recovery bruh. You shall overcome any illness that is weighing on you because by his stripe we are healed.” Lovren simply said, “Quick recovery legend…….. Our prayer is with you.” Nwancho Bathlomew tweeted, “May God heal you and bring you back to sound health, amen!” The video also drew the attention of ex-internationals. Former Eagles and Arsenal forward, Nwankwo Kano responded to the post with a message that said, “Get well my brother. God is with you.” Austin Okocha wrote, “Get well soon Nwanne.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com