Emilinks Limited, a real estate firm, says it has unveiled a campaign to offer discounts to the tune of N10bn in order to stabilise the housing sector and encourage Nigerians to access shelter despite the nation’s rising inflation rate. The Chief Executive Officer of the company, Mr Solomon Nwadiogbu, stated this at a press conference, noting that it would be inconsiderate for real estate developers to disregard the current economic realities in their pricing mechanisms. He said, “We must show empathy as high cost of building materials affects housing project. When prices are perpetually high, it is hard to finish up any building as the funds budgeted end up becoming insufficient. “This is one of the reasons for prolonged housing deficits. Countless buildings have been abandoned including the ones embarked upon by the government. Nigerians need about 200,000 houses annually to overcome the housing deficits. “We can’t sell at the current market price because of the exchange rate. We have the goods, but people have low purchasing power. So there is an obvious and dire need for an intervention. Emilinks shall lead the way to ensure that N10bn discount is made available.” Nwadiogbu said his company would set aside a discount on all its products including internal doors, security doors, wooden doors, fire doors, luxury doors, kitchens, and wardrobes, adding that all the products were designed in Nigeria and made in Italy with premium quality woods. He also stated that over the years, Emilink had acquired several hectares of land in Europe from which premium quality timbers were being harnessed for door manufacturing. This, he said, had significantly contributed to the company’s capacity to produce premium quality products in record time and had been cost-effective. The CEO said he was ready to roll out to Nigerians 50 – 70 per cent discount on all Emilinks Limited products for the next 30 days starting from April 4 by making all products available to customers directly from the company’s warehouse located in Lagos. He urged private sector players to begin heavy lifting in order to revamp the economy in their respective industries. “We have only chosen to lead the way in our own industry to help address the prevailing housing deficits. With this, we hope others will rightfully follow suit,” Nwadiogbu said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com