Champions Akwa United and leaders Rivers United shared the spoils in their Nigeria Professional Football League matchday 20 fixture at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium in Uyo on Saturday. Rivers United took the lead in the 17th minute after Akwa defender Matthew Etim put the ball in his own net but they fought back, scoring the equaliser through Adeyeye Adeyemi two minutes after the restart but the visitors held on to share the spoils after 90 minutes. The draw means Rivers are unbeaten in their last nine league games but are just two points ahead of second placed Plateau United who are unbeaten in their last 10 league games. Reacting to the draw, Akwa United new coach, Ayodeji Ayeni, says he’s satisfied with the result against such a tough opponent and is also looking forward to subsequent games. “I give kudos to the boys because we’ve had new players join us and we’ve only had five days to train together and it’s going to take some time before the players integrate into my philosophy and style of coaching but honestly, I am impressed with what I saw of the game despite the result. We wanted to win the game but we could only manage a draw, which is not totally bad,” Ayeni said after the game. “I went seven games unbeaten with Sunshine Stars and I’m hoping to do the same here and better. Rivers United are a big team and I give it to the boys for coming out to level the game. “It is not easy for a team without character to Go one goal down against a team like Rivers United. At the half time break, I told the boys to keep pressing and it came, we tried to get the winner but it never came. Rivers United coach, Stanley Eguma, says he is satisfied with the result. “I think it was a good game and our opponents tried. We actually tried to win this game but a draw is not a bad result considering the fact that Akwa united are the defending champions and we have a lot of respect for them. The last time we played we beat them 4-1 but they came out with character and got a goal after half time which I will attribute to our defensive problem but at the end of the day, a draw is not a bad result.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com