A  Diaspora Support Group of North America and Europe has called on the President of the African Development Bank, Dr Akinwumi Adesina, to join the race for the President of Nigeria in the forthcoming 2023 general elections. Adesina, a former Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, was urged to go for the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress or the Peoples Democratic Party, even though he enjoyed the goodwill of Nigerians to run as an independent candidate. The group made the call in a statement issued on Tuesday by the Founder of Shine Bridge Global Inc., Chesapeake-Virginia, USA, Dr Tony Bello, titled, ‘A clarion call to draft AfDB President Adesina into the 2023 presidential race’. The statement read in part, “We, the Diaspora Support Group of North America and Europe, hereby beckon to all well-meaning Nigerians and co-patriots, at home and abroad, to join us in drafting Dr Akinwumi Adesina into the Nigerian 2023 presidential race. “By the way, he has endeared himself to the generality of Nigerians across board and we would have preferred having him run as an independent candidate if such was possible. It’s therefore necessary that he contests under any of the two major Nigerian political parties, the APC or the PDP. The announcement of his candidacy, no doubt, will be a revelatory message to the world that our democracy has come of age. “Yes, the name ‘Adesina’ featuring among the presidential candidates is something of excellent value to our democracy. It is a signal that we are about to leap into a stable par with mature democracies across the world.” The group said knowing Adesina, it was sure his presidency would usher in a robust economic resurgence that would for example, put an end to our children drowning in the high seas of Africa and Europe in their quest for a better life.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com