Renowned entrepreneur and banking guru, Mrs. Ibukun Awosika, has said there is a need to strategically take women to leadership positions. According to a statement, Awosika spoke during the inaugural International Woman Leadership Conference of The Ibukun Awosika Leadership Academy. The statement said the three-day event had speakers from various industries and expertise who facilitated lively discussions and provided attendees with life and career-enhancing takeaways. It added that the conference’s main objective was to equip African women to build an effective network of relationships, learn, share experiences, and have fun while at it. She said, “I have had the privilege over the last 33 years of my life as an entrepreneur, corporate executive, and a coach working with a lot of women, both old and young, across various platforms engaging, mentoring, and gleaning knowledge that has allowed me to see what it is that we need to do to scale up our abilities to have women in the right places with the right skills, talents, and opportunities to make a change for our continent. “Women have so much power, but they have silos power; once you have silos power, it is disconnected. If we take women to the top, we need to be deliberate, and we need to be strategic”. Also, Liberian peace activist and Nobel Peace Laureate, Leymah Gbowee, encouraged the participants to always utilise their emotions as vessels to change the world for good. Nigeria’s ambassador to Greece, Nimi Akinkugbe, appeared in a joint session with Amb. Luela Hajdaraga (Albania) and Amb. Beryl Sisulu (South Africa) . They spoke on the importance of building tribes as women, the benefits of support systems, and overcoming ingrained biases in society. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com