Fertility and reproductive health experts said it is unsafe for a woman to get pregnant immediately after having a miscarriage. They explained that after a pregnancy loss, there is a raw wound in the uterus that takes about three months to heal properly. According to them, medically, a woman is expected to wait for at least three to six months before attempting to get pregnant again. A Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist at the Living Spring Hospital and Maternity Home, Ejigbo, Lagos, Dr. Joseph Akinde, explained that the reason for the wait is to enable the womb to heal properly, as well as allow the body system to return to it normal non-pregnancy state. He said in the interim, couples are advised to abstain from sex until the first menses commences after a miscarriage, adding that this usually happens after 28 to 30 days. Dr. Akinde said after the menses returns, couples are told to practice safe sex until it is safe to get pregnant again. “Following the return of the menses, the couple can have sex during the safe period or use a condom in the alternative to avoid pregnancy until three months after the miscarriage.” The consultant gynaecologist, however, noted that the recovery period for a miscarriage varies among women. He said, “Recovery period will depend on whether it is a straightforward miscarriage or a complicated one, and it varies from one individual to another. But usually, by three months, they can start planning for another pregnancy.” Dr. Akinde advised that in order to avoid having another miscarriage, the woman should visit a gynaecologist as soon as she observes that her menses has stopped. The one-time chairman, Society of Gynaecology and Obstetrics of Nigeria, said there are medications that can be given to prevent the occurrence of another miscarriage. “There are medications that may have to be administered if the miscarriage is proven to be due to some deficiencies. Such medications help to prevent another miscarriage,” he added. A specialist at the Obstetrics and Gynaecology Department, Nisa Premier Hospital, Abuja, Dr. Azeezat Bakare, said trying to get pregnant after a miscarriage depends on a number of factors. “Generally, it is expected that a woman should wait for at least one menstrual cycle after the incident before trying to conceive again. Sometimes, she might need to wait for three to six cycles,” she said. Dr. Bakare also noted that recovery time after a miscarriage differs in individuals, adding, “It varies and a woman can get pregnant again as early as two weeks after a miscarriage. This means that she can get pregnant before seeing her menstrual flow, but I would not advice a woman to get pregnant immediately after a miscarriage.” She also suggested that when a miscarriage occurs, the cause should be thoroughly investigated to avoid future complications. “The advice is that the cause of the miscarriage should be investigated so that if it is something that requires treatment, it can be addressed before she conceives again. “If it is something that requires monitoring, she would be properly monitored. Most times, the cause may be unknown and in this case, there really isn’t much one can do,” she said. Dr. Bakare advised women to always have pre-conception care and to register early for antenatal to increase the chances of carrying the next pregnancy to term. “There are pregnancy hormone support medications that can help improve the chances of carrying a pregnancy to term,” she added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com