The All Progressives Congress National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, on Wednesday, said part of his assignment as the ruling party chairman would be to ensure the recruitment of the best hands from the Peoples Democratic Party into the APC. Adamu spoke on Wednesday during the Valedictory/Commendation Session by the Senate in honour of outgoing lawmakers recently elected to other offices. Aside from Adamu who is the APC chairman, other outgoing lawmakers are the APC Deputy National Chairman (North), Abubakar Kyari, and Deputy Governor of Zamfara State, Senator Hassan Muhammad Nasiha. Speaking after the lawmakers spoke in turns to pass a vote of confidence on him, the APC chairman said that the opposition party had materials that are being underutilised. Adamu noted that he was prepared to break through the PDP rank and fish out politicians capable of making the ruling party stronger. He said, “As I go out with my colleagues, I will go with one assignment that I have given myself, I will break through the side of the aisle. Some of you are the best materials that this country can have but you are in the wrong camp. “I was a founding member of the PDP. In 1998, I took the flag for PDP in Nasarawa State. I served as a Governor with PDP, I served as Secretary of Board of Trustees. Nobody has asked me ‘why did you break the bond with PDP? “It is in my heart of the heart that our hands are open and we are stretching those hands to you. Amongst you there is the best Governor Abia State has ever had. Among you, there is a good governor to be that is being denied. “Come over, we are very liberal; we are very fair. We play according to the rules of the game.” The ruling party chairman also commended the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for his support leading to his (Adamu) emergence as APC chairman. “First and foremost, I want to thank Almighty God for this honour for me to have been seen as a fit and proper person to lead the ruling party, APC in Nigeria. “In thanking Almighty God, my gratitude to God will not be complete if I do not thank the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) for seeing me through the light of God himself that I am suitable for this very important assignment as a result of which he gave his endorsement hat made all this possible. “I want to thank other party leaders through this Chamber for the support which they gave and made my choice at the convention possible. “His Excellency (Senate President Ahmed Lawan), you led our colleagues through the APC caucus to give their support which added more than ordinary value to the decision to have me as National Chairman of APC I have listened to the kind words of our colleagues. “I will cherish the advise that come from our contributions and I want to assure you that I remain a product of this Chamber. We will protect the integrity of the National Assembly. “This is the first time that two Principal Officers of the party are coming from this Chamber. We want to assure you that we will be working with you,” Adamu said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com