Dr Bayo Orire, a former governorship aspirant under the All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State, shares his thoughts with ABIODUN NEJO on politics in the state and other issues It is believed in some quarters that the noise that greeted the 2018 APC governorship primary in Ekiti State in which you participated was the reason you didn’t re-contest in 2022. How true is this? It was not a noise, but a necessity warranted by the shabbiness and the fraud that greeted the initial primary. All aspirants were seated at the venue and we discovered that some papers were passing round and that amounted to inducement. Some of the aspirants stood up to say no. That was the reason for the disagreement and why the governorship primary was cancelled and rescheduled. But I did not re-contest this year because I did not want to be a recurrent, persistent and permanent contestant. I contested twice and I discovered that if you keep on doing the same thing the same way, you will keep getting the same result. I chose not to waste my resources this year because I knew what was happening in the party and that is why you are seeing what is on the ground in the APC in Ekiti State. Aren’t you happy with the happenings in the party? That is the mildest way of saying it. I brought the APC as ACN in this state, single handedly sponsored it for over six months, daring the then governor, Ayodele Fayose, and hosting people in my hospital premises. If I went through the ACD, AC, ACN to APC, contesting twice for the governorship, spending my money and my time, and the party is like this, I am sad. I am surprised at the arrant lawlessness and hypocrisy in the party in Ekiti State and that is why many people are running away from the party. That is why the 2022 primary was greeted by many discordant notes; that is why even the candidate supported by the government cannot stand out on the streets and be given rousing welcome on the victory he had. So, nobody in his rational senses will be happy about what is going on in the APC in Ekiti State. But have you been active in the state APC? I am active about seeing that we push Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for the presidency. And if that fails, I will sit down in my house waiting for when Nigeria will break up, because of our senselessness at governance. Do you see Nigeria breaking up? It has broken up, only that it has not started the physical manifestation with physical existence as physical states. If you are a Yoruba man, you don’t feel the same as a Fulani man; if you are an Igbo man, you will rather want to trust an Igbo man. That is not a country. In a country where there are dichotomies in the observance of rules, laws and the constitution, a country where people can be killed anytime, a country where salaries can be denied or not paid for months, a place where you can graduate and do not have a job five years later, a place where almost every zone is itching to go away, we are already broken up. Do you see any solution? Restructuring; people are talking of restructuring. We have a straw that we can still hold on to. That is if we have a good nation come 2023. That is when we sit down and pick the most qualified candidate, acceptable to all tribes and regions in this country. That is why I am supporting Tinubu. Even when Tinubu comes there, he will have to face a herculean task of working on the unity of this nation. I am of the view that we should go into regionalism; total and complete regionalism. That is the only thing that can give the semblance of a nation; otherwise, whether we do something or we do not do something, Nigeria will break up. Why are you supporting Tinubu among all the numerous presidential aspirants across political parties? Among the aspirants, he is the most committed politician. He is somebody who has solutions to many things; he has developed many leaders across borders – ethnic, religious and political borders – and even across intellectualism. We can pick a place in Ogoja and people will speak well of Tinubu; we can go to Zamfara, pick a town and people will talk well about Tinubu. We can come to Benin, a lot of people will know about him. There are not many politicians like that in Nigeria today. Again, his track record in activism – NADECO, Senate, as a governor, as a political leader and elder – in bringing the North and the South together, especially during President Muhammadu Buhari’s last campaign, and many other things make me see him as the only probable person who can still put together this splitting Nigeria. That is why I feel we should give him support; we should rally people around him and rally our money around him to make him emerge. Another thing is that when you compare people that are coming up for the Presidency with him, none of them comes near him in stature; even when you are talking of virtue and honour, I don’t see any of them better than him. You say he has stolen money, for the past 20 years nobody or agency has found anything incriminating against him; you say he makes money from Lagos State, is it wrong if his company gets contracts from Lagos State Government? That is professionalism compared with past and serving governors and senators, who have stolen the country blind and have not given anything back in terms of human capital development, making their states and constituencies better, etc. Tinubu stands shoulders and arms above others, who are pretenders to the post of the President. Majority of the people contesting are not actually eyeing that post. They are planning for what they could be in the next government. That is the way I see it. But some people have said Tinubu is too old and that the country needs a young, agile and healthy president. What do you have to say on this? As a medical doctor, spiritualist, mystic and psychologist, I know that the older you grow, the better your brain and your experience. He has just celebrated his 70 birthday. At 70, your maturity is better than when you are 30 or 40. How did we even get to this problem? Majority of the people, who started Nigeria from independence, were young men of 30 years and plus, vibrant but inexperienced. It was only maybe Dr Nnamdi Azikwe, Alhaji Tafawa Balewa and Chief Obafemi Awolowo, who were about 40 years; all others were in their 20s and 30s. Even the administrators, who took over from the First Republic, because of their inexperience could not see the best in Awolowo and make the best of what he was saying. If they were 50 or 60, they would have been able to see the futuristic approach in Awolowo and would have been more mature in getting the country on a sound footing. The older a person is, the better his maturity, especially in a place where he has been found to have very good experience, outing and clout. The younger folks, who are trying to come up, maybe as former governors or senators, they know that when they get to Tinubu, some of them will prostrate and greet him. They will prostrate physically, politically, financially, morally and in human capital development. He even developed the majority of them. There are speculations that Governor Kayode Fayemi is interested in the APC presidential ticket. You are in Ekiti, how is Tinubu’s campaign faring in the state with Fayemi’s rumoured ambition? About two years ago, I went to Governor Kayode Fayemi because I heard the rumour about his intention to run for the presidency and I asked him, but he said no. I even asked one of his close aides and he said no. The rumour may be there, but he has not told me he is vying; I have not seen his people walk up to me and seek my support for him for the presidency. So, if I have not been told and he has not brought out his posters, it may still be a rumour. Some people have said that the solution to Nigeria’s socio-economic and political problems is divine intervention. As a spiritualist, are you of this school of thought? I am a pastor, I am a psychologist and I have written books on mysticism and motivation. I have written books on God, man, devil and angels. I know that God gave us the answers to the problems of this country a long time ago, but we are not toeing the line of God; we are not toeing the line of love and truth; we are not toeing the line that can see us through as a united people and progressive nation. You cannot blame God for blessing us with everything – mineral resources, good weather, good soil, fertile minds, brilliant people, good population and good land mass, etc. We have the diversity that could have been used to make us better than Dubai. There was a time we were giving Dubai money; Malaysia came here to take palm fruits; there was a time we were better than France in infrastructure; what else do you want God to do? God gave you money, you steal the money; God gave you oil, for the past 50 years, you have been mining oil, you can’t refine it in your country; God gave you everything, you start killing yourselves and you are still saying God should come – what do you want God to come and do? God has settled our problems; God has settled our issue; we are the ones who are evil; we are the ones who do not want the country to stay together. Everybody goes there to steal money, and then whatever happens to the nation is the headache of the nation. We are the ones unmaking the prayers that God has granted. The so-called pagan and atheist nations that are not religious are progressing, because they are sane; they are realistic in their approach to life. They are futuristic and they love their citizens. We don’t love our citizens, we don’t love the nation and we don’t love to grow. It is not prayers; it is just plain rationalism, plain realistic approach to life in our private lives, in our religious lives, in our cultural lives and in our governance. That is all we need. We can solve it within a month or two or six if only we can be given to honesty of purpose, love for the nation and love and care for the future. We pray a lot in this country, but we are not acting along with prayers. We are just deceiving ourselves, it is not God; it is you and I. The choice of former governor Oni as the Social Democratic Party governorship candidate for Ekiti State appears to have changed the political atmosphere in the state with defections here and there. How has your party, the APC, been affected and what do you think will happen in the election? It has affected us negatively and we caused it. We actually frustrated Segun Oni out of this party. When he left for the PDP, I went to him and told him that (Ayodele) Fayose would not allow him to do anything in the PDP; he said the situation would be managed and that he was on talking terms with Fayose. I knew he would be frustrated. Now, the APC frustrated him with his people and the PDP frustrated him with his people. He is a Nigerian, Nigeria practices multi-party system; he has done the needful by going to another party. A lot of disenchanted people in the APC and the PDP will naturally troop to him; it is just normal life flow. There are only very few people like me who will remain dogged in a place for as long as possible. I can do that because I have my job. But a lot of people will not do that, especially when they see open rape, open disenfranchisement and open exclusion, they must go to where they feel they will practice and exercise their franchise, their human rights and their political inclinations. Definitely, if the SDP does not win the governorship, it is going to give the APC and the PDP a lot of headache. The way it is going, if there is normal voting, it is almost obvious that the SDP will win. That is the truth. But we know that things just don’t work right in this country, even in our state here. They have told us that rigging is part of the election. But naturally, people are not happy, that is why they are going with Segun Oni. For your party to win, what do you think it should be doing between now and June 18? I don’t know what can be done now because it is just right if you identify those who have been holding their constituencies and make things right with them. People that you have disenfranchised, people that you have excluded, bring them in, propitiate them, but I don’t think they have time now. What about the infrastructure in the state? How much can we achieve in the next two months? Is it road or industry that you are going to build now to make people change their minds? How have you been able to get the co-contestants, I mean those who contested for the party’s ticket in 2018, and make them comfortable and happy? We started losing this forthcoming election a long time ago. When Fayemi got into government, there was the Tokantokan group; only the Tokantokan people were running the government and that was why they were having problems. We actually generated these problems in my party. It is so sad because I cannot go to another party. This is my party, this is my sweat, but I cannot be deceiving myself about what is happening. So, I don’t know what we can do to make sure we have an easy win. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com