The Kaduna State Police Command has defused another bomb at the Rigasa community in Igabi Local Government Area of the state. This is coming barely 24 hours after bomb experts from the State Command anti-bomb squad defused an object suspected to be an Improvised Explosive Device at the same community, a few kilometers away from Rigasa Train Station. The development caused fears and confusion among residents of the area. Our correspondent gathered that the object in a jerry can, covered with black nylon, was discovered by children precisely along Shanono Road in the community on Friday. A resident who craved anonymity said the black nylon was found near the stream. “Residents of Shanono area of Rigasa community in Igabi Local Government Area of the state discovered the improvised ‎Explosives Device on Friday, barely 24 hours after an IED concealed in a bucket was found in the community. “Children in the community discovered Friday’s object in a a jerrycan covered with a black nylon. “It was placed very close to a stream in the community. It was kept at the same spot where the Thursday IED was discovered. We don’t know what is happening in this community. “It was my elder’s brother’s wife that rushed to inform me that the children found another bomb inside Jerrycan. Security agencies were deployed in the area,” the source said. When contacted, the state Command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammad Jalige, said men of the anti-bomb squad of the command had been deployed to the area and that the bomb had been successfully defused. “Be more vigilant wherever you are in the state,” Jalige said. Terrorists kill three Kaduna community Meanwhile, some terrorists were reported to have invaded Angwan Bulus, near Sabon Tasha in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State on Thursday and killed three residents of the area. Six residents were said to be injured while 10 others were kidnapped by the hoodlums. A source told one of our correspondents that the terrorists stormed the area in large numbers on Thursday night and shot indiscriminately at anything in sight. He said the latest attack by the hoodlums was the fourth in the series of attacks carried out in the area by the terrorists. According to him, they (bandits) came around 9:00 pm and started shooting, saying that some of the residents were able to flee to the neighbouring community (Sabo). He noted that as residents flee the area, those of them around were able to count three bodies while six sustained gunshot wounds. He added that the terrorists kidnapped no fewer than 10 residents of the area and that since they took them(residents) to an unknown destination, they had yet to contact the victims families to place their demand. The source further said members of the community kept vigil throughout the night because of the bandits’ activities. Similarly, locals at Tudu community near Keke in Igabi Local Government Area of the state were allegedly attacked by bandits in military uniform and no fewer than 100 locals were abducted. Also, it was gathered that residents of the Barakallahu community in the same Igabi LGA, were said to have been tormented by terrorists on Thursday night. Neither the state government nor the state police command had yet to confirm the attack. As of the time of filing this report, the Police Public Relations Officer, Mohammad Jalige, promised to revert back to our correspondent. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com