Parents of scores of Nigerian students benefitting from the Bilateral Education Agreement scholarship of the Federal Scholarship Board in Russia are currently under pressure over their upkeep as the Federal Government has not paid their allowance since September 2021. It was learnt that after a failed bid to convince the Federal Government, some of the parents were making fresh efforts to send another round of delegation to the government this week to appeal on behalf of their children, whom they said were grappling with a spike in the prices of food and services in Russia, a development that has been compounded by the war with Ukraine. A delegation of the parent’s body was said to have met with the Minister of State for Education, Mr Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, in March and was told that the ministry had sent the money to the Central Bank of Nigeria for disbursement. But the spokesperson for the apex bank, Mr Nwanisobi Osita, denied this, saying the CBN would have effected the payment if the education ministry had submitted the necessary documents. The Nigerian Ambassador to Russia, Prof Abdullahi Shehu, said he met with the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu,  when the tension between Russia and Ukraine began to build to find a way to quicken the payment of the students’ allowances. Shehu, while addressing representatives of the parents, said, “I met with the Minister of Education two weeks ago, and I told him there is a challenge and that the challenge is our students have not been paid for six months at that time and that with the impact of the crisis, with winter and with several other factors, we believe that the government should do something urgently to ease their tension.’’ He also explained that two members of staff of the embassy were in Abuja following up on the issue. He added, “Now, the government cannot pay the money through the bank because at the time I went to Nigeria, the process was already at the payment department of the CBN. So, we have informed the minister to find a more innovative diplomatic way by which our students will not suffer any longer. “We are not resting; we are doing all that is practicable to see that the pressure on you is eased as soon as possible.” offices are expected to resign their appointments 30 days before party primaries.”