The Bayelsa State Police Command says two suspects have been arrested in connection with the invasion of the state High Court on Wednesday. Some hoodlums believed to be political thugs had disrupted hearing by the court presided over by Justice Nayai Aganaba in a case on the controversial ward, local government and state congresses of the All Progressives Congress in the state. A statement on Friday by the spokesperson for the State Police Command, Asinim Butswat, identified the suspects as Promise Ogilogi and Azibabin Adiki. The statement read, “The Bayelsa State Police Command has remanded two suspects in prison custody for their involvement in the invasion of the Bayelsa State High Court and attack on High Court judge. The suspects, Promise Ogilogi, ‘m’ and Azibabin Adiki, ‘m’, were arrested on 13 April, 2022. “The Commissioner of Police, Bayelsa State Command, Ben Nebolisa Okolo, fdc, has charged police operatives to arrest the fleeing suspects, and warn unequivocally that the command is poised to deal decisively with anyone or group of persons who hide under any guise to disrupt the existing peace in the state. “The command hereby assures members of the public, particularly the judiciary, that adequate security measures have been put in place to ensure the safety and sanctity of the courtroom and to forestall future occurrence.” Meanwhile, the Yenagoa and Sagbama branches of the Nigerian Bar Association have condemned the violent disruption of proceedings by the hoodlums inside the court of Justice Aganaba. In a joint statement on Friday, the Chairman of Yenagoa NBA, Ukumbiriowei Saiyou, and his Sagbama branch counterpart, Ebinyu Aderigha, described the court invasion as provocative and disheartening. They said it was worrisome to imagine that the perpetrators of the violence could invade and desecrate the sanctity of the court while the court was in session. Saiyou and Aderigha said the judiciary was the last hope of the common man, adding that the show of shame that culminated in the affront on the rule of law deserved the highest condemnation. The statement read, “The executives and entire members of the Yenagoa and Sagbama branches of the NBA hereby do condemn in its entirety the unprovoked and unwarranted invasion of Court 3 of the Bayelsa State High Court presided over by Hon. Justice N. Aganaba, on the 13th day of April, 2022 while the court was in session over an intra-All Progressive Congress dispute. The NBA whose motto is “Promoting the Rule of Law” will neither stand by and watch, nor tolerate such high level sort of macabre dance perpetrated by litigants and their supporters who feel the decision of the court in one way or the other may not be in their favour. “The NBA will not hesitate to commence disciplinary proceedings against such errant member. We, therefore, call on the relevant security agencies particularly the Police to launch an immediate thorough investigation and fish out the perpetrators of this unwarranted invasion, with an intention to make them face the wrath of the law as soon as possible.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com