A chieftain of the All Progressive Congress in Adamawa and aspirant for the post of the APC Deputy National Chairman North during the recent national Convention, Chief Sunny Moniedafe, has said he had cause to be the most disgruntled APC member, but he was not considering quitting the APC. Moniedafe lamented that, despite committing a lot of resources over a period spanning 21 months seeking to become the Chairman of the APC, subsequently the post of the Deputy National Chairman North, as an aspirant from his adopted home state of Adamawa, he lost out on both positions because of zoning and pressure by stakeholders from the North-East who asked him to step down for Senator Abubakar Kyari. He said, it was really disturbing to him, that despite being the better candidate, Sen. Kyari, who only came into the picture for the post of Deputy National Chairman, North, zoned to the North East, just 9 days to the convention, became the anointed candidate for the post. He said, “I tell you I have cause right now to be the most disgruntled, angry individual in the APC. Not because I am better. But because of the time and money I spent for 21 months, with due respect to my friend Sen. Abubakar Kyari, that got it (the post of Deputy National Chairman North). He was only told on 17th March, 9 days to the convention. Today, he’s the deputy national chairman. But I am not bothered. The APC and the country are far better to me.” Moniedafe, who spoke in Yola, to reaffirm his loyalty to the APC, however, said despite the outcome of the party’s convention, he will not be dumping the APC. He said, ” You are all aware of what transpired during the National Convention of our dear party, the APC, in Abuja last week, where the most qualified aspirant, my humble self, lost out. First, because of the zoning, when the National Chairmanship was zoned to the North-Central zone. “Being a loyal party man, a progressive to the core, I obeyed, but as I had alluded to, several times in the past, I shifted my focus to contest for the position of the Deputy National Chairman, North. To say I was the most qualified for this position, as well, will be stating the obvious. “In spite of this, I lost, after being persuaded by major stakeholders of the North-East, including the Senate President, Governors, former Governors, Senators and so on. However, knowing that the APC is a better option, I have decided that I will remain in the party and strive to make it better.” According to him, reconciliation was crucial to rebuilding the party for victory ahead of future elections. He expressed optimism that members would put the outcome of the party convention behind them. Ruining his chances of becoming the deputy national chairman North, as a loss not just for him but also his adopted home state of Adamawa, Moniedafe added that his victory would have sent the message that “we are one, being an Urhobo man from Delta going by his family tree whereas an indigene of Adamawa State.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com