Executive Director of Knightingale Women Health Initiative, Lois Yerima, has warned parents not to discard the role of sex education on children, adding that it may be taught negatively to the detriment of the child. Yerima made this disclosure in an interview with our correspondent in Gombe State, shortly after a seminar on Will writing for religious leaders in Kaltungo, Shongom Local Government Area of the state. She stated that when parents failed to educating the child about sexuality, the void would be filled by those with destructive intentions. She said, “Parents should move close to their children by teaching them sex education. If we don’t teach them sex education as parents, people out there will teach them in a negative way that we may all regret it.” Yerima noted that through the effort of her organisation, the culture of silence pertaining to rape and its offenders had been broken, while urging for more concerted approach towards ending gender violence. She said, “We have been calling on religious, traditional and security agencies that is why the culture of silence is broken. We have sensitised them to report cases of rape to Knightingale and we will act accordingly by taking the survivor to the hospital. So, through counselling and follow-up we will ensure justice is done.” Also speaking, Director, Social Development Gombe State Ministry of Women Affairs, Asabe Malami, called on the community to stand firm towards solving rape issues. She said, “We have a slogan that says whatever you see something, say something. That culture of silence has been broken. That one was raped doesn’t mean she won’t get a husband but the community must assist in ensuring that perpetrators do not go free without punishment. We are after the survivor to ensure she is balanced mentally.” Malami urged the community to report perpetrators to the ministry for due punishment, “Let’s do something to help our community and our children. The traditional and religious institution need to stand up and fight for their people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com