At least, five Nigerian Air Force aircraft have been involved in deadly crashes between February 22, 2021, and April 19, 2022. Also, no fewer than 20 military personnel have lost their lives in the ill-fated crashes. The first occurred on February 22, barely a month after the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isaika Amao, assumed office. Amao replaced Sadique Abubakar on January 26, 2021. Seven NAF personnel identified as Flight Lieutenant Haruna Gadzama (Captain); Flight Lieutenant Henry Piyo (Co-Pilot); Flying Officer Michael Okpara (Airborne Tactical Observation System Specialist); Warrant Officer Bassey Etim (ATOS Specialist); Flight Sergeant Olasunkanmi Olawunmi (ATOS Specialist); Sergeant Ugochukwu Oluka (ATOS Specialist) and Aircraftman Adewale Johnson (Onboard Technician) lost their lives in the crash. The personnel were on their way from Abuja to Minna, Niger State to rescue the abducted students and workers of Government Science College, Kagara, when their plane crashed shortly after takeoff from the Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport. Also, on March 31, 2021, an Alpha-Jet aircraft involved in the anti-terror war against Boko Haram and the Islamic State in West Africa Province lost radar contact in Borno State. The NAF spokesperson, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, confirmed the incident, saying the aircraft crashed and the whereabouts of the two pilots that were on board, Flight Lieutenant John Abolarinwa and Flight Lieutenant Ebiakpo Chapele remain unknown even though the wreckage of the aircraft was found in Sambisa Forest, Borno State 359 days after. The most prominent of the crashes happened on May 21, 2021. A military Beachcraft 350 aircraft crashed at the Kaduna International Airport killing the 11 people onboard including the late Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, who was appointed alongside Amao, the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo. On July 18, another Alpha Jet Aircraft crashed in Zamfara after it was shot down by bandits. The pilot, Flight Lieutenant Abayomi Dairo, escaped from the crashed aircraft. The recent shock was the trainer aircraft crash in Kaduna which killed two pilots on board. Saturday PUNCH reports that the causes of many of these crashes, except that which was shot down by bandits in Zamfara, have been shrouded in secrecy. All efforts to get the comments of Gabkwet on measures put in place to avert a future occurrence were not successful. However, a security expert, Adamu Kabiru said, “Look at the security threats we are dealing with in the country, there is a need to address these aircraft crashes. “It is important they (these crashes) are investigated and the reasons (behind them) are identified.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com