Contrary to reports, the Senate Chief Whip, Senator Orji Uzor-Kalu, has said he did not drop his 2023 presidential ambition. According to him, he would contest for the presidential ticket of the All Progressive Congress if the party zoned it to the South-East geo-political zone. Kalu in a statement said that equity demanded that the South-East should be supported to get the presidential ticket of the APC. He said, “My stand is very clear, I didn’t drop my presidential ambition, and I will never drop it. “I only urged our brothers from the South-South and South-West geopolitical zones who came out en masse to contest for the president’s office to drop their ambition and support us because of equity. “If we are talking about equity, the presidential ticket should be zoned to the South-East being the only zone that has not tasted power since 1999. We can’t have people from South-South and South-West running when talking about equity. “Former President Goodluck Jonathan was Vice and later President for six years; former President Olusegun Obasanjo was President for eight years, and Prof. Yemi Osibanjo is going to be Vice President for eight years again. So if there is anything called equity and justice, it should be support for the South-East, and unless that support is given to us, every other zone in the country should contest for Presidency in 2023 including people from Buhari’s village. “We are negotiating for them to support us because I know no single aspirant President Buhari has told to run for the Presidency. I know him and his antecedent, Buhari, can never tell the body he would make him president. He will always tell people who go to him to consult with their people. I have not told him I want to run for the presidency because it has not been zoned to the South-East.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com