THE Coalition of Northern Groups, a pressure group of over 40 pro-North groups, has said insecurity would not affect the conduct of the planned population census scheduled to hold next year. According to the group, following the proposed timetable of the census, the country would have made ‘substantial progress’ in arresting insecurity. The Director-General of the Nigeria Population Commission, Nasir Isa-Kwarra, disclosed a population census plan, last week, for April 2023. Isa-Kwarra made this known at the end of a meeting of the Council of State presided over by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). The move came under heavy knocks by many political leaders, including an ex-governor of Kaduna State and a retired colonel of the Nigerian army, Abubakar Dagiwa-Umar, who said the move was a misplaced priority. In response, the Spokesperson for the CNG, Mr. Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, in a chat with The PUNCH, said nothing stopped the government from performing other functions because of insecurity, stating that it was ridiculous for anyone to criticise the regime for planning to conduct a census. According to Suleiman, knowing the actual population is a latent panacea to all societal problems, which places it above elections. He said, “I don’t think it’s proper to expect other government functions to stop because of insecurity. Insecurity should be tackled robustly and separate from other government functions. “It is ridiculous for people to criticise the conduct of a population census on the grounds of insecurity while not seeing anything wrong with holding general elections under similar circumstances. We have a set or block of people that tend to see everything in the negative. “Besides, by the timetable for the census, it is hoped that we might have made substantial progress towards arresting the security situation. “What we are saying, in essence, is that if elections would not be hampered by insecurity, there is no way the census would be affected. “What we have, unfortunately, is a set of politicians who derive joy in misleading the innocent public, causing fear so they can manipulate the population during elections. “Even the economic, social and security challenges that have been building up for several decades are symptoms of the disquiet resulting from a lack of accurate population figures for the government to use in budget projections and monitoring or evaluation.” However, Mr. Sola Ebiseni, the Secretary-General of the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere, also reacting to the matter, said it was unfortunate that nothing is ever done right in Nigeria. For him, the Buhari regime has lost the legitimacy to do anything for the country. “Whether now or after the elections, the Buhari-led government no longer enjoys the legitimacy to do anything worthwhile. “We are only holding our breath, praying for its exit. Even those who see Buhari and his government as their estate are now calling for his resignation in the face of mass deaths, even if such calls are crocodile tears and medicines after death. “Our prayer is that this evil cup may pass over us,” he noted.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com