The Elegboro of Ijebu Jesa, Oba Moses Agunsoye, has described as a great loss the death of the renowned saxophonist, Orlando Julius, who died on Friday. The PUNCH reports that the musician who hailed from Ijebe Jesa, Osun State, passed on after a brief illness in the early hours of Friday at his home in the Ireti Ayo area, Ilesa. The saxophonist passed on at the age of 79. While commenting on his death during an interview with The PUNCH, Oba Agunsoye said the musician died in his house located at Ireti Ayo Area, Ilesa in the early hours of Friday in the presence of his wife, Latoya. The monarch said, “I won’t say it was shocking because he has been down for some time. We thank God for a life well spent. “He was a very good ambassador of Ijebu Jesa town, Oriade as a local government, and Nigeria as a whole. He died in the hands of his wife, Latoya, an American, in his house at Ireti Ayo, Ilesa. I was called around 3 am when he passed on. “He relocated to Ijebu Jesa about two and half years ago and I decided to give him the honorary title of ‘Gbeluniyi’. He proclaimed the name of Ijebu Jesa across the globe. We will celebrate him. “He was my honourary chief. I am happy I celebrated him while he was alive. During the coronation, a lot of his boys, Beautiful Nubia, and others performed in Ijebu Jesa. The wife, Latoya, I made her Yeye Asa. “She is from the United States of America. She left her people and stood by Orlando Julius. She supported him to reach his peak. Ijebu Jesa is missing another great musician. We lost I.K Dairo, Chris Ajilo, well known over Africa too. He died last year. He died at over 90. Then we have EA Awotunde, we have Pa Komolafe, and Ijebu Jesa has been breeding a lot of great musicians. It is the home of music. “We plan to have a hall of fame where we are going to recognize all these great sons of Ijebu Jesa. His death is a great loss to us but we thank God for the life well spent.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com