The beneficiaries of the Osun Easter free train service have indicated their preference for the service provided by the Osun State governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, noting that their preference was as a result of the high level of security provided by the government. The holidaymakers noted that the provided security for the train service ensures smooth and hitch-free trips at all times, particularly during festive seasons. They urged the Federal Government to replicate the same gesture to manage the national rail transportation system in the country. The rail travellers, who were elated and enthusiastic to return to their destinations through the free train service at the Osogbo Terminus of the Nigerian Railway Corporation, said Osun government had proved its capacity and capability to sustainably revolutionise rail system in the country. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Ismail Omipidan, obtained in Osogbo on Tuesday, noted that one of the holidaymakers, Mr. Olayiwola Julius, who joined the train in Abeokuta, Ogun State, together with his family members, said the initiative had brought succour and great relief to him and his family, having enjoyed the best form of security all along. He said, “As you can see, I am returning to my base where I have been living for years with my family. Coming down to my state to celebrate Easter and new year annually with free train service has been a very good thing to us as citizens. “By my assessment so far, this initiative has helped to revolutionise rail transportation system in the country as it has become a cynosure of necessity for government at all levels to ensure the overhaul of the rail system.” Another passenger, Mrs. Abiola Babalola, a native of Osogbo, said she has been continuously attracted to the free train service due to its security measures and safety which have been adequately guaranteed. Addressing pressmen shortly after the exit of the train, the Commissioner for Commerce, Industry, Cooperatives and Empowerment, Bode Olaonipekun, attributed the successes recorded so far to the high sense of passion and love the administration of Governor Oyetola has for the masses. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com