The Federal Capital Territory Police Command has transferred the case of the late Dunamis Church lead singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu, to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department. Osinachi, 42, died on Friday in an undisclosed hospital where she was treated for days. Some friends and family members of the deceased had claimed that her husband, Peter Nwachukwu, beat her up before she died. The FCT police spokesperson, Josephine Adeh, told PUNCH Metro that Peter was arrested on Sunday. She stated that the younger brother of the deceased reported the case to the police, adding that investigation was ongoing. However, a family source familiar with the matter disclosed on Monday that the matter had been moved to the SCIID. The source said, “The matter has been transferred from the Lugbe Police Station to the SCIID for further investigation. The husband of the late gospel artiste is being detained at the SCIID.” The FCT police spokesperson, Adeh, confirmed the development, adding that the case was being treated at the homicide department of the SCIID. Meanwhile, the Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, has demanded justice for the late singer, as well as protection of her children. A statement by the Director, Press and Public Relations, Ministry of Women Affairs, Olujimi Oyetomi, on Monday, said the minister spoke during a condolence visit to the family of the singer. It read, “On behalf of Nigerian women and mothers, I am demanding two things:  justice for the late ‘Ekwueme’ crooner who was alleged to have died as a result of gender-based violence perpetrated by the husband, as well as full protection for the children left behind by the late singer. “After her long private session with the children, the minister emerged to demand justice for the late singer, stating that even though the extent of allegations and stories on the social media should be taken with caution, there is no smoke without fire and expressed confidence in the police and the judicial system to ensure justice for the late singer.” Also, a coalition of Christian youths under the aegis of the Christian Association of Nigeria (Youth Wing) called on the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali, to commence investigation into the incident. The National Chairman of YOWICAN, Belusochukwu Enwere, in a petition to the IG on Monday, said, “The deceased, Osinachi Nwachukwu, was married to Peter Nwachukwu (the prime suspect) who also doubled as her manager, and with whom she had four children, all minors. “Information reaching us from reliable sources, including friends and close family members, has it that Osinachi Nwachukwu died as a result of injuries owing to domestic violence in the hands of her husband, Peter Nwachukwu. “We as well gathered that the acts of domestic violence persisted unabated and were largely kept away from the Christian fold and the general public before this unfortunate episode that led to her death, owing to the severe injuries she sustained, which mostly affected her vital organs.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com