A Magistrate Court, sitting in Ondo town, Ondo State, has ordered the remand in prison custody, of a 28-year-old man, Tolulope Akinyemi, for allegedly raping his teenage step-sister. The defendant was alleged to have forcefully had sexual intercourse with the victim and had allegedly impregnated her twice and aborted the pregnancy. Akinyemi was arraigned before the court on a two-count of rape and manner likely to cause the breach of peace for forcefully having carnal knowledge of his blood sister. According to the police prosecutor, Mr Bernard Olagbayi, the defendant committed the offence on April 18, 2022, at about 10:00 pm at road 4, Valentino Quarters, Ondo. The charge read in part, “That you, Tolulope Akinyemi on April 18, 2022, at about 10:00 pm at road 4, Valentino quarters, Ondo, Magisterial District did willingly, unlawfully and indecently have carnal knowledge of your 17-year-old blood sister (name withheld) at your backyard and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 358 of the Criminal Code Cap 38 Volume 1 Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria, 2006. ”That you, Tolulope Akinyemi on the same date, time and place in the aforementioned Magisterial District  did willingly, and unlawfully conduct yourself in a manner likely to cause the breach of peace by forcefully having carnal knowledge of your 17-year-old sister (name withheld), and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 249(d) of the Criminal Code Cap 38 Volume 1 Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria, 2006.” The prosecutor prayed the court to remand the defendant in prison, pending advice from the Director of Public Prosecution of the State Ministry of Justice. In her ruling, the magistrate, Mrs Charity Adeyanju, directed that the case file should be transferred to the DPP for advice, and adjourned the case till June 14, 2022. Speaking about the alleged illicit act, the victim said her step-brother had been molesting her and threatened to kill her if she reported it to anybody. She said “One day, when my brother was having sex with me again, his son, Samuel, saw us and went to report to his mother. My brother’s wife reported the case to the family and they later settled the matter. Thereafter, my brother took me to one doctor to abort two months pregnancy for me. “We all live in my father’s house. But we are from different mothers. I told the family of my intention to leave the house for my brother so I can stay in another place. But my brother kicked against it. My father is still alive, but he is ill. And I am the one taking care of him since our mothers are dead. My brother is married with four children. “My brother cursed his son that saw us together and the boy died the following day. The incident scared me the more. So, I kept the illicit affair to myself. It was because his son died that made his wife, my sister-in-law, leave him and ran away with the other children. When I got pregnant again, I had to tell some people about my predicament. So, they directed me to the police station where I reported the case and my brother was arrested and charged to court.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com