The Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, has absolved his principal, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), from criticism that the President’s ruling style had contributed to the division in the country. The PUNCH reports that the Catholic Bishop of the Diocese of Sokoto, Matthew Kukah, on Sunday, heavily criticised Buhari over insecurity, corruption, and division in Nigeria. Kukah made his complaints known in his Easter Message on titled, ‘To mend a broken nation: The Easter metaphor’. According to the bishop, every aspect of life in Nigeria has been destroyed while corruption is enthroned. He said, “It is hard to know whether the problem is that those in power do not hear, see, feel, know, or just don’t care. Either way, from this crossroad, we must make a choice, to go forward, turn left or right or return home. None of these choices is easy, yet, guided by the light of the risen Christ, we can reclaim our country from its impending slide to anarchy. “The challenge of fixing this broken nation is enormous and, as I have said, requires joint efforts. With everything literally broken down, our country has become one big emergency national hospital with full occupancy. Our individual hearts are broken. Our family dreams are broken. Homes are broken. Churches, Mosques, and infrastructure are broken. “Our educational system is broken. Our children’s lives and future are broken. Our politics is broken. Our economy is broken. Our energy system is broken. Our security system is broken. Our Roads and Rails are broken. Only corruption is alive and well,” the message read in part. But in a veil response to Kukah’s harsh criticism of Buhari’s regime on Monday, the presidential spokesman said it was surprising that those who are guilty of creating division with mouths in Nigeria are the ones accusing the President of the same crime they committed. In a tweet on his verified Twitter handle, Adesina wrote, “Those who divided Nigeria with their mouths, with evil, unguarded speaking, are the ones now accusing President Buhari. How sad! Their wicked intentions shall not come to pass.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com