A governorship aspirant of Delta State under the auspices of Peoples Democratic Party, Chris Iyovwaye, on Wednesday promised to use indigenous technology as a means of creating massive jobs for the teeming unemployed youths across the State. He also canvassed Public Private Partnership as a means of revitalising the moribund industrial corporations in the State. Making the assertions while addressing party delegates in Warri South, Uvwie and Udu Local Government Areas on his intention to contest the State Governorship in the 2023 general elections, Iyovwaye said, “Indigenous firms have capacities to take Delta State to the next level, if well coordinated”. Deacon Iyovwaye, Chairman of an oil and gas engineering consortium, Wellman Group of Companies, affirmed that he has “the solution” to the issue of massive unemployment in the State through adoption of local technology. He said, “I know what it takes to take Delta to the next level. Indigenous firms have capacities to change the narratives. We have the solution and I have a burden in my hand to develop Delta. We need to rebuild Delta for posterity. “I have developed a capacity to do it differently. My own organization, Wellman Group, has engineered effectively for so many in the land and today, we are the market leader in the whole of Africa”. Iyovwaye also bemoaned insecurity in the nation submitting that with massive job creation for the youths, the problem would be extensively tackled. While lamenting that most factories in Delta State had folded up, he informed the forum that not less than 12 resources that are not in the exclusive list have remained untapped in Delta State, explaining that he would ensure their maximal exploration to fully industrialise the State, if elected. Iyovwaye, therefore, appealed to the party delegates to use their votes wisely. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com