The Vice Chancellor of Abia State University, Uturu, Professor Onyemachi Ogbulu, on Wednesday, pleaded with parents/guardians to prepare themselves for a slight adjustment in fees by the school. Addressing the 17 newly inducted “Batch B” medical doctors during the 28th induction/swearing-in ceremony, the VC said that the present economic realities had made it necessary for an upward review of school fees for some professional courses. Represented by the Deputy VC – Academics, Professor Godwin Emezue, he said that despite the initial challenges which delayed the induction of these new Doctors, there was every reason to celebrate that it finally came to pass. He stated that the graduates of the university had continued to make the University proud and expressed optimism that the new Doctors would also excel and be good ambassadors of the Institution. He stated, “ABSU is still one of the best in the country with the best academics that can stand their ground anywhere in the world, making steady and committed sacrifices to give quality education to their students.” He advised that people should disregard the antics of those trying to de-market the university for their selfish interests. He thanked the governor of Abia State and Visitor to the University, Okezie Ikpeazu, for his support to the College of Medicine and Health Sciences. Addressing the graduands, the Provost, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Professor S. N. Onwere, who also represented the Registrar of the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria, Dr. Tajudeen Sanusi, stressed the need for the new doctors to exhibit a high degree of professionalism in their practice, adding that the council would not hesitate to withdraw the license of any doctor caught in any unethical practice. He further urged the new doctors to go and exhibit the spirit of excellence and service which the University was noted for. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com