Former Minister of Sports, Solomon Dalung, shares his thoughts with JAMES ABRAHAM on his defection from the All Progressives Congress, the presidency and other issues You dumped the APC a few days ago, saying recent developments in the party conflict with your core principles and values, which define the basis of your allegiance to the party. What were those developments that made you leave? Well, the developments that were inconsistent with my core political values and principles are some positions of the leadership of the party, the collapse of internal democracy and impunity. These were the things that necessitated the coming together of different people to form the APC to offer a change to the Nigerian people. As it is, the APC is now perpetuating these tripartite anti-people acts on a large scale, which is rather unfortunate. My conscience won’t allow me to continue to pretend, especially with the dissolution of the National Working Committee and its replacement with the CCCE or whatever, which was supposed to serve for a maximum period of six months, but ended up occupying office for about two years. The worst of it all was that the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the constitution of the APC were violently assaulted by the appointment of chief executives at the federal level and state chief executives to also hold executive positions, especially the chairman, who was holding an executive position as a governor and a position as a chief executive officer of the APC. Then, the peak of it all, which broke the camel’s back, was the coronation of selected people by a clique of few, who appropriated to themselves the monopoly of democracy to coronate national officers in the name of consensus. An Electoral Act, which was signed into law by the President, clearly defines what amounts to consensus. But every known law was trampled upon by the leadership of the APC and yet it seems like all is normal. I think I should excuse myself from the heavy burden of remaining under the political structure that is very offensive to anything that is the rule of law. These were the reasons that compelled me into resigning my membership in the APC Some will expect that having served as a minister on the platform of the APC, your allegiance to the party or the President should have kept you there. What is your take on such an expectation? I did not serve as minister on the platform of the APC; I was nominated, screened by the National Assembly and appointed by the President of Nigeria to serve the Nigeria people. During my screening, I was not asked any question relating to the platform of my nomination or allegiance to any political party; my allegiance is to the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the constitution. That was the oath I took; I did not take any oath to pledge allegiance to any individual or political party. What do you have to say about how national and zonal officers emerged at the recently concluded APC convention whereby the President and the governors shared all the positions and an aggrieved aspirant cried on national TV; how will you describe that convention? For me, there is nothing wrong with consensus as a democratic concept. It is not offensive; it is the application and manipulation of the term by the current crop of APC political actors and by extension, the Nigeria political elite that has made it antithetical to democracy and to democratic tenets. Consensus refers to a situation where those saddled with the responsibility to determine the leadership agree commonly about one person. That is consensus. So, how do you apply that to the scenario of the national leadership of the APC, which has emerged from one of the worst national conventions ever conducted in Nigerian political history and the abuse of the concept? There were candidates who were asked to step down and they were crying publicly and saying, ‘I will not step down, I will not’. They were compelled to step down. How do you call that consensus? A typical example is the National Women Leader, who wanted to contest and was seen crying because of the forceful manipulation in the name of consensus, but they took her away. So, the main issue is the cheating of democracy and the abuse of the integrity of the Nigerian people by a party in government in that manner and claiming that it was consensus. I think consensus was manipulated by the political elite and this is what makes the concept repugnant to democratic tenets. In Plateau State, the debate is that power should shift to the Central after Governor Simon Lalong leaves office. Do you agree with that position or should it be left open? My opinion is that first, we will have to review why zoning was introduced in Plateau State in the first place. Now, zoning was introduced to address the issue of inclusion and by the end of the tenure of Governor Lalong, every zone must have been involved in the leadership of Plateau State and that should end every entitlement to zoning, because zoning isn’t an endless thing; it was conceived in 1999 as a political mechanism to address the monumental injustice of the annulment of the June 12 election and the exclusion of people in a multi-cultural political community like Nigeria. So, if every zone has produced governors, what then is the definition of zoning? Naturally, zoning has ended and the political space should be unbundled for merit, competence and credibility. I believe in zoning as a political mechanism to cure injustice and address the problem of exclusion, because it creates political inclusiveness. But if the aims have been achieved, why do you need to continue with it? So, for me, in Plateau State, 2023 should be left open to our best in the state to contest and the people of Plateau State should allow him or her to rule the state. That’s my opinion on zoning on the Plateau. Will you say the outgoing governor of the state has done well? My opinion about the governor has been that after his first tenure in office, his abysmal performance should have disqualified him from seeking re-election, but I was overruled by the people of Plateau and he was re-elected. So, as a democrat, I accepted that as valid, but the governor has not performed to my expectation and that of many. He might have succeeded in some areas but that is too marginal in my expectation, because Lalong had been the Speaker of the State House of Assembly before becoming the governor. So, he has the experience it takes to transform the state into an industrialised economy. His overrated or over bloated success in returning peace to the state is quite faulty because the peace we have on the Plateau is the peace of the graveyard. Like I said, he is not a stranger to the power equation of Plateau State; he knew the problem of Plateau State very well and so, he should not have succeeded in earning the name ‘governor alert’ only but, he should have transformed the state, I mean revive most of the collapsed industries of the state, rejuvenate the economy, boost the revenue base of the state, tackle poverty and unemployment. I cannot remember any government policy of the state that targets unemployment or youth empowerment. The one I know was during his first tenure where some youths were selected from each local government and were supposed to be trained in Jos, but along the line, the programme failed. The governor himself, when addressing the youth afterwards, said the funds meant for the programme was not available. That came and failed. I will personally rate him as a failure, especially with the wealth of experience he has in leadership as a member of the House of Assembly and Chairman of the Conference of Speakers. That he could not deploy that experience to address the challenges of the state rather, he plunged Plateau State into debt more than any other person who has governed the state. That is not fair and that is not leadership Plateau State has not been spared from insecurity bedevilling the country; many people were killed two weeks ago. How did it get to this level in the state, the North and even the country as a whole? When we came in 2015 and the government was creating the North East Commission, I was a member of the transition committee. So, I included Plateau State and my argument was that if the North East Commission is to address infrastructural deficits as a result of Boko Haram crisis, then Plateau State should be included because a major crisis started in the state in the year 2001 and lasted for over three years. Infrastructural facilities were destroyed as a result of that crisis and that if the Federal Government would not include Plateau State since we have been the nucleus of this sectarian crisis that snowballed into Boko Haram, it would not be good. The governor did nothing to abate killings of people on the Plateau as the chief executive. In fact, the only time he went to commiserate with the Anaguta people after many people were killed was when the state House of Assembly gave him an ultimatum. Otherwise, he has never even cared to visit any community. But the governor recently visited Miango and Kanam communities after they were attacked by gunmen. Don’t you consider those as visits? Visiting Miango and Kanam out of how many theatres of crises, attacks and killings? Three or four out of about 100 attack scenes is not even up to five per cent. That is not leadership. The essence of being a leader is to protect the lives and properties of the citizens. Each time there’s an attack, he behaves like the Federal Government. Using words like, ‘I am devastated, I condemn, I promise to deal with the perpetrators’. Each time he promises to deal with the perpetrators, they become emboldened, attack more aggressively and shed more blood in the communities. I will suggest that maybe if there are attacks and he maintains silence, maybe the criminals may not attack our people again. But as a government, there are steps that we ought to have taken to deal with this crisis. What should the government have done? Most of our communities are warrior communities. It is the state that deprives our people the traditional capacity to protect ourselves. We have never been conquered by any power even before the advent of colonialism, no empire conquered our people. So, we cannot be conquered. In a contemporary society where the government has taken our traditional rights of security and promised to protect us, it’s not for us to elect people who will make us vulnerable to attacks by senseless people, who if we are left with them cannot face us. You said in December 2021 that Nigeria was bleeding under the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari. Why do you think he has been unable to handle the problems of the country in line with his campaign promises of fighting insecurity and corruption, and tackling the problems in the economy? I’m a very close ally of the President even if we are not in the same party again. That has not affected our relationship. But I don’t envy him as a President; I mean he has every experience, which endeared him to Nigerians, including raising funds to support his campaign. He is the only person, to the best of my knowledge in the country, who the common people owned, sold their properties and invested in his leadership. Unfortunately, under his watch, the common people, who invested in his leadership, are the worst affected. They lost everything they had, including families and houses, and their businesses have crumbled, families liquidated, movement now restricted due to insecurity and relationships collapsed. Everything that is the joy and comfort of the community has been taken away from the common people and so, the President has been unable to deploy his experience as a war general to deal with criminality terrorism, banditry, kidnapping, etc. The Commander-in-Chief, President Buhari, should not share power with bandits. Bandits control a sizable part of the North; they impose taxes and enforce their rules, while terrorists are doing the same thing at other side of the North. This is below the expectation of every reasonable Nigerian who believed in his presidency. Many people actually expected you to be re-appointed as a minister. Do you know why you did not make the list in the President’s second term? I don’t know why people expected me to make the list if they understood the rationale behind the appointment of ministers. You hold the office at the pleasure of the President. So, he determines who he works with and the law does not impose obligations on him. If out of 36 of us who worked with the President and he was satisfied with 11 and reappointed them, it means those are the people he believes can take Nigeria to the next level where we are now. So, if by his judgment I was not qualified to bring Nigeria to the next level, why should I be bothered? The people he appointed are the agents of the next level. We were not by his judgment qualified to be among those to drive the next level agenda. I don’t think that is an issue. Now, we are at the next level, Nigerians should judge. Talking about Nigeria’s recent misfortune in football, would you say that at this point in time foreign coaches are better or the country should look inward and choose one of her former players as the coach? For us to make progress as a country, we must develop the architecture with principles and values so that we can develop or build our own civilisation in Nigeria football, which is a very critical sector in our national ministry. It is a sector that the government at all levels must be interested in. I think the thought of employing a foreigner is counterproductive to the development of Nigerian football, because you cannot develop Nigerian football with a foreign coach. Our unique football tradition is to be nurtured by a Nigerian so that when we play at the global level, we will introduce the stock of Nigerian football, because we have a peculiar way of playing. What do you make of the pardon granted to a former governor of Plateau State, Joshua Dariye, given the outrage that has greeted it? On the pardon granted the former governors of Plateau and Taraba states, to me the President exercised his constitutional right, but it has a heavy burden and which is responsible for the outrage. Each former governor was convicted by this present government. And for the government that prides itself as fighting corruption to suddenly provide a passionate ground and soft landing to grant pardon to people convicted of corruption, I do not personally believe that compassion was responsible for the pardon. What do you think is responsible for the action of the Federal Government then? The APC has a dwindling fortune facing them in 2023 and so, they need assistance by granting pardon to politicians, which will make the people celebrate and forget about their predicaments. So, it is more or less a political strategy to save the face of the APC in 2023. You retired as an Assistant Comptroller General of Prisons. Why has it been difficult to overhaul the correctional centres instead of the present dilapidated structures? The correctional centre is seen as a dumping ground. It can only be considered when you have high profiled criminals being taken there. The government has not been investing in the institution well. Funding has been very poor, the welfare of the officers quite low and discouraging. Their conditions of service are still as poor as during the colonial era, as most of the prisons being used today were built by the colonialists. The truth is that we have not been able to consider that institution as a critical one that also has implications on national security. That is why the budget of all the custodial centres is not up to the budget of the Presidential Villa in a year. How best do you think the prisons can be decongested? The best way is to take more drastic measures to achieve independence of the judiciary on practical terms where more judges can be employed, more courtrooms created, and the welfare of the judges and the judicial process itself is reviewed. Our prosecution method should also be reviewed in accordance with our traditions. Rwanda was able to deal with genocide when it activated its traditional mechanism of conflict resolution and criminal justice system. There are very positive values in our traditional method that need to be imbibed to induce the Nigerian legal system. We cannot continue to use a legal system that we borrowed from England with even some of the laws still as obsolete as those of the 1870s such as the Wills Act, Statues of General Application etc. We need to develop an indigenous legal system that is Nigerian. Do you agree with those who said the prisons should be managed by the states instead of the Federal Government? The states will not be able to manage the prisons. They haven’t been able to manage education, health etc. How will they be able to manage prisons, which are not revenue generating institutions? If the states cannot manage to generate their own revenue to sustain themselves, how can they sustain the prisons? On the issue of rotational presidency, who will you prefer as Nigeria’s President in 2023? I will be selfish if I point out an individual and say I want this person. This is because there are many Nigerians who have offered themselves and I don’t have the exclusive right to choose a president. In my opinion, the next President should be someone with integrity, who loves the country and its people, and not someone whose second home is overseas, but someone whose investments are here and is ready to transform the country into an industrialised one. We need a young person, because the Nigerian presidency is too hectic for a person who will have to face his health and abandon the welfare of the people. We should hand over the future of the youth to them. If they make it, they progress. If they mar it, they will be doing themselves. Let’s not liquidate the future of the youth and the next generations. There is an ongoing debate on whether or not ministers should resign to pursue their respective ambitions. What do you think? The ideal thing is that since they have made up their minds to contest elections, they should put in their resignation letters, because they cannot enjoy the gains of power and use such to campaign against those who do not have such privileges. Already, it has affected the balance against those who are not in government. So, they were appointed not because they conquered Nigeria with war, but were given the opportunity to serve their country. Now, they want to serve in a different capacity. Why will you still hold on to power? It is morally wrong and democracy frowns on it. You were a lecturer before being appointed a minister. Why is it difficult for the Academic Staff Union of Universities and the Federal Government to resolve the issue in contention once and for all? The Federal Government is not sincere with the issue of ASUU struggles and why the Federal Government is not sincere is because majority of the political actors, their children are not in public schools, while some are out of the country. So, they do not even have confidence in the Nigerian educational system. Even the Minister of Education’s kids are schooling outside the country. One wonders what type of quality of education he (minister) would have given. No wonder he walked out on the students. What does he stand to lose? If his children were at home, of course he would have felt it. But ASUU has not been able to put its acts into proper perspective for Nigerians to understand. Permit me to say that I belong to the first generation of Nigerians who were victims of the ASUU strike. I read Law for nine years instead of five years, but I stand with ASUU and believe in its struggle. It is a very genuine struggle to save the Nigeria educational system. When ASUU started a strike during Babangida’s regime, the government said there was no money. So, negotiations started and along the line, ASUU told the government that it had a formula which could fund tertiary education in Nigeria. So, the government said put your cards on the table and ASUU said all companies in Nigeria should be charged one per cent of their turnover and the money should be set aside as a trust fund, which will be used to fund education. Now, Babangida could not conclude that before he left office. Abacha came in, inherited the problem and when they explained it to Abacha, he said he was not going to bring out any money and the government did not believe that the proposal was viable. The Education Trust Fund was drafted by ASUU and it was signed by Abacha. Six months after the ETF was created, N75bn accrued into the account and the government now realised it was a goldmine and called for a decree and amended it, and gave the Federal Government a certain percentage of the money. But from 1999 till date, the ETF as we know now has become something else. They took over the trust fund and it is now a political weapon to serve the interests of political cronies and amass wealth, and then tertiary education is back to square one. But ASUU was very smart when signing the agreement; it introduced a clause that calls for the review of the agreement after four years. So, that weapon is what ASUU kept in its own locker to expose the insincerity of the government. The government has been quite unfaithful and fraudulent towards the agreement. ASUU should run interviews, have social handles where the history of this crisis is played to Nigerians so they can understand, because what is happening is that the Federal Government is killing the goose that lays the golden egg. The intellectual property belongs to ASUU and the education sector is in a sorry state. For me, the ASUU strike should continue until justice is done. Your governor, Simon Lalong, wants to contest the senatorial election after his tenure as governor. Do you agree with those who say governors are turning the Senate into their retirement home out of greed and lust for power? He has the constitutional right to contest and I congratulate him for the courage to want to contest even though he knows very well that he has not performed to warrant seeking to represent the people in that capacity. It is now left for the people of the Plateau South to decide the fate that awaits him in the coming election.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com