Living things need communication. It is an intrinsic part of human interaction, engagement, connection and progress. Real people communicate and so do real brands. Communication is equally important for businesses. This is not surprising as organisations are not faceless entities but groups of real people doing things together. Communication within a business and with its public must be effective. It is said that effective communication affects processes, efficiency, and every layer of an organisation. Effective communication improves connections among employees. Reports indicate that organisations with connected employees have a 25% spike in productivity. 25%? That is huge, think about the impact on revenue, goodwill and company growth.  Clearly, every business needs to prioritise communication; startups even more so. The recent expose by a leading tech blog in Nigeria on a tech company and how that article spilled into a viral hashtag on Twitter (#HorribleBosses) is a case in hand for how important communication should be taken more seriously, especially by tech startups. If communication is so important, why is it so relegated? Many times, it is due to a lack of appreciation or full understanding of how it can help the firm. But this shouldn’t be. Communication can help build team bonds, position the firm, achieve a proper description of product/service, enhance relationships with stakeholders, keep customers happy and attract investors. Startup founders and co-founders must make communication an integral part of their business processes from the onset. It starts with an open business environment where feedback and criticism are welcome. It covers the dissemination of the firm’s message through the right channels, media and at the appropriate time. A note of caution here, communication is beyond sending out the occasional press release or posting on the company’s social media pages to keep the public informed about the firm. It should be 360 degrees; covering all key stakeholders both internal and external. It should also be planned, consistent and strategic, with emphasis on strategy.  Strategic communication, essentially, is about ensuring that the way you communicate (as a firm or individual) can take you from where you are to where you want to be. It is the total of all your communication efforts. It should align with your purpose, create synergies, enable and enhance connections. In strategic communications, every piece of content you develop, every article in the media, every event and engagement, and everything you put out must show consistency in messaging. Today, a new business may fail if enough people do not know about its existence or the function of its products and services. Communication is an indispensable part of business processes. There are two parts of communication a tech startup should focus on always: internal communication and external communications. Internal communication is keeping in touch with one of the firm’s most critical stakeholders, the employees, and investors. Experts insist that open, clear and transparent internal communications can help keep the team inspired, engaged, educated and informed at all times. This naturally makes them feel valued, involved and motivated to work towards the firm’s common company objective. Done right, internal communication can improve decision making, drive employee productivity and boost business profitability. It enhances the work environment leading to greater trust, more confidence and improved engagement. The platforms for effective internal communication include, but are not limited to, intranet, internal newsletters, news centre, employee surveys, collaboration tools, social employee advocacy tools and instant-messaging tools, among others. With effective internal communication, employees become advocates, ambassadors and cheerleaders for the firm even when they leave the firm for another. In addition, the firm’s external public is huge and important. Here, we are talking of customers, media, competitors, community, prospective employees and investors, the financial community, government and its agencies, the legislature and the general public at large.  No company can afford to ignore these groups of stakeholders. Effective external communication is what is required to build the company’s reputation, position it in the market and also help overcome the inevitable crisis. Here the focus is on the right time, appropriate message and relevant audience. You cannot afford to get things mixed up. Activities covered under external communications are blogging, crisis communications, digital and social media support, industry analysis, product/service launches, media monitoring and reporting, media relations, press releases, communication strategy, corporate communication, corporate publications and magazines, media training, briefings, interviews, media conferences and events.  •Tosin Adejuwon, a Lagos-based Global Public Relations Consultant and social commentator, can be reached via tosinadejuwon@gmail.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com