Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya has launched a mobile application to encourage Universal Health Coverage across all strata. Yahaya launched the application during a stakeholders engagement meeting on Basic Healthcare Provision Fund, organised by GoHealth in collaboration with the German International Cooperation GIZ, Legislative Initiative for Sustainable Development, and Saif Advocacy Foundation. According to him, since the takeoff of the initiative about 60,000 state civil servants, with their dependants have been enrolled and more than 25,000 poor and vulnerable accessing health care services in the state. He said GoHealth ICT framework and blueprint would enable the state to leverage current and future ICT investments toward building an integrated health information infrastructure and greatly contribute to universal healthcare coverage. Yahaya said, “In order to accelerate our drive towards achieving Universal Health Coverage in the state, our administration adopted innovative use of ICT for health in order to improve service delivery, ensure responsiveness, increase access, expand coverage and offer financial risk protection to our people. It is in this regard that we developed a robust and functional ICT ecosystem for GoHealth. “From the demonstration of the GoHealth mobile App we just witnessed, it is clear that the App is user-friendly, safe, and secure. It is meant to enable individuals and groups to enroll into the scheme, book appointments with their care providers, make enquiries as well as provide feedback to enable the government to take necessary measures to improve the quality of service.” Speaking, the Executive Secretary of National Health Insurance Scheme, Prof. Mohammed Sambo, said the fund came into being following the government’s determination to attain Universal health coverage. Sambo said, “It is unthinkable to operate a functional healthcare system without the introduction of Information Communication and Technology. When Healthcare services are enhanced in the country the life expectancy of its citizens will surge, thereby eliminating avoidable health complications leading to untimely death.” On her part, Executive Director of LISDEL, Juliana Abude-Aribo, commended the government’s deliberate efforts at improving its health care services, while urging for increased funding She said, “There should be complete disbursement of Gombe State equity for health, strengthening of institutional government structure of primary healthcare for optimal delivery.” Also, Chairman, Saif Advocacy Foundation, Alhassan Yahya lauded the governor’s resolve at improving primary healthcare, especially for the poor and vulnerable, adding that they have better opportunities of accessing qualitative support. He said, “Thank you very sincerely your excellency for closing the gap between the rich and the vulnerable.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com