Ahead of their game against Chelsea at Goodison Park on Sunday, Alex Iwobi has insisted that Everton will give their all as they continue their fight to avoid relegation at the end of the season. The Toffees currently find themselves on the wrong side of the EPL log as they occupy the 18th position after a disappointing campaign. It has been tough for the club from Merseyside, who have only won eight league matches this season, lost 19, and have 29 points from 32 games. They sit just above Watford and Norwich City on the Premier League table with a game to play. Despite putting up a great display against Liverpool at Anfield on Sunday, Everton suffered yet another 2-0 defeat in the hands of their rivals and a victory for Burnley saw Frank Lampard’s men go down one step, and increasing their likelihood of getting relegated from the Premier League for the first time in their history. But Iwobi remains defiant, saying Everton will do everything to ensure they remain in the Premier League, starting with the game against Chelsea on Sunday. “It’s not going to be easy but we’re ready for it,” Iwobi told Everton TV. “We are not going to dwell on this (derby defeat). Especially with the captain, Seamus, he is always helping us to keep our heads up and go again. “We need everyone. It’s a team thing and everyone is ready to fight. “We know where we are. We are going to focus on ourselves, prepare for Chelsea and try to get a result. “We have great chemistry and great spirit in the team. I’m sure we can get out of this situation.” “We were able to make chances and we just needed to be more clinical. He added, “Even when we went a goal down, we still had the belief we could get one back and we had a few chances to equalise. “Everyone put 100 per cent in and we just have to go again. “You can see everyone is fighting for the manager and for ourselves. We have a lot to prove.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com