At least, seventeen persons have been confirmed dead after gunmen attacked Ncha community, Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau state. A youth leader in the community, Nuhu Bitrus, confirmed the killings to The PUNCH in Jos on Wednesday. Bitrus said that the gunmen who carried out the killings also burnt several houses belonging to the natives while several persons sustained injuries. According to the youth leader, the attacks on the community took place in the early hours of Wednesday and lasted for several houses. He said,” We have a disaster currently in one of our communities at Ncha. Some gunmen whom we know to be Fulani last night invaded the community and started shooting everywhere and killing anyone they see while setting people’s houses on fire. “Right now, we have counted 17 dead bodies and six persons that were injured during the invasion which started around 2:30 am. The Ancha community is the same place that one person was killed just a few days ago by the same people. “We don’t know what to do before Government and the security agents will see the need to protect our people from extermination which obviously is the intent of the attackers.” The Military Taskforce in charge of maintaining peace in the state, Operation Safe Haven, also confirmed the attack on the community on Wednesday. A statement signed by its Military Information Officer, Major Takwa Ishaku, said “In the late hours of Tuesday, 11 January 2022, troops of OPERATION SAFE HAVEN received a distress call of an attack on Acha Community in Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau. “The troops responded swiftly and mobilised to the village. On reaching the community, the attackers had fled the village. Houses were destroyed and some villagers lost their lives during the attack. “Troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN are on the trail of the assailants and details of the pursuit would be made available later. “The Commander Operation SAFE HAVEN, Major General I.S Ali, while commiserating with the families of those who lost their lives during the attack, has reiterated his resolve to ensure perpetrators of evil in Plateau face the consequences of their dastard acts”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com