Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, has advised Christians to actively participate in politics and stop seeing it as dirty if they want to have a positive impact on society. Mr Diri gave the advice while speaking at the end of a two-day programme of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, tagged “Light Up Bayelsa Holy Ghost Rally” in Yenagoa on Thursday. He urged Christians not to stay away from politics or remain unconcerned but rather join to influence decision-making for the good of the generality of the people. Mr Diri said Nigeria is in dire need of people that would salvage it from its many challenges, adding that the church should not be docile in the face of insecurity, corruption and other vices threatening the country. The governor stated that under his administration, peace had come to stay in the state and that the days when people resort to violence to settle differences are over. Speaking about his achievements, Diri said within two years in the saddle, his administration had changed the landscape through various projects, ranging from road infrastructure, educational and health structures to lighting up of the major roads and building of a mega media complex. Mr Diri, who expressed joy that the programme coincided with activities marking his second year in office, declared that his administration had adopted it as part of its second-anniversary celebrations. He thanked the RCCG General Overseer, Enoch Adeboye, for his support for his administration. “You are a good father. So, after consultation, we decided to give you the name Ebidaowei of Bayelsa, meaning the good father of Bayelsa.
ⓘ “Our story as a government in Bayelsa will be better told by you, Daddy G.O. When we were told that you were coming to start the year with us, we opened our arms to welcome you. “This government will be two years old on February 14. You have been a part of us, supported us, prayed with us and prayed for us. You have continued to support us by coming to begin the year with us. “As part of our second-anniversary celebration, we have adopted this programme. Bayelsa has been lighted up. Bayelsa will not go back to Egypt,” the governor said. (NAN)