Three members of a vigilante group popularly called ‘Yan Komiti’ have been confirmed dead in a lone crash along Misau-Azare Road, Bauchi State. The vigilantes were said to be on their way to Azare, Katagum Local Government Area of the state for the wedding of the daughter of the Minister of Education, Prof. Adamu Adamu, on Saturday. Our correspondent learnt that the crash involved the JAC pick-up patrol van recently distributed to security agencies across the state by the Governor, Bala Mohammed. Also, one person reportedly died in another crash which involved two vehicles along Awala roundabout, within Bauchi metropolis. The Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Bauchi State, Yusuf Abdullahi, confirmed the two crashes to our correspondent. He said the crash involving the vigilantes was caused by excessive speeding, adding that the vehicle skidded off the road. He said one person died on the spot while the other two died in the hospital. Abdullahi said, “Yes, there were two crashes today (Saturday) which led to the loss of four lives. The first crash happened in the morning along Awala roundabout from Gidan Mai. But the rescue operation was not done by the FRSC because before we got to the scene, the Motor Transport Department of the Bauchi State Police Command had done the rescue. The obstructions were also cleared. “It involved a Honda Civic and a Sharon bus. The Sharon bus was trying to avoid colliding with the Honda Civic and it went off the road and crashed. One person died in the incident. There was a distress call through our 122 but before we got there, the Police had rescued them. “The second incident was a lone crash. They were on their way to the event (Adamu’s daughter’s wedding) in Azare when the crash happened. You know whenever there’s a function, they always go there with their dane guns to assist in maintaining law and order. “So, they were going there when the incident happened. It was only their vehicle that crashed and it was caused by speeding. They were in a JAC pick-up van that the government gave us last year. “One person was killed at the spot while two who were critically injured were conveyed to the Federal Medical Center, Azare, where they later died. The three dead bodies were deposited at the morgue at the FMC, Azare where they will be released to their loved ones for burial.” Abdullahi warned drivers against speeding, urging them to always drive within the approved and reasonable speed limits. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com