General business conditions in Nigeria improved slightly in December, Stanbic IBTC Bank said in its Purchasing Managers’ Index report on Monday. The PMI readings above 50.0 signal an improvement in business conditions on the previous month, while readings below 50.0 showed a deterioration, according to the report. “At 56.4 in December, up from 55.0 in November, the latest expansion pointed to a robust overall improvement in business conditions. Moreover, the latest quarterly reading was at 55.2, the highest since the final quarter of 2019,” the report said. It said the final month of 2021 revealed a robust expansion in Nigeria’s private sector, with the PMI improving to a 24-month high. The report said quicker uplifts in output and new orders as well as record inventory building were central to the improvement. It said despite the surge in new orders, firms added to their headcounts at the softest pace for 11 months but were still able to keep backlogs at bay. According to the report, purchase cost inflation accelerated to a fresh series high, and for the fourth month running. It said output price inflation followed suit, also quickening to a new survey peak in December. It said a key driver of growth was the quickest rise in new orders for over two years. Firms mentioned fruitful marketing efforts and a general improvement in domestic and international demand, the report said. It noted that subsequently, firms boosted output for the 13th month running, and at the quickest rate since August 2020. It said sub-sector data revealed expansions across the board, although manufacturers recorded by far the strongest increase. It said wholesale and retail, services and agriculture followed, respectively. The report said despite robust expansions in output, firms added to their headcounts at only a slight pace. It said panel comments suggested that while sales had increased, firms were able to keep up with demand, leading to a marked reduction in backlogs. According to the report, historically elevated rates of new order growth led firms to engage in stockpiling strategies during the month. It said inventories increased at the quickest rate in eight years of data collection, adding, “Buying levels also increased substantially, and at the fourth-most marked rate in the series.” The report said, “As for prices, purchase costs rose at a survey-record rate for the fourth month running. Higher raw material prices, fuel costs and unfavourable exchange rate movements drove the increase. Favourable demand conditions allowed for costs to be passed on to clients at a record rate in December. “Firms were optimistic for output growth in 2022 amid plans to broaden product offerings, increase advertisements and expand operations to new locations.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com