Members of the Olubadan-in- Council on Tuesday held a meeting over the selection of the new Olubadan. The meeting, which was attended by eight of the High Chiefs, was held behind closed doors at the Olubadan Palace at Oja Oba in Ibadan amidst heavy presence of policemen to prevent possible breakdown of law and order. The Osi Olubadan, Senator Rashidi Ladoja, who is a former governor of the state; and the Iyalode of Ibadanland, Chief Theresa Oyekanmi, were absent. However, it was gathered that although the Iyalode was indisposed, she was in support of the last week’s press briefing where the High Chiefs held that the Otun Olubadan, Senator Lekan Balogun, is the next Olubadan. Balogun was also absent at the Tuesday’s meeting. Journalists were allowed into the premises of the palace, but were prevented from covering the meeting where the Osi Balogun, Tajudeen Ajibola, had earlier said the choice of Lekan Balogun would be ratified as the new Olubadan. The High Chiefs declined to grant press interview after the meeting which lasted about two hours. Some of the High Chiefs in attendance at the meeting were Balogun Olubadan, Owolabi Olakulehin; Otun Balogun, Olufemi Olaifa; Ashipa Olubadan, Eddy Oyewole; and Osi Balogun, Tajudeen Ajibola. Also in attendance were the Ekaarun Olubadan, Amidu Ajibade; Ashipa Balogun Olubadan, Lateef Gbadamosi, Ekaarun Balogun, Kola Adegbola and Ekerin Olubadan Abiodun Kola-Daisi. Meanwhile, Balogun, has expressed confidence about ascending the throne of Olubadan. When contacted by our correspondent on Tuesday evening and asked if he was worried that the kingmakers did not make any announcement to ratify him as the new Olubadan, Balogun said he did not entertain any fear at all. “I don’t entertain any fear at all. There is no problem. Just be patient,” he said. The PUNCH reported that the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, died on January 2 at the age of 93 and Balogun. who is the next in line, is supposed to have been ratified as the next Olubadan. However, a former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Oyo State, Michael Lana, in petition to Governor Seyi Makinde asked the governor to withhold approval for Balogun who automatically should ascend the throne. He argued that since Balogun and other High Chiefs had been elevated to Obas by the administration of late Governor Abiola Ajimobi, it would be an aberration to still promote any of them as the new Olubadan having been crowned before. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com