Two singers— Dapo Oyebanjo, aka D’banj; and Simisola Kosoko, aka Simi— were recently unveiled as judges for the seventh edition of popular music reality show, Nigerian Idols. The duo would be joining entertainment entrepreneur, Obi Asika, who returns as a judge from the previous season. At an event to present the new judges to the press during the week, D’banj was at his entertaining best as he made attendees laugh endlessly with his jokes, quips and wisecracks. The singer also noted that he was looking forward to being a judge on the show. According to him, he would be looking for contestants that have the complete package of talent and swag. The winner of the 2021 edition of the show, Kingdom Kroseide, was also on hand to entertain guests. He performed one of his new songs, which is love-themed, to the delight of all present. Many marvelled at how the ‘Nigerian Idol’ had evolved since the show ended. During the competition, one of the criticisms that Kroseide faced was the fact that people saw him as a laidback ‘church’ singer who did not connect well with the audience. Some felt that would limit his acceptability by fans. However, guests were taken by surprise when the singer stormed the stage and rendered a love song. He also connected more as he established eye contact with the audience. In his remarks, Asika maintained that many would be positively shocked when they listen to Kingdom’s other songs. He also stated that he even wanted to change the singer’s stage name to ‘King’ but the suggestion was not accepted. He expressed joy that the singer had evolved so much in the last few months. According to him, that is what music competitions are supposed to be about— to groom and polish raw talents. The host of the show, IK Osakioduwa, also anchored the event fluidly as he carried the audience along and dispensed pertinent information about the competition. The seventh season of the Nigerian Idol is set to start airing on Sunday, February 6, 2022, though a hybrid mode of physical and virtual auditions have been concluded. The winner of the show, which is sponsored by Bigi Drinks and Binance, will walk home with N100m in cash and other prizes, including a SUV, a recording deal with a ‘top label’ and a trip to Dubai. This is a significant increase from last year’s offering of N30m in cash and N20m in other prizes.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com