A member of the Peoples Democratic Party representing Jos-South/Jos-East Federal Constituency in Plateau State at the House of Representatives, Dachung Bagos, tells LEKE BAIYEWU that the National Assembly should override the veto by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), declined assent to the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill, particularly due to the restriction of political parties to direct primary. Do you agree with the issues he raised against the clause? First of all, I won’t agree with such reasons because the President was a beneficiary of the direct primary in 2019; we are all aware of that. If it were an indirect primary that had to do with delegates, possibly he might not have been the candidate of the All Progressives Congress. So, being  a product of direct primary, he should support the people that believe in that mode. I expect that because of the hope and the belief of the people at the grass roots in direct primary, and as a beneficiary of direct primary, he should have supported that. Buhari cited economic, security, political and other reasons for not giving assent to the bill. Are these reasons not genuine? I won’t say they are totally genuine. When it comes to the cost of conducting the primaries, we just passed a budget of about N300bn for the Independent National Electoral Commission. Rumours had it then that it was going to cost INEC N500bn just to conduct direct primaries. If INEC is asking for N300bn for the general elections (in 2023) and, mind you, the general elections have to do with printing of ballot papers, logistics, security and a lot of things; and if direct primaries have nothing to do with ballot papers, collation like that of elections and a lot of other things, then the logistical arrangement for direct primaries is not up to 20 per cent of the logistical arrangement for the general elections. All that will be done – the major role to be played during primaries is basically for the political parties. All that INEC usually does in any primary is to monitor (the exercise). There is no difference in what INEC will do from what it has been doing. So, if it is going to be at the ward level, it is just to assign its officials to the number of wards. There won’t be National Youth Service Corps members and officials. There won’t be all the logistics that they deploy during elections. Most of the logistics for primaries are provided by the political parties. What about security? It is not INEC that will provide security; it is the political party that is conducting a primary that would handle that. If it were a general election, INEC will make sure that there is security. In terms of conducting primary, it has never been the role of INEC. But the issue being raised is that for direct primary, all party members have to come out and converge at various places and this can expose them to security threats especially in volatile areas. Is the poll more important than safety? If the security agencies have given a security report that they cannot manage the security logistics for direct primary, it means they cannot and will not be able to manage the security logistics for the general elections, because there won’t be any difference. The elections will be done at the polling units while the direct primary will be done at the ward level. Primaries – direct or indirect – are not done at the polling units. So, if we are now having the issue of insecurity as a threat to direct primary, then there is a threat to the general elections. The National Assembly threatened to override the President’s veto before he withdraw assent to the bill. Now that the bill has been sent back to the parliament, can this still be done or the issues he raised should be reviewed? As a member of the PDP, if given the opportunity, definitely, we will override the President on the electoral bill. Mind you, it is not just the issue of direct or indirect primary; there are a lot of cogent issues in the electoral bill that we should consider. So, on that premise, from my angle, if I have the opportunity, why not; I will call for the overriding of the President’s veto to be able to have a strong Electoral Act that should be able to give Nigeria free and fair (general) elections. But then, because of politics the majority will want to have their way. If we cannot override the President because we are in the minority, then the majority from the ruling party (APC) should have a rethink; we should come back to the table, look at the areas that the President has expressed concerns especially in terms of direct primary. Let us leave it as it was – direct or indirect primary – and pass that bill and send it back to the President for assent. Like I said, there are serious issues in the electoral bill that are even more than direct or indirect primary, that we need the electoral bill to become an Act so that INEC will have a law that it will work with. If we cannot veto (the President), then we should remove those grey areas that the President has concerns about, send the bill back to him, and he will assent to it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com