The General Overseer of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, Pastor Daniel Olukoya, has said that hypocrisy and corruption will be exposed in a massive way in the house of God this year. He made the pronouncement in the church headquarters in Ogun State during the Crossover service on Friday. In a 37-point prophecy, Olukoya urged the country to also pray against another “COVID-like situation or anything similar to it.” He urged the church and the whole country to pray against what he termed “useless wars” to prevent friendly nations disagreeing and betraying each other and going into war. He said, “It will be a year of drought for those without storehouses. There will be massive shakings that will expose hypocrisy and corruption in the house of God. We need to pray as a church that God should begin to raise politicians like Daniel and Joseph who will prosper in whatever political and financial climate before them. “It is a year of falling away from the old and the emergence of the new. All over the world, hard-core occultists and ritualists will be put to open shame. We need to pray against inflation and starvation. The church needs prayers against increased persecution of Christians.” Similarly, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, in his usual fashion released some New Year prophecies which he categorised into personal, Nigeria and intercontinental. He said, “In spite of everything happening, this year will be a year of some massive breakthroughs (in science and in finance). The infant mortality rate will drop by at least 50 per cent. This year will be a year of the emergence of previously unknown stars. More than 80 per cent of projects starting in 2022 will succeed.” Using an idiom in his prophecy on Nigeria, Adeboye said, “You don’t make omelette without breaking eggs.” He added, “There will be two monstrous storms (one coming from the Atlantic and one from the Pacific) unless they are weakened, the results will be terrible.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com