The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Friday, has reassured residents of Kaduna of his regime’s determination to crush terrorists and criminal gangs operating in the state and other parts of the country. Buhari spoke late Friday in Kaduna at the State Banquet organised by Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i to commemorate his official visit to the state. The President, who commended the state’s support to security agencies, noted the establishment of a ministry dedicated to internal security. He said, ‘‘I wish to assure the people and government of Kaduna State that the Federal Government is doing its utmost to contain and crush the terrorists menacing our citizens and their property in parts of the country. On behalf of the Federal Government, I commend the efforts of the Kaduna State Government to respond to the demands of development. ‘‘The relationship between our tiers of government represents an instance of successful collaboration between the national and State governments for progress, peace and prosperity. I urge Malam Nasir El-Rufai to push on and not relent in his efforts to accelerate change and progress in Kaduna State.” Reviewing his programme in the State since he arrived on Wednesday night, Buhari expressed delight over the commissioning of projects undertaken by the State government. ‘‘Most of my visits to Kaduna State since 2015 have been in connection with clear strides of progress. I was here in 2017 to commission the hatchery and feed mill project of Olam, a multinational agribusiness company that has sited a major factory in Kaduna. In August 2019, I had the honour to commission Phase 2 of the Zaria Water Project and a road project. ‘‘Therefore, I am not surprised that Nasir El-Rufai and his team have undertaken such a major investment in infrastructure development. I am glad to say I have seen with my own eyes the remarkable changes across all the three Senatorial zones,’’ he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com