Former internationals believe Odion Ighalo’s absence from the Super Eagles squad for the forthcoming 2021 Africa Cup of Nations has dealt the team a huge blow in terms of experience but they have backed debutants Taiwo Awoniyi and Peter Olayinka to deliver. Ighalo was ruled out of the tournament by the Nigerian Football Federation on Thursday according to a media statement from their communications department after his Saudi Arabian club, Al-Shabab Riyadh refused to release him for the tournament. The 32-year-old had returned to the team last November after quitting two years ago, after he led the Eagles to a third-place finish at the 2019 African Cup of Nations in Egypt where he emerged as tournament top scorer with five goals. Former Eagles goalkeeper and trainer Ike Shorunmu admits the Al-Shabab Riyadh’s striker experience will be hugely missed but backs the current crop of strikers in the team to excel at the tournament. “Obviously, the Eagles will miss Ighalo’s experience which was the major reason the former coach allegedly brought him back to the team,” Shorumnu said told PUNCH Sports Extra. “He’s in good shape at the moment and he is the top scorer in his team but what if he is injured won’t we play? “Ighalo started just like these new players in the team and we must believe in them to do well.” 1994 AFCON winner Emmanuel Amuneke also believes inclusion would have boosted the team’s confidence during games. “He’s experience is a big loss to the team because he would have offered something different. His injection when the going gets tougher would have been crucial to the team if he was released. But Kelechi Iheanacho and Awoniyi have played at the biggest stage in football so I think they won’t miss him too much. Dosu Joseph also weighed in saying, “Ighalo’s calmness in front of goal makes him a bug threat in attack but as it is we don’t have him in the team someone like Ahmed Musa and Iheanacho must step up in that regard.” The three–time winners will face seven-time and record winners Egypt in their opening game next Tuesday before they face Sudan four days later. Their final group game is against debutants Guinea Bissau on January 19. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com