The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Katsina State Command, said it treated 256 criminal cases from January to December 2021. NSCDC’s Commandant in the state, Mohammed Sanusi-Bello, gave the figure on Friday in Katsina, while briefing newsmen on the activities of the command in the period under review. According to him, a total of N54.3 million relating to indebtedness was recovered and handed over to the various complainants in the state. Sanusi-Bello said, “Out of a total of 1,161 cases handled, 256 criminal cases were prosecuted by the command from January to December 2021. “The criminal cases are mainly related to banditry, kidnapping, theft, drug abuse or trafficking, rape, vandalism and other offences including criminal trespassing, smuggling of petroleum products, assault, fraud and impersonation.” He noted that investigations were concluded in some of the cases at various stages of prosecution in various courts in the state. “You may recall that among the high profile cases handled by the Command immediately I took over in June 2021 included that of Sunday Isaac and Hamisu Salisu. “They were arrested in possession of 173 parcels of suspected Cannabis Sativa otherwise called marijuana and were handed over to the NDLEA. “A suspected kidnapper, Abdulrashid Mohammed, and couple of bandits and bandit informants were also arrested by the Command during the period under review,” he said. Sanusi-Bello noted that the agency was using its Alternative Dispute Resolution mechanism to settle civil cases, to reduce the burden of the judiciary in handling criminal cases in the state. “Within 2021, the Command has received and treated a total of 905 civil cases of different nature, ranging from indebtedness, misunderstanding, land-related matters, farmers/herdsmen conflict, domestic disputes, tenancy disputes and so on. “The command has also responded to more than 80 disaster incidents across the state in the year 2021, where we rendered First Aid, rescue, transportation of the injured to various hospitals and evacuation of the dead victims.” The Commandant stated that the NSCDC in Katsina State also provided security at the scenes of disasters to forestall crimes by some bad elements who might use such occasions to commit crimes. Sanusi-Bello stated that the agency under his leadership, apart from realising its core mandate, also got involved in the fight against terrorism and insurgency in the state and environs. The commandant, however, commended the people and government of Katsina State for their continued support to the NSCDC in its fight against crimes and criminalities. (NAN)