A former Minister of Works and the National Chairman, Southwest Agenda for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu 2023 presidential ambition, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, said on Tuesday that it would be fatal for the All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State to allow imposition of an unpopular individual as candidate in the January 27 primary. Adeyeye, who is an APC governorship aspirant in the state, said the best way to democratise the party’s primary and make the outcome acceptable was by adopting direct primary so that a popular candidate could emerge to face the opposition. The SWAGA leader, who spoke in Ado Ekiti while declaring his intention to vie for the governorship on the platform of the APC, urged the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee of the party to, as a matter of necessity, adopt direct primary to elect the governorship candidate for the primary in the state. He also said that Ekiti people and the state chapter of the APC would back Tinubu’s presidential aspiration, describing him as the best man to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). He told his supporters, who witnessed the declaration, “Your time has come. We know our governor (Kayode Fayemi) has not been fraternising with you. He has not been making himself accessible, but if you elect me, I will dine and wine with you. With me as your governor, there will be no room for poverty in Ekiti again; we will work hard to end it. “Go and make up your mind and vote for me during the primary and you will not regret it. The reason for my governorship ambition is based on my vision to serve Ekiti and fight the scourge of poverty and unemployment. “The APC must win this election; it must pick someone that is popular. You can see for yourselves that the people are with us. In 2018, we told some arrogant people that they wouldn’t have their way through imposition and it happened. It is obvious that only a popular candidate can win for the APC in this election. “The national leaders of our great party must return this party to the people. Let the national leaders adopt the direct primary to elect the candidate for the Ekiti governorship poll if truly we want to get a popular candidate. Let us return power to the people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com