An autotech platform, Fixit45, says it has partnered with CFAO Motors to make auto spare parts affordable and easily accessible to vehicle owners in Nigeria. The company said in a statement that it had partnered with Winpart, a subsidiary of CFAO Motors, to improve sourcing and distribution of auto spare parts in the country. It expressed its commitment to enabling and facilitating value-creating interactions across stakeholders in the automotive industry. Fixit45 said it had developed an e-commerce and search platform, called ‘Xparts’, for auto parts sourcing and delivery. According to the statement, Winpart is an independent aftermarket automotive spare parts wholesaler, distributing top-quality certified spare parts, sourced directly from original equipment manufacturers. The Managing Director, CFAO Motors, Patrice Porte, was quoted as saying at a signing ceremony in Lagos that CFAO had been committed to delivering value to Nigerian consumers for the past 118 years. He said the company’s knowledge of the African market had enabled the auto giant to proffer tailored solutions to customer needs. He said, “This partnership is a testament to our enduring legacy in this market. We see strong synergies and alignment in terms of strategy and values from both brands. We are encouraged that this partnership will afford consumers the opportunity for better services and affordable products. “This is the beginning of a great story that will positively define the Nigerian aftersales market.” The Chief Executive Officer and co-Founder, Fixit45, Justus Obaoye, reaffirmed the businesses’ core mission to enable and facilitate value-creating interaction while emphasising the primacy of collaborations in moving the industry forward. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com