DISDAINED, underpaid and insecure at home, Nigeria’s health professionals are relentlessly bolting to pastures new for better prospects. In a series of stories that lay bare the unending exodus, The PUNCH reports that thousands of healthcare professionals, particularly medical doctors and nurses, are abandoning Nigeria for overseas practice. In 2021, the migration continued at an alarming rate. With most stakeholders beginning to turn their focus on the politics of 2023, there is no sign that Nigeria can halt the trend soon. This abnormality continues to put the health of the average Nigerian at undue risk. Unlike the countries that are recruiting Nigerians, where the authorities devise and implement effective policies to boost their health systems, Nigeria lacks such holistic programmes. It is the primary cause of the ‘brain drain’ syndrome, which has marred the polity for decades. This ought to be reversed with practical policy implementation as is the hallmark of the health system in Cuba. Cuba’s extremely efficient system, anchored on primary health care, is highly recommended by the World Health Organisation. In Nigeria, however, the reality is stark. Despite its need for more health professionals amid the coronavirus plague, endemic malaria, high infant/maternal mortality, Lassa fever and cholera, Nigeria lost a high number of its trained health workers last year to other countries at a breakneck speed. Between July and December 2021, Africa’s most populous country saw 805 medical doctors migrating to the United Kingdom, says the British General Medical Council. That rate translates to 134 trained doctors a month, 33 per week or four a day. That is for the UK alone where by 2021, 8,178 medical doctors of Nigerian origin were practising. Additionally, figures by the British Nursing and Midwifery Council reveal that in the five years to March 2021, 15,049 nurses abandoned home for the UK. For Nigeria, whose health system is near collapse, this is double jeopardy. It means that from 2016, Nigeria lost 3,009 nurses annually, or 228 per month, 57 per week or eight daily to the UK health system. This is frightening. Unfortunately, the country’s health system has been in decrepitude for too long, afflicted by a myriad of factors, including under-equipped, underfunded hospitals, and underpaid professionals. The result is utter catastrophe for the ordinary Nigerian. The population, projected by the World Bank at 210 million in 2020, is thus starved of health practitioners, primarily because over 50 percent of the 80,000 medical doctors produced locally have emigrated overseas. As against the doctor-to-patient ratio of 1:600 recommended by WHO, Nigeria’s hovers between 1:3,500, says the National Universities Commission, and 1:5,000,according to other authorities. While doctors are insufficient at home, South Africa, Canada, the United States, and Middle East have become top destinations for Nigeria’s health workers, whose value rise sharply in those climes where there is equipment to work with, and much higher remuneration packages. In September, Saudi Arabia demonstrated Nigeria’s folly. After recruiting doctors and consultants in Lagos, the secret police, in another display of repression, forcibly disrupted the second leg of Saudi Arabia’s open recruitment exercise in Abuja. The clampdown failed, succeeding only in sending recruitment back to its discreet mode. The shortage is worse in the hinterland. The National Association of Resident Doctors states that “70 per cent of doctors practice in urban areas where only 30 per cent of the population resides.” Citing woeful work conditions, including delayed salaries, the health unions embark on regular strikes. The Nigerian Medical Association said recently that doctors and other health workers in Abia State were being owed 23 months salaries. That is scandalous. In Ondo and Ekiti states, health professionals were owed four months’ salaries and allowances. In Lagos, the National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives just stood down midway into a three-day warning strike to press home its demand for better work conditions after the state government brokered a truce. Despite all this, government at all levels live in denial. Led by the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), the privileged elite escapes the mess at home by exploiting medical tourism. According to the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority and the NARD, medical tourism costs Nigeria an average of $1.2 billion annually. India is the main beneficiary of the Nigerian elite’s shameful pastime. The money spent on that indulgence is more than enough to deliver world class health facilities. To reverse the pattern, the three tiers of government should return to the basics. First, primary health care should be revived as the lodestone of the health services system; the centres should be equipped, and staff trained to man them. This system worked in pre-independence Nigeria. It broke down in the 1970s. It was rejuvenated under the late Minister of Health, Olikoye Ransome-Kuti. Currently, it has reverted to its shambolic state. An audit report in December by the Federal Ministry of Health discovered that only one-third out of 30,000 PHCs nationwide are functioning. This is inexcusable carelessness. Government should stop paying lip service to healthcare delivery and invest in the health of Nigerians. The state governments should adequately fund and equip the PHCs. The Federal Government should give matching grants to states that are reviving the PHCs. Each state should have at least one functioning standard general hospital in each senatorial district to ease the problems of distance during emergencies. After a long battle, the Federal Government increased the monthly hazard allowance of doctors from N5,000 to between N32,000 and N40,000 in December. Other health workers like nurses, laboratory workers had theirs reviewed to between N15,000 and N34,000. Although this might not immediately reverse the brain drain syndrome, it is a good starting point. It should be consolidated, along with the provision of modern equipment in hospitals. A major drawback is poor funding of the health system. This runs through all levels. It needs attention. Consciously, the federal, state and LGs should expand their health budgets in line with the harsh realities of the moment. ”Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com