The Bayelsa State House of Assembly has passed a two-point resolution calling on the state government to investigate the circumstances surrounding the collapse of the state-owned Creek Motel in the state capital. It also urged the government to take steps to resuscitate the motel because of its strategic tourism value to the state. The resolution was sequel to a motion moved by the member representing Kolokuma/Opokuma Constituency 1, Tonye Isenah, during plenary on Tuesday. Isenah said the 90-room facility located along the Hospital Road in Yenagoa used to be the preferred hotel by businessmen, oil companies’ workers, top military personnel and politicians, among other clients. According to him, the motel served the tourism and hospitality needs of the state and was a viable source of revenue to the government. Isenah said, “Shortly after the Creek Motel was contracted out to foreigners to manage, it went moribund and subsequently closed down under circumstances that were not explained. “Most worrisome is the fact that the once-popular Creek Motel has become a safe haven for criminals and all kinds of reptiles, not to talk of the significant loss of revenue to the state government as a result of its continued closure.” Supporting the motion, the lawmaker representing Ogbia Constituency 1, Mitema Obordor, noted that it was within the legislature’s competence to institute a probe into the deplorable condition of the motel that also housed the first set of legislators and other top government functionaries after the creation of Bayelsa. Other members, who took turns to speak on the motion, observed that the state was grappling with infrastructural deficit and there was a need to maintain and upgrade facilities instead of abandoning them. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com