The Nigerian Army on Saturday in Katsina treated no fewer than one hundred and twenty people for various ailments as part of activities marking the 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance Day. The treatment was carried out at the Peoples Square, opposite Government House, Katsina where a parade and laying of wreaths were also held in honour of personnel of the Armed forces who died in the line of duty. Among those treated during the medical outreach by the Nigerian Army personnel on Saturday were legionnaires and residents of the various neighbouring communities of the 35 Batallion and the 17 Brigade of the Nigerian Army in Katsina. A look at the register of the beneficiaries who were treated at the venue of the medical outreach programme showed that many of them complained of malaria, cough, high blood pressure and eye problems. Some beneficiaries also received COVID-19 jabs. An officer who was part of the medical outreach team who attended to the people said the medical programme would continue through Saturday. The officer who pleaded for anonymity said, “So far, we have treated no fewer than 120 people and more are still coming and we are continuing the treatment throughout Saturday as part of the Corporate Social Responsibility of the Nigerian Army”. Meanwhile, Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State who was the guest of honour at the event, assured that the state would not relent in its efforts at ensuring the security of lives and property. He lauded various security agencies in tackling crimes in the state, insisting the state would always remain grateful to the agencies. Masari said, “It is also In recognition of these efforts that I extend my profound appreciation on behalf of the Government and people of Katsina State to the Commanders, officers, soldiers and airmen of 17 Brigade Nigerian Army and 213 Nigerian Air Force Forward Operating Base for their untiring sacrifice towards securing lives and properties of the citizens of Katsina State. “The relative peace experienced now in this state is largely attributed to the dedication, professional competence and discipline of our brothers and sisters serving in the military and other sister security agencies. The relationship between the military and the host community has remained cordial and I urge you to maintain this laudable standard.” “The Government of Katsina State remains resolute in its drive towards assisting the Armed Forces and other security agencies at preventing and subsequently eliminating acts of banditry and criminality in this State. “I assure you of my personal commitment and that of Katsina state government at supporting the military and other security agencies oi the State to ensure mat Katsina retain its rightful place in the committee of states as a peaceful, accommodating and progressive State in the federation,” He added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com