Five policemen dismissed from the Nigeria Police Force on the grounds of illiteracy have petitioned the senator representing the Akwa Ibom North East Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Senator Bassey Akpan, to intervene in the alleged wrongful termination of their appointments. They called on the lawmaker to intervene on their behalf and ensure that they get justice. The affected policemen are Sunday Okon, Anthony Ebong, Joseph Edem, Victor Ebe and Uduak Sampson with Force Nos. 403284, 400058, 412050, 410355 and 029629, respectively. They stated that they were recruited into the NPF as specialists in 2003, and after undergoing training, they were found worthy both in character, physical fitness and education, and posted to the Akwa lbom State Police Command, where they diligently discharged their duties without any issue. However, they expressed shock that the police by a wireless message dated January 1, 2007 disengaged them from the service on the grounds that they were illiterates. According to them, a series of letters has been written to the Inspector-General of Police; the Chairman, Police Service Commission; and the Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Zone 6, Calabar, asking to be reinstated, but to no avail. The spokesman for the dismissed cops, Mr Sunday Okon, said they were forced to take the matter to the National Industrial Court when nothing was done in response to their appeal and instituted a case against the Force and the Police Service Commission in suit No. NICN/UY/08/2018. According to him, the court in a judgment delivered on November 21, 2019, declared their purported disengagement from the force null and void, and ordered that they should be reinstated to the ranks that they would have been but for their disengagement and that all arrears of their salaries and allowances be paid. Okon lamented, “Up till date, nothing has been done to effect the judgment by the police force despite several letters and appeals, whereas the force did not appeal against the ruling. “We have suffered untold hardship for 14 years as we do not know who is sitting on our rights or taking our salaries.” He expressed optimism that the intervention of the senator and other lawmakers from Akwa Ibom State would save them and their dependants from the harrowing experience the wrongful dismissal had caused them. The petition addressed to the senator by their lawyer, Vincent I. Iwunze, read in part, “We are solicitors to Sunday Okon, Anthony Ebong, Joseph Edem, Victor Ebe and Uduak Sampson with force Nos. 403284, 400058, 412050, 410355 and 029629, respectively, hereinafter referred to as our clients and it is pursuant to their definite instructions to us that we write to you in respect of the above subject matter. “Sir, please use your good offices to assist them in prevailing on the Police Service Commission to comply with the court judgment in the interest of justice. “Our clients convey their appreciation for the effective representation you are giving the Uyo Senatorial District in the National Assembly, and wish you the best of luck in your future political aspirations.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com