The  Executive Director of YIAGA AFRICA, Samson Itodo in this interview with Solomon Odeniyi speaks on the intrigues surrounding the Electoral Amendment Act, the need for it quick harmonisation and assent among others The Electoral Amendment Act has been enmeshed in controversies. Do you think there is a need for the amendment? The Electoral Amendment act is a good move for three reasons. First, there are pieces of legislation that are scattered around.  What this particular bill does is to calibrate all these pieces of legislation into one. You have the 2010 act as amended, that law was amended two times.  Upon enactment in 2010, there was another Amendment in 2015. Those scattered pieces of legislation are in this  new electoral bill. Second, the reason this is crucial is because a lot of court ordered reforms were integrated in this bill, for example the case of Nyesome Wike and Dakuku Peterside, Emmanuel Udom and Okon Umana’s case in the Akwa Ibom election petition when the court was determining over-voting and it did say ‘you can’t use the figures generated by smart card reader to supplant the voter register when you are determining over-voting and the court advised INEC to change the electoral law to legalise the electronic accreditation of voters. This particular act takes into consideration the judicial pronouncement on elections.  The third reason why this is important is for the use of innovations that have been introduced by INEC. This bill confers legality on them. I believe the provisions of the bill, if assented to, would enhance the credibility of our elections. Why do you think there is so much noise on this Electoral Act? Why shouldn’t there be ? We should even demand more noise on the Electoral Act because this is the future of our democracy. Nigeria is suffering from bad leadership and governance. The only leadership recruitment process we have is through elections. There are cases where people’s votes have been compromised by politicians at the detriment of our collective development. People are now concerned that the politicians are playing politics with our electoral law.  They are concerned that politicians seem to be trading and substituting public interest with their private interest. Also, the President’s refusal to assent to the last Electoral Act contributed to the noise. It is quite unfortunate that the President’s legacy is being defined by the number of times he has declined assent to electoral bills, especially when these bills align with popular will. That is the irony of democracy. When you vest so much power in one individual, it raises questions and makes citizens lose faith in democratic process. That’s disturbing for our polity and we have to reflect deeply on what happens to those mechanisms and override is one of such mechanisms to limit the powers of the executive but in a case where structurally, the people who should take a decision to override the President are also subservient because the legislature is captured by the executive or  a ruling political class, this is worrisome. The direct primary clause has generated controversies and it is the reason we have yet to have a new electoral law. Do you think  this is necessary? I don’t think it was a needful exercise. I think that what the Electoral Act or law does is to provide a broader framework upon which elections are regulated. When you conscript parties to one mode of primary, it constitutes over legislation if you ask me. Direct primary no doubt is very good for our democracy and would enhance participation, however we should give parties the option of choosing their mode of fielding a candidate and that was the intention of the lawmakers when the Act made provision for direct and indirect primaries as mode for nominating candidates. I thought that it was an overreach for the legislature to introduce that particular provision in the late hour of the reform process. However, whether direct or indirect, no process is insulated from manipulation by the political elite. As instructed by the President, the Senate included a consensus mode of selecting candidates in the options which was not in the previous acts. Do you consider this as a good option? Consensus is not new in our electoral jurisprudence, the political parties usually adopt this in their nomination of candidates and to select those in their parties. When you talk about internal democracy within the party, there are three major areas that this is expressed or hijacked. One is in the selection of party leadership. Some of the parties in their selection of their party leaders rather than elect them, they resolve to the consensus mode. The practice of consensus depending on how it is reached, can be antithetical to democratic practice and what this means is to legalise an undemocratic practice in the polity.  It is not just peculiar to the APC, even the PDP adopts consensus but the big question is does consensus as mode of nominating candidate democratic and inclusive ? My answer is no. There are reasons candidates should be subjected to elections because once you adopt consensus, you subvert popular will and so members of the party are not given the opportunity to elect their leaders or nominate candidates. It becomes the exclusive preserve of kingmakers in the party to determine who a candidate is. That’s undemocratic. Secondly, it also compromises the choice that voters have. At the end of the day, parties field candidates that do not enjoy popular support. Also, this consensus is very dangerous in a political context where the culture towards politics is do-or-die and we have some political elites with no respect for democratic values. This kind of option would imperil  the entire democratic process. I also think this would adversely affect turnout of elections because people would only be limited to the same low options for voters.  The APC or the PDP constitution is not our Electoral Act. Ours provides a broad framework and so, we should not amend our laws to confer some undemocratic practices that some political parties have in their constitutions . Some Nigerians expected the National Assembly to override the President after refusing to assent to the electoral act, but the lawmakers eventually bowed to the President. Do you think succumbing to the President’s wish was the right thing to do for a legislative arm  regarded as a rubber stamp? Why were people expecting these current National Assembly members to veto the president? I think a lot of people need to understand a few things. The President’s party controls the majority in the National Assembly. In fact, the President singlehandedly determined the leadership of these two chambers. I was not expecting them to override the President. The same  National Assembly that lacks the courage to call the executive to order when it acted ultra vires. The same National Assembly members have repeatedly said they are not in that position to fight the President or to challenge him? The same National Assembly that can’t scrutinise the loan request brought by the executive? Let also not forget that within the National Assembly, there was no agreement and cohesion on this particular issue, yes they passed it but subsequently, legislators started expressing discordant positions on the provision. Deputy senate majority leader, Bala Na’allah, said the direct primary provision was the decision of the Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila who wanted to please an individual. Also it is being said the consensus being introduced as a ploy to scheme out a particular presidential candidate, do you think using the electoral act in this direction is proper? What interest drives reform, particularly electoral reforms? Is it the interest of individuals or the overall national interest ? If you check most of the proposals for reforms, they are all driven by individual interest. It has the interest of the public at the centre. If you check the time this particular proposal was introduced, it was very questionable, the  amendment of section 87 was never part of the reform agenda.It was the speaker who introduced that on the day they were going to pass the bill at the House of Representatives level. If he had not included that, we would have been singing a different song now, probably the Electoral Act would have been signed into law last year and we would have started preparation for the 2023 elections. The House of Representatives passed the bill with direct and indirect primaries, while the Senate passed, direct, indirect and consensus. What do you make of this discrepancy? The National Assembly has made a pronouncement that the bill would go to the President this week. The harmonisation committee, we expect must have met or would meet to take a position on this. Whatever they agree on  would be discussed on the floor of the house for adoption, once it’s adopted, the whole bill would be cleaned up because we highlighted some drafting errors and resolved all the cross-referencing gaps. Like the citizens have requested, the President should do sign it in one week. My call to Nigerians is that we should not relent.We have to keep up the pressure. We have given the National Assembly and the President a  timeline. We hope that by January 31, we would have a new electoral law.Anything short of that is a repudiation of national interest and it would undermine public confidence in this entire reform process. What implications will the  late harmonisation or assent  have on INECs preparations? It is going to affect the preparation of INEC in proportions that are unimaginable. Elections are governed by rules. If you don’t fix the rules, the umpire is unable to plan. Let us get it straight, we are undermining the 2023 elections with the delay in considering this legislation. INEC cannot issue a timetable for the elections, because if it does based on the old extant law and then this bill is now subsequently amended, it would have to issue another timetable. There are implications for this because once a timetable is released and the notice of election issued, electoral activities commence immediately and once that is done, you cannot suspend them. Also, INEC needs to provide guidelines. What would now be the basis for the guidelines if it is not the electoral law ? This is why we have been calling on the executive and the legislators, political parties to conclude this process expeditiously so that INEC can plan; also, political parties and the  media. It is not just about INEC, although it is sad where INEC was boxed to in 2018, but this is not a legacy that any political leader or leaders would want to leave behind. We urge them, particularly the National Assembly to conclude this process this week and transmit to the President.  He should not waste further time in assenting to the bill so we have a new law. Once this law is in place, it is in the overall interest of our country, it would douse a lot of tension, suspicion and boost public confidence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com