A lady shared this experience with me in appreciation of random good people. ”We lived in Uromi (Edo State) then. And my husband had just left for Europe; a journey that cost us everything we were worth. The children were growing. We had five of them. His business was no longer sustaining us and we had to take that risk for greener pastures. Months after his father left and hardship struck, my eldest son (barely 13 at the time!) began to go to building sites where he could carry blocks or do clean-up for a daily wage. “This he dutifully did every day, after school. That’s how we fed as I stayed home to mind his younger ones. By this time, the shop we were managing had become completely empty because my husband’s journey was not as smooth as we were led to believe. The children (mercifully!) adjusted to our reality, especially when it comes to eating what was available. But my five-year-old son in particular couldn’t adjust. And would often ask for “rice and beans with plantain.” Or he would go hungry. “Mama Obebo had a “mama-put” in the neighbourhood and I figured it’s cheaper to give the boy N30 (thirty naira at the time!) to buy rice and beans while the other children and I ate whatever we could afford to cook. “Do you know that this boy would get to Mama Obebo’s shop, hand over the money to her, gallantly walk up to her kitchen girl and ask for rice, beans, plantain and meat? When Mama Obebo’s girl (probably in disbelief) asked to know how much he paid to be making such orders. Mama Obebo instructed her to “give the boy whatever he comes here to ask for, irrespective of how much he paid.” “My sister, that’s how a total stranger (we are Igbo by the way) unknowingly lifted the burden of dealing with a child that is a picky-eater off my shoulders! I lost count of how many times Mama Obebo chased me back each time I went over to thank her and also to save face by promising to pay off the debts when my husband sends a “message”even though I didn’t know how that would happen. “My husband was still in a refugee camp by this time although he had begun to receive some sort of formal education by this time. Mama Obebo would ask “wetin you owe me wen you want to pay back? No be my pikin I give food?” Do you know another thing that Mama Obebo did that moved me to tears? It was on the day that my boy got ill. “I can’t tell how she found out but she was at our door by midday, with a plate of rice,beans,plantain and meat. She also came with a bottle of coke in one hand. As soon as the boy saw her, he got well immediately! Anyway, we eventually relocated to the village as paying house rent even became a problem. “We have experienced an economic turnaround by the grace of God and I paid a visit to Uromi not long ago specifically to thank Mama Obebo properly. “I did not forget. My husband did not forget. My children did not forget. She didn’t believe how much my husband sent to her. But I told her that no amount is enough to thank her for covering my shame in a way that I am not sure she knew. I could have done a bank transfer but my husband insisted I make that trip. Only I knew how much burden she took off my shoulders. Yet she never rubbed it in my face for one day. What mattered to her is that a child was hungry and had to be fed.’’  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com