Vitafoam Nigeria Plc has assured Nigerians of continued support for healthy growth of children as a foundation for purposeful adulthood. The firm’s Executive Director, Corporate Services, Mr Sola Owoade, said this in a statement on Monday. He was quoted to have spoken at the award ceremony for the first three babies of the year at the Lagos Mainland Maternity Hospital on Saturday. Owoade explained that it had been the tradition of Vitafoam to support babies with some of its premium products. According to him, at the core of the firm’s Corporate Social Responsibility, is the policy of giving back to society at various levels. Owoade said the firm’s existence was dependent on society and it, therefore, had a responsibility to sustain its culture of quality products, including baby materials. “In line with our annual tradition of putting smiles on the faces of parents of the first three babies, the firm donated products, including babycot, hospital mattresses, memory topper, complete duvet set, leisure mat, sofa bed and memory and fibre pillows respectively. “As a good corporate citizen, Vitafoam Nigeria Plc, instituted an annual award for the first three babies of the year at Lagos Island Maternity Hospital over many decades. This is consistent with our Corporate Social Responsibility. “Vitafoam’s goal is to continually put smiles on the faces of every Nigerian. We always celebrate the first three babies of the year with our products. We congratulate the parents of this year’s beneficiaries. We believe that good facilities are necessary in our hospitals for enhanced child delivery. We appreciate the government’s efforts in this regard but corporate organisations also have a responsibility to support the government,” Owoade said. According to the statement, the first baby of the year was delivered at exactly 12.10 am; the second baby, 12.50 am and the third, 1.30 am. The Hospital’s Chief Medical Director, Dr Omololu Olufemi, commended Vitafoam’s continuous corporate gesture. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com