Experts have said high default rate by tenants and the complexities of the real estate industry may hamper the success of the Lagos State Government’s proposed monthly rent scheme. Already, the Lagos State Government had announced that the scheme would begin this year with several arrangements already put in place. But real estate players and experts, who spoke with our correspondent in separate interviews, said the state and structure of the Nigerian economy, among other factors, might make it difficult for the scheme to achieve success in the long run. The President, Mutual Estate Agents Association of Lagos, Nigeria, Mr Lucas Akinbode, said the monthly rent scheme had failed to address certain problems affecting the housing sector in the country. He said, “Let us examine the modalities. Is it possible for the government to enlist the downtrodden who are struggling to feed themselves? There are a lot of projects the government can invest in, apart from all these tenancy and landlord issues. There was a meeting we had about two years ago. Then, the government made a proposal that it was going to work on low-income earners. By the time the government did the estimation, a mini flat was going for about N6m. So, when will the low-income earner who earns N30,000 a month complete the payment?” Also, a Lagos State-based property lawyer, Mr. Michael Ekpeyong, said the scheme could work in the long run but noted that “initial bottlenecks” might pose some challenges. He said, “I believe we will adapt to it, but it is going to throw up a lot of problems and the major problem is that as simple as it looks for tenants, it is very difficult to stick to that monthly payment. The default rate may likely increase. As it is on annual tenancy, the default rate may be high due to the economic atmosphere in the country, people losing jobs, businesses going down, and the COVID-19 episodes which have been very chaotic in the last few years. “Perhaps when the system adjusts to it, it may work, but it’s going to cause a large pool of people to cash into the tenancy market. So the rate of default is going to increase, by and large.” The legal practitioner also criticised what he viewed as faulty attempts by the federal and state governments to address the problem of affordable housing in the country. Ekpeyong said, “The federal and state governments have consistently made the provision of affordable housing a mirage. They keep trying to build houses and sell at exorbitant rates. It’s not the business of the government to do that. Government has enough land to provide to private developers.” “They should partner the private sector, instead of intervening the way they have been doing. Let them make single-digit loans available to real estate developers and then provide lands.” Also, a Lagos State-based real estate expert, Mr. Alfred Olayiwola, said the complexity of the real estate market might make it difficult for the scheme to work. He said, “It is easy to make policies, but to execute it is another hard task, and I don’t think the government is prepared for such a task. The complexity of the real estate market in Lagos is a major issue. “The first step in regularising rent payment is to harmonise the practitioners. The key stakeholders in the industry have to be harmonised. The local agents and the professionals must be put in their places.” However, Lagos State Commissioner for Information, Mr Gbenga Omotosho, in an interview with The PUNCH, said all the necessary arrangements had been perfected to ensure the success of the scheme. He noted that although the scheme would not be available for all classes of Lagosians, those who fall within the threshold of the requirements to enroll in the scheme would no longer have to face the daunting task of having to pay a yearly rent. Omotosho said, “The Office of the SA on Housing, Mrs Toke Benson, is handling it and the process is very simple. It is for tenants and landlords to have a harmonious relationship, so that if you are coming into Lagos to get accommodation, you don’t have to pay through your nose by looking for a year’s rent and all that. So what the government is going to do is to put down a lump sum of money. From this money, anybody who enrolls in the programme can get his landlord paid yearly while he himself can continue to pay monthly.” “Some people have a regular source of income. It’s going to be like a revolving fund. So it’s very simple and the idea is to make everything easy for people.” “If get a house that is bigger than what you can pay for because you know that government is going to pay the yearly rent, it won’t work. It has to be the kind of accommodation that can match your income.” “You know it’s not everybody in the society that even have the money to rent an accommodation in the first place. The gap is so wide, and the government is trying everything possible to bridge the gap through Lagos Homes and collaborations with the private sector. There is no way you can accommodate every person but the government will try to do everything to ensure that our citizens, as many as they may be, are comfortably accommodated. That is why we are doing this kind of programme, so that anybody who cannot pay the yearly rent but is sure of being able to pay the monthly rent can participate in this. So far we have commissioned eleven housing projects, and more are on the way.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com