The incoming governor of Anambra State, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, has vowed to terminate all revenue collection contracts in the state as soon as he is sworn-in into office on March 17, 2022. Soludo, who frowned on the many leakages in revenue collection in the state, said he would use the Executive Order to end theft of the state’s resources by revenue collectors. The governor-elect spoke during an interaction with critical stakeholders in the state at Agulu, Anaocha Local Government Area on Saturday. He berated the poor internally generated revenue system, saying that it had led to the state recording dwindling economic fortunes. He accused those at the helm of affairs at the state revenue board of giving revenue contracts to their friends and cronies. He said, “We learnt that revenue windows are already being distributed. Are the revenue people here? Yes, I am aware you people are sharing windows. “But, when you are sharing the windows, please be telling the people you are giving them that their contracts stop on March 16. Anyone you are giving a window to, tell them it will end on March 16. Yes, whoever you are giving, endeavour to tell them, because on the morning of March 17, I will sign an executive order cancelling all of them.” The former Central Bank of Nigeria governor also revealed that there were people, who had for long been living off state funds, adding that such people were the first to indict the government for not building infrastructure. He said he was coming into Anambra State to correct a lot of ills, adding that if the people were not ready to make things work, he would be happy to dust off his feet and join the bandwagon of those who wanted to go on exile abroad. He stated, “There are people who are used to this revenue theft…that is what they do; that is what they thrive on, and they have made their whole living off the state. “But they will be the first to tell the government to build roads and blame the government for all the potholes on our roads, but the little that should accrue to the government; they collect it and put it in their pockets. “It cannot work; we have to decide if we want this to continue. If the decision is that we should continue with such illegal practice, we will quietly dust ourselves off and join those who want to go on exile. “But I am sure we want things to work. For the sake and benefits of our children and children’s children, every kobo of the state’s fund must go into state coffers and be made to work for the people, and there is no question about it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com