The Indigenous People of Biafra has said that it would soon showcase the achievements it has recorded so far in the freedom struggle. In a statement on Wednesday, the Media and Publicity Secretary of the group, Mr Emma Powerful, said the struggle would continue unless its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, is released unconditionally by the Federal Government. The group assured its followers that the struggle this year would record more tremendous successes more than the previous years. The statement read in part, “The leadership of IPOB had given the order for all IPOB members across the world to activate the protest to show our anger towards the illegal abduction and extraordinary rendition of our leader, MNK from Kenya to Nigeria. “To this end, we want to inform all Biafrans to get ready to solidarize with our leader as usual, in his next court appearance scheduled for January 18, 19 and 20. “It is on record that the Kenya Government has openly confessed that kidnapping and extra-rendition of our leader were unlawful and we must leverage on that confession and protest his abduction and rendition by the Nigerian government in collaboration with her allies. “Fulani cows are banned in Biafraland starting from April 2022. Those in the animal husbandry business must switch over to our native cow without delay.” The statement also warned traitors of the “freedom movement” to stay off its territory, saying it won’t be easy for them because 2022 will be hunt down year for them. “Again, concerning stopping the Nigeria national anthem in our schools, we want every school to start reading Biafra national anthem. Soon every school is going to receive a copy of the Biafra national anthem. “We want to declare that the Nigerian government and its security agencies will have no peace of mind unless they release our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU unconditionally because our God will torment them. Kanu is on a divine project and nobody will hold him and have peace of mind. “We are the global movement and family ably led by our prophet and indefatigable liberator MNK. We wish to commend Biafrans, friends of Biafra and lovers of Biafra freedom for their resilience and efforts towards the actualisation of Biafra independence,” it added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com