The political economy is the last in the series of ‘Let’s talk about it’ and it is as important as any of the earlier ones, or the ones that I have called attention to, in the last two weeks. Of course, there are many more. There is the issue of debt and the debt trap; the issue of poverty and affluence; the fuel subsidy and citizens’ hardship; the use of security and insecurity, whose modus operandi cannot be discussed in the open, and many urgent and not-so-urgent issues that require attention and discussion. However, solving the problems of these three can dampen the intensity of these other problems. For ease of comprehension, political economy simply explains the interaction between politics and economics without neglecting the social aspects. Within this context, I tried to look at the political structure, fiscal federalism and socioeconomic/political relationships. Each of them is conceptually wide but we can present them in a narrow formulation and discuss them in the widest form. There have been arguments on the kind of structure for the National Assembly and we need to talk about it. Do we really need the Senate and House of Representatives or just one like in the states? If we do need two, is the number of representatives in each of the two houses not too many? In this case, existing criteria would have to be revisited and reworked by an independent body set up by the executive arm of government, taking submissions from the public.  Another talking point here is that should the NASS fix its salaries and allowances or allow the appropriate national body like the National Salaries, Incomes and Wage Commission to do so for fair play? As an extension, should the legislative work be based on full-time or part-time? Do we need local government as a tier of government, and if we do as I believe, how can we make them functional structurally and economically? Finding solutions to these questions should not be based on the current precarious financial situation in the country but laying a solid foundation for the present and future of the country. Concern on fiscal federalism has remained a knotty talking point for many years, particularly after state governance structure substituted regional structure and the military unitary mode of governance became well entrenched. But we have run a democracy, or a semblance of it, for over 20 years for the first time in the history of Nigeria and the time to start dismantling centralised governance structure is now. The NASS, which represents the hub of democracy and should champion discussions on this matter, seems uninterested in decentralisation or the devolution of power. Every state has natural endowment or natural resources that can be exploited to contribute to national or federation accounts but many states have become so lazy that they wait on largesse from the federation account for expenditure, yet every year they engage in deficit budgeting. Is it really laziness or are they waiting for some states to finish exploiting their resources before they start exploiting theirs and probably change the rules? Or are they encouraging illegal activities in the exploitation of their resources with the resultant personal aggrandisement? We have heard of illegal mining in some states. The Federal Government also needs to generate its own fund without depending on rent-seeking sources like oil or borrowing. This country used to be part of the creditors of the International Monetary Fund by virtue of its financial standing that made it possible for the Fund to give loans to other countries. This country has the Nigerian Trust Fund, managed by the African Development Bank, as a source of loan for less developed countries. In the recent past, this country has a sovereign wealth fund of over $20 billion aside from a foreign reserve of about $60 billion which, if well invested, should be earning the country some respectable incomes. The federal and state governments in the present circumstances are about spending not generating money. Only Lagos State can stand on its own because it has done so in the past through creativity and resilience. We have to talk about strong or weak centre and revenue generation. The present laws on fiscal federalism encourage laziness and manipulation thus requiring fundamental changes. Let us talk about what we want since the legislature that is supposed to do so is concerned about other things. The issues of socioeconomic and political relations, in broad terms, have been touched on in the foregoing but some specifics are still imperative here. For some time, we have heard that Nigeria is divided into six zones. What is the economic relationship between and among members of each zone? They can have economic relationships on the basis of comparative advantage with each state specialising in the production of what it can produce cheaply and services it can render expertly. This will form the basis for the exchange of goods and services between — and among — them. It does not, however, preclude a state in one zone from having an economic relationship with a state in another zone but the benefit of contiguity in interactions is easier in zones. Just as Amotekun is gaining relevance as a security force in many parts of the South-West, the same can happen in the economic sphere if well planned and agreed upon. For the South-West, the economic structure is already in existence, the Odu’a Group, but may need empowerment by the owners. A regional economic plan, developed by a coalition of universities in the zone should be a way forward but let us talk about it. As part of the socio-economic and political relations is the need to look at the issue of state police and federal character after 60 years of flag independence. We have to start asking questions about the rationale for a state governor to await directives from Abuja to ask the police to take some urgent actions. For pure military organisations like the army, navy and air force, we can understand the need for a unitary system because their activities are not everyday affairs. They are supposed to have little interaction with civil society but the case of the police is different. The need for a policeman or woman to understand the terrain of the areas of operation and the language of communication is of essential importance. The time lag of response for policing is immediate in most cases. Because the volume of work and cost of living is different in different states, police in one state can earn a higher salary than those in another state and be more productive. So, what does the Federal Government gain in holding on to centralised policing, paying the same salary to a policeman in Lagos and Ondo states or Kano and Kebbi, Anambra and Enugu or River states and Bayelsa? Allowing states to take care of policing will also relieve the Federal Government of the burden of cost of policing, including salaries and wages. Finally, there is the need to talk about federal character after decades of independence. I think the issue was introduced on the grounds that some areas in the country were lagging behind in development, particularly with respect to education. That cannot be said to exist now. If any part is still underdeveloped today, it is because that area is part of Nigeria. Nigeria, herself, remains underdeveloped. If we are to look at the nominal roll of Federal Government establishments where the federal character is supposed to be operative, it will be clear that some sections of the country over-dominate in all the establishments to the detriment of others in the name of federal character. Is there any state that is unable to present candidates for ministerial positions whenever a president is putting together his team? We should now be looking at qualifications, experience, commitment and factors that enhance productivity rather than federal character, which promotes nepotism, inefficiency and divisive relationships. What is the modus operandi for our discussion on these issues? It is the same open system using Zoom or Microsoft class for global discussion by Nigerians at home and in the diaspora. The discussion can be coordinated and moderated by private media outfits, organisations or NGOs with multidisciplinary objectives. Again, non-Nigerians will not come to solve our problems. It, therefore, behoves us to talk to ourselves on how to get out of the log jam of underdevelopment by tackling headlong the issues raised so far. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com