The presidential candidate of the Mass Action Joint Alliance in the 2019 general elections, Prof Funmilayo Adesanya-Davies, has called for “a strong” electoral reform that will give Nigerians a President based on intelligence and ability. Adesanya-Davies, who spoke with Sunday PUNCH in a telephone interview, said electoral reform should come before the 2023 elections, adding that it was impossible for the country to do things the same way and expect a different result. She also recommended the implementation of the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference, noting that for Nigeria to move forward, power must be decentralised to the six geo-political zones. She explained that an urgent electoral reform was imperative to put an end to a situation where non-Nigerians at the country’s borders and underage were allowed to vote. Adesanya-Davies said, “We need strong electoral reform before the 2023 elections. We also need the implementation of the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference. “This will enable us to replace the government that is there now with the right government. We cannot be doing the same thing and think we will get a different result.  If the team that will come in 2023 is by electoral process, then electoral reform is necessary. “No matter whom we bring for this next election, as long as there are non-Nigerians at the borders and small children that will queue and overrun our votes from the South, we can’t fix it.” She, however, recommended an Electoral College system whereby a select few based on their intelligence would elect the President of the country. She added, “We need the right people to go and cast their votes; we need indirect voting. Yakubu Gowon, Olusegun Obasanjo, Goodluck Jonathan, former presidential aspirants, Prof Wole Soyinka and all the university vice-chancellors should just gather and do the selection for us. “In the extreme, I believe in regionalisation. Decentralise us into six and put the power there even before the coming elections. Go back to the 2014 national confab before the elections and then put a less powerful person in Abuja, where they are stealing money, while we concentrate powers in the geo-political zones. It is difficult to hear my voice and that is why I want to be in Aso Rock.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com