A former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has been suspended by the Emir of Bauchi, Alhaji Rilwanu Adamu, as Jakadan Bauchi. The suspension was in connection with attacks on the convoys of the Emirs of Bauchi and Dass Alhaji Rilwanu Sulaimanu Adamu and Alhaji Biliyaminu Othman respectively on December 31, 2021, by hoodlums on their way to Mwari for the 21st anniversary of a late leader and crusader, Peter Gonto. The event caused a sharp division among the Sayawa people with several groups coming out to support the event while others on the other hand, including Dogara, kicked against the event – citing security concerns. Dogara, then, wrote a letter to the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, informing him of security threats if the event is allowed to hold. But despite the warning, the Bauchi State Commissioner of Police, Umar Sanda, gave approval for the event to hold just as he ordered the full deployment of Police tactical teams to provide security for lives and properties before, during and after the memorial anniversary and book launch of the grandfather of Dogara’s wife. The attacks on the first-class monarchs was widely condemned in the state with many accusing Dogara of allegedly having a hand in it. The Bauchi State Government also instituted a case against Dogara and 28 others on January 4, 2022, slamming 11 charges against them. The Emir of Bauchi while speaking to journalists at a press conference in his palace in Bauchi on Monday, said the suspension is with immediate effect, pending the determination of a case on the matter which indicted Dogara on the attack by court. He explained that Dogara, who hails from Bogoro and a traditional title holder is suspected to be one of those behind the attacks on the Emirs of Bauchi and Dass. Adamu who was represented by the Galadiman Bauchi, Sa’idu Jahun, said, “At the recent Council meeting, we reviewed the case again and expressed our dismay one of the sons of the area, a stakeholder and our traditional title holder who was mentioned as one misleading the people and perpetrating the incident. “More surprisingly, he did not sympathise nor showed any sign of remorse towards what happened to their Royal Highnesses, the Emirs of Bauchi and Dass. “The Emirate Council therefore decided to suspend his title of Jakadan Bauchi until the determination of the case by the court.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com