Editor’s Note: The opinions shared in this post are not financial advice. We recommend that you do your research before investing in any cryptocurrency. 7 of the Best Coins to Buy in 2022 Ethereum (ETH) Year-to-date performance: 456% Solana (SOL) Year-to-date performance: 10,740% Bitcoin (BTC) Year-to-date performance: 76.3% Chainlink (LINK) Year-to-date performance: 80.2% XRP (XRP) Year-to-date performance: 334.6% Binance Coin (BNB) Year-to-date performance: 1,332.9% Dogecoin (DOGE) Year-to-date performance: 4,050% It’s the end of 2021, people! Everyone’s winding down the year and taking it easy, and we’re all enjoying time with our friends and family as we kiss 2021 goodbye. But, at the end of every year, we all ask the same question – “How do I get my money right next year?” While 2021 was a big year for crypto, all signs point to 2022 being an even bigger one. As a crypto investor, it’s important that you get your money right in 2022. We’ve come up with a list of some of the coins we think are ripe for big booms in the coming year. Year-to-date performance: 456% Ethereum is the second-largest cryptocurrency in the world – only behind Bitcoin. It has held that position for years, and we don’t think any coin will come even close to topping it. 2021 was a really good year for ETH. The coin gained 456% this year alone, making it one of the best-performing large coins. We believe that more investors will keep buying in 2022 as crypto becomes more popular. We’re also big on Ethereum because of the blockchain. The Ethereum blockchain is still the most popular, and it is in the middle of a huge upgrade – called Ethereum 2.0. Here are some things to know about Ethereum 2.0: Ethereum is listed on a couple of Nigeria-focused cryptocurrency exchanges — including Quidax — where you can buy with the Nigerian Naira, stablecoins, and other cryptocurrencies. Year-to-date performance: 10,740% Solana is another coin we’re very hyped about. It has gained 10.740% this year alone, and it looks like the coin is just getting started. If there’s any blockchain that might challenge Ethereum’s crown, it’s the Solana blockchain. If not for anything else, that’s enough of a reason to be big on Solana. It has become incredibly popular this year, and more people are building on it as they have issues with the Ethereum blockchain. Solana has become the most popular among the “Ethereum killers.” These are basically blockchains that have tried to steal Etheruem’s crown and attract developers to build apps on them. Whether or not the Ethereum 2.0 upgrade succeeds, we’re pretty sure that Solana’s users will continue to grow. Year-to-date performance: 76.3% It might sound like a cliche, but Bitcoin is still one of the best cryptocurrencies to buy. It remains the most valuable, and its position isn’t under any threat from any of the other coins. There are a lot of reasons to buy Bitcoin right now. It was able to stand firm all year, even after the different market downturns. If anything, this shows that Bitcoin isn’t here to play around. Going into 2022, there’s a lot to be happy about. There are hopes that countries like the United States will finally regulate Bitcoin. This will make it even more legitimate and encourage more people to buy and invest in it. Even without regulation, some of the biggest companies in the world have invested in Bitcoin. These include Tesla, Block (formerly Square), and MicroStrategy. Several big names have also invested in Bitcoin. These include: We expect more big names to invest in Bitcoin in 2022. Also, we expect more countries to legalize Bitcoin. El Salvador made a big splash this year when it made Bitcoin legal tender, and there have been talks that several other countries could do the same. For now, fingers crossed. If you would like to know where to buy bitcoin in Nigeria, top cryptocurrency exchanges in Nigeria like Quidax are your best bet. You can easily access bitcoin using Naira or USDT. Year-to-date performance: 80.2% Unlike Ethereum and Solana, Chainlink doesn’t operate a blockchain. Instead, it is a data oracle. For blockchains to work properly, they need to gain access to different types of data. However, some of this data isn’t available on the blockchains themselves. This is where oracles come in. Oracles are tools that help to connect these blockchains to external sources of data. By doing this, they ensure that blockchains can work effectively. Chainlink is the most popular blockchain oracle on the market. App developers need it to ensure that their apps work well, so Chainlink plays a vital role in the blockchain and crypto market. We anticipate that more people and companies will use blockchains in 2022. If that happens, the adoption of Chainlink – and its LINK tokens – will skyrocket as well. So, the future is definitely bright for this coin. Year-to-date performance: 334.6% There was a time when XRP used to be the third most valuable coin in the market. It has since dropped, but XRP is still an important player in crypto. Part of why XRP dropped so much is that its developer – Ripple Labs – was sued by regulators in the United States for fraud. The lawsuit began in December last year, and both parties have been fighting it out in the courts all through 2021. But, many in the industry believe that things are looking up for XRP. Ripple Labs is confident that it can end the SEC case by 2022, and this will be a huge boost for XRP. Even with the lawsuit, XRP has managed to deliver 346% in returns throughout the year. If Ripple Labs manages to win this suit, we expect XRP to get to the moon. Year-to-date performance: 1,332.9% BNB is the native token for Binance – the world’s largest crypto exchange. Binance users can get the coin and enjoy benefits like discounts on trading fees, quick transactions, trading, and more. We’re picking BNB primarily because of its ties to Binance. As the world’s largest crypto exchange, Binance holds a huge position in the crypto market. As the exchange continues to grow, BNB has seen big gains too. Case and point: BNB has delivered 1,332% in gains this year alone. There have even been talks that Binance could go public in the next year or two. The company’s biggest rival, Coinbase, went public back in April and has been largely successful so far. If Binance does the same thing, just imagine how high BNB could go! Year-to-date performance: 4,050% Dogecoin is the world’s biggest meme coin. Our favorite meme coin was able to deliver amazing returns this year, thanks in part to its massive online community. All through 2021, different celebrities – including Miley Cyrus, Snoop Dogg, and even Elon Musk – were able to use their influence to boost DOGE’s price. For 2022, we expect that DOGE will go in a more serious direction. It has survived off vibes so far, and that’s fine. But, if it is to really grow in value, DOGE will need to have a specific use case. Interestingly, Elon Musk has been talking a lot about DOGE recently. He claimed that DOGE is better for making payments than Bitcoin, and he even said that Tesla will soon start accepting DOGE for merch payments. We believe that there will be more use cases for DOGE in 2022. This way, DOGE’s adoption will increase even more – and so will its price. If you would like to get your hands on any of these coins, crypto exchanges are the best bet for you. Exchanges like Quidax offer a great way to buy crypto in Nigeria. You get to enjoy benefits like quick transactions, low fees, and proper customer service. Quidax and other Nigeria-focused crypto exchanges allow you to buy crypto using different methods. You can buy with Naira, the USDT stablecoin, and even the dollar. Whatever options you choose, there’s an exchange for you!