The emeritus Archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja, John Cardinal Onaiyekan, has called for a new concept of political power, saying the system currently in practice is fraught with various misdemeanours. According to him, the current system will only continue to produce career politicians, who see politics as a business, adding that such people were interested in enriching themselves after getting to power. Onaiyekan, who spoke at the annual lecture of the National Missionary Seminary of St Paul in Abuja, on Saturday, added that the new concept of politics would allow Nigerians to pay attention to how political leaders emerge in the country. He said, “We need a new concept of political power as service for the common good as we approach the next elections. “The system we see around us now is riddled with corruption and Godfatherism, which can only produce career politicians, for whom political office is a matter of business and investment to be recouped in office. “Accountability must replace gross impunity, care for the nation, not looting it for selfish gains. We should pay special attention to how political leaders emerge, which a new concept will help us achieve. “We should also work towards finally having truly free and fair elections with just and impartial referees in INEC. This calls for a drastic review of the present electoral law.” He also advised that political positions should be made less attractive to give people with genuine intentions a chance. Onaiyekan said, “There is also a need to realign the remuneration of political office holders in line with the salary system under which the normal citizens live. “These political positions, whether elected or appointed, should not be made so attractive for looters, but for those who want to serve their nation with their time, talent and even treasures.” He also called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to ensure that the spate of insecurity in the country was curtailed before leaving office. “There is no reason for the spate of insecurity to continue like this till 2023. There is no reason the nation should not be able to finally settle this problem before 2022 is over,” the cleric added. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com