A Delta State-based cleric, Prophet Jay Jay Enejeta, who was abducted last Thursday by yet-to-be-identified gunmen has regained his freedom from the kidnappers’ den. Prophet Enejeta, who is the General Overseer of Faith Fasting and Prayer Ministry in Abraka, Ethiope East Local Government Area, was released on Saturday evening at Samagidi community, according to security sources. The sources hinted, however, that an exchange of gunfire ensued between the kidnappers, said to be Fulani herdsmen, and the hunters. PUNCH Metro gathered that the kidnappers released Prophet Enejeta after receiving a sum of N10 million as ransom. The kidnappers had reportedly demanded N20 million initially but had to succumb after persistent haggling from security operatives and the combined team of vigilante, hunters and members of the Anti-cult group, who pressurised the criminals to accept the N10 million, which was hurriedly mobilised by the clergyman’s family and associates. It will be recalled that Prophet Enejeta was kidnapped last Thursday night while returning home after a church programme, but the kidnappers killed his wife, Pastor Ruth Enejeta, amidst the sporadic shooting at their Lexus jeep during the kidnap operation. The wife was hit by bullets on the head and neck which made her survival impossible. Meanwhile, Prophet Enejeta has been hospitalised at an undisclosed hospital in Eku where he is presently recuperating. Some members of his church, who spoke with journalists after his freedom, were full of praises to God for sparing the life of their spiritual leader, despite being hit by a bullet on his hand. When contacted, the police public relations officer for Delta State Command, DSP Bright Edafe, confirmed the prophet’s release from the kidnappers’ den. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com