Buckingham Palace has unveiled the full programme of events to celebrate the British queen’s platinum jubilee, marking 70 years on the throne. The celebrations will include the 95-year-old monarch opening her private estates to the public and some of the world’s biggest stars performing outside Buckingham Palace in London. It was not clear which events Queen Elizabeth II would attend or take part in as she was ordered to rest by doctors in October last year, following an overnight hospital stay for unspecified preliminary investigations. The bulk of the jubilee duties was thought to likely be given to the rest of the royal family, including Prince William and his wife Kate, the Duchess of Cornwall. The Queen usually spent the anniversary of her accession privately at Sandringham. Official jubilee celebrations would begin on Monday when Fortnum & Mason launches the Platinum Pudding Competition to find a dish to dedicate to the queen’s reign. Recipes would be judged by an expert panel including “Great British Bake Off” star Mary Berry. It was hoped that it would serve as a long-lasting reminder, alongside the queen’s Green Canopy initiative, which would continue to plant new trees to present to her at the end of the year. From May 12 to 15, more than 500 horses and 1,000 performers were expected to take part in a show on the grounds of Windsor Castle, which would take the audience through history from Elizabeth I to the present day. More ceremonies are to take place later in the year, starting on Thursday, June 2, the first day of the special four-day bank holiday, when the queen’s birthday parade, known as “Trooping the Colour,’’ would take place in Horse Guards Parade. On the same day, the UK, Channel Islands, Isle of Man and UK Overseas Territories would come together to light a beacon at the same time as the principal beacon at Buckingham Palace. On Friday, June 3, a service of thanksgiving for the queen’s reign would be held at St Paul’s Cathedral, before the star-studded Platinum Party at The Palace on Saturday, June 4. Performers have yet to be named but it was being billed as bringing together some of the world’s biggest names in entertainment. People across the country would sit down together for the Big Jubilee Lunch on Sunday, June 5, the final day of the bank holiday break. Sandringham and Balmoral would also be open for residents and visitors to enjoy the celebrations across the long weekend. Performers, dancers, musicians, military personnel, key workers and volunteers will tell the story of the queen’s reign in the Platinum Jubilee Pageant, which will see a River of Hope, made up of 200 silk flags make its way along the Mall. Schoolchildren across the country have been invited to create a picture of their hopes for the planet over the next 70 years, and some of their designs would be put onto the flags. From July, three displays marking the queen’s accession to the throne, the Coronation and jubilees would be put on at the official royal residences. (dpa/NAN)