The Office of the National Security Adviser has debunked reports circulating the social media about the appointment of a new Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency. This is according to a statement signed on Friday by the Head, Strategic Communications, Office of the National Security Adviser, Zakari Usman, titled, ‘Appointment of NIA DG, exclusive prerogative of the President and Commander-in-Chief’. According to Usman, “the attention of the Office of the National Security Adviser has been drawn to recent reports in the social media credited to some unnamed former directors of the National Intelligence Agency over the appointment of the Agency’s Director-General. “To set the record straight, by the provisions of the Instrument establishing the Agency under the National Security Agencies Act 1986 ( Cap 278 LFN), the appointment and tenure of the Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency is the exclusive prerogative of the President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. “The appointment of the Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency was made in full compliance with the relevant law.” The NSA spokesperson explained that the intelligence community is pleased with the Director-General, Ahmed Abubakar, since his appointment. He added that the National Security Adviser is equally satisfied with the level of consultations between his office and the DirectorGeneral in achieving the functions of the National Intelligence Agency, “contrary to these false claims, Abubakar never failed a promotion exam and has consistently been an outstanding officer.” Usman said the reported speculation by the unnamed former directors that the National Security Adviser had told the National Assembly that he was unaware of the Director General’s appointment in 2018 is false. He noted that a Federal High Court presided over by Justice Okon Abang has already dismissed a suit challenging the appointment of the Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency. The spokesperson cautioned the general public and all security and intelligence stakeholders to disregard the “unfortunate falsehood being peddled by these shadowy groups.” He, therefore, warned groups and individuals who use pseudonyms to issue false claims against violating the secrecy upon which the Intelligence Community functions; saying the appropriate action is being taken to unmask them and bring them to justice. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com