The Taraba State Government, on Sunday, described as false allegation of marginalisation levelled against Governor Darius Ishaku by the Muslim Council in the state. While lamenting the action of the council, the government described the allegation as a blatant attempt to cause religious and political tension in the state. Addressing a press conference in Jalingo, the Commissioner for Information and Re-Orientation, Danjuma Adamu, said the action of the council amounted to giving the public false information that the governor did not like Muslims, thereby causing religious tension. Adamu stated, “The Taraba State Government views the move as a deliberate attempt to disrupt the relative peace being enjoyed in the state, particularly the mutual respect among the adherents of the two dominant religions. “The Muslim Council of Taraba State has free access to the governor. Just last December, the leadership of the council was in Takum, where their Chairman, Grand Khadi Abdulmunin, praised the governor for being fair to Muslims and Christians in the state. “If they had issues with the governor, what stops them from raising the issues there? It is, therefore, surprising that the council would choose to embarrass the governor by calling a press conference instead of seeking an audience with him to discuss the issues. “The allegation of marginalisation of Muslims in Taraba State is false, unfounded and an attempt to distract the administration and cause religious and political tension in the state, especially now that political activities are beginning to pick up. “The Ishaku administration totally rejects this unpatriotic attempt and insists that at no time did the government exhibit bias against any group in the state, whether ethnic or religious, in appointments and in the provision of amenities. “The government at all times follows very strictly, constitutional provisions and all other existing statutory guidelines in appointments to key positions in government.” Our correspondent reports that the Muslim Council had on Friday during a press conference accused Ishaku of marginalising the Muslims in the state, especially in the appointment into key positions. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com