The US African Development Foundation and All On have announced that 13 wholly Nigerian-owned enterprises that emerged winners of the 2021 Nigeria Off-Grid Energy Challenge will be awarded a total of $100,000. The annual challenge is a multi-year partnership between the USADF and All On to identify and scale innovative off-grid solutions for unserved and underserved areas in Nigeria, according to a statement on Friday. The winners of the fourth edition of the Challenge are A1 Power Technologies, Alabaster Agro-Allied Industries, Bols N Sels Technologies, CeeSolar Energy, Elvees Engineering, Enercity Smart Grid, First Electric, GreenPower Overseas, Manamuz Electric, Novel Integrated Services, PowerStove Off-Grid Electricity, Sendavis Nigeria Limited, and Uwana Energy. The statement said all 13 enterprises would be awarded $50,000 in convertible debt from All On, $25,000 in grant capital from the USADF, and $25,000 in grant capital from All On via its support from the Rockefeller Foundation through the All On Hub. It added that the winners would receive technical assistance from the USADF and the All On Hub and governance support from All On. The President and Chief Executive Officer, USADF, Travis Adkins, said, “Congratulations to all the winners who have entered a unique club of innovative Nigerian enterprises that have come through this challenge to make impactful contributions in the Nigerian renewable energy sector and Nigerian communities. “We extended the Off-Grid Energy Challenge partnership till December 2022 and are happy to see that this cohort has the largest number of winners since the program was initiated and a tremendous opportunity to benefit an estimated 16,000 people, including 4,000 smallholder farmers, through clean energy.” According to the statement, the challenge is delivered through a five-year partnership between USADF, a founding member of the US-led Power Africa Initiative and an independent US Government agency established by Congress to support and invest in African-owned and led enterprises, and All On, a Nigerian impact investing company seeded by Shell that invests in off-grid energy solution providers in Nigeria. “We remain extremely encouraged that the Challenge is still able to fund another cohort of strong winners in spite of a continued challenging Covid environment,” said Wiebe Boer, CEO, All On. “These emerging indigenous companies have proven that they have what it takes to succeed, and we are confident that their innovations will contribute to solutions that will ultimately improve livelihoods and local economies in Nigeria,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com