Some weeks ago, a reader who is a cancer survivor sent me a link. When I clicked on it, I noticed it contained the story of a woman with outstanding academic prowess. The urge to look for her became so strong for two reasons: I keep getting text messages from people who have cancer and fortunately, her interest is in herbal medicine for the treatment of cancer. I was lucky to find her. She emerged the best graduating pharmacy student in 2016 with a 6.6 CGPA out of a possible 7.0. She took the feat to an even greater level when in 2021, she was announced as the overall best graduating master’s student at the University of Ibadan — this time, with a perfect CGPA of 7.0 out of 7.0. Her name is Olabimpe Olayinka. She studied Pharmacy to satisfy her love for natural products and drug discovery. She is interested in drug research aimed at discovering safer, affordable and more tolerable alternatives from herbs for the treatment of cancer. When I asked her how she feels the acceptance will be in the medical world, she said, “l am like the proverbial man married to two wives. The two wives are orthodox and herbal medicine. They both care about the patient’s health and wellbeing but except they both find a common ground, they may end up confusing patients instead of helping to save more lives.” “Now that more healthcare professionals are interested in the potential of herbs and other natural products for treatment, there will be room for the incorporation of science and technology which bring about innovations in the health sector.’’ Before I go into what I have for this week, let me quickly address something. I am aware that a particular garden egg leaves recipe for the kidneys has gone viral. As of today, I do not know of any scientific studies backing such a claim. However, I have discussed two plants before and I cited scientific studies for their uses for kidney health. The plants are Ocimum gratissimum (Efinrin) and Artocarpus altilis (Gbere). If you have not forgotten, Artocarpus altilis is the breadfruit of Ile-Ife, Osun State. You may need to refer to the articles on these two plants to check out the scientific studies. Diabetes, high blood pressure, smoking and obesity are some of the risk factors of kidney disease. These factors should be looked into to guide against having kidney diseases. Also, I would like to say that you need to be sure of the herbs you ingest. On this platform, we are all used to the way nature keeps springing surprises. After the article on Sida acuta was published while on medicinal plants series, Dr Obafemi Jegede, a lecturer at the institute of African Studies, University of Ibadan, Oyo State, sent me some voice notes about the plant. He spoke so glowingly about it. He explained to me how he uses it and he even went to the extent of telling me the ifa mythology about it. Each time I listen to it, I get goose bumps. It is not that I have not seen plants with outstanding phytochemicals like this plant before, all he said about it gave me that feeling because we all see it as “ordinary weed.” Apart from Sida acuta, I am sure you remember that I discussed Laportea aestuans (Ofiya) and we were shocked too because it is a weed but when squeezed in water and the juice is given to a woman in labour, it hastens labour. While I was on the chewing sticks of our land series, I talked about all the outstanding benefits of Glyphaea brevis (Atori) which is synonymous with corporal punishment; in fact, it is the cane used by masqueraders to flog people. These are the driving forces for this new series. The task is to let you know that the plant parts you throw away unknowingly are rich in phytochemicals. You will never see me peel my ginger and turmeric. I do not throw away any part of my pineapple fruit too. I spoke with Mr Matthew Oluwaniyi, the Principal Technologist /Laboratory Coordinator, Department of Pharmacognosy, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife and he had this to say, “Well, for me, because of my background knowledge and experience in phytochemical analysis and phytonutrients applications, I know the rind, skin and seeds of watermelon are amazing nutrient powerhouse, so, I am used to eating my watermelon whole in a smoothie form. Nothing is wasted.” The Head of Herbarium and Medicinal Plant Gardens, Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Mr Ife Ogunlowo, has a lot to say on this. He said a medicinal plant scientist is much aware of different amounts of phyto-constituents present in different plant parts which may be found in the barks e.g quinine, bulbs in garlic and onions, essential oils from peppermints, flowers from clove, maize stigma or pollen, fruits from fennel, seeds from alligator pepper, gums from cashew, leaf from different plants, resins from frankincense and myrrh, roots from ginseng, rhizome from ginger, tuber from potatoes and wood from camwood. He said there are many plant parts people ignore or they are not even aware of their uses as medicines. He talked about the seeds of watermelon used to manage diabetes and increase libido both in males and females. He talked about the leaves of pineapples also known as the crown which is useful in treating fevers and helpful for sleep disorders. Furthermore, he said that orange peels are useful as an antimicrobial and that is why they are part of soap-making ingredients. He said that the black soap industry depends largely on cacao pods, likewise, the kola nut pod is useful in managing low sperm count. In his conclusion, he said, “As one man’s food could be another man’s poison, we all must learn from others how different plants and their respective parts are used in other climes and cultures outside ours.” I once saw Dr. Abosede Olowofoyeku, a phytotherapist, researcher in Phyto-chemistry and the Chief Executive Officer of The Useful Herbs Naturopathy Limited gather a large amount of pineapple leaves (the leaf is the part we throw away, it is also that part that is planted) for preparation for a client who wanted to go for IVF. Let me share one scientific study to whet our appetite. In a study titled, “Valorisation of Ginger and Turmeric Peels as Source of Natural Antioxidants,’’ by Tinello et al, Ginger and turmeric peels showed greater antioxidant activity than commercial powders because of their higher phenolic yields. Hence, ginger and turmeric peels can be considered a rich source of phytochemicals which contribute to the antioxidant effects of agro-food. I will be starting with the parts we consider as waste in pineapple fruits. Before I go this week let me leave you with this; “In nature, there is no such thing as waste. In nature nothing is wasted; everything is recycled.”— David Suzuki Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com