Justice Adenike Akinpelu of the Kwara State High Court sitting in Ilorin, Kwara State capital, on Monday convicted a man, Kamarudeen Olanrewaju whose account in a new generation bank was unlawfully credited with N679,450 while another spare parts dealer based in Ilorin, Tiamiyu Hammed, was also convicted by the same court. Both Olanrewaju and Hammed were sent to one year imprisonment and six months jail respectively for possession of fraudulent funds and cybercrime offences. The Ilorin Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission arraigned Hammed and Olanrewaju on separate charge of one and two counts, respectively before the court. The prosecution alleged that Hammed, 23, who claimed to be from Oyo State, allegedly disguised as one Sarah Ben, a white female of Colorado to swindle one Todd Byers of $600 through gift cards in contravention of Section 321 of the Penal Code and punishable under Section 324 of the same Penal Code. On the other hand, the anti-graft agency in one of the counts, accused Olanrewaju of having under his control N679,450 suspected to be unlawfully obtained and paid into his account by one of the new generation banks. The offence, according to EFCC, contravenes Section 319 (a) of the Penal Code and punishable under same Section of the Penal Code. The two convicts pleaded guilty to the charge against them. In her judgment, Justice Akinpelu said the court had carefully considered the ‘guilt plea’ entered by the defendants, the testimonies of the witnesses and the evidences tendered against them and consequently pronounced the two defendants guilty. The court sentenced Hammed to six months imprisonment with N150, 000 as option of fine. The judge also sentenced Olanrewaju to six months imprisonment on each of the two counts against him with option of fine N100, 000 on each count. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com