A special need school, Ojuwoye Community Primary&Inclusive Unit, Mushin, Lagos  has called on the Lagos State government to provide them with cleaners, interpreters, audiologists and other personnels. Speaking to The PUNCH on Thursday at the inauguration of the school’s sickbay, Head, Inclusive Unit, Mrs Morufat Omotunde, said that the school lacked cleaners, interpreters, caregivers and others. “It is challenging but we just have to carry on. We do not have enough interpreters; we don’t have cleaners, caregivers. We need audiologists, audiology materials, physiotherapists. If you don’t have passion, you can’t handle these children. When you don’t have enough handlers it may want to affect you but I didn’t allow that to affect me as i make do with what is available. If we have enough interpreters they will be able to teach them and interpret.” While appreciating the effort of the Member of the Federal House of Representaive, Mr Taofeek Alli, who donated the well-equipped sickbay and ambulance to the school, Omotunde, said, “Enough materials were provided for the sickbay, everything needed in a clinic are here they also promised to give us medical staff who will work in the sickbay. I want to thank Mr Alli, he is a father.” Also speaking, one of the teachers, Mrs Lateefat Adelokun, narrated how the teachers took turns to clean the toilets and other facilities in the school. She added that they needed school bus that would convey the children to school in the morning and back home in afternoon. “We need a school bus, our children have reduced in population because parents can no longer bring some of them who live far to the school again. It was a politician who provided them with a bus but the member has left the house of representative and we no longer have bus for them again. We don’t have any cleaner too. About three years ago, our cleaner was transferred and since them none was brought to replace her. The Parent Teachers Forum decided to employ one but due to COVID-19 lockdown, we could no longer afford to pay for one. We have twelve toilets and we all clean them up ourselves. We clean up for the children too who most times, defecate on their body,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com