The alleged defamation of the Head (Media and Public Relations) of the Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board, Dr. Fabian Benjamin, is now a subject of litigation at a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory in Gwagwalada. Benjamin, in a suit filed by his lawyer, Chris Alashi, dragged the Chief Executive Officer of Human Rights Radio, Ahmed Isah, before Justice E. O Ebong, claiming N6bn damages over injurious broadcast, false allegations and innuendos which amounted to defamation of his character. The PUNCH reported that Premier Broadcasting Ltd (owners of Human Rights Radio) and Isah were listed as first and second defendants in the suit marked No. CV/3211/2021 obtained by journalists in Abuja on Sunday. Benjamin is claiming N6bn as compensation for general damages for the deliberate, libellous and malicious public broadcast by the radio station and anchored by Isah. The claimant averred that on April 16, 2021, between 7.30am and 10am, the second defendant, while on air on Human Rights Radio and Television (Brekete Programme), put a call to him via his mobile number, during which the latter maliciously defamed the claimant by impugning, maligning and discrediting his integrity and reputation as the PRO of JAMB and an academic. In particular, the claimant alleged that the second defendant, while on air, accused him of forging his Ph.D certificate as well as being insane, incompetent, unscrupulous, sadistic person of questionable character. The claimant also charged the defendant with saying his (claimant’s) bad behaviour and arrogance are hereditary, were acquired from his parents; that there was no solution to it; and that the claimant’s parents were also arrogant and damnable. Hearing has been fixed for February 14, 2022. When contacted, Isah told The PUNCH that he only doubted Benjamin’s PhD. He said, “I didn’t say he’s carrying fake PhD, I said I was doubting his PhD. My brother, Jay Jay Okocha is a footballer and if he is confronted by somebody that ‘I doubt if you’re a footballer’, he’ll have to prove that he’s a good footballer. “In his (Benjamin’s) case, the way he sounded on air that day made me to doubt his PhD. That was what I said, that I am doubting his PhD. All he needed to do was to prove to us that he has a PhD and earned it. “Most of the things I raised (about JAMB) were the things they went behind to implement quietly, making life uneasy for the children of the poor. All we are looking towards is a better society. I will find out from my lawyers if we have been served.” When contacted, Benjamin said, “The case is already in court and I will allow the court to do its job.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com