Actress and a former Big Brother Naija housemate, Cindy Okafor, has said that gone are the days when she used to spend money on men. In an interview with Sunday Scoop, she highlighted the qualities that attracts her to a man. She said, “He has to be tall because I am obsessed with very tall guys. He must be good looking to an extent and know how to dress. The main thing for me is that he has to have common sense. Even if we gossip and play, I want us to connect mentally. He must have something going on for him because gone are the days when I spent money on guys. He must be very comfortable. I also hate lies and it turns me off in a man.” Okafor also maintained that no man could give her the kind of money she is looking for. She said, “I am not saying I will date a broke guy but he has to be hardworking and he has to have something going for him. But the conversations of some women are always about men doing things for them financially. I don’t have any issue collecting money from my man but the type of money I am looking for, I don’t think any man can give it to me. That is why I have to hustle.” Thanking BBN for the platform it gave her to shine, she said, “Although I worked hard, Big Brother Naija gave me fame. They did the whole magic and I will be forever grateful to them. There have been major changes in my life after I participated in the reality show. There was a change in status. I had more fans and that resulted in more money. It is the best thing to ever happen to me in terms of my career, finance, fashion and other areas.” The former BBN contestant also stated that she does not feel pressured to portray a fake lifestyle on social media. She said, “I do not always like to share all my achievements. I just make posts about my business and make people laugh on my page. I want to start a blog and people will start seeing a lot of my accomplishments soon. I don’t feel any pressure to live in a certain way. People who will praise one today will condemn one tomorrow when small things happen to one. If you do not have a ‘strong mind’ (thick skin) like Bobrisky, I would advise you to keep some aspects of your personal life to yourself.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com