The Director-General of the National Broadcasting Commission, Balarabe Ilelah, has expressed satisfaction with the provisions made by the National Youth Service Corps towards the commencement of radio transmission as soon as a broadcasting licence is approved for it. He commended the present NYSC management for procuring standard radio equipment and building a digital studio ahead of preliminary inspection, which confirmed its commitment to publicising the activities of the agency, especially through mainstream broadcast media. A statement on Thursday by the Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations, NYSC, Emeka Mgbemena, said Ilelah spoke while assessing the studio facilities installed at the proposed ‘NYSC Radio’ complex located at the agency’s directorate headquarters in Abuja. He said with the standard facilities he had seen, “the NYSC is on the right track towards obtaining a broadcast licence after a thorough screening procedure.” While taking the NBC DG round the studio, the Director-General, NYSC, Major General Shu’aibu Ibrahim, said the proposed radio was initiated to reach out to the grassroots and make the scheme more visible in its drive of promoting national integration, self-reliance and socio-economic development. He said the radio would complement other multimedia channels deployed in informing the public of the invaluable contributions of corps members to national development. While reacting to the observations made by his guest, Ibrahim assured the NBC that all arrangements had been made to start broadcasting as soon as a licence was granted through the commission. He said the NYSC had competent personnel to operate the radio station optimally considering its multidisciplinary graduate manpower across the federation. Before leaving the NYSC headquarters, the NBC DG was taken round the NYSC museum, where he inspected historical artefacts and documented information on the evolution of the scheme, its activities, interventions and contributions to national development over the years. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com