The national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Sunday paid a condolence visit to Katsina State on the recent murder of the state Commissioner for Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Rabe Nasir. Tinubu and his entourage arrived the Government House, Katsina at about 3pm and stayed for almost two hours during which he expressed his condolences to the people of the state and admonished Nigerians to be vigilant. He said, “We are here to condole with you on the wicked assassination of the Commissioner of Science and Technology. The governor had introduced him to me as one of the most reliable and resourceful individuals from Katsina, with a very broad knowledge of Nigeria as a country. “I sympathise with you for the loss. We share the grief, but only God is the giver of life and the taker. Evil men may interfere and try to tempt Allah, but He is the giver and He is the taker. It has been written as it happened. Don’t let your faith in God Almighty shake. There are temptations coming from evil and evil doers. “Equally, it’s a very trying period; Katsina is going through a lot of insecurity. Please, whatever happens to one of us happens to all of us. “Let us be vigilant. Let us help our country. Let us preach peace and a change of mind to those who are determined to bring terrorism, kidnapping and evil doing to our midst, to stop.” The state governor, Aminu Masari, in his response, revealed that there has been a reduction in banditry and kidnapping in recent times in the state. Masari however disclosed that Faskari and Kankara Local Government Areas of the state are still experiencing attacks due to their proximity to the forests of the neighbouring states of Zamfara, Kaduna, Niger and Kebbi. “In recent times, there has been a reduction in kidnapping and banditry in the state. “It is however still happening in Faskari and Kankara Local Government Areas. Even yesterday (Saturday), there was kidnapping in Faskari,” the governor said. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com