Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa’s faction of the All Progressives Congress in Zamfara State has called on Governor Bello Matawalle to stop playing politics with religion and security for the overall interest of the state and that of the nation in general. In a statement, the spokesperson for the Mafara APC faction, Alhaji Bello Bakyasuwa Maradun, said using religion and security as tools for political blackmail was ungodly, unethical, malicious, cowardly and a recipe for the perpetuation of the anarchy in the state. Bakyasuwa stressed that the recent happenings in Zamfara State where Governor Matawalle was using politics and religion against the opposition necessitated the call by the Marafa APC faction to stop the menace before things went out of control. Bakyasuwa said, “In the last couple of months, every week comes with one controversy or the other arising from the mischief of accusing leading opposition political figures with a campaign of calumny shrouded in religion and insecurity. “The most recent of those instances was the posters of former Governor Abdul’Azeez Yari and two of his loyalists with MaIam Ibrahim El Zak-Zaky that was displayed in strategic places within the state. “Our understanding is that this is a cowardly act to create false association between the former Governor and the Shi’ite leader to score a cheap political point from public antagonism to the group.” Bakyasuwa also lamented that earlier last week, the Matawalle faction of the APC through its Publicity Secretary, Yusuf Idris, accused General Aliyu Gusau of aiding banditry to protect his mining investments. “We made a public statement condemning the action and distanced ourselves from the statement because of the attempt to connect it with the Party for which we are all stakeholders and the due respect to the elder statesman even though we are from different political parties,” said Bakyasuwa. Bakyasuwa also added, ”One person was arrested wearing a jersey with the picture of Senator Marafa during the military strike against the bandits and that was used as a news item in mushroom online media for another cheap blackmail.” He maintained that other related accusations were made and publicised against Hon. Muttaka Rini and Dauda Lawal Dare, all from the opposing camps of the APC which were considered condemnable. He also added that the State House of Assembly has accused two of its member of aiding and abetting banditry and were suspended from the house without fair hearing. “Both of them rejected the accusation and got themselves recorded taking the oath arbitrarily imposed on public officials using the Qur’an to exonerate themselves from the accusation. “As a formidable stakeholder in the social and political stability of the state, we are seriously disturbed by the trend enumerated in those examples and more. “We see in these false associations the potential to perpetuate the state of anarchy in the state through blackmail by creating trust question and sparking suspicion between the masses and the political class. “On behalf of Distinguished Senator Marafa (CON), we condemn these acts of mischief in totality and consider them capable of worsening the security situation of the state. “These baseless accusations and their perpetrators are ungodly, unethical and cowardly. “We call on well-meaning individuals within and outside Zamfara State to prevail on this situation. “We especially call on Islamic Scholars to rise up to their responsibility of preaching against baseless accusations on people because Islam and Shari’a for which the state is known stand firmly against them. “We also call on the state government to rise to the occasion of exonerating itself from the counter-accusations against it as a sponsor of this industry of lies which others consider plausible because of the resources required to sustain it. “We are requesting this for good so that our collective energy can be invested, not in politics, but in fighting the common enemy of insecurity caused by banditry and helping hundreds of thousands of Internally Displaced Persons in the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com