DOGARA BITRUS writes that despite continuing military operations, Islamic States of West African Province terrorists still launch attacks in parts of Borno and impose levies on the distressed residents Borno south has been under a  myriad of attacks from a more sophisticated, more armed and very deadly Islamic States of West African Province  terrorists   since the death of the erstwhile leader of  Boko Haram, Abubakar Shekau and the subsequent surrender of thousands of the fighters. ISWAP terrorists have been emboldened, coordinated and fierce in their operations as they  intensify attacks allegedly targeting military and security formations. These days, the insurgents tax residents of rural communities, who are battling poverty caused by years of insurgency. ISWAP, a breakaway group of the Boko Haram,  was, until the death of Shekau, operating on a low key, but   in the last quarter of 2021, its members conducted an attack that resulted in the death of a senior army officer, Brig Gen Zhurkusu in an ambush. The general and some officers were  trying to provide reinforcement for troops engaging the terrorists in Askira town, the headquarters of the Askira Uba Local Government Area. Zhurkusu and four other officers were killed at Bulguma, a village that is a few kilometres away from Askira. “The insurgents came in a convoy of gun trucks and stayed in the centre of the town. They set houses on fire,  burnt down shops and several public infrastructure. They also killed a considerable number of soldiers including the commander of the Nigerian Army Special Forces  in Chibok in that attack. The insurgents came from Damboa where there camp is,” Saliu Abdullahi, a local of Askira, stated. That attack in November 2021 served as a gateway to floods of attacks by the ISWAP terrorists who were encouraged by the success achieved and the consequent publicity that accompanied the onslaught. Shortly before  Christmas, having convinced themselves that they were well equipped and prepared to take on the Nigerian nation, the insurgents sent letters across communities in southern Borno, warning them not to observe the Christmas service or any celebration that might accompany the period on the premise that they would  attack to churches and large gatherings. As if to confirm their determination to frustrate the Christmas festivities, on  December 12, the insurgents stormed Debiro village, a community between Hawul and Biu local government areas in gun trucks and carted away foodstuffs and livestock after warning the villagers not to disclose their operations to the military. “The ISWAP fighters infiltrated Debiro village and began to set ablaze, houses of the villagers. They  robbed them of their foodstuffs and livestock and then went ahead to address the entire village using public address system that they should not disclose their modus operandi to the Nigerian forces especially the military forces.They came in several motorcycles but they did not kill any civilian,” a resident,  Adamu Aliyu,  told The PUNCH. Although the insurgents were repelled by some  hunters, who  recovered a motorcycle in the process, the terrorists succeeded in collecting taxes from a nearby village before fleeing the area. On Saturday, January 15, the ISWAP attempted to infiltrate Biu town through Maina Hari near Wakabiu Biu, seven kilometres from Biu, but the Nigerian Army attacked and repelled them recovering several rounds of ammunitions and other equipment. The Nigerian Army  in a statement confirmed the attack. It stated, “The criminal elements met their Waterloo, when the gallant troops of 231 Battalion and 331 Artillery Regiment  swiftly routed them in a failed incursion at Maina Hari village in Biu on Saturday, January 15, 2022.” “In the intense battle, troops unleashed superior fire power on the terrorists, neutralising five ISWAP terrorists, compelling others to withdraw in disarray. “The gallant troops also captured  from the terrorists, one gun truck, one Deshka M  anti-aircraft gun, one HK 21 machine gun, one rocket propelled grenade bomb, 137 rounds of 12.7mm anti-aircraft rounds amongst others. Troops are currently in pursuit of the fleeing terrorists”. A day after the Biu attack, the insurgents attacked Kautikari village, 15 kilometres to Chibok killing four residents, dislodging the villagers and abducting several others including women and children and then placing calls to the families of the kidnapped persons to demand  ransom. “The insurgents killed four people, destroyed shops, looted foodstuffs and also razed down our church.They abducted several women and children including my mother in-law. They used my mother in-law’s phone to call me to demand recharge card,” Audu Iliya, an indigene of Kautikari residing in Maiduguri told The PUNCH on the phone. On  January 13, there was an invasion of  the Police Mobile Training College,  Limankara in the Gwoza LGA and some  police instructors were reported missing in a gun battle with terrorists, but the police in the state said no police officer was missing and no equipment was destroyed. Also there was an attack on  the Nigerian Army Research Institute of Peace and War located in Buratai town in the Biu LGA where the insurgents burnt down the first floor of the administrative block,  all the vehicles in the institute as well as the Nigerian, army and the institute’s flags after chasing away troops. “Troops were deployed to other locations which reduced the numerical strength of the personnel on ground. They attacked the institute from the middle of the village beside the district head’s house. Immediately, they headed towards to army checkpoint and chased troops away before walking into the institute to burn down the first floor of the institute and all flags. There was no casualty from the attack except two civilians who were killed by stray bullets,” a soldier from Biu disclosed. There was also an attempted attack on the army base in Gwoza town in the first week of January where the insurgents were successfully repelled. On Thursday, the jihadists killed two people and kidnapped 15 children in Pemi, a village near Chibok. In all these attacks, the insurgents seemed to be targeting military and security formations in the renewed attacks in southern Borno. “Looking at the pattern of their operations, the insurgents mostly target soldiers and military formations even though they occasionally get civilian casualty,”  A source in the military hierarchy, disclosed. The Borno State Governor, Prof Babagana Zulum, while addressing members of   the Senate Committee on Army who paid him a courtesy visit at the Government House in Maiduguri, confirmed the rising   attacks on southern Borno, stating that the military needed to rise to the occasion to stem the tide. “As the Boko Haram insurgents continue to surrender in their thousands, the ISWAP terrorists become more sophisticated, deadly and continue to increase in numbers. The ISWAP fighters are more sophisticated, educated, armed and brutal than the Boko Haram terrorists as such their operations are becoming more pronounced around the southern and extreme northern parts of Borno State. “It is an early warning for us as a government to understand the working system of the ISWAP. We need to check them, chase them out while at their early stage before they become stronger and become a serious problem for us to handle. “They have been carrying out attacks in the southern and core northern part of Borno State. ISWAP have checkpoints between Damboa and Biu. They are collecting taxes from communities in these areas. Some few days ago I got a very good intelligence that they held a wedding ceremony at the mandara mountains and they drove in over three hundred motorcycles. Something needs to be done.” Zulum noted.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com