A man simply identified as Sunday has been arrested by the Osun State Police Command for allegedly killing a Tiv farmer resident in Eripa town. Donald, a colleague of the deceased farmer, identified as Sunday, while speaking with The PUNCH, said the incident occurred late on Friday at Odo Ada, a village in Eripa. According him, the suspect had thought that the owner of the farm had gone home, and was already digging out yam from a heap, when the deceased suddenly appeared and challenged him. He said, “Sunday was caught by the owner of the farm, who also bears Sunday as he was digging out yam from a heap on his farm located at Odo Ada village. The suspect had thought the owner of the farmer had gone home as of the time he entered the farm Friday evening. “Sunday had actually left the farm that day, but not long after he left, he had to return because he forgot something on the farm. But before he arrived there, the suspect had entered into the farm, and was already digging out yam from a heap, when Sunday arrived. “He challenged him and that led to an altercation. The suspect, who had a gun with him, shot the farmer and killed him on the spot. “A younger brother of the farmer, who was with him when the incident happened, immediately ran to where other colleagues of Sunday were, and informed them. They all ran towards the farm and arrested the suspect. He is currently with the police. The remains of the deceased had been deposited in a morgue.” But when contacted, the spokesperson of the state police command, Yemisi Opalola, said the account given by an eyewitness, who was with the deceased when the incident, happened was slightly different. Opalola said the deceased was on the farm with his younger brother when Sunday arrived there, and altercation ensued among them. She further said, “The owner of the farm named Sunday, a Tiv was killed by an indigene of Iree also named Sunday. From what an eyewitness told us, Sunday from Iree, had been reported to Eleripa of Eripa, severally by farmers in the area that he was entering their farms to steal produce.” “On the day the incident happened, we were told the deceased and his younger brother were on the farm when Sunday arrived. The deceased’s younger brother, on sighting the suspect, accused him of always coming around to steal their produce. “That statement reportedly infuriated the suspect and he shot the owner of the farmer, while his brother fled the scene and ran to where other colleagues of the farmer were and informed them of the incident. We also learnt that the suspect attempted to kill the younger brother of the deceased, but he escaped. “We were also told that it was the suspect that carried the corpse of the deceased on his motorcycle and was already coming towards the town when other colleagues of the Tiv farmer met him and retrieved the body.” She added that the suspect is in police custody and dismissed insinuations that operatives had requested for money before investigation, assuring that justice would be served in the matter. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com