The All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party have no genuine reason not to zone their Presidential tickets to the South-East geopolitical zone, the Leader of Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Hon. Victor Chukwu, has said. Wondering what would make the two major parties zone their Presidential slots out of the region, Chukwu stressed that it would amount to unfairness and injustice should the parties decide otherwise. The lawmaker, who represents Ezza North/West in the State House of Assembly, stated this during a meeting with journalists, in Abakaliki, on Monday. He said, “It will be unfair if both the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party refuse to zone their presidential tickets to the South-East geopolitical zone. It would amount to injustice. “First and foremost, why would they not zone their tickets to the South-East? Are political parties a composition of animals? For goodness sake, political parties are a composition of human beings, not animals. And these parties should be humane enough to know when they are drifting away from humanity. “What would they anchor zoning away their tickets, from the South-East, on? What would be their grounds for doing that? Is it that it’s not also a geopolitical zone? Is it that this place is a desert where no humans live? Is it that we don’t have qualified people? “Remember Governor David Umahi, among others, are from the South-East. Among his equals, show me who can favourably rival him. When you talk about vision and achievements, tell me who can favourably contend with him. Heaven has come down on this particular development or matter over the declaration of David Umahi to run for the presidency, to bring great Glory to Himself, and it’s a prayer answered. “I say no party – the APC, the PDP and others – have a genuine reason to zone their presidential tickets away from the South-East. The most fortunate thing is that all the material, human and mental resources needed to make a united Nigeria in the regard of equity, fairness and justice are in all parties and across all the divide of this country. “So, you can’t deprive a particular section of anything on the grounds of lack whatsoever – insufficiency and mediocrity. We have all it takes in the South-East to make a better president. And in the South-East, Umahi is the answer. “The emergence of Governor David Umahi will douse the tension being experienced across the country, and in the South-East particularly. That moment will prove that God actually hears the prayers of His people. This is because Umahi is an era; it happens to people in a lifetime. And for the fact that God so loved Nigeria, He has brought Umahi at a time like this. The issue of insecurity, secession and ethnoreligious crises will be over under Umahi. “The world is at a crossroad; this is the same with Nigeria. The unrest being experienced in Nigeria is not peculiar to the country alone. It’s a global issue. Recall that sometime last year, the youths of the United States of America took to the streets and went to their most sacred places and desecrated some in the name of agitation. That is the current state of the level of decay in the world system. The world over is in trouble. This is where the likes of Umahi should bring their leadership acumen to bear. He has what it takes to address the myriads of challenges bedevilling Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com