Supporters of the All Progressives Congress under the aegis of the APC Rebirth Group have again on Sunday accused the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of attempting to postpone the party’s national convention beyond February 2022. This is as the group said by planting a February 25 date in the media—a period coinciding with by-elections in at least six states—the CECPC is plotting to “buy more time”. Spokesperson of APC Rebirth, Aliyu Audu, disclosed this in Abuja in a statement titled ‘APC Rebirth uncovers plot to extend convention date beyond February 2022.’ He said, “In furtherance of the agenda to continue the extension of its six-month mandate, which is now running to the 19th month, the Buni-led Caretaker Committee has come up with another plot to deceive party members and buy time to propagate its selfish agenda further. “The APC Rebirth has been reliably informed that the Caretaker Committee was behind various news reports planted in the media that the convention has been fixed for February 25, 2022. “The CECPC, having realised that no less than six states will be going to the polls for various bye-elections on February 26, 2022, decided to plant a February 25 date in the media knowing full well that the convention cannot be taking place at a time bye-elections in which the party would be participating will also be taking place across different states in the country.” Audu said the actual plot was to use the February 25 date to buy more time, pretending it has no knowledge of the forthcoming bye-election, by which time the committee will be left with no option but to postpone the much-awaited February convention to another date. He said, “The CECPC will do this either by arranging a group of people to obtain a kangaroo court injunction hiding under the guise of exclusion by virtue of the bye-elections or ride on the excuse of limited time if any other date in February is to be chosen. In any case, the purported February 25 date, just like many other decisions that the Caretaker Committee has taken, was not a collective decision by members of the Committee. “This is the reason it opted to plant the date in the media rather than coming out with an official position. We wonder why other members of the CECPC have continued to tolerate the unilateral decision making and dictatorial excesses of the Chairman of the Committee. “We are bringing this new plot of the CECPC to public attention, just as we have done in many other instances, to reawaken the consciousness of party members to the reality of Buni leadership of APC and to call on all those concerned to prevail on him not to toy with the February date for the national convention.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com