A community leader in Plateau State, Rwang Tengwom, on Tuesday, lamented that several villages forcefully seized by herdsmen from the indigenous owners had become a safe haven for kidnappers in the state. Tengwom, who is the National Publicity Secretary of the Berom Ethnic Nationality (Youth wing), stated this in a chat with The PUNCH in Jos. He spoke against the backdrop of the release of the paramount ruler of the Vwang District in the Jos South Local Government Area of the state, Da Gyang Balak, who was abducted by gunmen from the Vom community while driving home around 8pm on Sunday. The community leader, who expressed concern over the development, told The PUNCH that findings showed that kidnap victims were either released in communities forcefully evacuated by the indigenous owners and taken over by herdsmen after repeated attacks on the natives, or ransom taken to those communities by the relatives of the victims. Tengwom said, “We have been calling on the authorities to do something and help the natives to recover their land and communities forcefully taken over and occupied as a result of repeated attacks on them by gunmen. Now, most of the villages where people were sacked from their ancestral homes in Plateau State have become a safe haven for criminals, who use them to abduct the residents for ransom. “We have been calling on the security agents to move into these areas and do their job to no avail. It is a call we are making again for these communities to be recovered so that we can have lasting peace in Plateau. “The need to heed this call has become urgent because, first, when some suspects who were to be arraigned recently in court in Barkin Ladi got to the place, some fellow bandits emerged from nowhere and attacked the security convoy and freed the suspects.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com