The Middle Belt Forum on Sunday said destruction of communities and unprovoked killings of defenceless people in the Middle Belt would no longer be tolerated. This is just as it regretted that Boko Haram elements have been occupying Damboa Local Government Area of Borno State from where the launch attacks. The President of MBF, Dr. Pogu Bitrus, made the forum’s position known in a statement obtained by The PUNCH in Abuja. Bitrus said, “The destruction of our communities and the unprovoked killings of defenceless citizens can no longer be tolerated. When innocent and vulnerable people are left unprotected from the terror of criminals, there can be no option left than self-defence. “The Forum calls on relevant security agencies not to relent in cleansing our communities of these terrorists who take pleasure in kidnapping, destroying our communities and dislocating our people. “The continuous wielding of arms by these criminals in daylight to intimidate locals must be stopped in order to protect our communities and not force then to embrace self-defence.” Bitrus noted that by allowing terrorists to mount roadblocks in any part of the country, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), would be telling the international community that there are two sovereignties in Nigeria. He added, “In the previous years, Nigerians, especially ethnic nationalities of the Middle Belt, suffered severe and persistent attacks from marauding gangs of murderous herdsmen whose agenda has always been to exterminate our people. Recently, some of our people have come under severe attacks in many States of the Middle Belt, including Nasarawa where no fewer than 45 people were gruesomely massacred by coldblooded killer herdsmen. “These killings have become the trend in many parts of the Middle Belt region of Southern Kaduna, Niger, Plateau, Benue, Adamawa, among others. In Damboa Local Government Area of Southern Borno, Boko Haram elements have completely taken over the LGA in the past three years without any challenge from the security personnel. It is from Damboa LGA that Boko Haram launches attacks on communities, including the recent attack that killed a military general. “Allowing the terrorist organisation to mount roadblocks in any part of Nigeria amounts to telling the world that there are two sovereignties in Nigeria.” According to him, Buhari should send a clear message to security forces in the New Year to defeat Boko Haram and throw them out of Damboa Local Government Area. He also raised fears over the looming food crisis following the attacks on communities in the Middle Belt and the resultant displacement, with farmers abandoning farms while protecting their lives. He added, “We do not need a prophet to warn us of the dire consequences of what this massive displacement of our farming population holds for our people. “In the face of these severe attacks that have not attracted commensurate responses from the security personnel, we call on security agencies to smoke out these murderous bandits from their holes and bring them to justice. “As an umbrella organisation of ethnic nationalities in the Middle Belt region, we call on President Buhari to swiftly order the security agencies to stop the human carnage ripping across Nigeria, especially in the Middle Belt.” The forum also called on Buhari to rescind his earlier decision not to sign the Electoral Amendment Bill. The statement added, “The best this administration can offer Nigerians is to provide a platform where the votes of citizens count. Strengthening the electoral process for transparent polls should be an irrevocable focus of the present administration. “No effort should be spared by the President to contain destructive forces lurking in the dark and plotting anarchy for the country ahead of the 2023 polls. “Nigerians, no doubt, faced challenges in 2021. We call on President Buhari to ensure that no stone is left unturned to ensure peace and prosperity for our besieged communities. We join millions of our citizens in praying for the return of peace and prosperity to our nation.” The organisation also drew the attention of the National Assembly to the looming crisis in Bauchi State where a High Court recently dismissed a suit challenging the decision of the state House of Assembly to relocate the headquarters of Tafawa Balewa Local Government to Bununu town. While describing the court’s verdict and the decision of the state lawmakers as violation of the provisions of the Nigerian constitution which conferred such powers on only members of the National Assembly, the MBF called on the leadership of the National Assembly to “wade into the matter and order an immediate reversal to forestall the breakdown of law and order.” Copyright PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com