If you recall, Bubu came into power in 2015 on three cardinal campaign promises to solve insecurity, ensure an improved economy and fight corruption. More than six years in Aso Villa, the extent at which Mr Presido has fulfilled or faltered on these promises is crystal clear to discerning Nigerians. For want of space and in light of the razzmatazz surrounding the ‘mountainous’ rice pyramids launched in Abuja earlier in the week, Eavesdropper would touch on ‘Buhagrinomics.’ I hope you get the drift. Okay. In fairness, Bubu’s regime has made some giant strides in agriculture, particularly in local rice production. There is no denying there has been a remarkable growth in rice production since Zahra’s dad relocated to Aso Rock from his sleepy hometown in Daura. You may say you nearly broke some teeth the last time you ate cooked Nigerian rice, the fact is the country remains the biggest producer of rice in the whole Africa. Good news; the steady price increase in the local staple notwithstanding. One aggrieved Nigerian reflecting on the gigantic pyramids even wondered what the fuss was about “rice that is not available to the masses at affordable price; rice that will end up expired in their various warehouses and cannot give succour to the poor citizens.” Baba is not unaware of this grouse and more. He has promised that with the newly-inaugurated mega rice pyramids, the price will fall in the coming days. The occasion allowed Mr Presido to brag about the feat, saying, “Today rice production in Nigeria has increased to over 7.5 million metric tons annually. Prior to the introduction of APB (Anchor Borrowers Programme), the average production in Nigeria between 1999 and 2015 was less than four metric tons annually.” Here lies the burden of truth. In the same breath, the gatekeeper of the nation’s treasury said rice production had skyrocketed to nine million metric tonnes in 2021 from about 5.4m MT in 2015. So, who and what figures should we believe? The oga at the top for rice farmers in Nigeria had also boasted in June 2021 at the flag-off of ‘sales of nine million metric tons of rice paddy to millers’ in Kaduna that Nigeria had attained self-sufficiency in rice and almost ready to export the staple, concluding that “the rice that we have been consuming in Nigeria since 2015 were produced locally.” Incredible! One thing is sure here: it is either the bank generalissimo and Commander-in-Chief of rice farmers deliberately padded lies to the pyramids or Bubu was misled about the figures he quoted. Bubu possibly agreed with the tatafo of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development who said in October 2021 that the country “at the moment produces seven million metric tons of rice annually with a gap of 300,000 metric tons to balance local consumption.” Did you hear that? The same local consumption rice farmers’ commander said Nigeria had met in June 2021. Wonder shall never cease. In fact, the ministry talk-talk master further claimed that “smuggled foreign rice” barely existed in Nigeria and that what was termed as imported rice was well polished Nigerian rice packaged as foreign rice. Can you now see why any right-thinking person would think twice or more before taking whatever the goment says hook, line and sinker? Except one is battling nasal congestion or loses the sense of smell, there is no way one won’t sniff deceptions in these claims. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com