Lead Pastor of Trinity House Church, Lagos, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, in this interview with GODFREY GEORGE, speaks on the state of the nation and 2023 elections There is a general feeling that Nigeria is not working and we continue to see many fleeing the country. Do you honestly think that there is light at the end of the tunnel somewhere? I am always hopeful about Nigeria. But if you are looking at the drums and the physical noises all around, we would say that we are seeing a clear pathway to lessen our fortunes in Nigeria. However, 2022/2023 presents a great opportunity for us to put in place the kind of leadership that can truly transform Nigeria and reverse the trend. Indeed a lot of young and even older people are leaving Nigeria, not just because of challenges but also because of lack of security, predictability; the hustle and bustle of life and wanting a stable and good quality of life. I think if we can get the right kind of leadership in place, there would be a reversal. What practical steps do you think the country must begin to take to get out of the woods? I think the most effective thing is to get the right kind of leadership that can lead the country forward. If you remember, for about 15 or 20 years ago, Rwanda was in a very terrible state. They were even killing one another. There were massacres and genocides everywhere. But within the last 15 years, that country has been transformed, because they were fortunate to get the right kind of leadership. Some have suggested restructuring; others are calling for referendum and secession, while the politicians say the hope is in the 2023 presidential election. Which do you believe Nigeria needs? What Nigeria needs now is an environment that allows every area of Nigeria to be properly developed, every Nigerian to have access to equal opportunities and all the economic potential of the nation to be unleashed. Whatever structure that will allow that is what we need. What is clear is that the present political dispensation and constitutional and administrative structure of Nigeria are not working. Unless we have  total restructuring on the basis on which Nigeria has come to coexist as a nation, we may find it difficult to unleash all the economic potential of this nation. So, I think Nigeria is good together but this should be under different terms that will allow every section of Nigeria to be semi-autonomous so that they can have and harvest their economic potential. It is more of an economic restructuring and the necessary political undertone than anything else. So you are in support of return to the regional government? If you want to call it regionalism, that is fine. Nigeria should return to a collection of economically viable and semi-independent units that can run their affairs, provide for their people and harness all the economic resources, making sure that every section of Nigeria is producing and productive. Which units this may be, I do not know but what I know is that every single state and part of Nigeria is viable. Some may need to come together to take advantage of local and geographical congruences. Some may need to split up a bit because they are better if they are smaller and better administered that way. But we must come together and decide which one needs to come together and which needs to split. This is in a bid to make sure that the viability in terms of neutral cultures, attitudes and areas of interests are put in place. You’ve harped on the need for Nigeria to have the right kind of leader and already ahead of the 2023 general elections, the political atmosphere is getting charged with different kinds of characters positioning to become the President. What kind of person is fit to be Nigeria’s President? It is clear that Nigeria needs a purposeful, visionary, exposed, charismatic, healthy, vibrant, hard-working leader. We need a leader that is fair, a true Nigerian that is detrabilised and we need one who is ready to create equal opportunities for every single Nigerian. We also need a sincere, disciplined and honest leader, one that is corruption-free and not serving Nigeria for his own interest. If we can find a leader with these qualities or one or two more, that is the person that we need. He/she must also be a team player, one who listens to the people. They must be ready to listen to the aggravation and aspiration of every Nigerian and ready to negotiate, discuss and work out a pattern that will be beneficial to the majority of Nigerians. I would also love to add that it is almost impossible to please all Nigerians. But if we can reach the majority – 80 to 85 per cent – then, we would have made significant progress. Some have said they don’t want old and recycled candidates. Don’t you think the nation is ripe for a youthful president in 2023? The nation is ripe for new thinking. It doesn’t necessarily have to be a youth. A youth here would mean one who is vibrant and has the ability to take risks. We may have people who are not necessarily young but have that vibrancy, energy and experience, which is also important in putting things together. So, we need new ideas, fresh thinking, a new way. A lot of the people who have been in government have been there sufficiently enough for us to see their track record. We know their ideas, what they have done, how they think, where their preferences are. Some are changing; some, we haven’t seen sufficient change and maybe it is time for us to give the opportunity to a fresh pair of legs, a fresh set of thinking, a new direction, hoping and thinking that that will work. But even those people, too, must pass the test of character, competence and ability to do what we want. A new broom does not necessarily mean an efficient broom. There are some people who are new but may even be worse than the ones who have been there before or those who are there now. We need people of proven character and integrity, proven track records who have shown themselves as true Nigerians with the right attitude and composure to work hard in truth and honesty for the benefit of this nation. There is a clamour by various pressure groups that power should move to the South in 2023. What is your take on this? Honestly, North or South, what we need are capability and competence. The fact that we are still arguing today whether it should be North or South shows that our politics has not achieved its result and is still a bit primitive. The issue of positional politics is because of fear. A few people are afraid that some people want to dominate them, and they don’t want to be dominated. When you are dominated, this means the person up there is not being fair to you. Others are afraid that some groups want to control resources, position and hold onto power and influence their own kind to take control without having any clear meaning or direction for the country. Nobody ever asked Nelson Mandela what part of South Africa he came from. All they knew was that they had a leader that was purposeful and was fair to all. If Nigeria has been able to produce such a leader regardless of tribe, all this agitation would have become a thing of the past. We don’t necessarily need leaders based on tribe or area of origin. We need someone that will ensure that every section of Nigeria gets equal opportunities. There are a few people like that who are detribalised and are ready to work for the benefit of every single Nigerian, who believe they are Nigerians first before anything else. What do you think of the agitation by the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria that the country’s next President should be a Christian? I don’t think this is necessary. As I said, the issue of insisting that the President should come from somewhere is simply because some parts or the other feel not rightly treated. What we need to do is to let people know the aspects of Nigerian governance or leadership that are affecting their own interest and seek the proper redress of that thing. Insisting that a leader of Nigeria must come from one area or the other is again begging this question of fear and anxiety and people feeling intimidated and threatened by sections of the country. This seems to have come to stay in our politics for now, and it seems to be the culture that we adopted and seem to be driving. I am hoping that sooner or later the political trajectory of Nigeria will mature enough to such an extent that where someone comes from wouldn’t matter. The yardstick by which we would have to judge anyone who should lead must be by the content of his character and competence. Wrong persons have often found their way to power through inducement of the electorate with cheap gifts like foodstuffs and small amount of money. How can the people rise above this? I will say the principal thing that Nigerians should consider is the question of whether the person they want to support will be able to administer Nigeria fairly or in the interest of the majority. Unfortunately, in Nigeria, it is not like that. The first consideration is selfish interest – will this person benefit my own financial or economic resource or in terms of the area that I come from? That has been the primary focus of most Nigerians and that is why the right kind of leadership that we need has not been able to emerge. This is because of our thinking. The conclusion that I have come to is that the average Nigerian is not quite ready for purposeful leadership. They cry about it, talk about it, but when it comes to doing it, they forget about all the things that they have been talking about. This is why we are in this quagmire that we are in today. We are simply not ready across the board. We are not ready to make the sacrifices to make for good leadership to emerge. In a sermon you delivered in your church, citing the Chinese National political scene where it takes a person about 30 years of ‘intensive grooming’ to aspire for any political position, you said Nigerians are not properly groomed for leadership. Would you like to shed some more light on that? The kind of politics we are practising right now is not a critically analytical one. Any man can emerge from somewhere and as long as he has some kind of financial resource – whether properly, ill-gotten or funded by somebody – the average Nigerian would be ready to listen to him/her. But they forget that because you have money or access to money does not mean you have the capability and competence. That is why a lot of people who have had money somewhere get rich through locational, tribal or religious advantage. If you know someone who happens to know someone else, they tend to find a way to favour you. I know that one is expected to do business with people they know, but also in a lot of countries that have gone forward, they look for competence, capabilities, experience and abilities. So, we find out that most people with wealth in this country are not people of competence and capability and total detribalisation. This sort of thing was brought about by our political culture and also the military adventurism into our politics wherein the military ruled by fiat and benefitted the people closest to them. Now, this has become a culture – to benefit people who are close to you. We really cannot continue that way in this country. We really need to be broad-minded. This is what I said when I cited the China example. They have been able to discipline themselves in putting together a process of leadership set. If you want to be a leader, you would have to start at the bottom. Start as a councillor. If the people you are leading feel that you are comfortable enough, they’d vote you to the next level. You’d continue like that till you get to the regional and national level. This is so that there is a weeding out of people who are not competent. We don’t have this process in Nigeria, and most times, when we recognise incompetence, we still salute them and tolerate them because they belong to one group or one section or the other. You would also find people of their group or association shouting loud for them or threatening brimstone or being disadvantaged because their son or associate or leader have been found guilty of something or have been inappropriate. This is what is really slowing down our growth and development. We are not being true to ourselves in this country, and that is the fact. Two arrowheads of secession agitation, Nnamdi Kanu, leading Indigenous People of Biafra, and Sunday Igboho, championing the Oduduwa Republic are currently in detention.  What do you think should be the best approach by the government? Prosecution or dialogue? I think dialogue should be the best approach. Sunday Igboho is not really looking for the Oduduwa Republic. What I thought I heard from him was that he was trying to protect the Yoruba people and others within his area of influence from attacks of bandits and killer herdsmen. He didn’t name a republic of any sort if I heard him right, except if I am wrong. It is Nnamdi Kanu that has been looking for an Indigenous People of Biafra. What Nnamdi is really looking for is for the resources that are really due the people of his origin should be availed them. He feels that post-civil war Nigeria has not given the average Igbo man enough space to express himself and to aspire to leadership. He thinks that there is a conspiracy not to allow the Igbo people to become leaders in Nigeria. Whether real or imagined, he needs to be engaged in a dialogue. He shouldn’t be treated as a fugitive and a rebel. He is not leading an insurrection. He is leading an advocacy for fairness and equity. If that is not acceptable, he is requesting that there be a new structure in Nigeria or secession. These are the discussions the government should have with him. He has not carried arms and not fought nor has he gone into the forest. He is asking for a referendum, a discussion, and he should be listened to and spoken with. If he can garner enough support for what he wants, then we can have a proper referendum. Even in England, they had a referendum on staying in Europe or not. They had a referendum over Scotland staying in England or leaving. That is the same with Nnamdi Kanu’s cause. The popular vote should carry the day. This is nation-building. This is politics and nationalism. That is why we have been appealing to the Federal Government to listen to Nnamdi Kanu, and not turn him into a hero of some sort or else this may boomerang out of control. Let’s talk about the Church. There are those who say churches have become commercial ventures with pastors exploiting Nigerians who turn to them for succour in the face of socioeconomic hardship. What is your response to this? We cannot use one brush to paint the whole. The fact that one of two pastors do that does not mean that the entire church does that. There are good Christians and ‘good’ Christians. Same as politicians and everything else you can think about. It is true that a few pastors and leaders have created that kind of reputation for themselves, and so I think that the body of pastors should address this matter and talk to one another, cautioning one another. I am appealing to them also not to turn Christianity into a weapon of confusion for people. I think the Christian Association of Nigeria as well as the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria should know what to do to try and address this issue. It is such an irony that Nigeria has a huge number of churches yet the country is bedeviled with plenty of challenges. What will you say is responsible for this paradox? (Laughs) That is interesting! There are two points of view. One point of view says that if not for the churches and the prayers that they are offering and engagements that they are having with a lot of people, things will be much worse. The churches have given some people something to do, look forward to a glimmer of hope and expectation and have engaged them. Then again, the churches themselves need to improve on certain areas. They need to improve on their behaviour, spirituality, discipline, honesty and sincerity. The churches are populated by people whose entire practices have not been transformed. Because of this lack of transformation and the pressure they feel from the system, they tend to break a few laws and contradict themselves and not behave appropriately. The more people the church is able to influence positively, the better it would be in the long run. It is still a bit of a dash and it will take a while for evangelism and outreaches to have phenomenal effects. In December, Ghana announced a five-year jail term for preachers who release harmful New Year prophecies. Do you think Nigeria needs the same in the face of a myriad of prophecies coming from the pulpits? I don’t know what Ghana means by ‘harmful prophecies’ but there are some prophecies that because of the influence of the person who is saying it, may be damaging to the psyche of a lot of people. You will know that sometime in America there was some sect that thought the world was going to end on a certain day. They committed some kind of suicide or something. There was another set that believed in not wearing clothes and all that. There have been some sects of people in many areas of interest in society but then we need to balance this with the freedom of expression and speech that people have. If people are willing to listen to the prophecies of certain people and base their own conducts or attitude on that prophecy, provided they are not breaking any known law of the land, you really cannot legislate against that because it will also affect the freedom of speech. If the prophecy is making a lot of people behave irresponsibly and break a law, then the person who incited the people will need to face the appropriate legal sanctions and terms based on what he has done. I think the laws for incitement, blackmail, maligning character and challenging the moral and ethical standards of people are there. Anybody who is a party to it and feels that the expression by a prophet has maligned his character or caused him some kind of harm is free to take the appropriate legal position.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com