Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, has said that the security challenges confronting Nigeria could be fixed within 17 months. He said this during an interview with Arise TV  on Saturday. According to the second-term governor, insecurity is affecting the rating of the regime of the president, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd). Fayemi also noted that security chiefs in the country know what to do to end banditry and other security challenges in the country. He explained that not ending the security challenges within 17 months may mean that some people are benefitting from the “war economy”. He said, “If we can destroy that monster of insecurity, the opinion in the country will change dramatically. If we decide to go after these people without too much attachment to human rights and issues that may come up from the international communities. these people are not ghosts,” he said. “We know where the bandits are, so we can neutralise them and then begin to have the opportunity. It may not be completely finished under this government, but you can do that part of it under this administration. “Neutralise all these elements that are responsible for the chaos that they have thrown our nation into. Unless there are people within the security institutions who are benefiting from the war economy itself, there is no question that they know what to do and we can fix it in 17 months.” Nigeria’s biggest challenge in 2021 is insecurity -FG Earlier, the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, had said insecurity is the major challenge faced by the Federal Government in 2021. He said this on Thursday during a press conference to showcase the achievements of the president, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.)’s regime during the outgoing year 2021. According to him, despite the long list of achievements by Buhari’s regime, insecurity was a major challenge. He, however, explained that the Armed Forces of Nigeria recorded some successes using a combination of kinetic and non-kinetic operations, coupled with a review of strategies. He said, “Let me admit straight away that the year has not been devoid of challenges. For the outgoing year, in particular, the major challenge has been that of insecurity. In spite of this and the usual economic challenges, especially the dwindling resources available to the government, the Administration has availed itself creditably, as we will be demonstrating shortly. “As I said in my introductory remarks, our biggest challenge in the outgoing year is in the area of security. Despite the enormity of the challenge, our military has continued to live up to their billing.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com