The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Farouk Yahaya, has gifted a brand new Hilux truck to a retired Warrant Officer of the Nigerian Army, Stephen Ekpe, for his 35 years meritorious service to the nation. The Commander of the 13 Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Major General P. Malla, presented the truck during this year’s Armed Forces Remembrance Day held at the Millennium Park in Calabar on Saturday. Public officials and various service commanders in the state took part in the event during which a wreath was laid at the tomb of the unknown soldier by the State Deputy Governor, Ivara Esu and the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Eteng Williams. The State Chief Judge, Hon. Justice Akon Ikpeme and the Commander of the 13 Brigade of the Nigerian Army also laid wreaths in honour of the unknown soldier. The commander of the Nigerian Navy Ship Victory, state Commissioner of Police, Commandant of the Naval War College, state Chairman of the Nigerian Legion, among other officers also laid wreaths. Speaking, Permanent Secretary Special Services Governor’s office Alfred Mboto, said “The country will never forget those who paid the supreme price in the service of the country.” He said the welfare of officers serving in the state was the priority of the state government and urged them to put in their best for the country. After receiving the vehicle gift, Stephen Ekpe thanked the Chief of Army Staff, describing him as a man of integrity for keeping his words. He said, though retired, they still have a lot to contribute to the country by way of intelligence gathering and improving the security situation in the country. The Armed Forces Remembrance Day ended with 21 gun salute and the release of white pigeons by the State Deputy Governor. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com