The Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, is among the Africans nominated for the forthcoming Blue Economy Awards set to hold in March in Nairobi, Kenya. According to the organisers, the Africa Blue Economy Forum is in recognition of distinguished African professionals and political leaders who have made verifiable contributions towards the advancement of the blue (ocean) economy. Amaechi, a former governor of Rivers State was nominated for the Maritime Security category. “This is in recognition for his role in the introduction and implementation of deep blue security project which has led to a marked reduction of the incidences of piracy at sea and overall improvement of maritime security across the Gulf of Guinea,” the statement said. Sierra Leone’s President, Julius Bio, was nominated as the champion of Blue Economy in Africa for providing political leadership, improved regulation by enforcing the rule of law, and promoting investments in the blue economy. According to Politico, a former Prime Minister of Kenya, Raila Odinga, also earned nomination for the Livelihood Improvement category for promoting programmes and efforts to improve livelihood and social inclusion in coastal communities in Kenya through harnessing blue economy opportunities in tourism, transport and aquaculture. Nassim Oulmane, chief, blue and green economy of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, was nominated in the Climate Change and Economic Development category for the role in the promotion of multi-sectoral collaboration for advancing blue economy and climate change. Barka Mossae of the African Union is the nominee for the Partnership category, in recognition of her role in promoting partnerships for the enhancing of the blue economy at the African Union, according to the statement. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com