Another fatal crash which occurred on Thursday at about 11:33 pm at Kafin Liman village along Bauchi-Kano road, claimed eight lives and injuring four others, The PUNCH has learnt. This is coming barely 11 hours after seven people were killed and two sustained varying degrees of injuries in a fatal crash that occurred at Haka Yafi village close to Buzaye town along Bauchi-Jos road in Toro local government area of Bauchi state. The crash which involved two commercial vehicles, Sharon Galaxy bus with registration number: YLA 88 ZY which was driven by one Mustapha Adamu and Toyota Hiace bus with registration number: KUJ 182 TU, occurred at 11:30pm on Thursday. It was caused by speed violation which resulted into loss of control and eventually, a head-on collision adding that the Toyota Hiace bus, went up in flames. Confirming the second incident, the Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corp, Bauchi State Command, Yusuf Abdullahi, told our correspondent that the incident happened in Ganjuwa LGA of the state involving three vehicles. He said the three vehicles are: a DAF trailer with registration number: KMC95YU, a Ford Galaxy Bus with registration number: NNG21MG and a Saloon Opel Vectra also with registration number: BAU490AA. According to him, all of them are commercial vehicles adding that the names of the drivers are yet to be ascertained. He said the crash was caused by an obstruction on the road. Abdullahi said, “I am right there at the scene of the crash as I speak with you because you know the crash occurred late in the night along Bauchi-Ningi road. “What I was informed was that the trailer got spoiled on the road and it was while they were trying to fix it that the crash occurred. Although there was a caution sign on the trailer, but there wasn’t on the ground some meters away to caution anyone coming that a car had broken down on the road. They said it were trying to put it, when the incident happened. “The Opel ran into the trailer and the Ford Galaxy which was driving behind also came and hit it from behind, further pushing it under the trailer and that was why it was that bad. The time the trailer broke down and the time when the Opel ran into it was short. “The two damaged vehicles are still there and we are trying our best to clear the instructions. It is really very unfortunate. The Opel is a write-off while the Ford Galaxy was badly damaged at its front completely. “We were called 10 minutes after the incident and our men arrived there 10 minutes after for a rescue operation. A total of 12 people, nine male adults and three female adults, were involved in the crash. “When our men got there, they rushed the victims to Kafin Madaki General Hospital for medical treatment and confirmation. There, a medical doctor confirmed eight people, five male adults and three female adults, dead. Four other people sustained various degrees of injuries.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com