The family of a 19-year-old Nigerian, Fadlullah Agboluaje, who left Nigeria for a Ukrainian school, Lviv Polytechnic National University, has asked the school to provide the autopsy report to show the cause of the his sudden death a few days after arriving in Ukraine. In a petition on change.org titled, “Tell us the Truth of my 19-Year-Old Son in Ukraine: A Helpless Mother’s Cry,’ which had as of 4.42pm on Saturday over 9,000 signatures, the family demanded an explanation from the university where the deceased was admitted for a degree in Engineering. Rofeeha, the sister of the deceased in the petition, maintained that Fadlullah, was healthy when he left Nigeria on January 8, 2022, for Ukraine. She said, “He was picked up from the airport by a Lviv Polytechnic National University representative to the school’s accommodation facility – please provide the name – the same day, January 9, 2022. On getting to the room assigned to him, he wasn’t happy with the way it looked and my mum told him to request a change of room. “So, he went to the front desk of the accommodation facility to report to the personnel on duty but unfortunately, the person didn’t understand English so he ended up reaching out to the liaison officer, the undersigned agent on the letter the school sent before he left for Ukraine. “This man asked my brother to see him in the morning the following day by 7 am. My mum chatted with my brother up until 11(pm), Nigeria time, on Sunday/Monday January 10, 2022. Then on Monday, we didn’t hear from my brother; all his calls were going through, messages were dropping but no responses at all. My mum began to panic and reached out to different people for help as at afternoon time after we got no response all morning. Then it struck her that she could copy the number of the liaison officer on the letter. So, she reached out to him also. “Later that afternoon, he stopped responding to calls, keeping us in the dark. He ended up picking up his calls later that evening and then gave a student in that accommodation facility the phone to break the news that my brother was found dead on the floor of his room. It was a big shock. “My brother left Nigeria very healthy. He took a COVID-19 test on January 7 and tested negative. He got the full COVID-19 vaccination, took his yellow fever vaccine, ran a complete health check at our family hospital and the results came out fine.” According to her, after the family got the news, they began to ask the liaison officer to send them the picture of Fadlullah to ascertain if he was truly dead but didn’t get it until there following evening. The family, therefore, asked the university to provide the official result of the autopsy report and for Nigeria’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, its embassy in Ukraine and the Ukraine Embassy to explain to them what has happened in the matter. “Why has Lviv Polytechnic National University not contacted or reached out to us? Is my brother not their responsibility? He was already in the school’s territory! What was done to justify their duty of care for the student? We need a statement from the school about what happened to my brother. We need answers; we’re being kept in the dark. We need justice for Fadlullah Agboluaje,” part of the petition read.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com