The Youth Organising Secretary for the All Progressives Congress, Lagos State chapter, Mr Idris Aregbe, has advised youths to participate in politics. Aregbe made the call at the inauguration of a 17-man committee which he said would motivate Lagos youth for active participation in voting and other political processes. Some of the 17-man committee members who were charged with the responsibility of mobilising the youth for political participation include  Demola Fashola, Nikki Ofondu, Tosin Ashafa, Ahabue Borha, Mobolaji Ogunlende, Disu Olajumoke, Tobi Phillips to mention a few. He said the establishment of the committee was a clarion call to young Nigerians to take up space in politics so as to be included in the decision-making process. He said, “For representation, forward-thinking and the future of Nigerian politics, this action is very pivotal. The committee will also create programmes that engage the youth for community development and political education. “I believe that the youth has the capacity to alter the dynamics of the Nigerian political scene for the better, but this cannot be done if the youths do not take immediate action towards securing the future. His passionate commitment for assembling youths regarding political participation has birthed this initiative. Youth involvement in politics will determine the fate of Nigeria’s future, economically and otherwise.  And we must be ready and willing to make those sacrifices.” He also said the political education required to equip the youth for governance was lacking “The necessary political education required to equip the youths for governance is largely lacking; this is one of the issues that this committee is convened to address. “Beyond vying for political positions in the executive arm of government, the youths should be ready to take up shared responsibility through community involvement, obtaining their Permanent Voter’s Card and engaging with political parties. “Youths need to become more involved in political parties, political appointments, elections and civic spaces as a matter of right, rather than that of someone’s benevolence as it is sometimes suggested; this is a pragmatic strategy towards finding lasting solutions to various challenges across Nigeria,”  he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com