The Coalition of Northern Groups on Wednesday protested against increase in school fees and other levies across tertiary institutions in the country. While giving the government three weeks ultimatum to address the issue, the organisation warned that except stringent measures are put in place to check the increase, the number of girls that would drop out of school would increase. The national coordinator of CNG (Students Wing), Jamilu Aliyu, raised the issues during a press conference in Abuja. Aliyu said institutions such as Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi in the North East; Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria in the North West made over 100 per cent increase and Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai in Niger State in the North Central made over 60 per cent increase. He said, “The CNG-SW is disturbed by reports from its state chapters of an attempt by the federal and state governments to commercialise education to make it the exclusive preserve of treasury looters at the expense of children of millions of less-privileged Nigerians. “If the fees hike is not reviewed downward, it might force many students to drop out of school and increase social vices, as students might be compelled to survive by all means. “We, therefore, urge the governments at all levels to revert to the old fee to enable students from poor and marginalised families to access tertiary education and break the chain of poverty. “Finally, while we appeal to the students to be law abiding and not to take laws into their hands in the quest to seek reversal of the fee increase. We equally pray that the government will listen to the cries of innocent Nigerian students within three weeks to avoid speaking in a language that the government understand best.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com