Guinea-Bissau goalkeeper, Jonas Mendes, has warned their opponents to underrate them at their own peril ahead of the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon later this month. Guinea-Bissau are pooled in Group D alongside Egypt, Nigeria, and Sudan and the side from West Africa, who are yet to make it out of the tournament’s group stage in the last two editions face another uphill task having found themselves in a tough group. However, a confident Mendes feels the Djurtus, as they are fondly called, have what it takes to cause an upset and make history at the tournament in Cameroon. Asked to send a strong message to their opponents, the captain said, “Beware of facing us, because everyone thinks Guinea-Bissau is a small team. We will surprise a lot of people; we are capable of that, so you have to take us seriously.” He added, “We know that it is not easy to qualify, but every time we play, we play for ourselves and for our country because we give them happiness when we achieve positive results,” Mendes said in an interview with Filgoal. “As a captain, I just try to tell my teammates that we are here and we play for the people who are suffering in our country and we must do our best to help them smile.” Even if they are only going to smile for a day. I think everything will be better with them. “We try to give our best and in the last year we have made them very happy and I feel satisfied with that.” Guinea-Bissau face three-time Africa champions, Nigeria in their last group game of Group D at the Roumdé Adjia Stadium, Garoua on January 19. Along with Mendes, head coach, Baciro Candé, has invited Porto’s Nanu, Monaco’s Pele, Vitória Setúbal’s Frédéric Mendy, Plymouth Argyle’s Panache Camara, and Sochaux’s Steve Ambri for the all-important fixtures.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com