The National Human Rights Commission in Kaduna recorded 524 complaints of sexual and gender-based violence against women in 2021. The State Coordinator of the Commission, Terngu Gwar, disclosed this to the News Agency of Nigeria on Monday in Kaduna. He attributed the rise in SGBV to COVID-19 pandemic, stating that the pandemic brought about restriction of movement and many people lost their jobs. The coordinator said the pandemic made so many people lost their jobs and this brought about poverty which fuels bitterness and anger in people. He said in 2021, out of 524 of the cases received, 224 are primarily on Domestic Violence on women, even though there are other various forms of violence against women and girls. “Other violence such as rape, child abandonment, forceful marriage, trafficking, threat to life and custody/ access to children. “233 out of the cases reported have been concluded, while the rest were still being attended to,” he stated. The coordinator stated that the commission do not only receive complaints but also mediate on reconciliation of matters among couples and families. “The commission mediate on reconciliation of matters such as domestic violence, child/family abandonment and custody/ access to children. “The commission however does not mediate reconciliation on criminal cases like rape and trafficking, as such cases are handed over to the police and who will then take it court,” he noted. Gwar further stated that there was an increase in awareness about human rights, which explains the increase in the number of petitions we are getting from people and organisations. “Many women now have voices. They have social media; they know places to take their complaints to, voice out their violations and this is making people aware of what is going on,” he said. He also said the commission had carried out various programmes and activities including holding public hearings on domestic violence. The coordinator said the commission engaged in community outreaches, radio programs and visited secondary schools to sensitive pupils and also teachers to SGBV. He added that more sensitisation was needed at the grassroots level so that people would become more conscious of protecting and enforcing their rights and the consequences and punishments that await any culprit The coordinator called for more grassroots sensitisation for people to become more aware of the importance of protecting and enforcing their rights, as well as the consequences and punishments awaiting any perpetrators. (NAN)