The New Afrika Shrine domiciled in Agidingbi, Ikeja, Lagos, has for years been a haven for lovers of afrobeat music and afrocentric dances. At the entrance to the Shrine, there are some receptionists on hand to ensure that guests adhere strictly to COVID-19 protocols. Once inside the Shrine, one is greeted by inscriptions on the wall such as, ‘Welcome to the New Afrika Shrine’ and ‘The Secret of Life is to Have No Fear’, ‘Beware, Aids is Real: Protect Yourself’ and ‘United We Stand, Divided We Fall: Africa Must Unite’. On entering further into the belly of the event centre, there are pictures of the late Fela Anikulapo-Kuti and his late mother, Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti, as well as the names of African gods such as Obatala, Sango, Orunmila, Osun, Obaluaye, Yemoja, Ogun, Osoosi and Olokun. Our correspondent who visited the Shrine on Thursday witnessed Fela’s first son, Femi Anikulapo-Kuti, performing alongside his own son, Made. They both played the saxophone on stage for some minutes as spectators cheered them on. They were also accompanied by dancers, who moved their bodies vigorously to the infectious afrobeat tunes wafting from the speakers. Some minutes into their performance, Femi said, “You know one thing about music? It makes you accountable. My son, Made, would be playing here on Wednesday, February 11, 2022, in the spirit of Valentine. You all should come and watch him.” Femi Kuti rehearses at the New Afrika Shrine on Thursdays while Made practices on some Wednesdays, and Seun Kuti is always on hand on the last Saturday of every month. Though some have the impression that the Shrine is a place where anything goes, without interference by law enforcement personnel, our correspondent observed some persons loitering outside the venue running helter-skelter. Upon enquiries, it was discovered that they weren’t been chased by anyone. One of the guests told Merrymakers that those who were running did so because they were usually harassed by men of the Lagos State Security Task Force. Beyond the performances at the Shrine, it is also home to different people and activities. On approaching the venue, one is greeted by an array of sex workers lined up on both sides of the street, soliciting for clients for either ‘short-time’ or overnight sexual encounters. Our correspondent gathered that the women of easy virtue make use of hotels that are close to the Shrine or the client’s preferred location, as long as the customer is ready to whatever extra bills are incurred. One of the ladies, who gave her name as Jennifer, told our correspondent. “For ‘short-time’, you would pay me N2000, and we could have it somewhere around here. We could also lodge in a hotel room. But, if you want us to be together for the night, it would cost you N5000, and the time would start counting from 12am. If we have to go now (around 10pm), I can’t take N5000 from you but N10000, as you would be ‘buying’ my whole night.” Another sex worker, who identified herself as Chioma, was approached by our correspondent and she said, “I have been here all night and I’m yet to meet my target. If you want me to go home with you or lodge at a hotel, I would take N8000 from you. But if you want us to do a ‘short-time’ session, I would take N3000 and satisfy you.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com