No fewer than three persons were reportedly killed during the alleged invasion of some gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen at Molege Community in Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State on Thursday evening. It was gathered that the attackers allegedly attacked the community following the refusal of the residents of the community to allow the herdsmen to graze on their farms. After the attack, a source narrated that the herdsmen razed down the buildings in the community overnight while the members of the village had run away for their safety. The source said, “The herdsmen in their large number attacked the community in evening and killed three people. Some hours after, in the night, they burnt down houses in the community. Another source said the bandits also attacked and injured some men of the Ondo State Security Network Agency also known as Amotekun Corps, who moved to the community, to calm the crisis. In a reaction, the Commander of the Ondo State Amotekun, Akogun Adetunji Adeleye, who confirmed the incident said the herdsmen attacked his men while on patrol to the community. Adeleye said, “While on a routine patrol at Molege, our men were informed that some nearby villages in Molege have been taken over by herdsmen while they burnt down some people’s properties. “We moved in with three patrol vehicles and took control of the situation in the village. On their way back, some men suspected to be herdsmen suddenly opened fire on our men in an unprovoked attack because Amotekun does not want to start shooting at people. “We are trying to find out who they are as an investigation is ongoing. We urged the people of the community to come back to their homes as peace has returned back to the village.” Similarly, the Ondo State Commissioner of Police, Oyeyemi Oyediran, in a statement, by the Public Relations Officer, Funmilayo Odunlami, paid a visit to the community, on Friday for on the spot assessment to ascertain the level of damage caused in the area. The statement, which also confirmed the attack, said the bandits razed the houses overnight. The statement read in part, “The CP during his visit to the scene, met with the community members, encouraged them, allayed their fears and vowed to arrest and prosecute all those involved in the evil act accordingly. “The CP immediately deployed men of the Special Squads and PMF personnel to the community to ensure the protection of lives and property in the area. “The command is also using this opportunity to assure the good people of Ondo State of adequate protection of their lives and property in the State and are enjoined to give the police genuine information that will help reduce crime to the barest minimum in the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com