Digital technology has brought huge benefits to socio-communication including economic and social lives of people. This was evident during the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic which brought a transition from working from an office to working from home. Interestingly, research has revealed that workers no longer want a return to the traditional five-day-a-week work routine but the flexibility of working remotely. A survey carried out by KnowBe4 on remote work in Africa, 2021, revealed that 57 per cent of organisations in South Africa, 29 per cent in Kenya and 32 per cent in Nigeria would continue to work remotely on a flexible basis. This data aligns with the November and December 2020 findings by PricewaterhouseCoopers that 83 per cent of employers recorded success in the organisations and productivity of their employers when they worked remotely. However, since remote work requires total dependence on technological tools and cyberspace, a strong robust cybersecurity amid increasing cyberattacks and crimes is desired. Britannica defines cybercrime, also called computer crime, as “the use of a computer as an instrument to further illegal ends, such as committing fraud, trafficking in child pornography and intellectual property, stealing identities, or violating privacy.” The January/February 2022 publication by the Council on Foreign Relations indicated that the first known cyberattack was in 1988 when a postgraduate in Computer Science, Robert Morris, “released a small piece of software, eventually dubbed ‘the Morris Worm’ that created outages across the still-nascent Internet.” The attack consequently brought out the need for cybersecurity by creating ‘improved defence’ and the ‘capability to conduct effective counter threats to national interests in cyberspace. A business insurance, technology and expertise company in the United States of America, Embroker, reported that during the COVID-19 pandemic, due to the newness and uncertainty around remote working, the rate of cybercrime increased to about 600 per cent. It also reports that cyberattacks had been rated the fifth-top risk in 2020. The Guardian, in one of its articles on cybercrime, reported that working remotely had opened the floodgates to ransomware in the United States. It further reported an exponential increase in cyberthreat. Also, the Bureau of Labour Statistics noted that the demand for cybersecurity professionals was on the increase and predicted a 33 per cent growth by 2030. Findings from a global survey conducted by a next-generation cybersecurity company based in the United Kingdom, Sophos, stated that in 2020, the dependence on technology for digital organisations increased the demand for IT experts to provide cybersecurity by 69 per cent. It also reported a 60 per cent increase in the number of cyberattacks on organisations they worked with. It added that due to the increase in attacks, many organisations planned to increase the “size of in-house and outsourced IT teams” as well as depend on artificial intelligence to “deal with the growing number and complexity of threats.” “Data is the new oil of the 21st century,” said Clive Humby, a British mathematician in 2006; no wonder, the global increase in cybercrimes and attacks. A cybersecurity evangelist at KnowBe4, Anna Collard, said, “remote working may have become an invaluable tool for the organisation, but it comes with a security caveat – people have to be properly trained to recognise the risks inherent in online interactions. One of the immediate defences against cybercrime is an employee that has been well-trained and understands how to spot and report cyber threats. People should know what a social engineering attack looks like, and why they should not click on links or open attachments. And this points to an urgent need for security training.” Cybersecurity experts, while lauding the advancement in technology in making remote work successful, raised concerns over the imminent increase in cyberattacks and data breaches by cybercriminals on unsuspecting and unprotected organisations and employees. They further called for the creation of awareness on cybersecurity and ‘cyber hygiene’ among users of the Internet. Commenting on the issue, a fraud risk management expert and cybercrime researcher, Chukwunonso Okoro, stated that working remotely came with the risk of exposing organisations and employees to cyberattacks. Okoro said, “This is because the office environment has internal architecture and access and these are protected by firewalls and software that can detect intrusions and to prevent them and mitigate them. Meanwhile, these advantages are no longer there for workers who work from home because what is mostly used is the router for internet connection and the layers of security are not provided. “Then, it is easy for an attacker or intruder or cybercriminal to have access to such gadgets and there is nothing to protect such persons except for those that are IT experts who can set up security measures. But most of those working from home don’t have this.’’ Okoro further said that remote work also breached the integrity, confidentiality and security of documents. He urged individuals to update their antivirus to secure their gadgets from malware attacks that would clone their devices and pose a security threat to the organisations. He also advised organisations to ensure employees were given adequate internet access that would enable updating of security software on the laptops and secure communication to the office. Okoro also noted that companies should ensure the connection of their employees to their corporate network using only trusted virtual private networks to achieve a secure and encrypted network. “Employees working from home should be sent out weekly reminders regarding information security and make them know that whatever the company has forbidden from installing on their laptop in the office, should not be installed at home because all those things are designed to keep the company security safe. Employees should also be reminded of the need for confidentiality during work hours at home. The company should have highly skilled security experts who can monitor emerging trends and come up with solutions before they materialise,” Okoro stated. Also, a technology policy analyst, data protection and cybersecurity lawyer, Moses Faya, said that the transition to remote working and deep reliance on technology could, for everyday tasks, pose an increase in cyberattacks, data breaches and ransomware. He urged constant awareness for employees to make use of the company’s devices for work purposes alone. He added that those who use personal computers to access the company’s information should ensure they input cybersecurity measures such as a comprehensive antivirus, good encryption and a well-protected Wi-Fi to prevent data breaches. He added, “Another way is to update all software, operating systems on the computer but one needs to be cautious. Again, for example, the webcam which is used for conference calls and others, you need to ensure that is it always off when not in use, that is another advantage of having a different device for work. Before you click on links sent to your email, ensure that it is coming from the right source. Also, there is the need to have a central place where official documents are stored and is accessible to every worker. Organisations need to ensure that information is protected and have duplicate sources of information stored in the cloud in the event of a ransomware attack. “Employers need to create awareness among their workers on the need for cybersecurity and ‘cyber hygiene.’ For example, during the week and at the end of the workweek, there could be an email from the IT unit telling everyone to be security cautious and other security tips. If this is done continuously, it would register in people subconsciously and will be on the lookout for these things.” On his part, a software engineer and tech content creator, Adora Nwodo, said hybrid work culture was the new normal and called for improvement in infrastructural facilities to aid its effectiveness. She added, “Now more than ever, it’s important to educate employees about cyberthreats, phishing emails, passwords and their interactions on the internet. Companies that deal with sensitive data for customers should also ensure that their employees have two-factor authentication properly set up. Companies that can also afford it should provide internet stipends for their staff members so that they can get personal modems for work and those that can’t afford one should properly educate people about why it’s a bad idea to use public Wi-Fi so that they are aware of the types of networks they join.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com