Bandits have released another set of two students of the Bethel Baptist High School who were kidnapped on July 5, 2021 at Maraban Damishi in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Kaduna State chapter, Rev. John Hayab, confirmed the release of the students. Hayab said with the release of the two students, 120 abducted students of the school have been freed so far. According to him, only one student is now left with the bandits. “The number of the released students includes one student, who was freed on December 28, 2021 and another one who was freed on January 1. “With the release of these two students, a total of 120 students have regained their freedom so far and only one student is still with the bandits,” he added. The PUNCH reported that in the early hours of July 5, 2021, bandits invaded the school located at Maraban Damishi, Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State and kidnapped 121 students. Meanwhile, the association has hailed the state police command for the raid on one of the bandits’ hideouts which led to the arrest of two bandits and the rescue of nine victims at the Sabon -Birnin forest in Igabi Local Government Area of the state. Hayab said, “CAN, Kaduna State wishes to commend the Kaduna State Police Command for a job well done. “This is what Kaduna residents and citizens have been yearning and praying for. We hope this tempo will be sustained till criminals are defeated in our state. “This development is good and cheering, most especially that it is coming as we begin a new year. “CAN, Kaduna State also wishes to inform the public that two of our Bethel Baptist High school students have been released by the bandits but one is still in captivity. “These children were kidnapped since July 5, last year. Others have been released with three remaining but one was released on Tuesday, December 28, 2021 and another one yesterday, January 1, 2022. “We hope that the sustainable effort like this from the police may help to bring the one and last of the students and others who are still in captivity back home very soon.” Hayab, who is also the Vice Chairman of the association in the North, added, “These bandits have toyed with the joy and peace of Kaduna people enough and should not be given any space again to torment innocent citizens this new year. “CAN will continue to pray and support our security men and women just as we will also never stop to tell them the truth when they fail in their duties. “CAN therefore is appealing to all citizens not to keep to themselves any information that they have which could be useful to the security agencies in their operations. We need to remind ourselves always that security is everyone’s business.” Copyright PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com