Samuel, the son of Funmilayo Adebayo, an evangelist nicknamed Mummy GO, and now trending on social media, has said that his mother is not bothered about the hellfire memes circulating online. He, however, said many of the texts attributed to his mum in the memes about hellfire were fabricated and untrue imaginations. Samuel, in a chat with The PUNCH on Friday, said though his 54-year-old mother made some comments about some actions that might attract hellfire as destination in the afterlife, she never coerced people to believe her. The son of the preacher who is in his early 30s also urged social media users not to take his mother’s comments personal but to feel free to ignore or accept any of her sermons that align with their belief system. Samuel said, “Social media has always been a platform where anything can be posted at any point in time but everything that has been posted about her saying she said this and that are all lies, nothing is true about the memes, they are just fabricating the memes, everybody with their contents, writing all sorts of things and tagging her pictures. We are used to it; the best thing is to ignore them. “Even though she said everything about hell, there is nowhere she said by fire, by force, people must agree and accept what she is saying. I don’t think she has ever made that kind of statement before. “Everybody is entitled to believe what they want to believe. I don’t know why people are taking it personal. There is the freedom to believe whatever one wants to believe and neglect whatever one wants to neglect but there is always the freedom of expression. Even Christ didn’t say that people must accept Him by fire by force as the son of God.” The founder of Rapture Proclaimer Evangelical Church of God earned the nickname Mummy GO after some video clips of her hell-threatening sermons went viral. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com