The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), felicitates with Minister of Federal Capital Territory, Mohammed Bello and Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Pauline Tallen, on their 63rd birthdays, January 8, 2022, celebrating both members of the Federal Executive Council who, incidentally, share same anniversary. This is according to a statement signed on Friday by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, titled ‘President Buhari hails ministers, FCT, Mohammed Musa Bello, women affairs, Pauline Tallen at 63.’ Buhari who rejoiced with Minister of FCT, Bello, a former banker and administrator, noted his efforts at reforms, ensuring compliance and more decency in allocations, spurred and sustained by integrity. He congratulated the minister for providing visionary leadership for the city that hosts the seat of government, diplomatic missions, multilateral institutions, headquarters of businesses and hospitality homes. The President affirmed that Bello’s unassuming personality, cordiality and sincerity continue to win friends for the regime and country, providing a level playing ground for indigenes and settlers in the development of the FCT, and making it one of the most attractive places for business and leisure. For the Minister of Women Affairs, Tallen, Buhari felicitated with her family, friends and associates on the birthday, extolling her courage, forthrightness and vision in driving affirmation of women in governance, education of children and more attention on the girl-child, with her notable scores as first female Deputy Governor in the North and Minister of State, Science and Technology. The President congratulated the former Plateau State Deputy Governor for her steadfastness and commitment to the betterment of the nation, with over 45 years in politics, starting out as clerical officer at Shendam local government council in 1976, then later Ministry of Local Government Affairs, commissioner and working very hard in contesting the governorship of her state, leaving an inspiration for women. The President, therefore, prayed for the wellbeing of the ministers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com