The Ogun State Controller of the Nigeria Correctional Service, Abdularasheed Alimi, has said that there is full protection around the custodial centers in the state. Alimi said the incidents of jailbreak in some parts of the country made him put measures in place to guard against any form of attack. He said the facility now enjoys 24-hour joint security protection by both officers of the service, military men and other sister agencies. He said this on Friday while receiving delegates of a former governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, who donated foodstuffs and cash to the inmates at Ibara custodial centre as part of the celebration of his 64th birthday. Fielding questions from journalists on measures put in place to prevent attack on correctional centers, Alimi said, “We have ensured that there is 24-hour security in and around our facilities both by the correctional officers and our sister agencies such as the military. We are 100 per cent sure that we will not have any problem of jailbreak.” While appreciating the gesture of their visitors, he said, “We are highly grateful. This will definitely give us a lot of leverage in terms of needs for inmates’ welfare. We will just continue to thank him and we pray that God will continue to give him all his heart desires.” Speaking on the reason for their gesture, Bola Adeyemi, the media aide to Senator Amosun, said it is the culture of his boss(Senator Amosun) to give to correctional  centers and motherless babies homes in the state in celebration of his birthday. Adeyemi also said his boss believed that inmates are humans  just like any other who deserved to be catered  for. He said “Whatever little you can do for humanity, whatever you can do for anybody, do it irrespective of the season, it doesn’t matter whether it’s your birthday or whatever, it is not only during his birthday that he donates to people. “The inmates  are Nigerians, they are humans like any other person, so if they are there, the ideal  thing  is to correct them, so if there is anything anybody can do to effectively ensure that the correction is done, we should be doing it and that is part of what Senator Ibikunle Amosun is doing. “It is good to be our neighbours’ keepers. Let us extend to other people whatever God has given to us, let us try and see how far we can help others.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com