Workbay Technology Limited, the owner of The Maverick Gbagada Estate Project www.maverick.ng just raised $2m (Two Million Dollars) to finance infrastructure for its debut real estate project “The Maverick Gbagada”. The Maverick Gbagada is a 60 plot serviced estate located along Gbagada – Oworonshoki Expressway, Gbagada. The estate is poised to be one of the best on the mainland when completed. The infrastructures that will be provided include; Estate gate, road network, drainage system, electrification, water, green areas, and so on. Gbenga Aiyeremi, the CEO of Workbay Technology Limited while breaking the news gave the glory to God. He added: “Considering the fact this is our debut in real estate, being able to attract and raise such an investment speak lots of volume about our Company’s culture and track record. This is indeed a landmark achievement and can only give a sneak peek into what the future holds for us. The fund raising was led by Citacreed, who believed in our dream and made the financing possible. The fund comprises of equity and line of credit. In the same vein of event, Workbay announced the onboarding of Sola Adeyinka (CFA, ACCA), one of Nigeria’s finest Financial Advisor into its advisory board. “Sometimes it is not just enough to raise funds, but putting financial control in place could make all the difference. Having Sola onboard is just about the perfect decision.” says Sola Adeyeye, the Company’s Co-CEO. Gbenga seized the opportunity to advise those interested in owning a plot of land at “The Maverick Gbagada” to make their purchase now as pre-infrastructure sales will end by 31st of January, 2022. This will help prospective Owner/Investor save at least N10m. This is apparently the best time to come onboard. To learn more about The Maverick Gbagada Project, kindly visit: Ikeja: Workbay Building, 3/9 Olukoleoso Street, Off Medical Road, Ikeja, Lagos. Maryland: 14A, Bayo Dejonwo Street, Custom Estate Maryland, Lagos. Onikan: Lagos City Mall Onikan, Lagos Island, Lagos www.maverick.ng sales@maverick.ng 08056868257, 09032275411