The Indigenous People of Biafra has declared sit-at-home on Tuesday, January 18, 2022, in the South-East. The group said it gave the order following Nnamdi Kanu’s court proceedings coming up on January 18, 19 and 20, 2022 at the Umuahia High Court. A statement by the group’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, on Saturday, read, “Following our leader’s upcoming court proceedings on January 18, 19 and 20, 2022, we wish to remind Biafrans that there will be only sit-at-home on January 18 and not 19 and 20. In keeping with our avowed solidarity with our leader, the entire South-East will be on lock down only on January 18 for obvious reasons.” Powerful said the clarification became necessary because the group realised that some “unscrupulous traitors” within its ranks, are trying to create confusion about these days and dishing false information and propaganda trying to create confusion in the South-East. He pointed out that anybody issuing an order for sit-at-home on January 19 and 20 was not a member of IPOB, adding that such persons were working against the entire struggle for independence and should be disregarded. The statement also tagged anyone found enforcing the non-existent Monday sit-at-home on January 17 as a criminal, saying that IPOB leadership had already cancelled it and it must be obeyed. The statement read in part, “Biafrans should understand that January 19, 2022, is the judgment day in the suit by our leader against the Federal Government, which is pending before an Umuahia High Court. So, there will be no sit-at-home on that day and on January 20. “In keeping with our avowed solidarity with our leader, the entire South-East will be on lockdown only on January 18 for obvious reasons. We don’t want to compound the pains of our people, hence, we will limit the sit-at-home to only January 18. People are free to go about their normal businesses without molestations on January 19 and 20. “Nobody is expected to interfere with either human or vehicular movements on those days under any guise. Any detractor or agent of darkness caught obstructing peoples activities in Biafra land on January 19 and 20 in the name of enforcing sit-at-home will regret his or her actions.”
The group further maintained that IPOB remains under one central command and control without any parallel or factional leadership. “Everybody must be careful because these waves that are coming will consume many and every principal of IPOB, mostly the coordinators must know that it will bounce on their heads if they don’t checkmate the activities of members and call them to order. IPOB is not a village or social club where everybody will behave untowardly toward people like cultists. “We expect our people everywhere to adhere to this directive and refuse to be misled by sacked members of IPOB in Europe and America. IPOB remains unshakeable, built and rooted on the rock and will remain so until the freedom for Biafra is fully achieved.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com