Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has advised Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State to continue with the state’s housing policy that will contribute to the Federal Government’s quest to provide housing for all. According to a statement by OPIC Press Office, Mrs. Olabisi Adegbite, the ex-president stated this in Abeokuta during the 2022 Thanksgiving Service of the Ogun State Property and Investment Corporation. He was quoted as saying that the state government’s housing schemes, particularly the Kings Court Estate Phase 1 recently inaugurated by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari, was a notable achievement. The estate, he said, was built to a standard that promotes environmental serenity, economic development and mobilisation of private investments in the state. Obasanjo also encouraged the management and members of staff not to rest on their oars. The Special Adviser to the Governor and Managing Director, OPIC, Abiodun Fari-Arole, in his remarks, attributed the achievements of the corporation to the professionalism and commitment displayed by the staff in the discharge of their duties. He said, “Although the year 2021 was challenging, we were still able to carry out some landmark projects.” The OPIC boss highlighted some of the achievements recorded in the previous year including the completion of the Kings Court Estate Phase I, construction of Kings Court Estate Phase II, renovation of June 12 Cultural Centre, and renovation of OPIC House Iseri. Fari-Arole appreciated the staff for their cooperation and charged them to be more diligent and dedicated to their duties. The Head of Personnel, OPIC, Mrs. Abidemi Adeyemi, was quoted as appreciating the management for creating a platform of unity that would allow the staff to have a sense of belonging, promising to ensure that the staffers are more productive in the New Year. Other dignitaries at the events include the wife of the former President, Mrs. Bola Obasanjo; some members of the Ogun State House of Assembly, including Kemi Oduwole and Kunle Sobunkola; and key members of OPIC management and staff.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com