Some Lagos residents, under the aegis of Lekki Estates Residents and Stakeholders Association, have sought the intervention of the state House of Assembly to stop alleged construction of some structures on a coastal road along Goshen Estate in Lekki. The association alleged that the coastal zone was leased to developers by top state government officials to the detriment of lives and property in the area. LERSA President, Olorogun Emadoye, in a statement on Saturday, said one of the builders had constructed permanent structures on the coastal road and others were preparing to follow suit. “LERSA is, therefore, compelled to bring this development to the attention of the Lagos State House of Assembly and appeal to the honourable members to use their good offices to ensure an urgent resolution that puts an end to a threat that is capable of dislocating the peace and tranquility that currently exist in our state,” the statement read in part. The statement further stated that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu had, prior to the 2019 election, promised the residents that if elected his administration would construct the coastal road, noting that it was surprised the same zone was being allocated by government officials to developers. It stated, “The long-expected and much-needed Lekki Coastal Road planned by Lagos State Government to alleviate the severe traffic congestion in this axis is currently under threat following infringement by illegal developments beside Goshen Beach Estate and Regal Seaview Estates. “This is a clear and deliberate infringement on the state master plan in general and the coastal road in particular. We have established that three-quarters of the land has been leased out, with the remaining one quarter left in the hands of various illegal structures where miscreants and criminals operate freely, thereby creating a public nuisance and a security risk. “It would interest our honourable members and the general public to note that Goshen Beach Estate Residents Association had, in fact, built the road leading from the end of Edward Cotonou Road to the Goshen Beach Estate front gate at a cost of over N15m in January 2019.” The association said the zone provided the only alternative route between neigbouring Marwa and Ikate communities and was critical in easing the traffic congestion along the expressway. LERSA added, “This critical alternative route, which received approval from Lagos State Government, has now been blocked by the development and the height barrier installed to deter ton trucks unilaterally removed to allow access to trucks for the ongoing illegal projects.” The association said in October 2021 when residents discovered that a church was behind the construction, they wrote to the governor and drew the attention of the New Towns Development Authority, the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Ministry of Works and Infrastructure as well as the Surveyor-General’s Office to the development. According to LERSA, a meeting was held on 25 October 2021 during which the NTDA reportedly confirmed that a temporary lease was given to the church and an event Centre to rid the area of hoodlums and shanties. It said, “We demand that an immediate halt be placed on any development along the planned coastal road around Goshen Beach Estate and Regal Seaview Estate in particular and the entire coastal road. “This is in the light of the negative impact such developments are already having and will continue to have on local residents and the wider Lekki population. We are therefore calling on the Rt. Hon. Speaker and all well-meaning honourable members of the House to immediately look into this problem before it degenerates.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com