The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, Boboye Oyeyemi has commiserated with the families and victims of Thursday road crash that occurred around Bagauda Law School, on Kano-Zaria expressway, which claimed 19 lives He also ordered his commanding officers to clamp down on commercial vehicle operators that failed to install the speed limiting device. According to him, the order was to ensure the implementation of the 2016 Presidential directives on compulsory installation of speed limiting devices by commercial vehicles across board. Oyeyemi stated this in a statement on Saturday by the Corps Education Officer, Bisi Kazeem, titled, ‘Corps Marshal condoles with the families of victims of Kano-Zaria road crash, orders commanding officers to intensify clampdown on speed limit violation.’ The Corps Marshal expressed concern over the loss of precious lives, noting that reducing speed-related crashes was one of the strategic goals the Corps intended to achieve this year, hence the decision to clamp down on commercial vehicles which refused to comply with the policy on speed limiting device. The statement said, “While commiserating with families of the deceased and other victims, Oyeyemi stated that eradicating speed-related crashes from the highways has been the major focus since his assumption of office as the Corps Marshal. Explaining further, he stated that the Corps has continually carried out with all sense of responsibility and commitment the Presidential directives on clamping down on excessive speed; that is why the Corps has put up several policies and enforcement strategies, including the compulsory installation of speed limiting device which commenced with commercial vehicles. Oyeyemi further noted, “As the lead agency in road safety administration and traffic management, we shall continue to strategically deploy the combination of operational and public education tools and personnel to ensure that road users are properly enlightened and checkmated for the safety of all.” He called on all road users to religiously adhere to all established traffic rules and also advised them to listen to the National Traffic Radio 107.1 FM for real-time traffic update and road safety education that could entrench safe road use culture. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com