The founder of Rapture Proclaimer Evangelical Church of God, Funmilayo Adebayo, popularly known as Mummy GO (General Overseer) has sparked a series of memes on the internet with her “hellfire” threatening messages. You will have to make major lifestyle changes if you consider attending the services at RAPEC headquarters, Iyana Ipaja or any of the other branches. Eyelashes and miniskirts are forbidden by the church. On her a large banner hung at the entrance of the church, “Do not enter the House of God with the following: Beads: Whether male or female, royalty or fashionista, beads are not allowed in the church of Mummy GO. You are not allowed to dress up like royalty in the church as well. Jewellery: You will have to return that drop-dead neck, head, or leg jewellery before you leave home. The ushers are vigilant, they will find you and seize it for the duration of the service. Miniskirts and short skirts: Your quest to look dashing may be dampened by the fact that the church does not allow you to drape yourself in delightful trims and tights. Your entire leg must be covered at the RAPEC church. See the experience of PUNCH reporter here. Jeans: The church does not condone any kind of jeans, whether slashed, tight-fitting or free. A meme posted online says, “Jeans will lead you to hellfire”. Curly hair, dreads and hair extensions:  If your hair plays a major part of your identity, you may consider attending other churches. Mummy GO’s church does not welcome curly hair, dreads or hair extensions for women in her church. Your hair would have to be totally covered up for you to venture into the house of God at RAPEC. Dreds and stylish cuts for men: For men, your hair must not be stylish in any way. You must not adorn dreds and curly hair as well. Your hair must be low without any unique cuts. Eyelashes: You must bring your natural face, eyelashes to RAPEC. You must be prim and proper like in the days of yore. Makeup: All dabs, brushes and powders will bar you from Mummy GO’s church, else you won’t be allowed by the ushers. Painted nails: For Mummy GO, painted nails are a reflection of immorality. A church pamphlet made available to PUNCH correspondent described painted nails as devilish, it also linked it to Jezebel in the bible. Tattoos: You are disqualified from going to the house of God at RAPEC with your tattoos. If they are not revealing, you may begin to cringe when the sermon hits you where the tattoo lies. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com