The Office of the Auditor-General of the Federation has asked the Nigeria Police Force to account for various expenditures totalling N3,221,439,688, including monies paid for suspected phoney contracts and unexplained spending. By the end of 2019, the Force Headquarters could not also account for 178,459 firearms, out of which 88,078 are AK-47 riffles, according to one of the eight queries issued against the police by the office. The queries are contained in the ‘Auditor-General for the Federation’s Annual Report on Non-Compliance/Internal Control Weaknesses Issues in Ministries, Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government of Nigeria for the Year Ended December 31, 2019.’ The acting Auditor-General of the Federation, Adolphus Aghughu, had presented the report to the Clerk to the National Assembly, Ojo Amos, on September 15, 2021, while the Senate and House Committees on Public Accounts are investigating the queries. In a query titled ‘Loss of fire arms and ammunition,’ the Auditor-General said audit observed, from the review of arms movement register, monthly returns of arms and ammunition, and the ammunition register at the Armoury Section, that “the total number of lost firearms as reported as at December 2018 stood at 178,459.” It added, “Out of this number, 88,078 were AK-47 rifles, 3,907 assorted rifles and pistols across different police formations could not be accounted for as at January 2020. Formal reports on the loss of firearms through dully completed Treasury Form 146 (Loss of Stores) were not presented for examination. “Records obtained from Force Armament at the Force headquarters showed 21 Police Mobile Force Squadron, Abuja did not report a single case of missing firearm, whereas, schedule of missing arms obtained from the same PMF showed a total number of 46 missing arms between 2000 and February 2019, and the value of the lost firearms could not be ascertained because no document relating to their cost of acquisition was presented for examination.” The office attributed the “anomalies” to “weaknesses in the internal control system at the Nigeria Police Force Armament.” The Auditor-General listed the risks to include “mishandling of firearms/firearms getting to the wrong hands; conversion of firearms to illegal use; and loss of government funds.” While the office said there was no response from the NPF management to the query, it recommended that the Inspector-General of Police should be asked to “furnish reasons why firearms could not be accounted for and why 21 Police Mobile Force Squadron, Abuja, did not report a single case of missing firearm.” The IGP is also to “account for the 3,907 assorted rifles and pistols across different police formations missing firearms, and forward evidence of compliance to the Public Accounts Committees of the National Assembly.” Another query titled ‘Lack of comprehensive records of unserviceable/expired firearms and ammunition,’ the office said an audit by it observed that “several numbers of firearms, from the review of arm issue register, monthly returns of arms and ammunitions obtained from Force Armament, Force Headquarters, for various states commands, formations, zonal offices, training institutions, squadrons and physical inspection of firearms and ammunition at the Force Headquarters, have become unserviceable and dysfunctional.” The query noted, “Records of the total number of unserviceable firearms were not produced for examinations, and there were no returns from Adamawa State Command, Police Mobile Force 46, 56, 64 and 68 for the period under review. “Similarly, returns were not submitted by some police training institutions and some formations, and physical verification of firearms and ammunition at the Force Armament, Force Headquarters, showed large quantity of damaged and obsolete firearms which needed to be destroyed. The damaged and obsolete firearms and ammunition should be treated in line with Financial Regulations 2618, which requires the destruction to be carried out in such a manner as to render the firearms unusable for their original purpose.” The Auditor-General attributed the “anomalies” to weaknesses in the internal control system at the NPF Armament, while listing the risks to include “conversion of firearms for illegal use” and “loss of public funds.” While the NPF leadership gave no response to the query issued by the OAuGF, the office asked the IGP to “provide reasons why records of unserviceable and expired firearms and ammunition were not maintained; forward a comprehensive record of all unserviceable firearms and ammunition and up-to-date record/schedule of expended ammunition to the Public Accounts Committees of the National Assembly.” The office also queried ‘Irregularities in the award and execution of contracts for the procurement of security items.’ The OAuGF said it observed through an audit of the Nigeria Police Force Armament that 10 contracts totalling N1,136,715,200 were “awarded to a single proprietor in the name of different companies.” The query partly read, “In the companies’ profiles, the contact phone numbers and email addresses of the three companies were the same; and the three companies did not disclose their relationship in accordance with the fundamental principles of procurement as required by extant regulations.” The Inspector-General of Police was requested to “furnish reasons why contracts were awarded to companies owned by same persons; account for the sum of 1,136,715,200; remit the sum of 1,136,715,200.00 to the Treasury; forward evidence of remittance to the Public Accounts Committees of the National Assembly; and otherwise, apply sanctions relating to irregular award of contract and punishment for contravening any of the offences in the Public Procurement Act and in Paragraphs 3117 and 3126 of the Financial Regulations, respectively.” The office also queried ‘Payment for Contracts Not Executed,’ saying it observed from an audit that the sum of 924,985,000 was paid for 11 contracts involving construction of three units of Gunshot Spotter System, supply of 50 units of Ballistic Roller Trolley and 20 units of Ballistic Mobile Surveillance House in some selected commands and formations. “Final payments were made in March 2019 without evidence of execution. Documents such as End User Certificate, Store Receipt Voucher, Store Issue Voucher, Job Completion Certificate were not presented for audit examination, and the items claimed to have been constructed/supplied at the Force Headquarters, Federal Capital Territory Command, Explosive Ordinance Disposal unit and Police Mobile Force unit as specified in the award letters revealed that the contracts were not executed as at the time of physical verification of the purported items in June 2020,” the query read. The IGP was asked to “furnish reasons why payments were made for contracts not executed; recover the sum of 924,985,000 being payment for unexecuted contracts and remit same to the Treasury; forward evidence of remittance to the Public Accounts Committees of the National Assembly; and otherwise, apply sanctions relating to payments for poor quality of work and prosecution by the EFCC prescribed by Paragraphs 3105 and 3104(iii) of the Financial Regulations, respectively.” Other queries issued by the Auditor-General are titled ‘Unapproved Settlement of 2017 Liabilities From 2018 Allocation (N38,731,491.30),’ ‘Misapplication of Funds from Overhead Expenditure (N7,092,997),’ ‘Payment for Contracts Not Executed (N613,580,000),’ and ‘Violation of Approval Threshold on Procurement Contracts (N500,335,000). Copyright PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com