Interim Super Eagles coach, Austin Eguavoen, says securing victory against Tunisia will not come easy for his side, as they bid to qualify for the quarter-final of the Africa Cup of Nations on Sunday. Nigeria finished top of Group D with maximum nine points after defeating Egypt, Sudan and Guinea-Bissau. The Eagles have been tagged one of the favourites to win the AFCON in Cameroon following their impressive display so far. Meanwhile, their next opponents, Tunisia, have had an underwhelming outing and finished third behind Gambia and Mali in Group F. The Carthage Eagles began their AFCON campaign with a 1-0 defeat to Mali, defeated Mauritania 4-0 in their second game but failed to build on their big win as they lost their last group game to Gambia 1-0. Mondher Kebaier’s men qualified as the best losers from the group and will now face the three-time African champions in Garoua. Despite the huge contrast in their current form, Eguavoen is not getting carried away, adding that he is wary of the North Africans. “Congratulations to our team on their qualification and now we face Tunisia, another strong opposition from North Africa. “We will continue to work hard as we’ve always done, with the same approach, same determination. The tactics might be a little bit different. We did a little bit of recovery training on Thursday but now we are working on how to approach the game against Tunisia and we are ready. “They’ve had ups and downs, the first game ended in dramatic fashion and they’ve lost two penalties. They lost narrowly to Gambia but it was towards the end of the game. “Having qualified for a knockout stage, it’s a different ball game entirely because if you don’t get it right you are out of the competition but if you get it right you are through to the quarter-final. “It is going to be a different game, they are a good team technically, they are fast as well – typically North African team – but we will look for a way to counter their approach and come tops at the end of the day.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com