The Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers has advises the Federal Government and states to exercise adequate caution in the introduction and implementation of monthly rent payment scheme in the country. According to the organisation, enforcing the implementation of the scheme may discourage potential and existing investors in the real estate sector. The Senate had, recently, commenced deliberation on a bill seeking to stop landlords from demanding the payment of advanced rent from their tenants. It also plans to outlaw the payment of rents beyond a period of three months. The bill, titled, “Advanced Rent (Residential Apartment, Offices Spaces etc) regulation Bill 2022’’, was sponsored by Senator Smart Adeyemi of Kogi State. However, the President and Chairman of Council, NIESV,  Emmanuel  Wike, warned that any mode of enforcement, whether by law or public regulation, should be done with utmost caution, warning that failure to do could lead deplete investments in the real estate sub-sector. He spoke to journalists in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State capital. Wike disclosed that a committee was set up to study the action, adding that, the report of the committee guided the body to ask for caution in implementing it so as not to create more problems than solving it. He explained, “Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers fully resonates with the argument to re-establish a match between the prevailing regime of monthly income and the practice of advance rental payments, quarterly, annually and biennially. “Housing is an inelastic social good or service, with substantial shortages at the urban low and medium income subsectors of the market. That re-establishment, however appealing it may be, requires careful planning and systemic implementation, so as not to exacerbate the difficulties. “In the face of available evidence, monthly payment of rents will not work presently. The parties involved will circumvent it by agreeing at the same time 12 monthly contracts at once and in advance.” He added, “Any move to enforce implementation by law or public regulation will scare away investors from that subsector of the housing market, thereby further worsening the shortage. The end result is the compounding of the housing problem instead of proffering some solution. “In the long-term, the way forward is to take a balanced position, push for public discourse that should generate the buy-in for a mutually beneficial policy for renters and landlords. The on-going conversation is a good start, and should be built upon to generate consensus through more stakeholder (landlords, investors, tenants) engagements and buy-ins, identification of needed special interventions, leading to carefully formulated policies with robust implementation procedures, and implementable fast-track mechanisms for conflict resolution.” The NIESV leader lauded the Akwa Ibom State government for employing many of its members. [ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com