The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.); a national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde; Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu; and Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, were among dignitaries who on Sunday commiserated with the family of the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, and indigenes of Ibadan over the death of the monarch. Oba Adetunji died on Sunday at the University College Hospital, Ibadan at the age of 93 and was buried at his palace located at Popoyemoja area of Ibadan later in the day. Others who mourned the late traditional ruler are the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi; the Emir of Ilorin and Chairman Kwara State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari; and the Minister of Youths and Sports Development, Sunday Dare. Buhari in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, described Adetunji as a visionary and compassionate leader. “While his demise understandably leaves a huge void to fill, the President urges the people of Ibadan and Nigerians from different walks of life to honour the eternal memory of the deceased by imbibing the virtues he cherished so much – generosity, peace, tolerance and devotion to unity,” the statement read. Also, Tinubu, in a statement from his media office, described the late monarch as humble, humane, mature, calm and decent. “I received the news of the transition of highly-revered royal father, the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Adetunji Saliu with sadness. Kabiyesi passed on at a ripe age of 93, which we are extremely grateful to God for. But this demise has robbed us of his wisdom and wise counselling,” he said. Gbajabiamila, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi,  noted the good leadership Olubadan provided during his reign, saying he was an exemplary leader with uncommon love for his people. Makinde, in a condolence message on Sunday, said he received the news of the death of Oba Adetunji with shock. “Kabiyesi’s exit at this time is painful, to say the least. His wealth of experience, his immense wisdom and his commitment to seeing a greater Ibadan and a better Oyo State are unrivalled. “Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria and humanity at large will miss Kabiyesi, who was ever ready to give his all to see a better society,” he said. Oba Ogunwusi, in a statement by his spokesperson, Moses Olafare, said the reign of Oba Adetunji would forever be remembered for the tremendous development brought to Ibadanland in particular and Nigeria at large. The statement read, “Kabiyesi Olubadan did not let the features of old age hold him back during his lifetime as he was active to projects, programmes, plans and other activities towards making life better for his subjects. That is why his return home would be missed greatly by all. “Though it is a tough way to start the year, we must submit to the will of the Almighty Olodumare for the life of Oba Adetunji which was well-spent serving humanity.” Fayemi, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, described the late Olubadan as “an exemplary leader who did not allow old age to hamper his passion for the development of Ibadan and Oyo State as a whole.” Akeredolu, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olabode Olatunde, described the deceased as a valuable asset, not only to the people of Ibadan, but to the entire Yoruba race. The Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Michael Adeyeye, described Olubadan’s death as a big a blow on the traditional institution in Yorubaland. Sulu-Gambari, in a condolence message issued by his spokesman, Abdulazeez Arowona, said the deceased was known for his patience and commitments to the growth and development of Ibadanland and Oyo State in general. Oba Adetunji’s remains were taken from the UCH where he died to the palace before the body was taken to the Mapo Hall for a brief lying-in-state. A short prayer was offered for him by the Chief Imam of Ibadanland, AbdulGaniy Agbotomokekere. At 4.03 pm, the body was conveyed in a motorcade out of Mapo Hall. At 4.42 pm, the body was carried by some persons into the Popoyemoja palace and it was taken straight to the already dug grave. At 4.50 pm, a short prayer was said on the body before it was lowered. Meanwhile, the Otun Olubadan, Senator Lekan Balogun, is set to become the next Olubadan, according to the hierarchy of ascension to the throne being practised in Ibadanland. There are two lines of ascension to the throne, the Balogun and Otun lines, with the most senior on each line ascending the throne on rotational basis. Before the deceased monarch ascended the throne, he was the most senior from the Balogun line. With the turn of the Otun line to produce the king now, Balogun, who is the most senior on the line, is set to succeed Oba Adetunji. Meanwhile, the management of the UCH has spoken about how Oba Adetunji died in the Intensive Care Unit of the hospital. The hospital, in a statement by its Deputy Director, Information and Public Relations Officer, Toye Akinrinlola, said Oba Adetunji died at 1.15am on Sunday. The statement read, “The Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji,  Aje Oguguniso 1, today ( Sunday)  passed on at the Intensive Care Unit of the University College Hospital, Ibadan at 1.15 am. “The late monarch was referred to the UCH from a private hospital in Ibadan at about 9.30 pm yesterday (Saturday). He was immediately admitted at the ICU where the Chief Medical Director CMD, Prof. Jesse Abiodun Otegbayo, directed that a high-powered medical team be constituted to provide the best medical treatment to him. “By 1.15 am today, His Imperial Majesty breathed his last breath.” Meanwhile, the Oyo State Police Command has announced deployment of its men at strategic areas in Ibadan to guide against possible breakdown of law and order following the death of the monarch. The state Commissioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday. Also, the state command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps has deployed some of its personnel to the palace of the late monarch. The state Commandant of NSCDC, Michael Adaralewa, also disclosed this in a statement on Sunday. By Leke Baiyewu, Dayo Ojerinde, Stephen Angbulu, Olufemi Olaniyi, Abiodun Nejo, Adeyinka Adedipe, Tunde Oyekola, Peter Dada and Bola Bamigbola  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com