The Ijaw Youths Council has called on the Federal Government to fulfil its promise on the provision of modular refineries to the Niger Delta region. The spokesperson for the IYC, Ebilade Ekerefe, told our correspondent that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, during his last visit to the region had promised to provide modular refineries which would help create jobs for the youths and other residents of the communities. However, Osinbajo had yet to fulfil his promise. Ekerefe said, “The last time the Vice President came to the region, he told the people more about the modular refineries and how it would go a long a way to create jobs and also make this coal fire thing end. “But the question we are asking now is that where are the modular refineries that the Federal Government promised? Where are the licences they promised to give to capable companies? The FG should fulfil its promises because there are no job opportunities anywhere. The only means of livelihood for the boys are the creeks through oil bunkering. “We do not support what they do, we do not support bunkering but we don’t want to create more problems while solving another problem. We don’t want them to go into robbery and other criminal acts.” The IYC said they were also backing the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, on stamping out bunkering from the state and the entire Niger Delta. Ekerefe said, “We have also called on the governors from the Niger Delta region to join forces with Wike to stamp out illegal bunkering happening in the Niger Delta region. “It is fast killing our people and if we do not take steps quickly to stop this it will destroy our environment.  So, while the governor of Rivers State is mounting pressure on the boys to stop the bunkering, the Niger Delta governors should also close ranks with him. “Because if he is stopping it in Rivers State, the boys could migrate to other parts of the Niger Delta region to also carry out these illegal acts. Governors should beef up security in the region and set up task forces that will be monitoring these events as they are happening.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com