The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has said his regime remains prepared to support “serious investors” to set up businesses that will take advantage of the growing Nigerian market and the greater African region. Buhari spoke on Thursday in Sokoto while inaugurating a new three-million-metric-tonnes-per-annum BUA Cement Sokoto Line 4 Factory. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, disclosed this in a statement on Thursday. Buhari said, “One of the key economic pillars of our administration has been to create an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. This is necessary for job creation and our economy and national security. “In the past few weeks, I visited Ogun and Kaduna states, where I observed many private sector investments in action. And today, I am here in Sokoto to commission this multibillion-naira project. Therefore, it is very clear for all to see that our policies are working. Progress is gradually being made in all parts of the country. “We remain prepared to support serious investors to set up businesses that will take advantage of these opportunities through value addition to take advantage of the huge market here, as well as in the greater African region and the world at large,” he said. He thanked the Founder of BUA Cement, Abdul Samad Rabiu and his team for supporting the government’s economic diversification and job creation plan. “I am pleased that through these investments, BUA Cement has created employment opportunities for our citizens. Today, BUA is the largest employer of labour in the North-West region,” he added. BUA Cement chairman said the company had completed four plants – two in Obu, Edo State and two in Sokoto – with a total production capacity of 11.5 million tonnes. Rabiu said with over $1bn invested in the past four years, he looked forward to the President inaugurating new plants in 2023 that would increase the total production capacity to 17.5 million metric tonnes.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com