I lost two siblings within months.  The first loss, I found the courage to bear. But when the second sorrow struck (almost six months later), I found myself saying to God “Just hold me. I won’t be able to bear this one.” Eating was a problem. Praying? I had more questions for God than the desire to pray. I would spend a whole day staring into space. And not feel like doing anything else. By the third day, the little voice within found her way to my heart. I had been ignoring her. You see, I have always found walking into an EMPTY church and just kneeling at the altar to pour out my heart to God VERY therapeutic. And that’s what the little voice within sought to remind me of on that day. “Why don’t you go talk to God. Your way?” Immediately, I stood up. Took a shower, dressed up and headed out. On my way from the church, I convinced myself to stop by a school, where I usually go to talk to young girls. Seated and waiting to see the principal, the conversation of the teachers that stood beside me disrupted my thoughts. Apparently, one of the teachers had gone round the classrooms to collect the N500 levy that the students were meant to pay. But a particular student couldn’t pay hers and for the umpteenth time, began to beg the teacher to give her more time. Just N5? Without thinking twice, I asked the teacher if I could pay the girl’s levy. The teacher sighed and then came closer. She told me that she was even considering using her own money to do that for the girl as her story is heartbreaking. “What is her story?” I asked. That’s when I heard what made me forget my own sorrow for the rest of that day! According to the teacher, in February of 2020, the girl’s parents and their last child were involved in a motor accident that killed three of them. The only surviving members of that family are the girl and her immediate elder brother. Apparently, they were in school when the incident took place. So, a neighbour to the family (whom I learned sells “mama-put”) stepped in and absorbed the girl into her family. The teacher said the girl explained that things were not rosy for the woman (as she has her own children she caters for singlehandedly being a widow) and that most days of the week, she waits at the bus-stop looking for a fellow student that would “lap” her, to and fro school. Otherwise, the money she is given for transportation would not be sufficient. I asked to meet the girl. And a teacher was sent to get her from the classroom.  I let her know that I am aware of her challenges and then asked how much her transportation to and fro school would cost weekly, so she doesn’t have to “lap” again. She told me. I calculated what that comes to monthly and told her that I would be helping out with that via her teacher. I send the monthly sum and the teacher disburses weekly to her. Before she went back to the classroom, I left a few words with her, though. I told her to always appreciate the woman that took her in. And never look down on what she can afford to give her.   She isn’t wealthy materially but she has a rich heart. And to use her meeting me to know that God exists. Look at the path He took to bring me her way! It was a sorrow-stricken me that left the house on that day but the “me” that came back home was feeling different.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com