A rig operator with Shekinah Shelter Global Concept, Osun State, Kabiru Babai, 33, was recently shot dead by a triggerhappy policeman. The supervisor to the deceased at work, Agu Uma, tells BOLA BAMIGBOLA about the incident What is your name? My name is Mr Agu Uma. I am a staff of Shekinah Shelter Global Concept. I am the supervisor that is directly attached to the rig where the late Mallam Kabir Babai was shot by the police. Babai was from Bauchi State. He was 33 years old. He was survived by a wife, who is pregnant, a child and aged parents. He came to Osun to look for greener pastures with some of his boys who are under him for training. He joined our company first week of March, 2021. What can you say about him? Mallam was a dedicated staff and an asset to us because he was a mechanic, an operator and a driver. Before we call on a mechanic to help fix something, it must be something that Mallam had tried to fix and couldn’t. Even when we had to invite a mechanic, he would work hand in hand with Mallam because of his wide experience. He was also a sincere person, peace-loving, cheerful and he believed so much in what his Quran tells him. If you sent Mallam to Ajegunle to buy anything, he would give you back your change, no matter how small the money was. When I heard that he was shot, I said it couldn’t be him because he wouldn’t fight with anyone. What were you told of the incident that led to him being shot? Our truck had some problem. We were following the rig before we overtook them and came down to the office with some of our workers. The rig was returning to office. The workers wanted to take another truck and return to the site. The truck was making a turning at Ota Efun, Osogbo and it developed a minor fault. The workers stepped out of the truck, so as to fix the battery. A mini bus carrying some policemen met them at the scene. The policemen were said to be pursuing someone. When the policemen got to the point and saw the truck they came out of their bus and started questioning our men that were working on the faulty truck, on why they blocked the road. Before the men could explain anything, one of the policemen had already shot the driver of our truck on the hand but thankfully, the bullet didn’t penetrate the man. He had juju. Mallam Kabir was under the rig when all that happened. It was the gunshot that made him come out from under the rig where he was repairing the truck. He asked the policeman why he shot the driver, the policeman didn’t reply him and started slapping Kabir and hit him severally before shooting him in the chest. Mallam died on that spot. What are you demands? On the management side, we want justice to prevail and compensation for the family from the federal, state and the Nigeria Police Force. I know that no amount of money that would paid would paid could effectively replace the deceased and give the kind of care the family receives from him. But at least the compensation will be a kind of succour to the family lost behind. He had great plans for himself, children, family, his boys and the company. He planned to move down his wife and daughter to Osun State by January. In fact, he had started buying things to furnish the apartment that the chairman of the company got for him. He always kept in touch with his family, both nuclear and extended one. The wife is an expectant mother and by God’s grace she may put to bed next month. Only God knows the state of the woman now. Mallam was in the prime of his life and had so many dreams that can’t be fulfilled anymore. His father made us to understand that Mallam was everything to him, despite having other children, which means that Mallam was the one taking care of him. He might not be the oldest but at least God blessed him and gave him the spirit to be merciful unto them in the family and as a result of this they saw him as a major figure in the family. What effect will the death have on the operation of the company? Mallam’s death is a great loss to the company. We had invested over N5m in training him. In our company, he made a strong resolve that our department must have job to do, no matter the economic condition. He used everything he had within his capacity to help the company. Sometimes when he was repairing our machine and he didn’t have the full knowledge of the matter, he would call the Indians that trained him to ask for the way out. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com