The President, Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors, Mr Michael Shonubi, shares his thoughts with GODFREY GEORGE on building collapses in Nigeria and other related issues How would you rate Nigeria’s building industry, in terms of technological advancement, compliance with global standard and other parameters? In all honesty, when you want to talk about technological development and global standard, it depends on which aspect you are looking at. If you want to look at it from the design perspective, I think the Nigerian building industry has tried. But looking at it from the construction perspective, of course, acquiring the right technology to be able to do certain things cost money which I’m not sure is available. It may be difficult for us to do. Right now, the technology to do a 50-storey building in Nigeria may be difficult. If the Nigerian construction industry was able to do the NITEL Tower and Cocoa house which was many years back; that was the tallest building in Nigeria at a point. Over the years, with FOREX, it has been difficult for us to bring in some of these equipment. The equipment are not manufactured here and that is one of the major challenges that we have. We also have exchange rate issues which have made it difficult to acquire state-of-the-art equipment. If you go to some sites, amazingly, they have a few of these technologies. When you go to some sites where they may have to construct high-rise buildings, there may be some challenges. Comparing Nigeria with other countries in Africa, we are trying. With Europe, I don’t think we have done badly, too. Building collapses have been a dent in the Nigerian building industry, without sparing the professionals in that field. What is the government not doing right? I don’t think it has to do with the government alone. Looking at building collapse, it has to do with all the stakeholders – the government, professionals, promoters or developers. The average developer would look at how to minimise the cost of development rather than look at how to achieve value. In minimising cost, there may be issues. It would then be a case of ‘penny wise, pound foolish’. The cutting of cost remains one of the major causes of building collapses. There are certain things that should be done that are not done. You try to avoid things like this. We all know that in Lagos, particularly, there are certain conditions for different areas. That someone built six floors here and used a normal foundation and it came out right does not mean that you that are developing a building 20 or 30 metres away would use the same foundation. You don’t know what is under that ground; you may have underground water there. It is only when you do a soil test that you would find that out. Most developers, in trying to save cost, would rather not do a soil test. They would rather ask what was used for a building some metres away. On the other hand, most of these developers, rather than engage experienced professionals to undertake their project, they go for the younger ones. You cannot buy experience in the market. It has to do with years of practice. You cannot engage someone who has not done a 10-storey to do a 12-storey for you. It would be a recipe for disaster. Sometimes, you may find this because developers are looking for cheaper hands. The professionals in government rather than allow things to work normally may be looking for ways to make money. This is because maybe they themselves don’t have the experience. We have to be honest with ourselves. Some professionals in government do not have as much experience as those in the field. The level of exposure may not be there. It may also be that the professionals who are supposed to give the regulatory supervision do not even have the prerequisite experience to give that supervision. How can the incessant building collapse be stopped? Everyone has to do the right thing; let building developers do the right thing. They should ensure that they know the kind of soil they have and engage experienced professionals to design the building to the kind of soil that they have. Let the professionals focus on doing what they are paid to do. They should not just focus on making money alone. Those in government should consult those in private practice to help and guide them. The bottom-line is that we want everyone to win. If we are able to avoid building collapse, we would be saving lives. We don’t even know who may be the next victim. Even the professional may have a relative who may die if the building collapses. At the end of the day, everyone loses. We must ensure that the right thing is done at any point in time. Those directly or remotely involved in these collapses are hardly punished. Don’t you think this encourages the unwholesome practices to continue? I may agree with you. When these people are not punished, it may be a form of silent encouragement. Anyone responsible for these collapses should be punished. There should be sanctions. Is there a law? We also need to work on our laws as regards health and safety, as regards construction sites. When we have a law that gives specific punishments for contraventions and retractions, then we can now begin to talk about people being punished. As it is now, there are no specific punishments for these infractions. The first thing is to create these laws in a way that stipulate stiff punishments, jail terms and the likes, then we can begin to talk about punishment. This is manslaughter. What is the punishment for manslaughter? You may want to approach it from that angle. If a government or private party is engaged in a building that collapsed and it is found out by the judicial reviews that the professional was negligent, then they should be charged with manslaughter. Maybe at that point in time, everybody will sit up. If one person is sentenced under that stipulation, then there may be little sanity. So, rather than punish them for misconduct, they should be charged with manslaughter. Any act of omission or commission that leads to the death of people, then you have to pay. The rising cost of building materials has been identified as one of the reasons people cut corners. What is responsible for this inflation? People have always been used to cutting corners. It is not a matter of building materials. When building materials were not up to this, houses still collapsed. I think it is just in the nature of Nigerians. An average Nigerian does not like to pay for services. If they are sick, rather than get expert opinion from consultants so they would get diagnosed and get a prescription for medicine, they would prefer to see a roadside medicine seller for mixtures of drugs. If you have a legal issue, you would meet a cousin who is a lawyer to draw up an agreement for you just because you don’t want to engage another lawyer since you would have to pay. It appears that people don’t want to pay for services that they consider to be intangible. For most professions, like building, it is intangible. It only begins to show itself when the building begins to rise from its foundation. All the work that has gone on even before the foundation is made is not recognised. If the building is not well-planned, then you know it would not stand. Planning is everything. It is when this is done that the work can progress smoothly. Some people have argued that prices of some building materials go up because we import most of them. But we produce cement, sand and gravel here, yet the prices have skyrocketed. What do we do about this? We produce, yes, but what about the raw materials used for production. For you to have granite, you need to have rock. The equipment you use for all that is not locally produced, they are imported. Some of those equipment use fuel. Do you know the price of diesel? What about the cost of getting the dynamites that would be used to break the rock? You have to go through stringent security trials before you can get it. That is a problem on its own. In Lagos, because of the activities of dredgers, the government has tried to reduce the dredging of sand. Transport is also a huge problem. When you go to where sand has been dredged, the cost of transportation is heavy. You would hear them telling you N90,000 for a trip which in reality should not be more than N12,000. We have not increased our prices. Maybe, we should ask the transporters, the middlemen and distributors. During the peak of the pandemic when there were restrictions on movement, they didn’t make any money. They had to find a way to make money. So, when they saw that demands increased, they leveraged the increased demand to jack up the price. That was what led to those price increases. How can the stakeholders and government make house affordable for the people since there are no subsidised building materials? There is the social housing programme. It is a long process. I am not sure with the way Nigeria is structured that we would get what we are looking for. You cannot expect everyone involved to be transparent. We need to reduce corruption to the minimum. Corruption is still there. By the time they finish building the house, it may still not be affordable. If the government builds a house with N2.5m, you don’t expect them to sell it at N1m. Who would bear the cost of the N1.5m? The only thing the government can do is to rent-to-own. It may span more than 10 years, but it would be a good thing. Globally, it is only the government that can help increase the housing stock and help bring down the prices for the low-income earners. Would you say people patronise quantity surveyors well enough or it is still minimal? It is still minimal. A lot of people don’t patronise quantity surveyors. The only time you see them running helter-skelter to get a surveyor is when there is trouble. When there are issues between a builder and an owner; for instance, on how much has been spent and how much is remaining, that is when they would get a quantity surveyor. They could have got the surveyor to come in at the first stage to draft proper documentation on how the execution would be and also guide them on how payments can be made. But rather than do that, they would boycott it. When the disagreement becomes prolonged, they would then want to get an independent surveyor. Unfortunately, sometimes, some of those involved in the constructions try to discourage the promoters or developers from getting quantity surveyors. People don’t just like to pay for services. These people went to school and are well-trained for the job. He or she has a family and an office to keep. When people don’t want to pay for these services, it becomes a problem. How do we solve the problem of quackery in the industry? First, the regulatory authority has a serious role to play. I know that Lagos is challenged. There are many constructions going on in the state which they may not be able to supervise. There is no way the Lagos State Government officials who are the regulatory agencies can cope with the supervision that is required. They need to engage some of the professional organisations that would help them monitor these projects. Once that is done, it would be easy to stamp out quackery. It was obvious that with the recent collapse, there was quackery there. If those people are not registered under anybody in the construction industry, we are saying that they are consultants. They were able to get over all those regulatory bodies because there were many regulatory oversights. I also think part of the challenge is that some of these agencies are not enabled to do their jobs. There is a law that governs each of these bodies. One of the things a contractor is supposed to do at a construction site is to fence off the site to prevent people from coming in. So, if you don’t have any business on that site, you are not supposed to be there for safety reasons. You would need a special pass to enter a site because your safety and that of others also could be compromised. Do you believe these quacks should be arrested, tried and jailed? Yes, why not? When we start doing that, it would reduce quackery. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com