Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has said he has given priority to education to enable younger generation of scholars in the state to be relevant in the knowledge and technology-driven world. Oyetola said this in Osogbo, the state capital, at the inauguration of the ultra-modern borehole donated by the Class of ‘84 of Anglican Commercial Grammar School, Osogbo. The governor, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Education, Jamiu Olawumi, also said the children, through the education provided by the government, would be able to compete globally and contribute to the development of the state and the nation in the future. He said since assuming office, his administration had embarked on various projects to improve quality of infrastructure available in public schools. Oyetola said, “Our administration has deliberately given priority to education by providing adequate, quality, equitable and functional education for our children to enable them not only to be relevant in the knowledge and technology-driven world, but also to make them to compete globally and contribute to the development of the state and the nation as leaders of tomorrow. “Since assuming office three years ago, we have embarked on steady renovation of schools, provision of educational materials for students, training and re-training of teachers to enhance standard, provision of free tuition for primary and secondary students, sustenance of free feeding for students and we have put measures in place to further enhance discipline and improve school attendance to make education takes its place as the driver of the economy and sustainable development.” The governor then implored other old students to follow in the footsteps of Class of ’84 of Anglican Grammar School and give back to their schools in cash and kind to make them relevant in the state’s education space. In his speech read by Mr. Gbenga Akani, the President of ANCO 1984 set, Taiwo Ajibola, said members of the set decided to give back to their school as part of their contributions to further develop their alma mater. He added that awards presented to late Pa Moses Egundeyi and Pa Emmanuel Adebayo, who were their former principals, were meant to appreciate their contributions towards moulding lives of individual members of the set. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com