Nigerian fans have hailed the overall performance of the Super Eagles in their 1-0 win over seven-time champions Egypt in their 2021 Africa Cup of Nations opener at the Roumdé Adjia Stadium in Garoua on Tuesday. Kelechi Iheanacho grabbed the only goal of the game in the 30th minute with a well-placed shot, giving Egypt’s goalkeeper Mohamed El Shenawy no chance. The Eagles were the better side, amassing 58 per cent possession with a total of 10 shots, six of them being on target as opposed to the Pharaohs, who only managed three shots with just one of them being on target. Reacting to the game, fans hailed energetic winger, Moses Simon, Ola Aina Wilfred Ndidi as well as interim coach, Autin Eguavoen for their superb display. Television personality Frank Idoho in a tweet hailed the team’s outstanding performance and their ability to hold Salah. “The Super Eagles actually thwarted the Egyptian Team and gave a good account of themselves. I’m very impressed by the way we played and curbed Mo Salah. More importantly, I am relieved that Ndidi did not suffer an injury. Well done, Super Eagles!” Adewale Adetona wrote on Twitter, “Moses Simon deserves all the credit he can get for that wonderful work from the flank leading to that goal. Iheanacho did incredibly well with the ball control and the shot too.” Kelechi Anyikude wrote,“Congrats Super Eagles of Nigeria. Local man is so happy.” Fans have also hailed the coaching impact of Eguavoen in the game. Biola Akinbode wrote, “The players were exciting; it was as if I was watching the Super Eagles of old. Eguavoen’s master plan worked, we dominated totally and won deservedly.” “Eguavoen got it right! Nice attack! Defence and team play! If they maintain this form they will go far! Best match so far in this tournament, although I saw it coming!” @Fanklyz Tweeted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com