Tragedy struck in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, as two children of the same parents reportedly drowned in Asa River and recovered dead from the river by the Kwara State Fire Service on Friday evening. The State Fire Service said that it evacuated two boys Damilare, 12 years old, and Kamaldeen, 14 years old, from the Asa River around ‘Laola Salasi Street Mubo area, Ilorin, at about 5 pm on Friday. The two boys according to the Fire Service were recovered dead from the river. Sources said that the boys, in the company of their playmates, left for the riverside in the evening of Friday to have fun as was their usual practice. The State Fire Service confirmed the incident in a statement signed by the Head of Media and Publicity, Hassan Adekunle, and made available to newsmen in Ilorin on Friday night. The statement read, “The Kwara State Fire Service has again evacuated two boys namely Damilare, 12 years old, and Kamaldeen, 14 years old, from Asa River, ‘Laola Salasi Street Mubo area, Ilorin, today, 31st of December, 2021. “This horrible incident happened this evening at about 16:36hrs (4:36 pm) when one Alhaji Eleja suddenly summoned the Brigade to the scene of occurrence. “However, it was so unfortunate that the two victims (Kamaldeen and Damilare) were recovered dead from the river by the firemen. “The victims, who are from Ile-Laru compound, Sabo-line area, Ilorin, with their colleagues went swimming in the Asa-River before they eventually drowned in the river and we handed over their bodies to their biological father, Alhaji Jamiu, before leaving the scene of incidence. “Therefore, the Director, Kwara State Fire Service, Prince Falade Olumuyiwa urged citizens particularly parents and teachers to keep monitoring their children’s movement especially during this holiday period in order to avoid such terrible subsequent occurrences.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com