The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control has stopped the registration of alcohol in sachet, small volume PET and glass bottles below 200 millilitres. The Director-General of the agency, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, disclosed this in a statement issued by the agency on Monday. Adeyeye said the registration of new alcoholic drinks in sachet and small volume PET and glass bottles above 30 per cent alcohol by volume had been banned by NAFDAC, following the recommendation of a high powered committee of the Federal Ministry of Health, NAFDAC, and the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission and Industry in December 2018. Other members of the committee are the Association of Food, Beverages and Tobacco Employers and Distillers and Blenders Association of Nigeria. According to the NAFDAC boss, the agency will ensure that the validity of renewal of already registered alcoholic products in the affected category does not exceed the year 2024. She explained that manufacturers of low volume alcohol beverages (200ml) with satisfactory laboratory reports already submitted to NAFDAC for registration before the decision, have been directed to reformulate their products to the stipulated standards free of charge. She said, “Distillers and Blenders Association of Nigeria was also given a matching order to embark on intensive nationwide sensitisation campaigns against underage consumption of alcohol by adolescents below the age of 18 years in the bid to stem the tide of alcohol abuse in the country. “Producers of alcohol in sachets and small volume agreed to reduce production by 50 per cent with effect from January 31st, 2022 while ensuring the products are completely phased out in the country by 31st January 2024. “The agency is committed to the strict implementation of the regulations and regulatory measures towards safeguarding the health of Nigerians particularly the vulnerable youths against the dangers of reckless consumption of alcohol.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com