A senior pupil of Elkanemi College of Islamic Theology, Maiduguri, Borno State, Ahmed Umar, has slit the throat of an 11-year-old boy, Jubril Mato. It was learnt that the victim, Jubril Mato, said to be the son of the late Justice Sadi Mato of the Federal High Court, Kano State, and a junior of the school had his throat slit by the 16-year-old suspect as a punishment for refusing to run errands for him. “The senior pupil from the SS2 class had sent Jubril on an errand, but he didn’t go. That fateful night, he (senior pupil) came to pick him up and took him to a quiet place where he used a razor blade to severely cut his neck, injuring most of his arteries, nerves and trachea,” a source from the school disclosed. According to the source, the suspect whose name had been concealed by the management of the school, left the victim to die with his body soaked in blood. After some minutes, Jubril was said to have struggled and taken himself to the principal’s office, before he became unconscious and was rushed to the intensive care unit of the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital, Maiduguri. The perpetrator, who was said to have been indoctrinated on psychotropic substances, was subsequently arrested and handed over to the police for further investigations. Our correspondent, however, gathered that though the incident occurred on January 16, 2022, the school concealed it to keep it away from the public and had been discouraging the mother of the victim from reporting the attack. A member of staff of the college said Jubril’s case was not the first as there had been several other cases that had been concealed. “This is not the first case of armed violence in the college. There are several other cases relating to sexual abuse and armed violence, but the school management swept them under the carpet. This is likely to mean we are creating more victims as a result of our failure to act,” the teacher added. But the Borno State Commissioner of Police, Abdu Umar, while confirming the incident said it occurred on January 15 at about 10pm and was reported by the chief security officer of the college, Ibrahim Abdulkadir, the next day.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com