The Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Faisal Shuaib, has said that the vaccine uptake in Nigeria has doubled between December and January. Shuaib, who was quoted in a report by Reuters on Friday, said the daily vaccine uptake doubled to “200,000 doses in December and January.” This is just as the Director, Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, John Nkengasong, said at least 2.6 per cent of Nigeria’s population had been fully vaccinated, while 14 million persons had received the first dose. Nkengasong, who spoke on Thursday in a virtual media briefing, stated that more African countries were recording increases in the number of people being vaccinated as communication and community engagement improved. Abubakar Yusuf, a Nigerian trader based in Abuja, said he was scared to receive the COVID-19 jab for fear of being given one of the expired vaccines. He however eventually took the shot when he knew the authorities had destroyed the expired vaccines. “We’ve been scared before, seriously, but the way people have been taking the vaccine, they are well, they are doing their normal business… so we decided to take it,” he said. An evangelist resident in Abuja, Gabriel Allesiloye, who also received the COVID-19 jab at the Abuja Market, said the government made the right decision, to destroy the expired doses. “It’s good for the government to discard those ones… and they have done so… it is good for us to take it,” Allesiloye said. The PUNCH had reported that the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, in collaboration with the National Health Care Development Agency and the Abuja Environmental Protection Agency destroyed 1,066,214 expired AstraZenaca Covid-19 Vaccines, at the Gosa dumping site in Abuja in December.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com