Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, and his predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, have expressed their condolence to the Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, over the demise of the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, Aje Ogungunniso 1, who joined his ancestors on January 2. Abiodun and Amosun, in separate condolence messages signed by their media aides, commiserated with the people of Ibadan over the demise of their monarch. Oba Adetunji had passed on at the age of 93 at the University College Teaching Hospital, Ibadan, after a brief illness. Abiodun, in a statement on Monday by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, described Olubadan’s death as a great loss not only to Ibadan but Yorubaland. He said Oba Adetunji was an embodiment of peace whose reign witnessed great development of his domain. Abiodun further noted that the late monarch used his wealth and wisdom to bear while on the throne, declaring he would be sorely missed. While urging the people of Ibadanland to take solace in the fact that the late monarch’s reign was peaceful and progressive, the governor prayed Allah to grant Oba Adetunji Aljanah Firdaus. Amosun, in his condolence message, described Oba Adetunji as a renowned traditional ruler whose sense of history and love for the Yoruba tradition would forever remain evergreen. He described Oba Adetunji as a lover of peace who discharged his duties as a first class traditional ruler with wisdom and the fear of God. “Oba Adetunji was a dedicated entrepreneur and businessman who impacted the Nigerian entertainment industry positively, particularly with the promotion of many leading artists in the Nigerian traditional music genre. “The people of Ibadanland and indeed the entire Yorubaland would remember Oba Adetunji for his love and promotion of peace in the cosmopolitan city of Ibadanland, Oyo State and Nigeria,” Amosun noted. Amosun prayed that Almighty Allah (SWT) will grant him Aljanah Firdous, and give the family and the entire people of Ibadanland the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com