The Federal University of Technology Minna has revealed that 58 out of 3,892 graduating students have bagged First Class degrees from the institution. According to the university’s Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Abdullahi Bala, who disclosed this at a news conference in Minna on Wednesday to mark the 38th Founders’ Day and 30th Convocation said that 948 other students will be graduating with Second Class Upper Division degrees. He also added that 2,047 will graduate with Second Class Lower Division, while 801 will graduate with Third Class and 38 students will graduate with Pass degrees. He said, “Out of those graduating with First Degrees, 58 obtained First Class, while 948 are in the Second Class Upper Division. A total of 2,047 are in Second Class Lower Division, 801 in Third Class while 38 are graduating with Pass degrees.” He stated that a total of 270 students from 200 to 500 levels that fall in the First Class range will be offered partial Scholarships, while 10 winners of gold, silver and bronze medals at various national and international competitions will be given various cash prizes to motivate and appreciate them for future outstanding performances. Bala further revealed that Honorary Doctorate degrees will be awarded to a Former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar, Chairman of BUA Group, Alhaji Abdul Samad Rabiu, the President of African Development Bank, Dr Akinwumi Adesina and the Group Managing Director Nigeria National Petroleum Company Ltd, Malam Mele Kolo Kyari. The Vice-Chancellor said that 200 students will be awarded Postgraduate Diplomas, 836 will be awarded Masters degree, while 121 will be awarded Doctorate degrees. Bala added that the University was rated the first position in terms of efficiency by the National Universities Commission stating, “the latest ranking of Nigerian public universities by the National Universities Commission places FUT Minna in the First position with a score of 97.57 in terms of efficiency, that is, in terms of the rate of retention and graduation of students.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com