Independent election observation Group, Yiaga Africa has said that removing the names of dead persons in the voters register would be difficult for the Independent National Electoral Commission before the 2023 elections because Nigeria does not have accurate death register. The organization, therefore, suggested that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), should give assent to the electronic transmission of results in the Electoral Amendment Bill to “limit voting by dead persons.” The Executive Director of Yiaga Africa, Samson Itodo, raised the observations in an interview with The PUNCH in Abuja. According to him, INEC should embark on an audit of the voters register to increase and enhance the confidence of stakeholders in the voters register and by extension the elections. He was reacting to a concern raised by INEC and published exclusively by Saturday PUNCH on why it cannot remove dead persons from the voters register. He said, “On the credibility of the voters register, I would say yes there are dead persons on the register of voters. However, there is a convoluted process of removing dead persons from the voters register. Why this is a challenge is that we don’t have an accurate death register. Although the national population commission does have a death register, it is not updated because in this country we don’t have a culture of keeping data or record keeping. So even when people die, I’m not sure the National Population Commission is able to capture that data because that is the data INEC would have relied on. So you’ve got that challenge. “And I think when we talk about the credibility of the voters register, we must also note the limitations that exist in this ecosystem of voters registration or identity management. “Yes, the credibility of the voters register or the credibility of an election is hinged on the voters register. But the key question that you want to ask is how significant are these dead persons and the voters register? “So you need an audit of the voters register because that audit will increase and enhance the confidence of stakeholders in the voters register and by extension also the elections. “We can’t determine if it is quite significant. Why it is critical is that you don’t want a situation where that particular data on the register is manipulated or exploited to undermine the outcome of elections. “So when you make the determination, you can then ask if it will affect the credibility of the poll; but there is a direct connection between the credibility of your voters register and the credibility of your elections. “But I’ll say that even if you have dead persons on the register, the key question to ask is what other mechanisms are put in place by INEC to checkmate voting by proxy or to checkmate multiple voting. The electronic accreditation of voters will to a large extent curb or limit voting by proxy or multiple voting. “So when you have the BVAS machines accrediting only one voter in a particular polling unit, if another person decides to use the details or the registration information of a dead person, can they vote in an election. The truth is that the BVAS machine has to accredit your fingerprint and it will also accredit your facials as well except if that voter shows up with the fingerprint of a dead person or as well as the image or facial identification of a dead person. “And the point that I’m making is that the electronic accreditation, if passed and signed by the President, will limit voting by dead persons.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com