Sickle cell is a life-long genetic disorder and people who are diagnosed with Hb SS or Hb SC, and other variants suffer from episodes of pain, called sickle cell crisis.  This crisis is so volatile that it can flare up at any time.  Having a crisis affects different areas of a warrior’s life. What people don’t know is that there is an aftermath to the crisis that is equally traumatic to the patient, be it emotionally, psychologically and physically. On a personal note, if I have a crisis for a week, I need a week or more to recover.  Recuperation can take time and it differs from person to person.  If you ask anyone with sickle cell to describe the crisis, you will get some interesting descriptions.   I describe a sickle cell crisis as a tornado or tsunami that comes to ravage a geographical area (me or my body) and once it has wrecked its havoc, it leaves as suddenly as it came. Now the thing about this metaphorical tornado or tsunami is that it damages my body, devastates my internal organs for the period that I have that crisis.  How can anyone think, once the crisis is over, I should be back on track, like nothing happened.  So, when I say that I am okay, after a crisis, it does not mean that all is well. What it means is that I’m managing myself and physically I am 70-90 per cent no longer in pain. The initial is the psychological aftermath of what I have suffered for a week.  I would have taken a lot of narcotic tablets, be it in the hospital or at home.  If I decided to self-medicate at home, it would be the same tablets.  However, the difference of going into the hospital is that the tablets would be given to me intravenously.  This is a good thing as it means the tablets can flow through my blood vessels quicker. Despite this good thing, I would have had to endure countless injections being injected into various parts of my arms and hands, as the nurse searches for a vein to put the needle into.  Now this is no laughing matter.  Imagine for a minute, someone in excruciating pain, crying their eyes out, wincing in pain, grunting in agony and the nurse who needs to administer the morphine shot is struggling with finding a vein.  It is a terrible situation to be in, both for the patient and the nurse.  I can assure you as I re-play these scenes in my mind, that throughout my stay in that hospital, blood would be taken several other times, possibly daily and the dreadful process described above will be repeated.  This could be because the vein rejects the saline, and my limb starts swelling.  So, the old one would be taken out and another one would be inserted. Now the opiates or narcotics administered during the duration of the pain is something else. The thing is people react to them differently.  I for one tend to throw up quite a lot and so, I need to be given anti-sickness tablets and yet, sometimes, they do not work.  However, when they do, I also need to deal with these common side effects: constipation, bloated, vomiting, feeling sleepy, tiredness, dizziness, confusion, headache, itchiness. Some serious side effects include breathing difficulty, muscle stiffness, (tiredness could be a sign of low blood pressure), or fits.  And lastly, a serious allergic reaction could be – anaphylaxis, which is a potentially life-threatening reaction to a trigger, such as an allergy. The above side effects take their time in leaving one’s body and so, even though I am pain-free for example, I will most probably deal with some of the above side effects for days. The above makes a sickle cell crisis a pain in every sense of the word. So, here I am pain-free, discharged and back home but looking like someone who has been on hunger strike.  The flip side is I also look pregnant because I’m bloated.  In the height of the pain, food is the last thing on the patient’s mind.  I mean, how can one eat, under such pain?  It’s a difficult one. Nevertheless, food is important. To have that many tablets or injections inside one’s body over a short period of time, no doubt will affect my organs too.  My organs and I need to recover from the tornado/tsunami and that in itself equally takes time.   Time that this busy world sometimes does not afford one to have especially if one is working and one has work targets to meet. As I deal with all of this, I am additionally wondering what exactly is sickle cell anaemia? I know the definition of sickle cell but why does it manifest itself with so much viciousness and vindictiveness?  Whenever I ask these questions, I don’t have an answer. No wonder patients with sickle cell are called ‘warriors.’ I know that some people do not believe in taking tablets or going to the hospital, for religious reasons.  We therefore have parents who find an alternative, instead of taking their children for a medical check.   I know the pain that person, adult or little child is going through, and it is a pain that I would describe as gruesome.  But this would have to be a topic for another time. I am equally not surprised that some people living with sickle cell suffer anxieties or depression.  If one is sick a lot, I mean having several crises a year, there is no way that one’s mental health will not be affected.  Mental health is not something I want to talk about in this column because it is such a big issue. So, if you are living with sickle cell and reading this right now, be kind to yourself, you go through so much pain and still keep it moving.  Well done to you.  Happy New Year and my wish for you is to have a pain-free 2022. If you would like to get in touch with me about this article or about sickle cell, do so, via email: t.dehinde@yahoo.com and do visit my blog: www.howtolivewithsicklecell.co.uk.   The e-copy of my book on sickle cell – How To Live With Sickle Cell is available for purchase on www.toladehinde.com and if you want to purchase a paperback version, it is available on Amazon.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com