The Vice-Chancellor of Veritas University, Prof Hyacinth Ichoku, on Wednesday announced that the institution will be awarding a total of 30 First Class degrees during its 10th convocation ceremony scheduled to hold on Saturday, January 29, 2022. According to the Vice-Chancellor, who spoke in Abuja during a press briefing with selected journalists, a total of 331 students will be graduating on the said date from the various departments available in the school. He said, “The number of graduating students from both undergraduate and post-graduate classes is about 331 of which 60 are from the postgraduate class. “Out of all these numbers, we have 30 students graduating with First Class Honours, 151 in Second Class Upper, 130 in Second Class Lower and 50 made Third class,’’ he said. He said that the school worked very hard to make sure its students put in their best academically, intellectually and morally. Ichoku also explained to journalists that the school was pursuing accreditation of some new courses with the National Universities Commission. He, however, expressed optimism that the accreditations will be granted very soon. “The school has 32 undergraduate programmes and 18 postgraduate programmes under the Faculty of Education, Management, Humanities, Social Sciences, Engineering and the Faculty of Applied Sciences and Law. “We are awaiting the approval of the National Universities Commission to introduce courses such as Medicine, Nursing, and Medical Laboratory Sciences as new programmes in the school. “With regards to introducing foreign language courses, we are still making efforts in that direction. We are in contact with relevant Embassies which we have written proposals. “We have not given up on it and I am glad to inform you that we are receiving positive responses in that direction,’’ he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com