The Police Command in Katsina State on Friday said it rescued seven victims of human trafficking at Yankara village in Mai’adua Local Government Area of the state. The state police spokesperson, SP Gambo Isah, said in a statement on Friday in Katsina that the rescue was successful following the raid of a criminal hideout at Yankara village, according to the News Agency of Nigeria. He said that the command had also repelled a bandit attack at Fadimawa village, in Kurfi LGA of the state and recovered rustled animals. “On Jan. 20, 2022, based on credible intelligence, the command raided a criminal hideout at Yankara village, Koza District, Mai’adua LGA, and rescued seven victims of human trafficking. “The victims include; Success Oshoopkeme, from Akoko–Edo LGA of Edo State, 20, Isaac Debora of Ugunagbo LGA, Abia State, 20, and a 28-year-old, Amoruwa Ade of Irede LGA, Ondo State. “Others are; 20-year-old James Rebecca of Minna LGA of Niger State, Emmanuel Godwin, Eka North LGA of Delta State, 23, 21-year-old Zainab Tijjani of Ibadan LGA of Oyo State, and 27-year-old Taofik Olawale, of Ibadan LGA of Oyo State,” Isah said. Isah said that in the course of the investigation, the victims explained that they were brought to the village by their agent, who on sighting the police fled and escaped with their phones. The police spokesperson said that the victims told the police that they were on their way to Libya through Niger Republic border. “Investigation is ongoing. They will be handed over to the NAPTIP office in Kano for further investigation and arrest of the traffickers,” he said. “Also, on Jan. 27, bandits attacked Fadimawa village, Kurfi LGA and rustled an unspecified number of domestic animals. The DPO Kurfi led a team of policemen to the scene and engaged the bandits in a fierce gun duel. “The operational strategy and gallantry displayed by the police overpowered the hoodlums, thereby, leading to the recovery of all the stolen animals. Many of the bandits escaped with bullet injuries, search parties are still combing the nearby bushes to arrest the hoodlums,’’ Isah said.