No fewer than 413 people were killed in 480 different crashes that occurred across Bauchi State from January to December, 2021, the Federal Road Safety Corps has disclosed. The Sector Commander, FRSC Bauchi State, Yusuf Abdullahi, disclosed this in a statement made available to our Correspondent on Sunday. In the statement entitled, ‘The annual RTC Report in 4,000km road network in Bauchi State,’ he said that 2,157 people sustained varying degrees of injuries involving 3,586 people within the period. According to him, most of the crashes were caused by speed violation and reckless driving, pointing out that these remain a source of concern to the FRSC in the state. He assured that the FRSC was doing all within its powers to reduce these road traffic crashes to the barest minimum through aggressive public enlightenment and enforcement of the use of Speed Limiting Device and other measures. Abdullahi said, “From January to December, 2021, Bauchi State recorded a total of 480 road traffic crashes in the 4,000kms road network in the state. “These are made up of 162 fatal crashes and 307 serious crashes. “A total of 3,586 people were involved. No fewer than 413 people were killed in these crashes while 2,157 others sustained various degrees of injuries.” He added, “The common causes of these crashes which we identified are speed violation, reckless driving and wrongful overtaking. “The time of most of these road traffic crashes is evening and night. Also, 80 percent of these crashes involve commercial vehicles passing through the state. “Speed violation and wrongful overtaking are the major causes of the RTC. Speeding remains the number one source of worry for the corps personnel in road safety management. “The corps would do its best to ensure that RTC resulting from speeding is reduced to the barest minimum in 2022. “The corps would continue to monitor road usage to guard against dangerous driving, among other causes of RTC. The public should call toll free numbers 122 during emergencies get quick and prompt responses from the FRSC.” The FRSC boss said that the recent Inauguration of the State Road Safety advisory Council (SARSAC) by the Bauchi State deputy governor, Baba Tela, will remain an instrument of strength in curtailing RTC in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com