THE Peoples Democratic Party in Katsina State on Sunday warned Governor Aminu Masari against interference in the local government election slated for the first quarter of 2022. The party said it would participate fully in the poll. The Chairman of the party, Alhaji Salisu Majigiri, gave the warning in Katsina, in an interview with The PUNCH. He was reacting to the decision of the state government to conduct the council election in the first quarter of the year. Majigiri said in as much as the PDP was ready to participate in the election, the party did not want the governor to encroach on the mandate of the State Independent Electoral Commission, which has the sole responsibility of conducting the exercise. The PDP chairman said, “We in the PDP are ready for the council election. You know, we have participated in all the by-elections even though we were cheated. But we shall not be discouraged. “The governor should, however, not encroach on the responsibilities of the State Independent Electoral Commission that will conduct the election. In the first instance, it is very wrong of the governor to announce the period of the election. The electoral commission is supposed to do so; it is supposed to give notice of the election. “We would not want a situation where the governor, who has now announced the period of the election, will also start announcing results of the election. We are fully ready and our party, PDP, is prepared for the election anytime that is held. We plead for a free, fair and credible election.” The PDP chairman corrected the impression that the delay in holding the council election was caused by the party. He insisted that it was Masari, who dissolved the democratically elected council executives just nine months after they were sworn in to serve a two-year term. Majigiri said the PDP promptly challenged the action in the court for the sake of democracy in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com