The House of Representatives, on Thursday, asked the Central Bank of Nigeria to suspend the electronic evaluation and invoicing policy recently introduced in the import and export chain, warning that it may negatively affect revenue collection by the Nigeria Customs Service. The Governor of the CBN, Godwin Emefiele, is also to appear before the House Committee on Customs and Excise to explain the implication of the policy to Customs’ revenue target in 2022. The Chairman of the House Committee on Customs and Excise, Leke Abejide, had moved a motion titled ‘Call on the Central Bank of Nigeria to suspend the implementation of the new guidelines on the introduction of e-evaluator, e-invoicing for imports and exports businesses in Nigeria.’ Moving the motion, Abejide recalled that the CBN, on January 21, 2022, issued a circular on guidelines on imports and export businesses in Nigeria, with Reference Number TED/FEM/FPC/PUB/01/001 to take effect from February 1, 2022, 10 days after the issuance of the guidelines. According to the lawmaker, “sudden monetary/fiscal circular hurriedly or half-hazardly implemented” often leads to policy summersault, hence major policy change such as this, a grace period of 90 days is usually expected for transactions to run their full course to avoid distortion in the economy and price distortions of trade. He said, “The House is worried that the CBN has gradually deviated from its primary function of monetary policy measures and bankers to government and concentrating more on fiscal policy measure, which is the function of the Federal Ministry of Finance. “The House is concerned if the guidelines are not given adequate time to sensitise and acquaint the major ports of entry in the country for stakeholders and the general public to study the policy,                                                                                                                    it will distort prices of goods and services and create logjams for imports and exports, delay transactions and consequently cause ports congestion.” The lawmaker recalled that in 2020, the immediate implementation of Form NXP as a mandatory statutory document required to be completed by all exporters for shipment of goods outside the country resulted in crisis. Abejide said most exporters contracts were cancelled by their foreign buyers’ due to network issues and configuration of its portal, which he said took more than two to three weeks to resolve, thus leading to massive financial loss by exporters. He said, “The House is worried that importers and exporters in the manufacturing, mining and trading sectors would be affected because as the exceptions indicate that all exporters and importers with a cumulative invoicing value equal to or above $500,000 or its equivalent in foreign currency would be affected, which is practically impossible to have anyone below this value cumulatively. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com