Civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, has asked the Department of State Services to stop hunting Christian clerics including the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Matthew Kukah, for criticising the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Kukah was reportedly invited by the secret police over his Christmas Day message where he slammed the President for his inaction regarding the worsening security challenges in the country. In a statement on Sunday, National Coordinator of HURIWA, Emmanuel Onwubiko, said the DSS should rather invite popular Islamic cleric, Ahmad Gumi, for questioning for hobnobbing with bandits. In the statement titled, ‘HURIWA to DSS: Stop harassing Christian clerics, be patriotic’, the group said it was unpatriotic, unconstitutional and illegal for the publicly funded security agency to be “manipulated by the powers-that-be in Abuja to be deployed as the attack dogs against only Christian leaders especially those who raise their voices against the heightened state of insecurity in Nigeria whereas the same agency under the control of the executive arm of government has consistently looked the other way when provocative, hate-filled speeches are made by notable Muslim clerics against Christians particularly.” The statement added, “HURIWA is miffed that a prominent Nigerian bishop has reportedly been ordered in for questioning by a state security agency after the prelate criticized Nigeria’s government for complicity in the face of kidnappings and other persecution of the country’s Christians. “We condemn this aggression against the Church and against the Body of Christ by the current federal government headed by the Katsina born Moslem former Military General Muhammadu Buhari. This harassment must stop unless this government does not mean well for Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com