A 51-year-old woman, Victoria Agori, has appealed to the police to release the body of her son, Daniel Agori, 21, who was reportedly shot dead by a team of the Inspector-General of Police in 2019. The National Human Rights Commission had in December 2021 announced payment of monetary compensation to the families of 27 victims of police brutality. Mrs Agori, 51, who was one of the beneficiaries, said the real justice for her would be when her son’s body was released for burial and those who killed him prosecuted. While appreciating the panel for the compensation, she said it was a rough road to justice, adding that she wrote many letters and petitions without getting any response. She said, “I wrote petitions to the Inspector-General of Police, Attorney-General of the Federation, and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN. “I also wrote to the Rivers State Commissioner of Police, Rivers and Bayelsa states’ governors, a human rights group, and the International Federation of Women Lawyers. “Also, I wrote to the Senate, the House of Representatives and the Rivers State House of Assembly to get justice for my late son.” The bereaved mother recalled that a team of policemen invaded her house in Nkpolu, East-West Road, arrested her and two of her children on May 11, 2019. She noted that her family was accused of robbery and kidnapping, adding that the policemen manhandled and bundled them into a vehicle to a police station “They took us to the Aluu Police Station and called us armed robbers, that we were selling guns. They tormented us and shot my son dead in my presence. No amount of money awarded to me will make me forget my son that I gave birth to after nine months,” Mrs Agori added. On what she remembered most about her son, she said, “He (Daniel) usually called me ‘Mumsy’. He would say, ‘Mummy, how are you? Mumsy, what do you have? Mumsy, what are we going to eat? Mumsy, I want to drink tea, please buy bread and all that.’ Anytime I see bread or when I am drinking tea, I always cry because he liked taking tea and bread, just like me. “So, I cannot forget him. I want them to release his corpse to me. That has been my cry all these years so I can give him a proper burial. “Then, I am demanding that all the policemen involved in the death of my son should be prosecuted. These policemen should be made to face the law and dismissed because they are not fit to wear that uniform.” She expressed sadness that the police hierarchy was shielding her son’s killers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com