A member of the National Assembly from Plateau State, Dachung Bagos, has revealed that members of the community contributed money for ransom before their traditional ruler, Da Gyang Balak, was released by his abductors. Bagos, who represents the Jos South/Jos East Federal Constituency, made the revelation on Monday while featuring on the Sunrise Daily programme of the Channels Television, which was monitored by our correspondent in Jos. The PUNCH had reported that Balak, who is the paramount ruler of the Vwang District in the Jos South Local Government Area of the state, was abducted on Sunday, January 16, 2022, while driving home close to the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies in the area. The monarch was later freed in the night of the following day. “These kidnappers cannot in any way kidnap someone and let go just like that. My chief (the Gwom Rwei Vwang) was kidnapped. As one of the sons of the community, we contributed money to pay the ransom before he was released,” the lawmaker said. Bagos dismissed insinuations that no ransom was paid for the release of the monarch. He stated, “We marked the money and if the monarch and another person kidnapped alongside with him had been rescued and the money recovered, then we would know that this was the money we gave out. “Let’s always say it as it is so that all of us, be it politicians, traditional rulers, the youth, vigilantes and hunters, will come to the table to share intelligence that we have at our levels.” The lawmaker pleaded with all the security outfits to have synergy and be well-coordinated to enable them to cope with security challenges. He warned against allowing the series of attacks on mining sites in his community, which had led to the death of many of his constituents, to escalate, saying, “If we are not proactive now, the issue of these mining attacks, God forbid, we make Plateau to become like Zamfara State.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com