The Edo State Government in conjunction with the state police command and the 4 Brigade, Nigerian Army, on Monday deployed personnel to the troubled 2nd Abumwere Ojigbelu Camp in the Ovia Northeast Local Government Area of the state. Herders had chased away the camp’s settlers and villagers on Sunday and threatened to kill them if they stopped them from feeding their cows with farm produce. In response, a joint security team comprising the Nigeria Army and the Nigeria Police Force, during a media tour to the multi-ethnic camp on Tuesday, assured the people of security of lives and property. The spokesman for the state police command, SP Kotongs Bello, said a team of security personnel would be deployed in the area to prevent a breakdown of law and order. Bello spoke on behalf of the Commissioner of Police, Phillip Ogbadu, who was represented by the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Ekiadolor Area Command, Badaru Wase, while Major Isah represented the 4 Brigade Commander at the meeting. The police spokesman said investigation into the reported sack of residents of the camp/village by herders had commenced, adding that the use of fireworks by certain persons in the area might have provoked the herders to come out of the bush to sound a note of caution to the farmers. He said, “The Commissioner of Police, Phillip Ogbadu, Governor Godwin Obaseki and the 4 Brigade Commander, after the news that the residents of the community were sacked, directed the security operatives to visit the camp to douse tension and ensure that the people are safe. “The work of every security personnel is to protect lives and property. We will continue to patrol around to ensure sanity is restored in the community.” The leader of the 2nd Abumwenre Camp, Mr Solomon Omoragbon, said he was in Benin City when the herders came to issue the warning to the people. He stated, “They instructed us not to ring our bell anymore and bring out any vigilante, as well as stop setting fire at night. They also said the vigilantes in the area should stop shooting guns. “I haven’t seen the herdsmen, but I saw the food items they ate and fed their cows with.” Another resident of the camp, Mr Osadebamwen Aigbe, said on Sunday, “We went to the Ekiadolor Police Station to make a report. “This morning, we were told that the police would be visiting the community. My property is not here because we were instructed to leave by the herders.” He added that the herders said they owned cassava and plantain, while cocoa belonged to the farmers. “They (herdsmen) wore camouflage, carried AK-47 rifles and shot repeatedly for some time. They destroyed plantain, yam and cassava. They also destroyed our farms,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com