The picture some readers have about fermented foods is entirely different from what I painted here. I want to clear the air on this. For food fermentation, you intentionally encourage the activity of “good bacteria” for the process because their actions are needed. For example, in the yogurt making videos some of you requested, you saw how the milk was boiled. It was cooled to a certain temperature before a store bought yogurt with active live culture was added. Also, you saw that the milk was kept in a warm place for a certain number of hours before it finally turned into yogurt. Though the microorganisms that preserve food during the fermentation process can also cause spoilage, the good news is that it is fairly easy to keep food from spoiling by knowing which temperature and processing methods to use. Fermented foods are NOT your leftover rice, beans, eba, amala that are spoilt as some of you think. Fermentation is not the same as food spoilage. Is it clear now? I will be discussing orange peels this week. It may surprise you that orange peels have about four times more health benefits than the actual orange fruit we eat. The orange peels are rich in fiber, vitamin C,  folate, vitamin B6, calcium, provitamin A, copper, magnesium riboflavin, thiamine and other essential nutrients. It contains a good amount of polyphenols that protect against several diseases. It has anti-cancerous properties due to the presence of limonene, a naturally occurring chemical. Also, nearly 90 per cent of the essential oils in orange peels are composed of limonene, a naturally occurring chemical that has been studied for its anti-inflammatory and anticancer properties. It is used as a skin lightener, body scrub, bath oil, bath powder, face mask, deodoriser and mosquito repellent. It is used for cooking and in cake making. Some of its benefits are: Helps prevent cancer: The flavonoids in orange peels inhibit a protein linked to cancer. The peels also contain another compound called limonene, which can cut cancer risk. Protects the respiratory system: Eating foods that contain beta-cryptoxanthin are proven to lower one’s chances of having lung cancer significantly. Orange peels and oranges are both known to contain a lot of this. Lowers blood sugar: The peels are rich in pectin, a fiber known to regulate blood sugar levels. This sure can help people with diabetes. Studies have also shown how treatment with orange peel extract can help prevent diabetic nephropathy. Strengthens the heart: Orange peels are rich in a flavonoid called hesperidin which has shown to lower blood cholesterol and blood pressure levels. The peel also has anti-inflammatory properties. Another set of compounds in orange peels are the polymethoxylated flavones, which lowers cholesterol levels better than certain prescription drugs. Helps in weight loss: Oranges are low in calories which is one reason they are a great addition to a weight loss diet. They are filled with dietary fiber which controls your appetite and discourages binging. Orange peels also contain vitamin C that is known to help burn fat. Enhances digestive health: The fiber in the fruit peel aids digestion. Studies also show that citrus fruit peels in general have been used since ancient times to treat digestive disorders. Helps fight inflammation: One New York study shows how orange peel exhibits excellent anti-inflammatory properties. Further researches show how orange peels can suppress inflammation in a way similar to indomethacin, an anti-inflammatory drug. Also, the flavonoids in orange peels are known to permeate membranes and heal inflammation. Improves oral health: Thanks to the antibacterial properties of orange peels. They protect you from dental caries. Additionally, you can whiten your teeth using orange peels. Makes skin glow: Orange peels help cure multiple skin problems such as blackheads, dead cells, acne, dark circles and dry skin. It also helps brighten your skin. Boosts immune system: The high concentration of Vitamin C and Vitamin A will strengthen your immune system and keep cold, cough and flu away. Lowers high blood pressure and cholesterol: Orange peels, white pulp and pith are full of hesperidin; a flavonoid that has been shown to have these benefits. Elzbieta Kurowska, PhD, vice president of research at KGK Synergise in Ontario, Canada, has found in her studies that polymethoxylated flavones (PMFs) in orange peels are more likely to lower cholesterol than many prescription drugs. Prevents allergies: Histamines are the chemicals that are responsible for allergic reactions. Orange peels contain compounds that can help prevent histamine release. Good for hangovers: Just boil the peel for about 15-20 minutes and drink it like tea to get rid of a hangover. Scientific studies In a study titled, “Anticancer activities of citrus peel polymethoxyflavones related to angiogenesis and others,’’ by Wang et al, a considerable number of well-established lines of evidence have confirmed that flavonoids in citrus peel exhibit a remarkable spectrum of efficacious biological activities, particularly in anti-tumorigenesis. In a study titled, “Amelioration of diabetic nephropathy by orange peel extract in rats,’’ by Parkar et al, the results indicated the prevention of diabetic nephropathy in rats by OPE(orange peel extract) treatment and suggested OPE as a potential treatment option. In a study titled, “Antimicrobial effects of citrus sinensis peel extracts against dental caries bacteria: An in vitro study, ‘’ by Shetty, Citrus sinensis peels extract was found to be effective against dental caries pathogens and contain compounds with therapeutic potential. In a study titled, “Antidiabetic and antihypercholesterolemic activities of Citrus sinensis peel: In vivo study,’’ by Muhtadi et al, the extract of Citrus sinensis peels with dose of 500 mg/kg BW showed the highest antidiabetic and anti-hypercholesterolemic activities in rats models. In a study titled, “Skin lightening effect of the dietary intake of citrus peel extract against UV-Induced pigmentation,’’ by Kee Kim et al, as a strong inhibitor of melanogenesis, CPE (citrus peel extract) could be used as a de-pigmentation agent and a supplement for skin lightening. In a study titled, “The use of orange (Citrus sinensis) peel as antimicrobial and antioxidant agents,’’ by Yerou et al, the conclusion is that the peel can be used for food preservation purposes. There are many ways to ingest orange peels. I will discuss two. Put fresh orange peels into a pot of water and bring it to a boil. Then, turn off the heat and allow the peels to steep in the water. Strain the water and your tea is ready. You can either use fresh orange peels or dried to make your tea. You can grind it into powder if it is dried and be using it to make tea. If you do not mind, you can add orange zest (scraped orange peels) into your yogurt, oatmeal and salad. Do not forget to wash properly before use. I want you to read about how to make orange peel oil. It will be useful for you. Orange peel actually contains more fibre and Vitamin C than the flesh of the fruit, never throw it away again. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com