Kaduna Governor, Nasir El-Rufai has condemned renewed killings around the boundary between Kauru and Zango-Kataf Local Government Areas of the state where a herdsman was said to have been killed on Tuesday. It was gathered that the herder was grazing around the area when the incident happened following an argument with a farmer. The state Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, confirmed the attack in a statement on Tuesday. The statement was titled, ‘Kaduna condemns renewed killings in Kauru-Zangon Kataf boundary areas.’ Aruwan said the herder, identified as Yusuf Mahmuda, who was also a resident of the community, was beheaded while other herders fled the areas. The beheading of the herder, he said, led to inter-ethnic communal clash which erupted in Bakin Kogi Market of Kauru, resulting in the killing of one Ahmad Aliyu, while two residents, Esther Thomas and Tanko Dakar, were injured and a vehicle was burnt. The commissioner, however, said the situation was brought under control by troops of Operation Safe Haven. Aruwan said, “The Kaduna State Government has condemned the renewed killings in the boundary areas of Kauru and Zangon Kataf LGAs as reported by security agencies in those locations. “The government has appealed to residents who lost their relations and loved ones to allow security forces and government manage the situation, as investigations are in progress, following incidents which created a tense atmosphere in the local government areas. “Security agencies reported that unidentified persons attacked and killed a herder in Zaman Chawai general area of Kauru LGA. “According to the report, the herder, Yusuf Mahmuda, a resident of the community, was grazing with other herders in the bushes adjoining some farms, when he was attacked and killed after an argument with some farmers over encroachment of animals. “The assailants beheaded the slain herder and took his head with them as the other herders grazing in the area managed to escape with their animals. “Subsequently, an inter-ethnic communal clash erupted during peak market hours in Bakin Kogi Market of Kauru LGA located near its boundaries with Zangon Kataf LGA. “One Ahmad Aliyu was killed in the violent attack, while two residents, Esther Thomas and Tanko Dakar, were injured and a vehicle was burnt. The situation was brought under control by troops of Operation Safe Haven who then escorted buyers and sellers to safety.” The commissioner said the governor was pained by the renewed killings and directed security agencies to probe the clash. He added, “Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i expressed his sadness at the reports and sorely lamented the eruption of violent attacks and clashes in the general area. “He expressed deep concern that despite the efforts and hard work of the government, security forces and other critical stakeholders to ensure the gradual return of peace, the killings had caused a setback which must not be allowed to gain ground. “He condoled the families of those killed, and prayed for the repose of their souls, while wishing the injured a quick recovery. “The governor tasked security agencies to conduct thorough investigations into the attacks leading to loss of lives in both locations. He further charged all residents to maintain calm and desist from all actions capable of triggering further violence, as security agencies carried out their tasks. “Security agencies are investigating the incidents and sustaining patrols to restore stability to the general area.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com