Super Eagles interim coach Austin Eguavoen says the team is still helping striker Sadiq Umar adjust to the pace and rigours of African football, PUNCH Sports Extra. Umar, who has two substitute appearances at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations tournament, has largely impressed the technical crew with several media reports claiming that Eguavoen seems to have made up his mind on him. The forward has just 28 minutes playing time under his belt in Camerooon, but Eguavoen defended the 24-year-old Almeria man, saying he was new to African football, but was adapting well. The former Glasgow Rangers striker made his senior debut for Nigeria last Tuesday against Egypt, six years after he finished as joint top scorer for the Nigerian U-23 team at the Rio 2016 Olympics with four goals. “He (Umar) needs to adapt to our style of play and African football,” Eguavoen said. “He is a good player and I believe he will integrate well into the team before the next game. “He definitely has had a bit of fallout with that physically. It’s something we are trying to help him deal with. The expectations around him – you have to put context into the story. Sadiq’s talent is undoubted. Giving him the time to adapt is crucial. “We have seen players in the past, didn’t really adapt, played elsewhere and absolutely lit it up to unbelievable levels. “We need to give them that time and I am there to help him. “He is a different player from Taiwo Awoniyi and Peter Olayinka, which gives us some options in attack and each of them gets certain instructions on how to help the team win games, which is the most important thing.” Umar, one of the most sought-after strikers in Spain, scored 20 goals in 40 games for Almeria last season and has bagged eight goals and seven assists in 19 appearances this term. Nigeria are through to the Round of 16 and will face one of the third-place teams from Group B, E or F on Sunday in Garoua.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com