Ahead of the National Convention of the All Progressives Congress on February 26, 2022, former Borno State governor, Ali Sheriff, has affirmed that he is running for the office of Chairman and not the Presidency. Sheriff clarified this on Friday in Abuja during an interactive session with correspondents. The former Governor said, “Many insinuations are going around; Ali Sheriff is not looking to be Chairman, he is looking to be presidential candidate. Please, I want to put it on record today. I am not looking to be President. I am looking to be the National Chairman to lead the Party to victory. “I want to lead a campaign like what we did in 2014, to make sure that our father and leader (Buhari) hands over power to another APC man as President. If I want to be President, I am not afraid of anybody, but I don’t want to be President but National Chairman.” He explained that his mission is to transform the APC into a vehicle of greatness for Nigeria. To model the Party to bring about a united Nigeria and collaborate with the government. “I desire to contribute immensely to the transformation of Nigeria using our Party, the APC, as a tool to enthrone a better society for all and to make our people digitally inclined. I also intend to transform the Party into a political institution for all, especially for the empowerment of youths and women for more political participation so that the Party will be the Party to beat in the next 50 years in the continent of Africa,” he said. When quizzed about zoning and speculations that the APC may have zoned the national chairmanship to the north-central, Sheriff asserted that the Party has yet to finalise a zoning arrangement. The Chairmanship hopeful alleged that some elements in the Party are afraid of his chances of emerging National Chairman at the February 26 national convention. Therefore, they are peddling falsehoods in the media about zoning. “A leadership runs the Party. The Party leadership, as of today, has not even constituted any committee. They were meeting for the last three or four days to develop a committee for everything —for the zoning, the election, and everything. So, the Party came up and said we have not even sat. There are no more questions to ask. “As of today, even from the Northeastern states of Nigeria, many people are looking to be the chairman, it is not only Ali Sheriff. Then I saw in a newspaper days ago that Ali Sheriff is edged out. Why Ali Sheriff? Supposing that was the situation, is it only Ali Sheriff that is looking to be Chairman in the Northeast? “So, it clearly shows you that those that are writing this are afraid of the man called Ali Sheriff. Ali Sheriff is the target, they probably don’t want to go to the convention against me; they are afraid, period! Once the Party has given you those answers, there is no cause for alarm. Nigerians are not fools. Nigerians are properly educated. If any newspaper is doing a hatchet, they are only destroying their career and reputation,” he said. Asked what fate awaits the APC if it fails to get it right at the convention, the former senator said, “Well, my view is that we will get it right by the special grace of God. Because you see, no single person will build a party. We suffered to form the Party that has today become national, and all of us, collectively, will get it right.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com