The Lagos State Special Offences Court has fixed February 17 for embattled Nollywood actor, Olanrewaju Omiyinka, aka Baba Ijesha, to open his defence in the alleged child molestation case against him. Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo fixed the date on Wednesday after the defendant’s counsel, O. Alo, notified the court that the senior defence counsel, Dada Awosika (SAN), was indisposed and urged the court for a short adjournment date. At the Wednesday proceedings, Alo told the court that the defendant had decided to enter into defence and would no longer be filing a no-case submission. He said, “We did not file a no-case submission again. In view of the development, we pray the court to give us a date. Both senior lawyers representing the defendant are not in court, although Babatunde Ogala had informed Mr Awosika that he would not be in court today. Mr Awosika is indisposed; he didn’t know that he would not be able to be in court. We apologise, my Lord.” The prosecution counsel, Jide Martins, objected to the adjournment and urged Alo to continue with the matter. However, Justice Taiwo, who held that the lawyers had always attended proceedings, granted the request of the defence. She noted that if the senior lawyers were not in court on the next adjourned date, Alo would continue with the matter. Justice Taiwo thereafter adjourned the matter till February 17 and 18, 2022, for defence. The embattled Nollywood actor is facing six counts bordering on the indecent treatment of a child, sexual assault, attempted sexual assault by penetration and sexual assault by penetration. The offences, according to the police, contravene sections 135, 259, 262, 263 and 262 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The prosecution had closed its case at the last proceeding after calling six witnesses to testify against the defendant. Following the closure of the prosecution’s case, the defence counsel, Kayode Olabiran, announced that the defence intended to file a no-case submission.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com