Sudan players have threatened to shock Nigeria by ensuring that they grabbed the three points in today’s Africa Cup of Nations’ encounter against Nigeria. Nigeria and Sudan will meet on Saturday  (today) at Roumde Adjia Stadium in Matchday two of Group D of AFCON in Cameroon. Nigeria’s Super Eagles enter the match on top after defeating Egypt 1-0, while Sudan’s Jediane Falcons have one point from a goalless draw with Guinea-Bissau. The Super Eagles enter the game with high morale, especially after overcoming Egypt in the group top match, thanks to Kelechi Iheanacho stunner in the first half. Coach Augustine Eguavoen’s team set themselves among the favorites to go far, after the outstanding performance against the Pharaohs in the first match. The Jediane Falcons await a difficult task on Saturday, but the companions of goalkeeper Ali Abu Ashren hope to achieve a positive result to revive their chances of qualifying for the knockout stage. Abu Ashren starred to save his team against Guinea-Bissau when he saved a penalty kick in the last minutes. Coach Burhan Tiya hopes his players will be at their best against the powerful Nigerian team so they can keep hopes of qualifying. Coach of Sudan, Burhan Tia,  said the absence of the team’s key player, Mohamed Abdel Rahman, won’t affect performance. “We play with a great team with high-level stars, but we will play with a balance between defense and attack. The absence of Mohamed Abdel Rahman is impressive, but we have a number of young players waiting for an opportunity to appear,” he said. Sudan player, Yassin Hamid, threatened that Super Eagles will be shocked by their determination to record victory. “In these tournaments, we can draw or win. Football is played on the field, not in names. Nigeria are a superstar team and we are a young team, but we will fight to fulfill our ambition to go past the group stage,” he told CAFOnline. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com