The Vice-Chancellor of Nigeria Maritime University, Okerenkoko in Gbaramatu, Warri South-West Local Government Area of Delta State, Prof. Emmanuel Adigio, has admitted that all is not well at the institution but reaffirmed commitments in tackling some of the major challenges confronting the University in the new year. The VC maintained that it would be insensitive on his part to claim that all is well in the University when, according to him, there are “obvious challenges facing it, as the inconveniences both the staff and students are currently passing through are synonymous with newly established institutions in the country until they are fully stabilized.” Adigio lamented the plights of some staff in terms of cost of transportation to work, inadequate accommodation and unsettled end of year bonus, but assured that all the problems are surmountable if they can all join hands together to find lasting solutions to them. While soliciting the patience and understanding of both staff and students of the University in the collective efforts to build a solid institution, the Vice-Chancellor denied knowledge of any N3billion reportedly released to the University by Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency for payment of allowances. Making the assertions while speaking with journalists in Warri, Delta State, the Vice-Chancellor insisted that the University had no record of such money, noting that the monitoring of funds made available to federal government establishments by the anti-graft agencies in the country has made it very difficult to divert funds meant for a particular project in any institution. The Vice-Chancellor declared, “On the issue of N3billion said to have been released by NIMASA, no such money was sent down here. You see, the way funds are being monitored in the country today, you cannot misappropriate funds again. “If you divert any fund meant for a particular project on something else, then you are inviting trouble to yourself as the officials of the Anti-graft agencies are monitoring such funds. So if I’ve diverted such huge funds, by now they would have come after me. “Permit me, therefore, to set the record straight that at no time was such money released for the settlement of allowances by NIMASA. So the issue of the N3billion you raised is unfounded. “If such money had been released to this institution, I think I would be most excited and I’m sure everybody would have been smiling by now. But as far as such fund is concerned, it was not released to us.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com