Recently, I took note of a reader’s response to my piece, “Nigeria’s second-tier racism, disease in the heart” (December 3, 2021). The response made me consider once more the relevance of what I was taught in my postgraduate studies with regard to writing a thesis in social science research. One of them is the need to contextually define your concepts, how you mean them. This helps examiners understand the context in which you make an argument. On this page, however, I assume that: one, some concepts are understood by readers in the context in which I use them so I don’t need to offer dictionary definitions; two, I assume the reader takes my view regarding an issue in the context in which I express it, rather than what they have in mind. But this doesn’t always happen. Rather than get you within the context in which you express a view, some are so fixated about what they have in their heads that they don’t read you, they read what they have in mind. Any view contrary to what’s in their mind qualifies the person who expresses it as ignorant, stupid, one to be dismissed. A reader once sent me such a response and when another reader heard about it he said, “Didn’t he read what you wrote?” The response from one Lanre Amu to my December 3, 2021 piece falls into this category. Now, after 14 years on this page, I expect contrary views from readers and I enjoy reading them.  But there’s this pompousness, this lack of humility on the part of some who respond in recognising the limitations that must of necessity attend even their own submission in a public debate. Many express their view as though theirs is the ultimate word on a topic. But we know that where the brilliant thoughts of one person peak, is where that of another person begins. I’ve made arguments that I initially think are the best; but when another person points to another angle regarding the same issue it makes me realise that it’s best to always humbly present one’s view, conscious that others may have a superior submission. This is helpful because when others present a superior argument you may have a safe landing, rather than have your ego-propelled grandstanding put you in a position whereby you look for where to hide out of embarrassment. Amu’s response doesn’t indicate he has this consciousness. Meanwhile, I once stated on this page how I informed the World Health Organisation that their messaging on COVID-19 wasn’t complete. That time, WHO said people shouldn’t take alcohol because it didn’t prevent anyone from catching COVID-19. I had stated that asking people to not take alcohol without telling them exactly what to take wasn’t helpful; people would simply ignore WHO. A Nigerian, long on insults but short on reasoning, responded that I was stupid for asking doctors to tell people what to take. I showed him what he missed in another piece (“Straight-talking WHO and doctors are what we need”, May 1, 2020). On May 4, 2020 (on Aljazeera TV) WHO issued a press statement calling on people to eat immune-boosting food and observe COVID-19 protocols. I suppose the intelligent guys at WHO got my point. Only the pompous Nigerian who believed his view was the ultimate didn’t. In my piece of December 3, 2021, an intelligent reader would notice the context in which I wrote i.e. some factors power what racist persons manifest. The prejudice they harbour is one. The mentality of my race is inferior to theirs is another. I noted that this same mentality largely propels persons who engage in tribalism. So, when any Nigerian who harbours tribal prejudices condemns a racist person he should also condemn himself. I assume the context in which I address tribalism is familiar to every Nigerian because they come up against the prejudice and discrimination that drive it wherever they turn. It’s there in the comments made by others about his tribe; it’s in how he’s told he cannot get a job, scholarship, appointment because he doesn’t belong to a particular tribe. The prejudice which drives these things in Nigeria to a large extent is similar to how Azeem Rafiq has been racially discriminated against at the Yorkshire County Cricket Club, UK. However, when Amu read my piece, he read what he had in mind, not what I explained. He had in his head one version of the definitions of racism and tribalism, only one, which he then imposed on my piece. As an educated person, it should have occurred to Amu that you don’t do that to another person’s submission. In fact, it shows you’re intellectually sound when you understand the context in which another person expresses his view, and understand the person from that standpoint.  Instead, Amu discussed power relations while I discussed prejudices as a driving factor for racism and tribalism. He wrote thus to me, “It seems to me that you lack a fundamental understanding of what racism truly is… Nigeria operates a system that gives power directly to each ethnic group or tribe thus numbing the destructive effect of tribalism vis-a-vis racism. The Igbos have power in the East. The Hausa-Fulani have power in the North. The Yoruba have power in the West, etc., etc. Racism on the other hand concentrates power largely in the hands of Whites to the exclusion of other races. Nigerian system does not allow for the concentration of power in one ethnic group to the exclusion of all other ethnic groups in the way racism does and has an impact. So, comparing them in impact and all is grossly misleading.” Clearly, Amu stated something different from what I addressed in my piece. Now, racism as I discuss it conforms to how Collins Dictionary (online) defines it: “prejudice, discrimination, or antagonism by an individual, community, or institution against a person or people on the basis of their membership of a particular racial or ethnic group.” My view with regard to tribalism conforms to how Collins Dictionary explains it: “With a negative connotation…tribalism can also mean discriminatory behaviour or attitudes towards out-groups, based on in-group loyalty.” So “prejudice, discrimination” which powers racism, and “discriminatory behaviour or attitudes,” which drive tribalism, fully place racism and tribalism, at least at that level, on the same pedestal. That’s my context, the basis for which I refer to tribalism as second-tier racism in my piece. From the letters he lists after his name – B.C.E., M.S.C.E. – Amu has an academic background either in Civil Engineering or Clinical Epidemiology. I have an academic background in Political Science and at three different degree levels; this makes racism and tribalism (concepts in the social sciences) more familiar to me than to Amu. But he garrulously addresses me, “Please stop dabbling into something you do not quite have an in-depth understanding of.” That’s the size of Amu’s indiscretion, the inevitable gaffe caused by a sense of exaggerated self-importance – this makes many educated Nigerians not to consider that there may be other equally sensible angles to the views they hold. I notice that Nigerians like Amu who have an academic background in one field comment in the public space as though they’re authorities in every other field. I suspect Nigerians in the sciences engage in this the most; it’s obvious in the mish-mash of arguments (unknown in the social sciences) that they make. Those of us who aren’t scientists accept every word scientists utter (even on covid-19), but science-oriented Nigerians argue with people in other fields when they should actually listen and learn. They’re online, making prejudice-driven arguments and throwing tantrums such as this one from Amu. Amu’s contrary opinion isn’t what I have issues with. Rather, it’s the cockiness, the emphatic manner he thinks his ‘ultimate’ submission must be the ultimate. Many like Amu don’t realise that submission in a public debate, like any social science theory is a contribution, but never the last word. They arrogantly call people names once a view is contrary to theirs, believing they have the ultimate say. I think Amu — and Nigerians like him —  need to come down from their high horse; they should show others some respect, and spare us this laughable I-know-it-all mentality whoever they think they are or the titles they gather. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com