The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has set up a four-man committee led by the Commissioner for Special Duties, Mr Tayo Bamgbose-Martins, as a first step to the implementation of the report submitted by the panel which investigated the collapse of a 21-storey building on Gerrard Road in Ikoyi. Other members of the committee are the Head of Service, Mr Hakeem Muri-Okunola; the Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General, Mr Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN) and the Commissioner for Agriculture, Abisola Olusanya. Sanwo-Olu constituted the committee after receiving the panel’s from the chairman, Mr Toyin Ayinde, at the Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja. He said, “Let me on behalf of the people and the government of Lagos State first acknowledge the very difficult task that has been passed on to you and the commitments and the quick response that each and every one of you gave to the assignment. We know that you all have been chosen from different professional backgrounds but you were indeed ready to serve the people for this very important assignment. “Let me therefore commend and thank you for that exercise. I will be constituting a four-man committee almost immediately that will read through the report and I am giving them the end of next week to get back to the State Executive Council.” Ayinde said the panel examined some documents which provided insights leading to the Ikoyi building construction. “The tribunal had the opportunity to access the home of the late Chief Executive Officer of Fourscore Heights Limited in the presence of members of his family, where some documents that were scanned helped in gaining further insights into the case, particularly the processes that led to the construction and eventual collapse. “Having spent approximately six weeks on this assignment, we now wish to make our submission to the governor of Lagos State who constituted the tribunal,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com