Being infected with the omicron variant of the COVID-19 may enhance immunity against the Delta variant, a study conducted by researchers in South Africa, Germany and the United Kingdom has shown. Sharing the findings of the study on LinkedIn, Professor and Head, Department of Pharmacy, World Health Organisation Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety, Jean-Michel Dogne, said omicron infection might enhance neutralising immunity against the Delta variant. According to the study carried out by 15 research institutes, emerging data indicate that omicron, at this time in the pandemic, is less pathogenic than the Delta variant. The yet-to-be-peer-reviewed study posted on the pre-print repository MedRxiv enrolled 15 previously vaccinated and unvaccinated people who were infected with the omicron variant. Dogne wrote, “We investigated whether omicron infection elicits neutralising immunity to the Delta variant. We isolated the omicron virus without the R346K mutation from an infection in South Africa. This virus had a similar neutralisation escape as a previous omicron isolates with the R346K mutation. “We neutralised with plasma from the blood of 15 participants enrolled during the omicron infection wave in South Africa, with each participant having a confirmed diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 by PCR. To quantify neutralisation, we used a live virus neutralisation assay and calculated the focus 61 reduction neutralisation test (FRNT 50) value, the inverse of the plasma dilution required for 50 per cent reduction in infection foci. “The majority infecting viruses from the enrolled participants were successfully sequenced and all of these were omicron. 11 out of 15 participants were admitted to hospital because of Covid-19 symptoms, but none required supplemental oxygen.” From the findings, the ability of one variant to elicit immunity which can cross-neutralise another variant varied by variant. “Immunity elicited by Delta infection does not cross-neutralise Beta virus and Beta elicited immunity does not cross-neutralise Delta well,” Dogne added. However, according to the researchers, participants in this study have likely been previously infected, and more than half were vaccinated. Reacting, an Abuja-based clinical biomedical scientist, Geoffrey Nomeh, said the research findings might apply in Nigeria since it involved samples from South Africans. He said, “The research by the experts abroad may apply in Nigeria. When the malaria parasite first came, it was a pandemic, just like COVID-19; but, after much research and findings, the world then knew how to handle it. If the research can work in South Africa, then it could be applied in Nigeria. It could work.” He, however, suggested more research to be conducted in the area to find out more about the different strains using Nigerian samples. Also, the Acting Head, Department of Microbiology, Adeleke University, Ede, Osun State, Dr Oladipo Kolawole, agreeing with Nomeh, said, “We need to do more research in Nigeria in order to understand it. The government needs to fund more research so researchers can do more work in understanding this virus. “If other countries are researching to find out more about this novel virus and all its strains, Nigeria also needs to join the train. We have more than enough researchers who are willing to walk the road.” However, Kolawole stated that the population size for the South African research was too small to generalise and localise their findings in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com