The Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, has urged residents of the state and the citizens of Nigeria to enter the New Year with renewed vigour and hope for a better 2022. Obasa gave the advice in his New Year message to Nigerians while praising the resilience of the citizens of the country in the face of the various challenges that came with 2021, especially in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic that has continued to ravage the world. The New Year, the Speaker noted, holds a lot of promises for the citizens, “but all that we need is the collective decision to unite, fight against our common enemies and work towards making our nation a greater place to live in.” The Speaker, who noted that Nigeria is a great country peopled by hardworking and passionate men and women determined for success, urged the citizens to continue to play roles that would put the country in positive light. “While I congratulate Nigerians, I dare say that together, we can make a better country happen just like we are making good things happen in Lagos, the economic centre of Nigeria. Today, no doubt, Lagos is one of the most peaceful states of the federation despite its population and factors that make it a mega-city. “The successes recorded by Lagos State in 2021 happened because of the cordial relationship between the arms of government, the determination of the government to scale whatever hurdles it had before it as well as the support and cooperation from residents. “At the Lagos Assembly, we ensured that our activities, bills, motions and resolutions had to do with the happiness of the residents, their safety, and the protection of lives and property as enshrined in the constitution. “Just days ago, we passed the 2022 budget to enable the government hit the New Year running. We also passed the bill establishing the Lagos State University of Education to encourage more prospective teachers and make it easy for them to get employed upon graduation so that they can make positive impacts on the society.
“In the course of 2021, we passed other important bills that have helped to keep Lagos at its enviable position. “The Lagos State House of Assembly with very brilliant and zealous representatives, would continue to be at its best in 2022,” Obasa promised as he congratulated residents of the state and Nigerians.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com