Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, has promised more support to security forces and vigilante groups in bringing to an end over 12 years of Boko Haram insurgency in the state. The Governor in a New Year message to the people of the state, said, “I am committed to ensuring more support for our security forces and the indefatigable local vigilantes that are helping us.” “Part of our strategy for strengthening resilience is the bold step that we took in closing down the internally displaced persons’ camps in Borno State as a whole. Although we have explained in detail the reasons behind the action, for the sake of clarity, I will summarise as follows: “We closed the IDP camps to clean up the places and give our people dignity as well as purpose. Living in an IDP camp is not what we are used to, or what we like as a people. Therefore, we believe that a safe life of dignity is a right for all the citizens of Borno and indeed Nigeria. “The IDP camps were becoming a slum where all kinds of vices were happening including prostitution, drugs and thuggery in some cases. No responsible leadership will allow people to live an undignified life under its watch. “The idea of IDP camp was, and remains, an interim measure to provide safety especially during the peak of the insurgency. Consequently, the camps were not meant to continue forever. The question of closure of the camp was not a matter of if but when. Efficient managers would agree that there is no better time than now to get things done. “As part of the closure, we continue to learn lessons, adapt our strategy and make necessary changes as we go along. The worst option would be to do nothing. We are not prepared to do nothing. Rather we are ready to do whatever it takes to restore the dignity of our people. Zulum stated that his administration will not be distracted by all kinds of speculations about the 2023 elections, claiming that: “There are those who work for elections and there are those who work for legacies. Our administration is committed to giving our best by keeping the promises we made for the current mandate. “The serious business of working for the people of Borno State is enough occupation for us, as I believe that there is time and space for everything.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com