The Kwara State Government has confirmed the use of hijab by willing Muslim schoolgirls in all categories of public schools in the state. The state Commissioner for Education and Human Capital Development, Hajia Sa’adatu Madibbo-Kawu, made this known during a peace meeting between Muslim and Christian stakeholders from Ijagbo in the Oyun Local Government Area of the state held at the ministry’s headquarters in Ilorin on Monday. A statement by the Press Secretary, Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development, Yakub Aliagan, disclosed this on Tuesday. The commissioner as quoted to have said, “The policy statement of the Kwara State Government allowing willing Muslim schoolgirls to wear the hijab in all public schools, including grant-aided ones, is binding. “This conforms to the judicial pronouncements of the courts of law and the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Madibbo-Kawu appealed to both Muslim and Christian leaders to allow peace to reign in the state. She directed the head of the Oyun Baptist High School, Ijagbo, to immediately implement the policy on the use of approved hijab in public schools. The commissioner warned that anybody trying to sabotage the peaceful coexistence among the people of the state would face the full wrath of the law. The meeting was also attended by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mrs Mary Adeosun; Chairman, Teaching Service Commission, Alhaji Abubakar Bello; TESCOM Board members; the President, All Nigeria Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools, Alhaji Toyin Abdullahi; and the Nigeria Union of Teachers’ Caretaker Chairman, Alhaji Umar Abdullahi. Also in attendance were the Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria, Ijagbo, Rev Samuel Ajayi; Dr B. A. Gbadeyan; President, Ijagbo Youth Association, Mr Segun Faleye; Chairman, Muslim Stakeholders, Offa and Oyun Local Governments, Alhaji Abubakar AbdulWasiu; the Secretary, Taofiq Oyetunde; Chairman, Kwara State Muslim Stakeholders, Alhaji Isiaka AbdulKareem; and Prof Abubakar Aliagan, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com