A traditional ruler in Agodo town near Papalanto in Ewekoro Local Government Area of Ogun State, the Alagodo of Agodo, Oba Ayinde Odetola, and his three friends were on Monday burnt to death. Our correspondent gathered that the slain traditional ruler and three others were attacked by some hoodlums who are residents of Agodo village around 11am. A source told our correspondent that the Oba was burnt to ashes with his car he brought into the town. It was further gathered that the three others were also killed in the same car with the traditional ruler. Our correspondent further gathered that crisis erupted when  the  late Oba was installed by the Alake of Egbaland , Oba  Michael Gbadebo, in the village believed to be under the authority of  Owu  kingdom . It was further learnt that residents of the village, who are mostly of Owu extraction, rejected his installation, being an Ake person. An elder sister of the late Oba, Chief Adenike Akintade, lamented the killing, alleging that the same people had killed the younger brother of the late monarch recently. She said “I had just been discharged from hospital early this morning, only to start mourning the brutal assassination of my brother by 11am. “Oba Odetola lost his younger brother to the imbroglio some months ago; the young man was butchered by the so-called hoodlums. Today, Kabiesi is no more, what a world!” When contacted the Police Public Relations Officer, Ogun State Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, also confirmed the incident. Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, said the Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole; and the Special Security Adviser to Governor Dapo Abiodun, Mr. Olusola Subair, visited the town for an on-the-spot assessment of the situation. The PPRO stated that the whole town had been deserted at the time of the visit. He said, “Yes, we are aware. The CP has gone to the place. The villagers had left the village before we got there. “The CP has directed the Homicide Section to take over the case and investigate the matter. “Only one person was burnt. We don’t know if he is an Oba or not.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com