Vice-President Professor Yemi Osinbajo has said Nigerians should not see ethnic diversity as a point of difference, noting that all people regardless of ethnicity and faith deserves to be treated equally and fairly. Speaking at the conferment of a chieftaincy title, The Oduma (Lion) of Auchi on the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba, by the Otaru of Auchi, HRH Alhaji Aliru Momoh, Ikelebe III, the Vice President also stated that traditional institutions were meant to uphold values that bind people together. He said, “Our country needs men and women who see and understands that our ethnic diversities is not a point of difference, men and women who understand that all people regardless of ethnicity and faith deserves to be treated equally, fairly and justly. “This is where the significance of the traditional institution comes to the fore because they are regarded and rightly so as the custodians of these values and noblest ideals of the people,” he added. The Vice President said Auchi where he did his National Youth Service Corps symbolised what Nigeria should be due to the fact that “it accommodates everyone irrespective of ethnic or religious background like in the case of Agba who is from Uzanu in Etsako East but found a home in Auchi.” He added, “The Auchi Kingdom has its rich and special history. The celebrated innovation and enterprise of its sons and daughters have brought development and prominence to this kingdom and Edo State. “Auchi is, therefore, in a real sense, not just the microcosm of Nigeria, but also one of our finest values of mutuality and community,” the VP added. On his part, Agba said the conferment of the title was an appreciation and will continue to encourage him to continue to offer more services to humanity. He commended the Edo State Government for continuing the erosion check programmes across the state, which he said, began when he was the Commissioner for Environment under the administration of Adams Oshiomhole. Agba appealed that the Benin Water Storm Project which they also started should not be abandoned. Dignitaries at the event were the Minister of Finance Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, her Transportation counterpart, Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of State for Labour, Festus Keyamo, Minister of State for Power, Engr Abubakar Aliyu, Minister of Youths and Sports, Sunday Dare, Accountant General of the Federation, Auditor General of the Federation, several political appointees and government officials. Others included former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Deputy Governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu who represented the state governor and traditional rulers led by the representative of the Oba of Benin.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com