Remo Stars climbed back to the top of the Nigeria Professional Football League with a 1-0 win over Plateau United on match-day five on Sunday, while Enyimba returned to winning ways beating Shooting Stars 1-0 in Aba. Samuel Anakwe grabbed the only goal in the 56th minute to hand the Sky Blue Stars their third win of the season, which helped Remo go two points clear of second-place Rivers United, who settled for a goalless draw against Niger Tornadoes in Ilorin on Saturday. In Aba, Enyimba put an end to their two-game losing streak after Godwin Emmanuel tapped in the winner in the 86th minute to break the hearts of the visitors. At the Aper Aku Stadium in Makurdi, Akwa United lost their second consecutive game of the season courtesy of a 1-0 loss to Lobi Stars. Saidu Mubarak scored the winner in the 83rd minute. Sunshine Stars recorded the biggest win of match-day five, celebrating their first victory of the season with a 3-0 thrashing of Kano Pillars at the Akure Township Stadium. The Akure Gunners ended their winless run with Kamaru Adebari (69th), Michael Olulasi (75th) and Babatunde Bello (80th ) scoring the goals. Aniekan Okon grabbed a brace for Dakkada in their 2-1 win over Nasarawa United, who suffered their first loss of the season. Okon put the hosts in front in the third minute, but Tochukwu Udeh equalised for the visitors in the 33rd minute. Okon, however, had the last say, scoring in the 90th minute to hand his side the maximum points in Uyo. Katsina United recorded their second win of the season with a 2-1 win over Gombe United, thanks to a brace from Madaki Dauda, who found the back of the net in the 47th and 90th minutes. Gombe had gone in front through Ibrahim Yahaya in the 44th minute. Enugu Rangers and Kwara United shared the spoils in Ilorin with a 1-1 draw, while Heartland piped Wikki Tourists 1-0 through Chukwudi Nworgu’s 37th-minute penalty. In Lagos, Muyiwa Balogun put hosts MFM FC in front in the 45th minute while Oladayo Alabi scored the second in the 61st minute as Abia Warriors fell 2-1. Godwin Obaje scored the consolatory goal for the visitors in the 84th minute.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com