Nigerian House of Representatives member, Ayo Omidiran, in this interview speaks about her passion for women’s football, and how she became a Manchester United fan What inspired your love for football? Like many people, football grows on you, and it’s a bug that once it catches you, never let’s go. When I was a little girl, I used to watch my brothers play football. Those days, women didn’t play football. When I was in primary school and it was during the break, they will tell us, girls, to go and mold clay and the boys will be on the field playing football. I used to drift to the field and at a time I told them I could play as well and believe me, I started playing football from the young age of eight. My interest grew and when the teachers started beating me and telling me to leave the field for the boys, I started playing volleyball and I played volleyball to the University level but my love for football never left. At school, I used to be the cheerleader, I get the girls together to cheer our team and when I got married and my husband realised how much I’m into football, he allowed me to start a women’s football club. Were your parents in support of you doing sports? Yes, they did. They saw it as part of growing up activities. When I was growing up, there were no video games so we were always doing outdoor activities. As far as my parents were concerned, it was part of growing up. While growing up I had a lot of extracurricular activities. I loved to dance, and I was doing well in my studies so they had no fear. They supported what I wanted to do. Would say women’s football in Nigeria has grown to the height you expected it to be? Honestly, we pioneers had expected the level of women’s football in Nigeria to have gone beyond the level it is now. But I can’t complain about where we are as well talking about individual development. Women football has opened doors for many of our girls who are now professionals playing abroad just like our men and before long, we will be having more successful women footballers that will be giving us more glory than the men. What can be done to ensure that the women’s league gets to a great height The first thing we need is corporate sponsorship. Right now the women’s league is at the mercy of the Nigeria Football Federation. They are sponsoring the league but the women’s league needs its own identity. Is Nigerian football ripe enough to see men and women players getting equal pay? It is about being fair. If we want to be fair, we should give the girls the same thing as the men. They (the girls) play for 90 minutes and sometimes with added time during competitions and let’s talk about it, they’re even more successful than our men when it comes to the national team. Everywhere they go in Africa, when their opponents hear Super Falcons, everyone shakes but you cannot say the same about the Super Eagles so I see no reason why the girls should not be paid equally as the men in fact they need it more. Do you think women footballers are fairly treated compared to men? It’s all about pay, bonuses and all, they are not being paid equally. Another thing is when we’re going to competitions and we’re in camp, the same hotels they give to the men is not what they give to the women. We are going to work on that too to ensure that when we are camping, we get the best hotels as well. What football club did you support? When I was in secondary school I didn’t have any but when I got to the university, I started following Leventis and Shooting Stars and in 1993, I became a Manchester United fan and I remain a Man United fan till now. I have other local teams I support but I’m a true Red. How do you feel when United loses a match? When Manchester United loses, I feel bad but as a fan, I take it in my stride, that’s football for you. In sports, you win some, you lose some, and hope for a better tomorrow. What was it like watching a Leventis vs Shooting Stars match back in the day? Fantastic. Even the hype before the game will keep your adrenaline pumping. They were matches we were always looking forward to. Everyone will be discussing it just the way we discuss about the English Premier League. That was how involved we were about the Nigerian league teams back then. I think if we had been able to sustain our teams playing on TV year in year out, maybe right now, we could have been able to retain the interest. Those players were celebrities then and everyone knew them. But now, I don’t think I can mention three players. Can Asisat Oshoala surpass Perpetua Nwocha’s feat? I think age is on the side of Asisat and she can surpass the feat accomplished by Perpetua Nwocha apart from that she’s also very lucky to be playing for a big team like Barcelona. They will help her game grow and the kind of opposition she also meets will also make her stronger. When it comes to the clubs they played for, Asisat already has an edge over Perpetua but to surpass Perpetua’s feat, she needs to be disciplined in every way and show maximum commitment to her game. When a player is serious enough to discipline themselves, they can go anywhere. Do you agree that other African teams are catching up to the Super Falcons? I know this because I have been there and I’m still there. I know how easy it was to beat those other national teams and how difficult it has become to beat them, be that as it may, the truth is that we need more playing time. No other African countries can beat us to the talents we have. What we need is to play many games so that they will be on top of their game all the time. What are your best moments since you started following women’s football? I have a lot of good times. There is one I will never forget. There was an Olympics qualifier we went to play in Ghana. Ghana had gotten a draw in Ibadan and we needed to win in Ghana to go to the Olympics. When we got to Ghana, it was war. The government had gotten everyone to go to the stadium. I was the only board member who went with the team. When we got to Ghana, they started by giving us bad hotels, and when we got to the stadium and the game ended in a draw. During the shootouts, we missed our first two and I thought it was over. Everyone thought it was over and at the end of the day, we made it. It was a real miracle. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com