A Federal High Court in Abuja has fixed March 8 and 14 to deliver judgments in the multiple suits filed by the Peoples Democratic Party seeking the removal of Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State and his deputy, Dr. Kelechi Igwe, from office on account of their defection from its fold to the All Progressives Congress. Justice Inyang Ekwo fixed the dates after counsel in the suits marked FHC/ABJ/CS/ 920/21 and FHC/ABJ/CS/1041/21 adopted their briefs of arguments for and against the suit. In an originating summons marked FHC/ABJ/CS/920/2021, the PDP had asked the court to declare that by defecting from the party, which sponsored them to be elected as governor and deputy governor, they have resigned or deemed to have resigned from office. The crux of the plaintiff’s case was that the defendants purportedly defected and relinquished their membership of the PDP on which platform they contested and won the governorship election, and by so doing, were deemed to have lost the majority votes scored at the election and consequently should be ordered by the court to vacate their respective offices. Other defendants in the suit are the Independent National Electoral Commission and the APC. However, counsel to Umahi and his deputy, Chukwuma-Machukwu Ume (SAN), urged the court to decline jurisdiction and transfer the case to Ebonyi State. Ume argued that since Umahi was sworn-in by the Chief Judge of Ebonyi State and not by the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, his removal from office could only be pursed through the state House of Assembly and the State High Court. Meanwhile, Umahi and Igwe have approached the Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal for the interpretation of some constitutional issues arising from the suit filed by the PDP challenging their defection to the APC. The applicants, in their motion, requested the Appellate Court to restore the powers of state High Courts as the only courts vested with the exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine whether the term of office of a member of the House of Assembly of a state, a governor or deputy governor has ceased or become vacant. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com