Since the ban on the use of Twitter in Nigeria’s internet space was lifted in the early hours of Thursday, Nigerians have stated that political reason motivated the action. The Federal Government has placed a ban on Twitter access on the 5th of June, 2021 after the platform took down a tweet by the President, Major Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), which it claims violated its community rules. Nigerian users on the platform have voiced their opinions stating that the resumption of political campaigns ahead of the 2023 general elections is the major reason for the lifting of the ban. A user with the handle @TheEnike wrote that the government needs the platform for its campaigns and to look good in the public eye. “Let it be clear that they lifted the Twitter ban because elections are coming and they need to campaign and or ‘look good’. ZERO care for the small businesses/ brands adversely affected nor free speech,” Enike wrote. Another user, @von_Bismack, wrote, “Buhari wanted to kill Twitter to satisfy his ego, but couldn’t, now he shamelessly lifted the stupid ban so that his goons can come back to campaign on the same app. We will remember.” A writer, Vincent Desmond, stated that the ban was lifted for influencers would be able to push campaigns ahead of the coming elections. “The government deffo removed the twitter ban just so their twitter influencers can campaign for them for the coming elections,” he wrote. Actor and producer, Kemi Akindoju, stated that the government lacked strategy but urged citizens to get their voters’ cards for the coming elections. She wrote, “This government doesn’t even have strategy or shame… It’s time to campaign for votes and the Twitter ban is lifted. Anyway – the power is in our hands. Let’s start by making sure we all have our PVCs.“ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com