The Special Adviser to the President on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu, on Saturday said the only way the All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State could be proud of itself as a ruling party and win the June 18 election with ease was to conduct a credible primary devoid of violence and bloodshed. Ojudu urged the Mai Mala Buni-led National Caretaker Committee of the party to conduct a free, fair and credible primary that could produce a strong candidate capable of winning the June 18 governorship election in the state. The presidential adviser, who spoke in his Ado Ekiti, also called on party officials that would be saddled with the responsibility of conducting the primary election billed for January 27 and as well security agencies to operate within the ambit of the law. He said, “I also want to appeal to party men to be civil and peaceful. The only glory we can record in our party is to be peaceful and for our leaders from Abuja to conduct a primary we can all be proud of. Don’t let us be violent just because of an internal election. “The primary of any party should be a day of celebration of democracy and not a day of bloodshed. We should be able to do this election without rancour. I am of the belief that politicians who want to use money to hire thugs to win the election should rather use such money for the development of our unemployed youths and to showcase their agenda. “I commend Governor Buni-led executive for allowing direct primary for this election so that every member of the party, either rich or poor, high or low can participate. This will enable us to produce a candidate that can face the candidates of other parties,” Ojudu said. He further said that he decided not to pitch his tent with any aspirant on the premise that he wanted to be an unbiased umpire that could serve as a rallying point for all aspirants to settle differences emanating from the conduct of the party’s primary. He said, “For now, I am not in support of anybody. I want to remain neutral so that I will be able to call all aspirants together and settle their differences after the primary. Losing an election is hurting, so we need an arbiter to be able to hold the party together and that is the role I intend to play.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com