When a role, an exercise or activity is so demanding that it will sap your energy and probably intellect, do we say it is tasking or taxing? This question is important because many people don’t find it funny deciding, in the context, which to use between the two words. The fact is that ‘task’ and ‘tax’ seem to share some similarities but such are rather slippery. The extent to which one can say they are synonyms is indeed limited. In pronunciation, one ends with SK (task), the other with KS (tax).  Perhaps one trait they share is that they are both versatile, as they can be used as nouns, verbs and adjectives. Yet, this is part of the reason many miss the point when they need to say whether a job is tasking or taxing. Task as a noun: The task ahead of us is simple. Ours is just to arrange the seats in the hall. As a verb: They have tasked us with the arrangement of the seats in the hall. As an adjective: Can I have the task schedule? Tax as a noun: No government jokes with tax. As a verb: I learnt that they want to tax the new products. We are not saying they shouldn’t  tax the people, but they have to consider their capacity. This work is really going to tax the young girls. As an adjective:    The tax officer will arrive tomorrow. Between tasking and taxing In terms of the -ing form, both words still have a good place in English. There is tasking, and there is taxing. A major difference between the meanings and usages of the two is, however, that the first is often used as a noun (gerund), while the other is an adjective. In most cases, ‘tasking’ does not function as an adjective, but ‘taxing’ does. Now, the term you need in the structure ‘The exercise is tasking/taxing’ has to be an adjective because it has to describe the exercise or activity. Tasking in sentences They need the support of experts who have experience related to their tasking. As the tasking unfolds, we expect them to give us regular updates. The engineer has to be included because of operational tasking. The tasking is expected to bring out the best in them. In all the above, ‘tasking’ performs the function of a noun. Now consider the following where ‘taxing’ is an adjective: He has just recovered from COVID-19. He can’t do anything too taxing now. The novel I read yesterday is too taxing. I want one with a simple plot and language. Now that Jide Kosoko has been casted as the bandit leader in the movie, he may just be in for the most taxing role of his career. I hope that, by now, you know the correct answer to the question we started with. Is Buhari’s role as the leader of this socially, politically and economically embattled country tasking or taxing?  When an activity needs too much effort, it is taxing, not tasking. As a matter of fact, ‘taxing’ can be used to describe a task. For instance, a taxing task is one that requires a lot of energy. It demands much mental or physical effort. No wonder, the synonyms for taxing include demanding, heavy, trying, burdensome, challenging, laborious, grueling, and even killing. These are all adjectives like ‘taxing’.  So, that onerous job, like the one Buhari is facing,  is not tasking. It is taxing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com