Ex-Interim National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress and former Osun State Governor, Bisi Akande, has presented a horse to the current state governor, Adegboyega Oyetola. The presentation of the horse took place in Akande’s Ila country home, during a tour of Ila local government by the governor and his team. The presentation was witnessed by the deputy governor, Benedict Alabi; wife of the governor, Kafayat Oyetola; ex-deputy governor, Senator Iyiola Omisore; Senator Basiru Ajibola, representing Osun Central in the Senate; amongst others, who elicited excitement as Oyetola expressed appreciation for the gift. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Ismail Omipidan, on Friday said that Oyetola had after his strategic engagement tour of Ila Federal Constituency, had visited Akande at his residence in Ila. The statement further partly read, “The tour is a statewide consultation to the 9 Federal Constituencies in Osun which the Governor is using to fraternise with the newly elected APC executives at the wards and local government levels and to inform them and party members of his intention to participate in the party’s forthcoming primaries in preparation for the July governorship election. “The presentation of the horse to the Governor by ‘Baba Omo Ke ke ke” as Chief Akande is fondly called, is highly symbolic and seen as a declaration of unalloyed support for the person and candidature of Oyetola. Horse, political pundits say, symbolises strength, power, freedom, triumph, heroism, nobleness, stamina, tirelessness, confidence and intelligence. “In fact, they say it is a precious gift of life and a highly celebrated animal. Although, it is used for different purposes, what is constant, according to political pundits is that it is used as a ride to celebrate good things. While accepting the gift, Governor Oyetola who was obviously surprised and excited with smiles on his face said, ‘Thank you very much’. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com