ABIODUN NEJO examines the ongoing reconciliation in Ekiti State PDP on the heels of January governorship primary and June 2022 election Of a fact, the two leading political parties in Ekiti State – the ruling All Progressives Congress and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party – are mired in some internal disagreements which emanated from how their executive committees emerged. While that of the APC started from how the immediate past executives at the wards, councils and state emerged, that of the PDP began in 2020 with parallel congresses at the three levels and since then, the ice has refused to thaw. Although the leadership of the two political parties at the national level have since the crises began been seen to be making efforts at reconciliation, not much has been achieved even with the governorship election around the corner. NWC intervention The Iyorchia Ayu-led PDP National Working Committee, which assumed office on December 10, 2021, found the crisis-ridden situation of the party in Ekiti State unacceptable, hence it immediately put machinery in motion to address the matter with a view to achieving genuine reconciliation and restoration of unity. Ayu said in his inaugural address, “Our task at this auspicious moment is to return the party to the people; but to do that, the party needs to be reinvigorated, reinvented and repositioned.” He also served quit notice on  the ruling party, saying, “To the APC, we once again renew our quit notice to you. Begin to prepare your handover notes.” He promised that never again would the party lose election because the leaders in various states and the followership were divided. He had meetings with PDP aspirants in the state on the need to shun anti-party activities and stakeholders on the need to reconcile interest groups within their ranks to forge a common front. At the meeting attended by 17 aspirants and stakeholders, including the principal gladiators in the crisis rocking the party – former governor Ayodele Fayose and Senator Biodun Olujimi, the NWC extracted commitment from them on the need to work together in a bid to win the 2022 governorship election in the state. The NWC also saddled the gladiators, who lead the two main blocs in Ekiti PDP – the Osoko Political Assembly led by Fayose and the PDP Repositioning group led by Olujimi, with the responsibility of ensuring resolution of all the issues raised. The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, captured the situation succinctly when he stated, “All stakeholders agreed to work together in the process. We have agreed that the parties that are involved in it should go back to Ekiti State and apply an Ekiti formula for the resolution of the issues. “This means they will go back and meet privately, discuss all issues that were raised at the meeting and report back to the NWC and the committee before the end of the year,” the PDP spokesman had said. How it began All has not been well with the PDP in Ekiti State since October 2018 when the immediate past governor of the state, Fayose, left office. The party also lost power to the APC. It all started with leadership contest as the question of who was the leader of the party between Fayose, a two-term former governor, and the highest political office holder in the party in the state, Olujimi, a Senator, became the order of the day. That was the situation when in February 2020, the ward congresses of the party, which became the last straw that broke the camel’s back, was conducted as it marked visible polarisation of the party along the lines of Fayose and Olujimi. The subsequent local government and state congresses followed suit as Fayose’s loyalists under the aegis of OPA and those of the collegiate, including Olujimi on the platform of Repositioning Group conducted the exercises separately, bringing about parallel executives at the wards, local government and state levels. The PDP NWC led then by Prince Uche Secondus backed the Fayose group, claiming the exercises were conducted by the party’s  committee from the national headquarters. But the Olujimi group which claimed that the Independent National Electoral Commission monitored its exercises in accordance with the law, whereas such monitoring was absent at the Fayose group’s congresses. The matter became a subject of  litigation and is still pending before the Supreme Court. Since then, the two sides have been at loggerheads, even as efforts to reconcile them while the tenure of the former NWC lasted had not been fruitful owing to the absence of genuine political will. Genuine reconciliation – Reality or myth The step taken by the Ayu-led NWC was embraced with open arms by the two warring groups as their representatives and other stakeholders immediately met to iron out the differences. This is especially against the backdrop that despite their differences being sorted out, they all have the common goal of returning to the Oke Bareke Government House through the June 18, 2022 governorship election. A PDP stalwart and member of OPA, Lere Olayinka, said, “The effort is to get everybody together, return everybody under the same umbrella that we had always been so that we can collectively face the election. “Meetings have been held since the meeting in Abuja on December 20; another meeting was held in Lagos on December 27, another one in Ado Ekiti, the state capital, on December 29. They were in Abuja again earlier in January and  in Lagos. Representatives of the two groups have been meeting on behalf of the two groups and they are making progress.” Also, a former state chairman of the PDP, Chief Gboyega Oguntuwase, of the Repositioning Group, speaking on the reconciliatory effort, said, “This is desirable, it is good. It is normal that there could be conflict and it is normal that there could be conflict resolution. We are not enemies to one another in PDP. We are talking because we believe that by conferencing, by discussing, we can have a resolution and have a more formidable PDP that is united to confront the APC.” However, the central issue which OPA and the Repositioning Group have refused to agree on centered on the congresses and the consequent executive committees. While OPA is sticking to the fact that the former NWC had ratified the congresses and the executives produced from there and that nothing can touch it, those in the Repositioning Group are of the opinion that there should be harmonisation to accommodate the two sides in the executive through a process that would be legal. As it is, it will require wisdom for the NWC to satisfactorily resolve the issues which both parties claimed had been put before it, as that would play the big role in defining the reconciliatory process as either a myth or reality. Discordant tunes A former National Assembly member and Repositioning chieftain, Senator Duro Faseyi, said, “The only problem we are having has to do with the congresses. The Fayose group hijacked the congresses and the executives are with him. That is the area we have not been able to agree on as Fayose does not want the executives touched. “The Repositioning Group is saying something has to happen either by harmonisation or whatever way the NWC thinks members of the Repositioning Group can be pacified and not left out of the executive. That is what the party is trying to look into. At our own meeting too, we have presented it to the NWC to look into it. “The NWC needs to come up with its decision concerning the congresses. To pacify our people, they have to look into the issue. There should be the spirit of give and take to pacify the aggrieved group to enable them to work together, to keep up their spirit so that we can collectively win the election.” This position was corroborated by Oguntuwase, who said, “We have a court case that is still at the Supreme Court, the legal position does not favour the executive members that are there because INEC did not supervise their elections and there is a written document by INEC on the congress.” On the way forward, the former chairman said, “There can be harmonisation of the delegates’ list and after harmonisation, you can have affirmation in the presence of INEC. If anybody wants to say winner takes all, that person will be fooling himself and will be wreaking the advantage which the party has. The party in Ekiti is strong enough to take over government, but if the candidate emerges from a congress that has constitutional flaws, they can win, but the court can take it away from them.” Another former state chairman and a member of Fayose group, Bisi Kolawole, ruled out the option of harmonisation which he said was impossible since the executive was legally constituted and had already been ratified by the party leadership. Kolawole, who is also a PDP governorship aspirant, said, “The congresses have come and gone; don’t forget that the elected officers in the congresses had been ratified by the National Executive Committee of the party. Twice, we have won at the lower court and the appellate court and the same set of people voted for the officers of the South-West and the current NWC. So, we wonder how you think it can be tampered with. It is legally constituted,” he said. Olayinka of OPA also aligned with Kolawole’s position, saying the issue of harmonisation was not part of the matter of reconciliation. He said, “I can tell you that the issues have been resolved almost totally. The parties involved are talking, they are reconciling and they are sorting out their differences. That is what is important. I have not heard anybody talk about harmonisation (of executives) here.” Perspectives on reconciliation The Director of Publicity, Segun Oni Campaign Organisation, Lanre Ogunsuyi, described the reconciliatory effort as a good development, saying, “It is an attempt to avoid what has been the trademark in the past which is a situation where the PDP works against the PDP after primaries that are acrimonious or seen not to be fair to the aspirants.” Although his principal does not belong to any of the two groups, Ogunsuyi is of the opinion that Oni’s aspiration to govern the state, which he said was based on people’s interest, would benefit from the reconciliation and unity in the party. He noted that the ongoing reconciliation had begun to yield results. He added, “A lot of efforts are going on to see that the reconciliatory moves go on as planned in phases and you will see that it is beginning to yield efforts. People are beginning to align and realign and everybody will see the process as transparent and fair. When that happens, we will not have any problem with the governorship election as we had in 2018 where some people perceived the process as not being credible. “All options are open in the process of reconciliation even the options that were not talked about ab initio are coming out. For instance, you will say that the two gladiators were Senator Olujimi and former governor Fayose, and shortly after the meeting, they are going to work together in the interest of the party. That is a very positive development in the party. If the people now agree to work together, that is a very positive index in crisis management.” Kolawole added that coming together of the two groups “will enable us win the governorship election. The idea of contesting election is to win. Coming together is a plus. It will strengthen us; it will enable us to be a stronger force facing the APC candidate eventually.” Also, Olayinka said, “Two good heads are better than one. Division will definitely have effect on progress. Now that they have come together and are working together, the result can also be deduced. It is a good sign for PDP in the state. Ekiti is for PDP to take. “The destination is not far. The major issue at present is the coming primary election fixed for January 26 and it has been agreed that whoever has obtained form is an aspirant automatically and has the right to go ahead and contest. “After the primary, since the gladiators are talking, it would make coming together after the primaries easy. Talking now is not to prevent anybody from contesting in the primary election; any interested aspirant will contest and whoever emerges as candidate will be supported by all – that is the spirit.” In his view, Oguntuwase said, “If we are able to secure unity at the end of the day, the party stands a very good chance to win the governorship election. It is clear that even the problem that we have is not as bad as the one in APC. If we are fast enough to arrive at the reconciliation, we are going to sweep APC off because they have not performed well in Ekiti State and they are not united.” Faseyi said, “For us to win elections, we must come together as a party irrespective of whatever might have happened in the past. Let our NWC do the needful that will make everybody including the aggrieved happy. If they force anything on them, it may be negative at the end. People should be pacified. There should be give-and-take so that we can go into the election with one mind and one spirit.” However, the crisis that emanated from last week’s ward congress to elect three ad-hoc delegates per ward, where the aspirants accused the Fayose faction of hijacking election materials, showed that the reconciliatory moves had achieved no result so far. Olujimi, while reacting to the development, said, “Any place where there is no fairness and justice, peace will be eluded. So, the peace agreement has been broken. When you broke the peace agreement, what do you expect us to do?” Olujimi, who warned that the development, if allowed to persist, would be a threat to the anticipated victory of the party during election, said, “There is a need to listen to the people of Ekiti. The party must do the needful. They must call a meeting. And the meeting must be a meeting of truth. Without that, the governorship poll would be very tough for our party,” the senator said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com