The function of the gatekeeper is one that mass communication students get introduced to right from the beginning. And it is one that mass media professionals grapple with till the end of their careers. But in cyberspace and social media the gatekeeper is dead. Actually, he never lived. Like most other jargons pertaining to the mass media, the term gatekeeper is a practical coinage. The real gatekeeper serves to ensure that undesirables don’t enter a premise. In mass communication—adapting the motto of the New York Times—the gatekeeper ensures that only what is fit to print is printed. Or broadcast. Or exhibited. Whether in the newspaper newsroom or radio and television studio, people sit around a table and agonise over whether what they are about to get out to the public is correct, fair, appropriate, necessary, etc, etc. Opinions always diverge, but the role of the mass media as a gatekeeper is never taken lightly. From the reporter—who writes what has been called the first draft of history—through the content editor and to the copy editor, there is an almost messianic sense of duty. The commitment is encapsulated by a saying that I understand emanated from a Chicago newsroom: “If your mother says she loves you, check it out.” The copy editor is thought of as the last line of defence. That is, defence against the printer’s devil, the proverbial demon that sneaks errors past the most watchful gatekeepers. In the archetype, he is a bespectacled middle-age man who sits stodgily on a swivel chair poring over story after story seemingly unperturbed by whatever else goes on around him. Despite the professional resolve, the devil too often manages to get his way anyway. And too often, that’s what catches the public’s attention and sullies the press. People have no idea that many more fakeries and fallacies would have been put out there were it not for gatekeeping vigilance. The awareness is probably growing, however. The public still doesn’t know the extent that serious journalists go to get it right. But now that people are inundated with hoaxes and fabrications, there must be a growing but tacit appreciation of the traditional and serious press. People might not think of the difference in terms of gatekeeping, but they must be appreciating it. The other day I received by WhatsApp a newsclip ostensibly broadcast by the BBC. It reported a thermonuclear explosion somewhere in Europe. As the anchor narrated this, he interrupted himself and switched to a footage of Queen Elizabeth being “whisked” away from Buckingham Palace. It all seemed so real, except that the queen’s retinue was moving leisurely and conspicuously. Scotland Yard must know better. Even then, given the posturing and saber-rattling over Ukraine, I couldn’t dismiss the clip as is my practice with such improbable videos. So, I turned to the “traditional” (read serious) media. I happened to be listening to a current affairs programme on National Public Radio at the time. That they didn’t break from the programme was one confirmation that the clip was a hoax. Still, I turned on the TV and tuned to CNN and other network news outlets. Nothing. I went online to the New York Times website. Nothing. Thus assured by the gatekeeping news media, I went on with my business not worried that a hypersonic missile might be heading my way. My guess is that quite a few people do the same with unsettling news from social media. The frighteningly efficient conveyors of fake news and hoaxes are what they are because of the absence of gatekeepers. But then, there is also the reality of sheer mischief and malcontent. People produce and distribute hoaxes for the pleasure of it or to inflict someone. Of course, for some, it is a way to make money from commissions. But even that is made possible by technologies of mass communication that do not require a group of people to evaluate and decide. None of the subversive offerings of social media are new. It is just that they have become so commonplace and far-reaching. Mainstream journalists have had their baggage. There was a time when sensational journalism ruled the day. The steady departure from that practice has been the defining element of mass media professionalisation. Then there was the consequence of low pay for journalists relative to other professionals. US President John F. Kennedy once called them “the last of the talented poor.”And in his autobiography, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, wrote that when he started a newspaper career, journalists were looked down upon as people who couldn’t do anything better. In India, journalists tell a story which—though likely apocryphal—starkly illustrates the financial plight of journalists there. As it is narrated, a reporter was once assigned to write a story about beggars. After a week or so of interviewing and writing, he turned in his story and promptly resigned. He had decided to become a beggar. Now, don’t start pitying journalists. The hazards of the profession aside, they are doing all right. It is improbable that Kennedy would have referred to today’s American journalists as poor. And in Nigeria, the stature of the profession has risen much higher than what obtained in Awo’s early years. Unfortunately, I understand that many Nigerian journalists still go for months without pay. Alas, that is the plight of many other professionals, including teachers. But I digress. In any case, the financial pressures on journalists gave rise to a widespread practice of “brown-bag” journalism. It is the practice of receiving handsome amounts in return for flattering coverage, in effect, fawning for pay. It is not as bad as it used to be, but I understand that it is not gone. Now to broadcast news. Its early days were not much better than today’s social media, except for its much-limited reach. At the turn of the 20th century, all that was available to film news were humongous movie cameras. They weren’t at all practical for getting to where news happens. So, news producers actually hired third-rate actors to dramatise the news and project it in theatres as reality. It was “fakery in allegiance to the truth,” the producers said. By the middle of the century, TV cameras had come to be. But they too were hefty and required miles of cable. So, newspaper journalists thumbed their noses at their broadcast counterparts. They regarded them as actors, rather than true journalists. But as broadcast technologies became more portable, broadcast journalism professionalism rose correspondingly. Soon, broadcast news became the dominant source of news for a majority of the people. And print journalists began to have a grudging respect for their broadcast counterparts. Social media is in a much worse state of disrepute than the print and broadcast press in their early years. Might it make similar transitions to respectability. I have my doubts. The other news media ultimately professionalised by extolling the gatekeeping function. Social media is innately averse to it. Social media is the ultimate case of democratisation of news dissemination. It has information anarchy in its genes. So, if we think things are bad now, we have to brace for the future.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com