The United States has again reiterated that the use of the Super Tucano must comply with international norms as articulated in the United Nations Charter. It cautioned the Federal Government against deploying the aircraft in operations that encroach on traditional law enforcement roles. While acknowledging the security challenges confronting Nigeria, the US admonished the government and the military to address insecurity while respecting human rights. The Press Attache, US Embassy, Jeanne Clark, stated these on Thursday, in reaction to a statement by the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, that the FG has secured approval to deploy the jet fighters which were acquired from the US, against bandits who had just been designated as terrorists. The military had been reluctant to deploy the aircraft outside the North-East because of the conditions attached to the sale of the aircraft which bordered on human rights. But speaking as a guest on the NTA Good Morning Nigeria programme, on Tuesday, Malami said that the coast had become clear to deploy the Super Tucano aircraft against bandits in the North-West and North-Central, following the court order declaring them as terrorists. He said, “Whatever military hardware you acquire, there are limits within the context of the international convention as to how it can be used, when it can be used, and against who it can be used. And that is how the idea of looking at the activities of the bandits, cattle rustlers, kidnappers come into being. “Our assessment taking into consideration that they are causing a major threat to the territorial peaceful co-existence and causing a major threat to lives with weapons, the idea then came about that indeed they (bandits) have satisfied the criteria of being declared terrorists within the context of the law so that whatever military hardware at the disposal of the Federal Government can best be used against them within the context of the international convention and within the context of the law.” Clark in her statement said the US government was, however, pleased that the Nigerian Air Force had used the A-29 Super Tucanos successfully against Boko Haram and the Islamic State West Africa Province. She stated, “We are pleased the Nigerian Air Force has used the A-29 Super Tucanos successfully against Boko Haram and ISIS-WA. The sale of the A-29 Super Tucanos is governed by the US Arms Export Control Act, the Foreign Assistance Act, and other applicable statutes, and their use must conform with international norms as articulated in the United Nations Charter. “The AECA applies to sales to all of our allies and partners and it generally cautions against uses that encroach on traditional law enforcement roles. We are proud to partner with the government of Nigeria towards shared goals.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com