The Osun State Police Command on Sunday said three suspects have been arrested in connection with the violent clashes in Ilesa which left five people feared killed. Sources said the fight started at a construction site in Okutu Ope area, where a group of hoodlums had gone to demand for ‘settlement’ before carpenters working on the building would be allowed to continue. The situation was said to have led to bloody clashes between rival cult groups and suspected land grabbers. But while speaking with The PUNCH on Sunday, the spokesperson of the state police command, Yemisi Opalola, said policemen have been deployed in the affected areas. She said, “As of Sunday morning, we have arrested three suspects in connection with the killings in Ilesa. We are raiding already identified flash points. “The Commissioner of Police, Wale Olokode, had given directives to the men deployed in the area and he has personally visited the communities and engaged the residents in order to incorporate them into strategy that will end such incident.” Commenting on the increase robbery incidents in Ife, Opalola also said two suspects had been arrested just as she assured all concerned of a more improved security to prevent criminality in the area. She said, “The situation in Ife is under control. We have more men on the ground there presently. We have two suspects arrested in connection with the robbery incidents in our custody and they are giving the operatives useful information. “The situation does not warrant restriction of movement. We are working with the community leaders to ensure total peace.” Meanwhile, the state government has said those found culpable of disrupting the peace of the state by way of harassing innocent citizens or being in possession of illegal arms would be made to face the consequences of their actions. This was contained in a statement by the state Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode, and obtained in Osogbo. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com