“Finishing strong is an everyday occurrence. It is not an act, it is a habit” –Canadian Novelist, Gary Ryan New Year resolutions, even when they pertain to individuals rather than presidents of nations, are the most perishable materials on earth. They are a penny a dozen, as the saying goes, taking into account how very few of them survive with the majority of them repeated year after year without accomplishment. Part of the explanation for this is that most of them are not resolutions — a word that connotes purpose, stamina and determination — but are merely idle wishes. They arise from the human recognition that ideally, new beginnings must accompany the passing of each year into oblivion. This background helps us to foreground what exactly the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has come up with in his privacy, and perhaps within his kitchen cabinet, what and what he has resolved to do with governance and politics as the countdown to his terminal year in office, 2023, begins. Ordinarily, one may argue that to borrow an aviation metaphor, the descent to his regime’s terminus has not yet begun but, whoever, reasons like that may not have taken full account of the Nigerian version of what Political Communication scholars call “the permanent campaign” in which campaigns begin and continue almost as one election is won and lost. Yes, the permanent campaign is a global phenomenon, but its Nigerian manifestation is so bizarre that government and governance virtually shut down as the heat of electoral competition rushes into the front burner of political activity. Who, to be sure, is not already feeling the pressure of campaigns yet to kick off? That apart, the Ekiti and Osun gubernatorial elections have been fixed for June and July this year respectively; you and I know that these will be dress rehearsals for the subsequent national elections. It is known, of course, that Buhari, by our Constitution, cannot run for a third term, no matter how zealously some of his admirers tout the possibility. It is, therefore, not premature to spy on what his resolutions for the New Year are as governance increasingly yields way to the hoopla of political tussle. In other words, after what his critics consider to be desultory years in which the pace of administration and governance are laggard, will Buhari finish strong? As a Canadian writer, Guy Ryan interprets it, finishing strong in any race is not a one-off nor is it a miraculous departure from an unimpressive norm, rather it is more of the same thing usually in an accelerated fashion and with increasing velocity. So, if we go back to Buhari’s enunciated policy thrusts in the 2015 and the 2019 campaigns, we find that national security, economic rejuvenation and an all-out war against corruption constitute his agenda. The jury is still out on how much effort has been put into the implementation of these policies, allowing for, to be fair, exigencies such as the global pandemic and the swings of commodity prices, especially oil, in a tempestuous global market. Opinions differ on the performance of the administration regarding these policy foci with some attributing to him a marvellous scorecard and others maintaining that very little had been accomplished. Viewpoints may be subjective but facts are not easy to contradict, especially when you do reality checks. Take, for example, the state of insecurity in the country today, an issue about which several groups, traditional rulers, religious associations and even the international community continue to raise alarm. In 2021, let us be reminded, the country witnessed unprecedented casualties as a result of the twin challenges of insurgency and banditry. High and low were caught in the maelstrom of devastating killings with names such as Sagir Hamida, a former gubernatorial candidate in Zamfara State; Chike Akunyili, husband of a former Federal Minister for Information; AbdulKarim Na’allah, member of the Kaduna State House of Assembly; Ahmed Gulak, a former Presidential aide; and Julius Oshadumo, Pioneer Provost of College of Education (Technical), Kabba, Kogi State, among several others perishing in the crises. It should be indicative of the rampage of the so-called unknown gunmen that in 2021 alone, 821 students were abducted from their schools by bandits with several of them still in captivity; this figure is more than two-thirds of the number of kidnap victims in the last seven years, according to one source. As we speak, the rage of the bandits has not stopped with people murdered, sometimes in their hundreds, and as bandits inch closer to major cities, with horrendous consequences. True, Buhari has, many times, given words of assurance that the siege would soon be over and went as far as changing the Service Chiefs after much public pressure. Beyond these, however, he needs to escalate assurances without much effect into a resolution that will not only deliver Nigerians but will foreshadow a legacy that can stand the test of time. The other issue around which Buhari’s promise of change revolved is public sector corruption. The President Goodluck Jonathan administration, if truth be told, was one of unbridled corruption and looting spree. Consequently, there was little to show except for a few pockets of windfall gains in the benevolent oil price regimes of those years. Buhari and the All Progressives Congress strategically capitalised on this lacuna to ride into power amidst the rhetoric of anti-corruption and doing things differently. Today, as even the presidency regretted in a recent statement, the battle against corruption begun with great enthusiasm appears to have waned. For example, the President admitted recently that “the serial abuse, lack of delivery and what had become an entrenched institutional decay” characterised the spending pattern of the Niger Delta Development Commission concerning which a forensic audit report had been submitted. What the President did not say, however, is that the NDDC saga of predatory accumulation by a few is only a metaphor for a phenomenon of gargantuan corruption replete in major Nigerian institutions with very few exceptions. The point here is that the anti-corruption agenda requires a reset and a refurbishing, and this should constitute one of Buhari’s New Year resolutions. The third issue about which hopes were excitingly raised concerns the economy, in particular, the translation of years of jobless growth into job creation and higher standards of living. True, the country had to muscle through setbacks in its journey to economic stability; that notwithstanding and, in spite of recent statistical evidence that Nigeria has exited another recession, the economy remains comatose. High inflation translating into galloping prices of food and consumables, soaring unemployment, widening poverty are among the tell-tale signs of economic crisis. It remains to be seen whether the recent appointment of Dr Doyin Salami as Chief Economic Adviser will make any serious difference to the tally. This too should be part of the President’s New Year resolutions. The last cardinal resolution should be about handing over free and fair elections this year and the next to his successor. These four items, in my view, should constitute the priorities of Buhari’s New Year resolutions in order for him to bequeath a legacy worth talking about. Finally, if he must occupy a hallowed place in the history books, beyond what his publicists say, he must deliver on these four resolutions. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com