No fewer than four persons have been reportedly killed in a communal clash between the people of Ukawu and Isinkwo communities, in the Onicha Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, even as their corpses were allegedly taken by their attackers. PUNCH Metro gathered that the people of the Ukawu community had, on Tuesday, gone to a disputed beach, which serves as a source of livelihood to the two communities, only to be allegedly attacked by the Isinkwo people. It was further learnt that during the attack, four people were allegedly killed. According to a community source, the Ukawu people tried taking advantage of the sit-at-home order, thinking that the area would be calm not knowing that their opponents had already laid ambush on Tuesday. The source said, “When our people got to the beach, the Isinkwo people opened fire on us and we had to run for our lives. But on getting to our meeting point we discovered that four people were missing. “Some among us confirmed they saw when those people were shot dead and their corpses were taken away. The worse was that we were taken unawares. We didn’t go with a gun because we never anticipated any attack. For some time now, except today, the area has been calm.” One of the victims, another source observed, is Offor Ujebe, who is in his mid-30s. “He has three children and the last child is about 9 months old. We are still ascertaining the identities of the other three victims,” the source said. When contacted on the phone, Ujebe’s wife who had already lost her voice, stated, “They just called me that I should start coming back to the village from Abakaliki, and I left with my three children. “On getting to the village now, they are telling me that my husband went to the beach where they normally work and there was an attack and they are yet to see him till now.” It was gathered that the Ukawu people had already mobilised to Isinkwo to demand the corpses of those killed and for possible reprisal. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Loveth Odah, said the report had not gotten to her. She promised to get back with further information on the matter on Tuesday but was yet to do so at the time of filing this report. However, the Chairman of Onicha LGA, Engr Felix Igboke, who confirmed the incident, said only two persons, a truck driver and a woman, were missing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com