MIXED reactions have continued to trail the choice of Umo Eno as the preferred candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party for the 2023 governorship elections in Akwa Ibom State. Eno, the Commissioner of Lands, was unveiled on Sunday by the elders and stakeholders of the PDP and religious leaders as the anointed candidate to succeed Governor Udom Emmanuel in the state. Shortly after the endorsement, one of the aspirants and Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Judiciary, Onofiok Luke, took to his Facebook page to register his grievances. He said, “Out of respect and as a loyal party man, I honoured an innocent invitation from the governor for a meeting this (Sunday) evening at the lodge. At the meeting, my brother from my local government and federal constituency, Pastor Umo Eno, was presented as the choice of the governor for succession. “It was at the said meeting that I heard of the agenda and choice for the first time and no one held any discussion with me before the meeting. “I am not against the choice of the governor coming from my local government, the Federal Constituency nor the aspiration of my brother. “However, as a fellow aspirant from the same local government at the same advantage when successful, my aspiration to serve the state in the capacity of the governor remains on course.” Reacting to the endorsement, the national co-ordinator, Maintain Peace Movement and immediate past National Legal Adviser to the PDP, Emmanuel Enoidem, called on all party stakeholders to support the governor’s choice, adding God has chosen him to be the next governor of the state. He disclosed that the choice of Eno came after a series of consultations with relevant stakeholders and prayers to God. Meanwhile, the state governor said his decision was based on the fact that he means well for the state. He claimed that he waited for God to reveal to him the one who would continue with the development strides recorded in the state in the last six years. Speaking on Monday while fielding questions from journalists during the inauguration of Spectrum Television, the state’s first privately-owned cable television station, the governor said his choice was based on the love he has for the state. “I mean well for this state, that is why I waited for God to show me the man who would continue with the pace of developmental strides we have started in the last six-plus years and then move the needle even further,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com