Former President Olusegun Obasanjo paid a condolence visit to the family of the late Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, on Thursday in Ibadan. Oba Adetunji, the 41st Olubadan of Ibadan died in an illness on Sunday at the University College Hospital, Ibadan at the age of 93 years. Obasanjo arrived at the Popo-Yemoja Palace of the late Olubadan with Olayiwola Olakojo, the former Secretary to the Government of Oyo State. He was received on arrival by Olubadan’s widow, Rasheedat, and Nureni Akanbi, Gbonka Balogun of Ibadan, who is also an elder brother to Rasheedat. The former president prayed for the repose of the soul of the departed first class traditional ruler and promised his readiness to assist the family whenever the need arose. In his tribute in the condolence register, Obasanjo wrote, “Kabiyesi, sun re. You lived for the service of family, community, state, and the nation. “You served committedly and God granted you longevity. We pray that your soul will be with your creator and the family and community will continue to thrive.’’ Rasheedat thanked the former president for the visit and assured that he would be carried along as plans unfolded. Obasanjo also paid a condolence visit to the Governor of Oyo State Governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, over the demise of the Soun of Ogbomoso and the Olubadan of Ibadanland, who died on December 12 and January 2 respectively. Obasanjo, who was accompanied by Otunba Oyewole Fasawe and a former Secretary to the Government of Oyo State, Chief Olayiwola Olakojo, said that he was pained by the demise of the two monarchs. He explained that the demise of the duo is a great loss to the state. He said, “Let me thank you for receiving me even at short notice because I have been away when a few things had happened in the country and this state. But getting up on my feet, I thought I should pay a condolence visit to Oyo State where, within a short period of time, you have lost two of your highest traditional rulers to death. “So, I had to take it upon myself to pay a condolence visit to the families of the late Olubadan and late Soun of Ogbomoso land. And I thought that it would be inappropriate for me to come to Ibadan, go to Ogbomoso, and the governor is not visited. “My prayer is that God will accept their soul into respite and eternal rest. Once again, condolence for the demise of these great traditional rulers in Oyo State.” While receiving the former President, at the executive council chamber of the Governor’s Office, Agodi, Ibadan, Governor Makinde appreciated Chief Olusegun Obasanjo for the condolence visit. The governor, who was represented by his deputy, Engr.Abdul Rauf Olaniyan, said that
one of the strengths of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo is being humane. He said, “On behalf of the governor of Oyo State, we are receiving you to the state. We really want to thank you. Everybody knows that one of your cardinal tags is being humane, which has brought, even at your age and level to come to the state. So, we are grateful. “We really thank God for your life and pray that you live long. On behalf of the people of the state, we say thank you.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com