The Media Office of the Kwara State Government has petitioned the Commissioner of Police in the state, Tuesday Assayomo, to unravel those behind the posting of forged statements and mischievous publications on social media. In the petition signed by the Deputy Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mashood Agboola, which was addressed to the state Police Command, the Media Office complained that some of its statements were forged and posted on social platforms especially WhatsApp. He specifically cited a statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Rafiu Ajakaye, on the visit of the Borno State Governor, Prof Babagana Zulum, to the state on December 12, 2021, which was allegedly forged and posted on WhatsApp platforms. The petition titled, ‘Office of CPS petitions Police over forged statement’ reads, “Office of the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor of Kwara State has petitioned the police over repeated incidents of forgery and mischievous alterations of statements from the office. “In a statement by the Deputy Chief Press Secretary, Mashood AbdulRafiu Agboola on Thursday, the office specifically identified the circulation on various WhatsApp platforms of a forged version of the statement the CPS Rafiu Ajakaye had issued following the visit of Governor of Borno State Prof. Babagana Zulum to Kwara on December 12, 2021. “The CPS’ Office, knowing the irreparable damage such unlawful action or prank could do to public peace, has petitioned the law enforcement agency (police) to investigate the matter and prosecute the suspects to serve as deterrence to others who may want to cause mischief and possible breakdown of law and order under whatever guise. “The Office of the CPS strongly believes that forging a statement of public officers or anyone at all and circulating same for whatever purpose cannot qualify for free speech and cannot be said to be in public interest. “It, therefore, urges the law enforcement agency to quickly act in the interest of the law, public order and peace,” the statement concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com