The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has advised the newly-wed daughter of the Education Minister, Fatima Adamu, and her husband to commit to a life-long union. This is as he congratulated the family of Adamu Adamu, who married off their daughter at a ceremony in Azare, Bauchi State, on Saturday. Buhari’s message is contained in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, titled ‘President Buhari gives marriage advice to Adamu Adamu’s daughter.’ In the message conveyed by a delegation of Ministers and personal aides, the President wished the newly married couple a happy life. He described marriage as the foundation of the family, adding that it should be a lifelong union. The delegation was led by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Professor Isa Pantami and made up of the Minister of Information, Culture and Tourism, Lai Mohammed, and Senior Special Assistants to the President on Special Duties, Ya’u Darazo; Domestic and Household Matters, Sarki Abba; Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu. Others were the State Chief of Protocol, Lawal Kazaure, the Personal Physician to the President, Dr Suhayb Rafindadi and the Presidential Liaison Officer, Shehu Bello. The Presidential delegation was also in Kano to commiserate with the Kano community and the family of the late Islamic religious leader, Dr Ahmed Ibrahim, who was buried in the city on Friday. Dr Ahmed was a renowned exponent of the traditions of the Holy Prophet Muhammed (SAW). In an earlier tribute, Buhari described the late Dr Ahmed as “a personality of faith, who dedicated his life to Islamic education. His emphasis on the unity of Muslims, good education and the rights of women will always be remembered. We offer our heartfelt condolences and pray for the eternal repose of his soul.” The Imam of the Bayero University, Kano, Abubakar Jibril, thanked the President for the delegation and assured him that their love and support for him remain solid. Before returning to Abuja, the delegation paid another condolence visit to the activist All Progressives Congress youth leader, Alwan Hassan, whose father, Hassan Arab, passed away recently. They prayed for the repose of the deceased and the family the fortitude to bear the loss. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com