The Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly has suspended the Chairman of Mkpat Enin Local Government Area, Aniekpon Ekpo, over alleged gross misconduct and misappropriation of funds. The council’s vice chairman, Mercy Bassey, has been directed to take over from the suspended chairman in acting capacity, pending the conclusion of investigation into the matter. The chairman’s suspension followed a report of the House Committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs read at plenary on Tuesday. Presenting the report, the committee’s chairman, Mark Esset, revealed that the suspended chairman let out the council’s grader since April 15, 2021 and has not returned same till date. He said the chairman contracted a “consultancy service to handle the Internally Generated Revenue of Mkpat Enin Local Government Council, with no information on how the funds received were managed, as monies were not paid into the revenue account of the council.” He added, “The chairman failed to heed the advice of the Head of Service, Director of Finance and the Director of Works of the local government on the need to follow the local government law and financial regulations in the running of the council. “The vice chairman, other executive members and councillors are not carried along in the administrative functions of the council. During the committee sittings, weightier allegations/petitions bordering on outright abuse of office and gross misconduct by the chairman would normally be submitted to the committee on daily basis. “The grader purportedly returned to the council by the chairman is different from the grader belonging to Mkpat Enin Local Government Council.” After considering the report at the Committee of the Whole, the House ordered the chairman to return the council’s grader with immediate effect. The House also ordered the immediate suspension of the chairman, pending the outcome of investigations of the Ad-hoc Committee set up by the Speaker. In his remarks, the Speaker, Aniekan Bassey, directed the Clerk of the House, Mrs Mandu Umoren, to communicate the resolution of the House to the state governor. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com