Khadijah Okunnu-Lamidi, a marketing professional who recently declared her intention to contest the 2023 presidential election, tells ALEXANDER OKERE about her aspiration and motivation Can you introduce yourself? I am Khadijah Okunnu-Lamidi. I am trained as a project and marketing professional and I have years of experience working in the public service and then running my own successful media and communications company. I am a political organiser, a social rights advocate and a humanitarian with a track record of successful community and advocacy-based impact projects. Some politicians who have so far declared their presidential ambition said they had consulted or were consulting. How did you conceive the idea of wanting to hold the highest political office in a country like Nigeria? My idea to hold the highest political office in the country comes from my ambition to facilitate a Nigeria that works. It is the realisation of the stagnant nature of the Nigerian government and the seeming business of silence of the politicians, despite the ailing leadership and the clear lack of vision to advance the nation through inevitable global disruptions. I also must add that ambition is an incessant call of duty; it is not a monarchical arrangement neither is it entrusted to persons. It must come from a deep-rooted desire to contribute positively to the progress and development of your country and state and local government. I believe a genuine call of duty is to stand up for one’s country and offer oneself up for the service to your country. Many Nigerians may be wondering what your leadership antecedents are and how they fit into the position you are aspiring to occupy. What’s your response to that? There are three important skills for nation-building: judgment, inspiration, leadership and deep love for the country. As a professional, a woman of industry, and an entrepreneur, I have the skills and I have shown the capacity to lead as with my company and all the areas of my life. The widespread notion of experience that has been touted is false as many of our leaders today have only grown old in leadership positions; they assumed the roles in their youth! This justifies and nullifies the notion that age and experience are a prerequisite function of leadership. All skills required can and will be extrapolated with the support of like minds and useful innovation and technologies to make Nigeria work again for all. If you don’t believe in political parties as you said in a previous interview, how do you plan to achieve your goal in an electoral system that doesn’t provide for independent candidacy? We know we need a political party to flag off. The real context of that statement is not one of disbelief in political parties. It is believing in one that holds a stronger ethos than just its manifesto, where the conversations are bigger than party-level politics and soon enough I will announce one. Electioneering is expensive in Nigeria. Are you financially prepared? I know what it takes and I keep my faith undeterred. How do you plan to fund your campaign? My candidacy is on the mandate of the people. Nobody should be allowed to buy the votes of the people. Our aim is also not built on the premise of drowning out the voice of the people with monies from the vested interests of a few. The will of the people will be championed, and as such we will be funded by the Nigerian people. This system of democracy is to test the will of the majority of the people. If the people want me to represent them, to represent each and every one of their voices, then the hope is that they will support us and allow us to match the big moneybags who intend or think they can buy out the votes. So, every N500, N1,000, N5,000 will go a long way in the campaign and that is why we will be crowdfunding from the Nigerian people to ensure that we can run a credible campaign that is driven by integrity. We shall be accountable to the people because they are the ones funding us. All audited accounts shall be available across our platforms monthly to show the Nigerian people what their money is being spent on. What exactly did you mean when you said you and a leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, who’s also a presidential aspirant, maybe related? I am of the Okunnu family from Idoluwo, Lagos Island. As you might know, Lagos is quite cosmopolitan and Lagosians are very accommodating. I ascribe this to our waters and the calmness that surrounds us. I cannot count how many that I refer to as uncles and aunties. It is a dominant part of our upbringing in Lagos, regardless of bloodlines or family ties. History is mere curiosity. I prefer to concentrate on my independent ideas and the work ahead; the mission of improving the daily life of everyday Nigerians and the hope of generations to come. Playing cynical non-progressive politics with the minds of Nigerians is not my mission. Why should Nigerians believe you’re not using your presidential ambition as a strategy to get political compensation from whoever wins the 2023 presidential election or as a publicity stunt to get noticed or boost your CV? As I said, my ambition comes from a deep-rooted desire to make a positive change and it is a call of duty for the nation. It is not a do-or-die affair, neither is it a strategy for gain, personal or otherwise. My team and I are running a victory campaign. This means victory comes every step of the way from the political awakening of Nigerians, to the unity that my candidacy provides, to the rejuvenation of the political space, to the forced accountability of the political elite. All these are big wins for us in our victory campaign. So, political compensation does not even come into the narrative in any way, shape or form. We are not here to make noise nor are we here for political or personal gain. My ambition is solely for the service of my nation, Nigeria. The political elite, comprising old politicians, have a firm hold on political leadership in Nigeria and don’t seem willing to relinquish that to the youth. Do you think you can win in this circumstance? We hear over and over again that power is not served à la carte. We have come to claim our right, our birthright, and we are backed by the Constitution! As I mentioned, we are running a victory campaign, nothing less. What is your thought on the challenges of corruption, nepotism, unemployment, insecurity in the country? Like you, we see daily the failures of leadership that are nearly bringing this country to a halt across multiple sectors and industries. We cannot continue to complain. We must all be hands-on to make Nigeria work for all. What do you think is responsible and how do you hope to address these problems? Collectively, we are responsible for our country and the days of finger-pointing should be over. You know as much as I know where we made errors as individuals and as a collective with leadership, we have to get it right together with one focus, to make Nigeria work. Over the run of this election cycle, I will be sharing widely how I hope to address our many problems as a nation. What have people told you to discourage you from pursuing your political dream? Well, I am here, not discouraged and forging forward. But to be clear, there is no “political dream”. There is a vision, passion, energy, faith and love for my country. A political process of democracy is just part of the journey to fulfil my dream of a formidable, economically-sound and future focus-driven Nigeria. Many Nigerians commended your step as a bold and welcome one. Did you find anything surprising about how your declaration was received off and online? I am just super grateful for the feedback and the eagerness of the people to my message. And words would never say enough how grateful I am. The media has been instrumental in the recognition you have received so far. How do you hope to sustain the momentum until the election next year? Run the race, keep sharing my message and protect my love and hope for Nigeria. Yes, the media has; and for that, I am grateful. I am simply telling the message of my intentions and plans to make Nigeria work for all. Nigeria has had female presidential aspirants and candidates who didn’t get any significant number of votes from women in previous elections. How worried are you about the readiness of Nigerian women to support their own and take part in policymaking at higher levels? I am not worried about this. Women have always supported me in my personal and business affairs. I am most grateful for this and believe my stepping out will inspire more young Nigerian women and men. I’m not worried about women. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com