The Civil Society Organisation and Media Policy Advocacy Network has expressed disatisfaction over missing electoral materials used during the November 6 Governorship election in Anambra State. Chairman of the group, Chief Obunikem Asuzu, disclosed this while receiving members of Justice, Development and Peace Commission and Foreign, Commonwealth and Development group, in his office in Awka on Sunday. The Independent National Electoral Commission in Anambra had withheld allowances of over 630 ad hoc staff engaged in the governorship poll. Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr Nkwachukwu Orji, said that the decision followed the officers’ failure to return some of the devices and materials issued to them for the exercise. Asuzu, while describing the act by the ad hoc staff as corrupt, noted that it was sad that persons entrusted with such sensitive materials would fail to return same after delivery. He then advised INEC to device a means of forestalling such occurrence in their subsequent recruitment exercises. “These ad hoc staff in question were recruited for an assignment. By right, they are supposed to report back and return the materials to those who engaged them. “It is not alright to abscond from duty without proper retirement and still expect that they qualify for their allowances. “If I were INEC, I will do a memo to them, requesting they do the needful and if they fail, INEC can deploy other legal means against them,” he said. Earlier, the JDPC Manager, Mr Alphonsus Nwoye said the visit was to collaborate with the group to generate development issues to be used in engaging the incoming administration in the state. Nwoye listed the targeted areas to include, community charter of demand and data profile, continuous voter education, tax payment and proper waste management disposal, among others. He appealed to the group to deploy its capacity in reaching out to relevant state authorities and non-state actors, in addressing the highlighted concerns to deepen good governance. “It is very pertinent for stakeholders and CSOs to strategise on how to engage the incoming administration for inclusive participatory governance,” he added. (NAN)