Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has commended leaders and members of the African Church for peacefully settling their differences and the internal dispute in the denomination, noting that such reconciliation is true to Christian ideals. Osinbajo spoke on Friday when he received a delegation from the African Church led by the Primate of the African Church, Dr Emmanuel Udofia, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Senior Special Assistant to the Vice President on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, disclosed this in a statement he signed late Friday titled ‘Osinbajo commends resolution of African church’s internal dispute.’ According to the Vice President, “love of brothers and sisters prevailed, and we can show the world that amongst Christians, men and women of faith, certain disputes shouldn’t ever become a matter that would be difficult or impossible for us to resolve. “We have all it takes, and scripture points us in the right direction, and there is no reason at all for it to be difficult in settling disputes. The devil has been put to shame in the African Church.” He then restated the Federal Government’s firm commitment to freedom of worship, adding that it remains a fundamental responsibility of the Buhari-led regime. He said one of the critical provisions of the constitution is freedom of worship. Therefore, the government owes Nigerians a duty to maintain that in every possible way. Osinbajo encouraged the delegation members to consciously “promote all across the country and speak about freedom of worship because we must respect the rights of others. Government stands ready to protect your rights as Christians just as we protect the rights of men and women of other faiths.” In his remarks, Dr Udofia expressed his gratitude to the Vice President for his role in resolving the dispute within the church. “On behalf of the management and members of the African Church, I wish to express our profound gratitude to God Almighty for the miraculous way our 2-year internal wrangling was brought to an end.” The Primate also declared the church’s admiration for the Vice President, saying, “We are endeared by your leadership qualities, and we hereby request your continued and untiring support for our church. We wish to renew our commitment and loyalty to the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the government of” the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Also on the delegation were Julius Abbe, Dr Peter Ogunmuyiwa, Archbishop of Abuja, Babatunde Odufuwa, amongst others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com