The United Nations International Children Education Fund has said though pregnant women may have preterm birth as a result of the COVID-19 virus, they do not seem to be at higher risk of contracting the virus. In a recent publication by UNICEF on their website titled, ‘Navigating pregnancy during COVID-19 pandemic, the UN body noted that pregnant women might be at a disadvantage if they were infected with the virus as the illness would be severe. The report urged pregnant women to take proper precautions to protect themselves against the virus and seek medical care early enough if they experienced symptoms such as fever, cough or difficulty breathing. “Pregnant women do not seem to be at higher risk of contracting COVID-19. However, you are at higher risk of serious illness if you get COVID-19 while pregnant. You are also at higher risk of delivering your baby prematurely if you get COVID-19. “That’s why it’s important you – and people around you – take precautions to protect against COVID-19. Seek medical care early if you experience symptoms, such as fever, cough or difficulty breathing. Pregnant women should take the same precautions to avoid COVID-19 infection as other people. “Consider vaccination in consultation with your healthcare provider. Wear a mask where physical distancing from others is not possible. Keep a physical distance from others and avoid poorly ventilated or crowded spaces. “Open windows to improve ventilation indoors, wash your hands regularly with soap and water or an alcohol-based hand rub. If you have fever, cough or difficulty breathing, seek medical care early,” the report stated. On whether or not pregnant women can take the COVID-19 vaccine, the report noted, “Yes, you can get vaccinated if you are pregnant. While there are less data available on the vaccination of pregnant people, evidence on the safety of COVID-19 vaccines during pregnancy has been growing, and no safety concerns have been identified. “For more information about receiving a COVID-19 vaccination while pregnant, speak to your healthcare provider,” it further noted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com