The momentum in the semiconductor space is set to remain strong in 2022 as global chip sales are expected to grow by about 10 per cent, a new report said on Monday. According to the report by Euler Hermes, semiconductor sales are expected to grow by another nine per cent and cross $600bn for the first time in 2022. The company warned that chipmakers would face risks such as demand normalisation after a two-year boom in hardware sales, as well as an increasing frequency of unusually adverse climatic events. “The current semiconductor cycle has been firing on all cylinders since the industry emerged from its worst recession in 2019,” analysts at Euler Hermes said. According to the report, a months-long semiconductor shortage during the pandemic impacted a wide range of industries — from automobiles to gaming consoles — as chipmakers struggled to keep up with unprecedented demand as global economic activity bounced back from the COVID-19 crisis. It said even though major chipmakers like TSMC had announced plans to increase capacity, it would take years for it to come online. The analysts said, “The three factors that increase sales are: demand, ‘unusually strong demand’ for consumer electronics, such as personal computers and smartphones; prices: an increase in prices due to tight supply and demand dynamics; and improved product mix: further improvement in product mix for semiconductors as a result of higher-priced and new generation chips being introduced.” According to them, the risks for the chip sector include hardware sales (for products like computers and TV sets) taking a larger-than-expected hit from demand normalisation after strong growth in 2020 and 2021; “Semiconductor demand being hit by any period of prolonged freeze in manufacturing activity, as supply chain disruptions from the pandemic continue; a ‘standstill’ between China and the US in their battle for tech supremacy, with restrictions still in place for Chinese companies acquiring critical US semiconductor manufacturing tech and equipment; “An ‘increasing frequency of unusually adverse climatic events’ proving to be a major challenge for the semiconductor sector, which relies on optimal capacity utilis ation for its profitability.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com