Finally, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, former Senator and former Governor of Lagos State, informed Nigerians that he has told the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), that he’ll run for President of Nigeria on the platform of the All Progressives Congress in 2023. This is Tinubu’s first step to cashing in his political IOUs from those he helped to achieve their political ambitions, President Buhari being the chief of them. And they have started paying back. By seizing the initiative to stalemate President Buhari from supporting another candidate, Tinubu played a sleight of hand. A move that the Yoruba would explain with the phrase, “eni ya’wo l’ogun ngbe.” The English equivalent of that would be, victory goes to the faster draw in a gun duel. Orji Uzor Kalu, publisher and former Governor of Abia State, now Senate Majority Leader, and Dave Umahi, with a superlative performance as Ebonyi State Governor, have announced their presidential intentions against Tinubu, who is not exactly Nigeria’s political gold standard but the leading APC contender. Some people suggest that these gentlemen are merely playing the role of fall guys, who will roll over and play dead when the time comes to separate the pretenders from Grandmaster Tinubu. This speculation doesn’t quite pan out; more contenders, including publisher and society journalist, Dele Momodu, who may again end up as an also-ran, are looking longingly in. Former Senate President, Anyim Pius Anyim, has also thrown his hat in the ring. Dr Akinwunmi Adesina, erstwhile Minister of Agriculture, now President of African Development Bank, whose name has been bandied about for president, has precluded himself from the race but also denied endorsing Tinubu for president. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Works and Housing, both protégés and political godsons of Tinubu, have neither denied nor confirmed interest in the presidency, but have maintained a dignified silence. Those urging Vice President Osinbajo to run are probably sincere, considering his sterling performance in those 103 days of President Buhari’s medical tourism; misguided, without a clue of how politics works; or plain mischievous, intending to foul up the Tinubu political family. Those who throw Fashola’s name in the mix probably want to wake up (presumed) animosities arising from Tinubu’s attempts to deny Fashola a second term as Lagos State Governor and from being appointed Minister by President Buhari. They add the face-off between the duo: Fashola’s preference for Attorney Supo Shashore over Akinwunmi Ambode, who eventually snagged the oyster, and succeeded him as governor. Journalists put words in the mouth of Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, who has had a hard time wheedling out of the verbal booby-traps set for him. He too neither confirmed nor denied presidential ambitions. He sounds like if the opportunity comes and Jagaban Tinubu anoints him (or anyone else for that matter) all will be well. Tinubu has been of assistance to many people in achieving their political ambitions of being president, governor, minister, legislator and political appointee. He is reported to have deployed money, material and men to fight legal battles to retrieve governorship offices for candidates who were rigged out. Some are former governors Adams Oshiomole of Edo State and Rauf Aregbesola of Osun State and Fayemi in his first time as governor. Rumours suggest that he partly financed, or provided strategic support, for the gubernatorial ambitions of former Governor Ibikunle Amosun and late Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Ogun and Oyo States respectively. Tinubu took a cue from the late MKO Abiola, presumed winner of the June 12, 1993 Presidential election that was wilfully annulled by military President Ibrahim Babangida. He gives to practically any cause brought to his attention. He donated N50 million when Katsina Central Market got burnt. Tinubu marked his 69th birthday in Kano State, attended the 11th Arewa House Annual Lecture in Kaduna, and has taken sundry traditional titles, including Jagaban Borgu and Asiwaju of Lagos, demonstrating how much he took from Abiola’s grace notes. And from the beginning of this Fourth Republic, he has made himself available physically on the political hustings of some members of APC vying for elective offices. He campaigned even for candidates, like Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, whom he did not initially endorse, and those recommended, like Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki, who later turned his coat to join the opposition Peoples Democratic Party. You must acknowledge that Tinubu it was who midwived APC, the political smorgasbord cobbled together from the motley of Action Congress of Nigeria, Congress of Progressive Citizens, All Nigerian Peoples Party, nPDP and half-child All Progressives Grand Alliance. Though he doesn’t seem to have a firm handshake with the East of the Niger, Land of the Rising Sun, he appears to be the only politician who can boast of a wide network across Nigeria, bar former President Olusegun Obasanjo and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. He has also been able to stride across religious divides: Though a Moslem, his wife, Senator, or “Madam,” Oluremi Tinubu, is an ordained pastor in a pentecostal church. And he once gave testimony of some healing on the altar of The Redeemed Christian Church of God. But he has a baggage of accusations of corruption, avarice and diversion of the commonwealth of Lagos State to his personal use, though he returned unscathed after answering the call of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. Former Ondo State military governor, Olabode George, recently listed Tinubu’s diversion of some government properties to personal use: the premises of Lagos State Polytechnic, Ikosi, Ketu; School of Nursing on Awolowo Road, Ikoyi; and a Lagos Island Local Government land. Though Tinubu has denied these allegations, those who support, even unabashedly promote, his presidential ambition, rhetorically ask if there are Nigerians who have served in any political office that can openly stand to claim to be mai gaskiya. In other words, they argue, there are no saints in politics, especially when you consider that politics in Nigeria is run on the basis of patronage, iniquity and impunity. But that argument is just not tenable. Public service should attract the best in word and in deed. Integrity is a weighty matter that the Nigerian electorate and media must expect. Some contend that Tinubu’s presidency may suggest that Nigeria is running a gerontocracy in the order of President Buhari who was sick for a long time. The sickness and death of President Umaru Yar’Adua caused a constitutional crisis. Though concerns about gerontocracy are valid, Konrad Adenauer, Winston Churchill and Joe Biden, respectively became Chancellor of Germany, Prime Minister of Great Britain and American President in their seventies. Tinubu may need to clarify the authenticity of his schools and academic credentials. But no one has a right to question his adoption by Madam Abibatu Mogaji, the late Iya Loja of Lagos. The biological father of American President Gerald Ford was Leslie Lynch King, Sr. He took the name of Gerald Rudolf Ford, his adoptive stepfather, whose political legacy he inherited. Tinubu also needs to find a way to douse the brushfire of Oduduwa Republic agitators that may rile other geopolitical zones of Nigeria. Also, he must adroitly address the issue of restructuring to get the South-West’s buy-in. While APC’s presidential nomination will be settled with political IOUs, the 2023 presidential election will be won by votes; or rigging. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com