Nigerian skit maker, Sunday Joshua, popularly known as De General, has admitted to owning tramadol and cannabis drug exhibits found in his home, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency has revealed. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘Skit maker, De General, three others arrested in NDLEAs Lagos raids’, signed by the NDLEA Spokesperson, Femi Babafemi, on Wednesday. In the early hours of Wednesday, a live video from the skit maker’s page showed that NDLEA operatives visited his home. The video was, however, disrupted due to a scuffle at the residence. Confirming their presence, the statement read, “Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, in the early hours of today, Wednesday 12th January arrested a skit maker, Sunday Joshua, popularly known on social media as De-General, following the raid of a notorious drug joint at Orchid Estate, Lekki area of Lagos state. “Acting on credible intelligence, narcotic officers stormed the drug joint in the estate, where three suspects were arrested with illicit drugs including 200 sachets of 225mg Tramadol and 1.5kilograms of cannabis sativa. “In the course of the operation, some persons including the suspected dealer ran away with bags suspected to contain exhibits. “A trail showed they ran into a house located at 2B Saula Akinlolu way, Orchid estate, which is the residence of 22-year-old Sunday Joshua (aka De General). The young men started to make noise to prevent a search. “The operatives introduced themselves as officers of NDLEA and submitted themselves for search before entry. This was done and a search was conducted. “The search led to the recovery of drug exhibits including cannabis sativa; Tramadol 225mg, and some paraphernalia for drug use. This was after the suspect had requested to record on video the search, which the officers out of a sense of civility allowed.” The statement further revealed that the skit maker admitted ownership of the drugs. “In his confessional statement in custody, the suspect admitted ownership of the drugs recovered from his house”, the statement read. Addressing the disrupted viral video, the statement said, “The video trending on social media was the moment the suspect and his friends decided to disrupt the bid to conduct a search of the house.”