American singer, Ray Norwood Jnr, popularly known as Ray J, has reacted to claims made about the existence of a second unreleased sex tape featuring him and reality TV star, Kim Kardashian. In a recent interview with Hollywood Unlocked, Kim’s estranged husband, Kanye West, said he saved the reality TV star from another public scandal after retrieving a laptop from her former lover, Ray J. While expressing displeasure about Kardashian’s recent public romance with Saturday Night Live host, Pete Davidson, Ye (as he is now legally known), claimed to have helped her secure the laptop containing the said unreleased tapes. “After I went and got the laptop from Ray J myself that night and then got on a red-eye [flight]. I met this man at the airport, and got on a red-eye, came back [and] delivered it to her at 8 a.m. in the morning. “And then, I gave it to her and she cried when she saw it. Do you know why she cried when she saw the laptop? Cause it represents how much she’s been used. It represents how much people didn’t love her and they just saw her as a commodity,” he said. Seemingly addressing the speculation, Ray J wrote via his Twitter page on Wednesday, “This needs to stop. I also have kids.” In a statement released to E! News, Ray’s manager, David Weintraub, also said, while the rapper wishes both Kim and Kanye well but “will not be discussing or addressing the past.” “Ray J is focused on his children, technology company Raycon and his film/tv/music career at the moment. He only wishes Kim & Kanye the best in all of their endeavours and will not be discussing or addressing the past,” he wrote. Kim Kardashian, who shares four kids with Ye had also refuted the claims of a second sex tape with Ray. Her media team also released a statement to E! news saying, “After review, there was nothing sexual unseen, only footage on the plane on the way to Mexico and footage at a club and restaurant on the same trip. “Kim remains firm in her belief that there is no new second tape that exists. After 20 years, she truly wishes to move on from this chapter with focus instead on the positive things she continues to do as a mother, entrepreneur and advocate for justice reform.” The Keeping up with the Kardashians star dated Ray J back in the early 2000’s. A sex tape featuring the two got leaked in 2007 and led to years of controversy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com