The Governor of Lagos State, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has inaugurated a feeding and community outreach programme aimed at supporting 30,000 Lagosians. The programme is an off-shoot of the digital #BOSChristmas celebration which originated from the comment section of the governor’s official Instagram page. A statement quoted the governor as speaking at the inauguration of the programme at Surulere, Lagos, saying, “I hope that this programme inspires and encourages everyone, even in our own little way to make someone happy.” The programme, was inaugurated on the New Year’s day, is expected to impact individuals and households in the most vulnerable communities across the state. Locales of thirty communities within Lagos Mainland, Lagos Island, Eti-Osa, Ajeromi-Ifelodun, Ibeju-Lekki, among a host of other local government and local council development areas are expected to benefit from the programme. Sanwo-Olu encouraged residents to show love and compassion to one another throughout the season, stating “we should seize the opportunity of the celebration to strengthen our love for one another by being kind and generous to the people around us”. One of the partners of the programme, Founder of Dreams from the Slum Empowerment Initiative, Isaac Omoyele, was quoted as saying, “Being a part of the BOS outreach is exciting because it gives us the opportunity to do more. Before now, we couldn’t reach the number of persons we have been able to reach within six communities in Ajegunle.” The BOS Christmas and New Year outreach is scheduled to continue through the first 10 days of the New Year, with the objective of reducing the burden on the most vulnerable households, while spreading the holiday cheer among residents of the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com