The former Chairman of the All Progressive Congress in Delta State, Mr Cyril Ogodo; immediate past Publicity Secretary, Sylvester Imonina; Delta Central leader and elders’ council members of the party, led by Chief Sylvester Kowho; and members of the Ovie Omo-Agege Solidarity Movement, led by Peter, have defected to the Peoples Democratic Party. Receiving the defectors at the PDP mega rally on Saturday in Asaba, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa assured the supporters and chieftains of the party that there would be free and fair primary to decide the gubernatorial flag bearer. He cautions all those aspiring to various positions to control themselves and their followers. He said, “We are a family and we cannot fight. There will be a free and fair primary and so there will be no room for a fight. “Let us work together to ensure that the PDP remains on top. Today, I welcome our brothers, who have joined the PDP and I assure you that we are all one. “This rally has made a statement that the PDP is prepared and united for the 2023 elections and we will continue to work with love as one family unlike the other party where they fight.” The state Chairman of the PDP, Kingsley Esiso, said the essence of the rally was to reduce the influence of the APC in the state by 90 per cent. He said, “The APC is a failed party; it brought us hardship and negative change, which has made Nigeria to become the capital of poverty in the world. “The PDP is Delta and Delta is the PDP, and we will continue to harvest APC members in the state and we have leaders of the APC, who have decided to join the PDP today.” Among those who spoke at the rally were a former governor of the state, James Ibori; Senator James Manager; and the Minority Leader, House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu, who called for greater unity and solidarity in the party, saying the PDP remained the only party that could rescue Nigeria from its present challenges. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com