No fewer than 500 units of donated blood were compromised on Friday, January 21, 2022 following the decision of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company to cut off electricity supply to the National Blood Service Commission. This is as the NBSC expresses shock and concerns over the failure of the AEDC to issue prepaid meters despite several calls on the importance of power supply to the preservation of blood stored in the commission before distributions to hospitals. A statement released by the Director of Protocols and Public relations of the NBSC, Haruna Abdullah which was titled, “Crisis hits Nigeria’s Blood Service as AEDC cuts off power supply to the National Blood Service Commission Headquarters” was made available to The PUNCH on Wednesday in Abuja. The statement partly reads, “The Headquarters of the National Blood Service Commission was thrown into total darkness on Friday, 21st January 2022 when officials of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company AEDC abruptly cut off power that supplies the Commission. “This is more shocking given that the commission had just paid its outstanding bills on 29th December, 2021. “Available correspondence from the AEDC to the Commission shows a bill submitted to the Commission on 5th January, 2022 asserting the due date of payment as 17th January, 2022. “The company’s decision to cut off electricity supply on the 21st January 2022 leaves a stint of incredulity and total disregard for civility especially in a sector as sensitive as the Blood Commission. Why was power supply cut even when there was no history of defaulting disposition on the part of NBSC? Doesn’t the mandatory 90 days’ notice of disconnection as provide for by the Nigerian Electricity regulatory body? “The company’s lack of thoroughness in reconciling available data at its disposal and the incongruity between presented bills and the irregularity of power supply to the NBSC headquarters lies largely responsible for this avoidable crisis.” Stating the effect of the power outage, the statement revealed, “As it is, no fewer than 500 units of blood collected from voluntary blood donors were compromised following disruption of power supply to the headquarters of the National Blood Service Commission where donated blood are saved in blood banks pending distribution to hospitals. “The Commission which coordinates voluntary blood donation collections and distributions for Nigerians has communicated the need to maintain the steady safety of blood in storage for Nigerians to the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company. “The company personnel have defied these calls despite being made aware of the sensitivity of the product in storage. “Voluntarily donated blood units are saved in blood bank refrigerators to maintain the required level of cold chain that makes the blood safe for patient use. These compromised units of blood are at risk of being discarded as a result of the power outage which rendered the blood unsafe. “The power outage also presents a major deterrent to voluntary blood donors due to the risks to their security and safety as donors. “In coming days, the shortage of safe blood to patients in need of it will hit Nigerians as a result of the ill-conceived action of the power company unless this flagrant disregard for the lives of Nigerians is addressed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com