Sequel to the withdrawal of soldiers at the Nigeria Correctional Service Centers in Ondo State, the state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu has deployed other security agencies to protect the inmates and the facilities. The governor, on Wednesday, raised the alarm that the soldiers had been withdrawn from the centres, alleging that the Nigerian Army’s action could lead to jailbreaks in the state. To this end, Akeredolu was said to have deployed some men from other security agencies, such as the state commands of the Nigerian Police, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, and the State Security Network Agency, also known as Amotekun. The Amotekun Commander in the state, Akogun Adetunji Adeleye disclosed this to our correspondent in his office in Akure, the state capital. The Amotekun boss said, “You will agree with me that the correctional centres are Federal Government’s physical assets, and it is the responsibility of the mother security agencies to provide security for the facilities. “As soon as that incident (soldiers withdrawal) happened, the police and the NSCDC immediately deployed their men to all the correctional centres. Because of our knowledge of the local intelligence, men of the Amotekun were also directed by the governor to join the sister security agencies to ensure that there is no vacuum. “As we talk now, all the correctional centres in the state are being manned by the officers and men of the police, NSCDC, and the Amotekun.” Adeleye urged the people of the state not to hesitate to give the security men any useful information that could assist in combating the criminal activities in the state “First we want to give kudos to the people of the state for their support in terms of quality and timely information, upon which we respond and act upon all their distress calls. We are also telling them that security should not be left with the security agencies alone. They should expose the criminals among them. We will continue to treat all information received with utmost confidence, in such a way that the source of the information would never be disclosed,” he declared. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com