The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), Thursday evening condoled with the family members of the late Head of the Interim National Government, Ernest Shonekan, at their Ikoyi, Lagos, home. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, disclosed this in a statement titled, ‘President Buhari condoles with the Shonekans in Lagos.’ The statement read, “The President and his team were received by the widow of the deceased, Mrs Margaret Shonekan, and family members. “President Buhari was accompanied to the Shonekans’ home by Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun; Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; and Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, who is also Chairman, Caretaker and Convention Planning Committee, All Progressives Congress.” According to the statement, Buhari encouraged the widow and family members, saying he was saddened to hear the news of Shonekan’s death. “I received with profound sadness the news of the death of a great statesman and former Head of the Interim National Government, Chief Ernest Shonekan. “His love and commitment to the peace and unity of the country are things to emulate. May his soul rest in peace,” the President was said to have written in the condolence register. Abiodun told the family that Buhari was determined to visit, despite a day that had started at about 7am. “He was in Ogun State, where he inaugurated five legacy projects. But due to the regard and respect he had for Chief Shonekan, he is here now. May Papa’s soul rest in peace,” the Ogun governor said. Sanwo-Olu said though he hailed from Ogun State, Lagos was Shonekan’s resident state for over 60 years. “He was a highly respected man, true nationalist, father, grandfather and great grandfather to so many. “We will miss him, but be comforted that he lived a good life. God will stand by the family. All will be well with you and with Nigeria,” he said. The three governors that accompanied the governor also signed the condolence register. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com