Super Eagles midfielder, Kelechi Nwakali talks about what he hopes to bring to the team at the ongoing AFCON and his long wait for a national call-up in this interview with NFF TV How has it been since you arrived at camp? It’s been good meeting with the players and training with them. They’ve all been good guys on and off the pitch. How has it been meeting some of your teammates like Samuel Chukwueze from the U-17 level? It’s been good meeting him, we’ve come a long way. We played in the same academy back in Umuahia and in the U-17and U-20, a few games in the U-23, and here in the Super Eagles, it’s been good. You have good short and long-range passes, what inspires you to take them? I remember when I used to play under Emmanuel Amuneke, he used to tell me that football is all about time and space. I believe recognising the perfect timing and space is one of my best qualities as a player and playing under him (Amuneke) helped me in this regard. What qualities are you bringing to the team? As a player I know where my strength lies, which is passing the ball and holding the game. If the coach thinks that my qualities are going to be needed in any game, I will be glad to go in and do my best. Firstly, it’s a team game, but sometimes you need to bring in your individual qualities to make the team better and I believe as a player, passing the ball from a long distance is my thing. How has training been under Austin Eguavoen? This is my first time meeting with him as a coach. I think the style he’s introduced to the team is good. He wants the team to be more compact and when we have the ball, we have to be quick when we attack and make use of the available spaces quickly, play in numbers when we attack, which is very good. I think the more you outplay your opponent in numbers, the more opportunities you have in scoring goals. Do you think Nigeria can win the tournament? We are from a country where everyone believes that because we’re Nigeria, we’re supposed to win every competition we enter for, but mind you, every team that comes to this tournament also have the mindset of winning. As a team we’re here to make a statement, we’re here to write history, make our country and family proud ana also make ourselves proud. It’s all about representing Nigeria in the best way we can. If it happens that we win the competition, fine, but the most important thing is to represent Nigeria in flying colours. Winning is what is in the mind of every player here, that is the first goal. It is football, we can’t predict what will happen, but we’ll work as a team to achieve one goal, which is winning the competition. You’ve played at all the youth ranks but haven’t been in the Eagles, what had been on your mind? Every Nigerian player wants to play for the Super Eagles and represent Nigeria at a higher level. I’m one person that believes in time and when the time comes, whatever that is yours will come. I never played in the qualifiers, but I was listed in the 28-man final list representing Nigeria. My message to the fans is that if I’m given the opportunity to play, I will give my best in every game I am called upon to play. 