The Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria have collaborated to upgrade the security system at the car park of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, following the recent reports security lapses at the facility. The Acting Director-General, ICRC, Mr. Michael Ohiani, made this known after a facility tour of the nation’s flagship airport.  There had been reports of security breaches at the car park in recent times.  Vehicles parked at the facility were reportedly vandalised. A statement signed the Acting Head, Media and Publicity, ICRC, Manji Yarling, quoted the DG as saying that the assessment was carried out to provide solutions to the security challenges being faced by airport users at the car park. The statement clarified that only one of the reported cases had been confirmed and adequately compensated for stolen vehicles accessories. Ohiani, while addressing officials of the MMIA car park concessionaire (Seymour Aviation Limited), however disagreed with the company over its position that vehicles parked at the facility were “Parked at Owners Risk.” The director-general advised the concessionaire on a new feature in car parking service model where car owners upon making payment, are allotted specific slots on a particular floor. The statement quoted him as saying, “If slot A is given to you and that particular slot has a security issue, it is easier to determine that a particular vehicle in slot A was supposed to park there because your contact number and details are already captured. “We can use that with appropriate authority where registrations are done to be able to criminals. But when you allow people to park at their own discretion, it becomes difficult to trace when something happens. “Going forward I think those are the measures you might like to employ. It also enables you to manage the facility because you will be able to know at a particular time how many slots are taken and how many are available,” he said. The statement was titled, “Lagos airport car park: ICRC intervenes, insists on safety of vehicles” Responding to questions, the Director of Commercial and Business Development of the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria, Sadiku Rafindadi, said following the reports of the security breaches, an emergency meeting was held and certain decisions were reached to curb future occurrence. Rafindadi, who represented the  Managing Director, FAAN, Rabiu Yadudu, during the visit, listed some of the recommendations from the meeting to include the expansion of CCTV coverage at the car park, connection of the camera feeds to the MMA Terminal 2 CCTV network, and improvement of physical surveillance. Others are intelligence sharing with airport security, prompt reportage of incidences at the car park, and the need to address other pending cases of vehicle vandalism, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com