Some of the nation’s strategic dams are in Niger State. AISHA WAKASO writes that when the dams and rivers overflow, residents face tragedies of fatal boat accidents and flooded farmlands Although Niger State is blessed with many waterways, residents are bothered about   the fatality of boat accidents in the state that hosts some of Nigeria’s hydro-power stations. Boat accidents are common in the state, especially during the rainy season due to the rivers overflowing, overloading and collision of boats, bad conditions of the boats, poor weather conditions and lack of knowledge of waterways and disregard for safety rules. From 2013 to date,  these accidents have remained  constant occurrences in the state, leading to the death of over 250  people including women and children. Besides loss of lives and economic implications, fatal boat accidents are becoming frequent developments  in the state and it should be nipped in the bud to stop avoidable deaths and loss of property. In Niger State, farmers and other residents pray against dams and rivers overflowing because it has led to loss of crops, animals and even human lives. Between 2013 till 2021, there have been over eight boat accidents  in the state with communities left to mourn the loss of their loved ones. In October 2013, 18 people died in a boat accident that occurred in Kokoli village in the Borgu Local Government Area of the state, while in September 2013, 72 people drowned in a boat accident on River Niger close to Malale village in the Borgu Local Government Area of the state. Two years later, 14 persons, including 11 women from the same family, in Dan Gunu village, died in a boat accident in River Sarkin Pawa, while another  involving three persons occurred in River Guni, both in the Munya Local Government Area of the state. They were all said to be returning from their farms when the unfortunate incidents occurred. Fifty people also lost their lives in a boat accident in 2017 in Kiri village in the Munya Local Government Area of the state on their way to Zumba Market in the Shiroro Local Government Area. The accident was said to have occurred as a result of a downpour that fateful morning. In May 2021, over 100 people were confirmed to have died when  in another boat accident in Niger State. The people were heading to Kebbi State when the unfortunate incident occurred. The boat was said to have taken off from Loko Mina at 7:30 am and the majority of the passengers were said to be traders heading to  a popular Market in Kebbi State. The cause of Loko Mina accident was blamed on overloading as the boat which had a capacity of 80 people was carrying over 150 people including goods and livestock. Also on  December 26, 2021, another boat accident was recorded at Zhigiri village in the Shiroro Local Government Area of the state.  The accident claimed the lives for seven people,  five of whom were members of the same family. The accident was said to have occurred shortly after they had started the journey. When The PUNCH contacted the family of the victims, Mohammadu Magaji, who spoke on behalf of the family, stated that his two elder brothers– 58 years old Muazu Magaji and 55 years old Babangida Magaji–two of Muazu’s wives and his first son were on their way to attend their younger sister, Habi’s child’s naming ceremony when the accident occurred. According to him, the boat had barely moved when the accident occurred, adding that the moment the news got to the village, a message was sent across to the sister and the naming ceremony was cancelled. Asked if they had any premonition of the tragedy that befell the family, Mohammadu said there were signs but they couldn’t really place their hands on what it was. He stated that he had just returned to his base in Kabba, Kogi State from Zhigiri,  two weeks before the accident. He said  attended wedding ceremonies of some members of their family at Zhigiri. “I came to the village and attended weddings of about eight of our family members and returned to Kabba where I live with my family. Since I got back to Kabba, I wasn’t sick but I was not feeling fine.” He also stated that one of his elder brothers, Babangida, who was a victim of the accident, had earlier suggested that they travel to the naming ceremony on motorcycles. He said the man had already brought out his motorcycle when  Muazu suggested otherwise because they were going with other members of the family. The Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello, and residents of areas around the dams  called on the Hydro Power Producing Areas Development Commission  to as a matter of urgency  to go to the communities to sensitise the people to waterway safety and provide safety regulations and materials. The governor added, “It is good to have a dam.  It is also important to protect the people living around the dam. “We acknowledge that the Zungeru Dam is to boost power generation in the country, but then, the people living in communities around the dam must be protected.” Bello said he was saddened by the incident that almost wiped out a whole family describing the incident as painful and unfortunate. “I am really sad with the unfortunate boat  accidents, measures need to be put in place to really avoid reoccurrence. The governor then assured that the state government would not leave any stone unturned in ensuring that all necessary measures are in place to prevent another boat accident.   ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com