The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has promised to reconstitute the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission “as soon as  it is politically possible.” He also pledged to resuscitate the $16bn Ogidigben Export Processing Zone Project, among other requests made by the Olu of Warri Kingdom, Ogiame Atuwatse III. The president also pledged a fair deal to the Itsekiri people of Delta State. Buhari spoke on Wednesday at the State House, Abuja, while receiving the monarch and some of his chiefs. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, disclosed this in a statement he signed on Wednesday titled, ‘President Buhari pledges equity, fairness and justice to Itsekiris’. While also extolling the patriotism of the monarch, the President pledged a fair deal to the Itsekiri, saying, “I’m grateful for your visit and impressed by your patriotism. I’ve taken note of your requests and will work on them as soon as politically possible.” Earlier, the Itsekiri monarch had drawn the President’s attention to what he called “some burning issues that are dear to our hearts.” The issues included the under-utilisation of the four ports in Warri, Koko, Sapele, and Burutu, all in Delta State, reconstitution of the NDDC board, immortalising the first Minister of Finance of the country, Festus Okotie-Eboh, and resuscitation of the Ogidigben EPZ project, which has reportedly been abandoned. By urging the Federal Government to commence work on the gas project, the Olu was echoing an earlier call by his predecessor, Ogiame Ikenwoli, who in December 2020 appealed to the President to immediately commence work on the project, seven years after its groundbreaking by the Goodluck Jonathan administration. The Ogidigben Export Processing Zone, also called the Gas Revolution Industrial Park Project, is located between Ogidigben and Ajudaibo communities in the Warri South-West Local Government Area of Delta State. In 2013, the Jonathan administration had begun the establishment of the EPZ, which experts claimed would attract foreign direct investment, foreign exchange earnings and technology transfer. On the NDDC board, the monarch said he believed the President would soon reconstitute it, “as an interested party, we genuinely want a better deal for us in the Niger Delta, as we believe charity begins at home. By this, we mean that we Niger Deltans must be ready to put the betterment of our people first in all we do. Putting our people first is the only way to make our lives better.” The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, had assured the region that the board of the NDDC would be reconstituted at the appropriate time, upon the recommendation of the President.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com