Plans by Ukrainian Universities to increase their input into the education sector in Nigeria have reached an advanced stage while prospects of strengthening bilateral relations in education between both countries had taken a positive dimension. Already, Ukrainian universities had planned their maiden lecture on strengthening the education relationship between Nigeria and Ukraine and conferring honorary Doctorate degrees on some personalities. A statement issued on Thursday by the Country Representative of Ukrainian universities in Nigeria, Dr. Cliff Ogbeide, said over 12,000 Nigerians are currently studying in Ukrainian universities. “It is instructive to know that Ukraine, having robust diplomatic relations with Nigeria, is offering affordable university admission to Nigerian students with an estimated number hovering above 12,000 currently”, he said. According to him, Lviv University for Business and Law has the highest level of accreditation and is one of the leading educational institutions in Eastern Europe training highly qualified personnel for economic sector, Law, International Relations, and Journalism. Ogbeide said together with the V.N. Karazin Kharkiv National University, Ivano-Frankivsk University of Oil and Gas and the Academy of Economic Sciences, they would be visiting Nigeria to hold the maiden lecture with the theme: “Prospects in strengthening Ukraine-Nigeria Diplomatic/Economic relations.” Highpoint of the event would be the conferment of Doctorate Degree (Honoris Causa) from the prestigious Lviv University for Business and Law on a few selected eminent Nigerians, who have made outstanding contributions in Academics, Politics, Business Administration, Cultural Exchange, Traditional institution, Religion and Humanitarian Services in the advancement of humanity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com