The Federal Government is undertaking 21 road projects in addition to housing projects that have reached the third phase of completion in Kano State, the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, has said. Fashola disclosed this when he paid a courtesy visit to the Governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Ganduje, in Kano, according to a statement issued by the works ministry in Abuja on Thursday. He was quoted as saying, “At the moment we are undertaking 21 road projects at the Federal Government level in and around Kano State totalling about 960km. Some of the more famous ones are the Kano-Abuja highway, Kano-Katsina, Kano-Maiduguri and a host of others.” The minister further stated that the Federal Government had completed phases one and two of the National Housing Programme in Kano and had proceeded to phase three. He said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had given the approval for the handing over of the houses to members of the public and the exercise would be conducted by the ministers from the various states on behalf of Buhari. Fashola called on members of the state cabinet to encourage the indigenes and residents of Kano to subscribe to the housing units through the portal that had been opened for interested home applicants. He said the Federal Government expected that Kano people would be the heaviest subscribers to the houses in the state. Ganduje acknowledged the massive infrastructural development undertaken by the Federal Government in Kano State in the road, housing, railway and aviation sectors. He outlined the infrastructural projects to include the railway network connecting Lagos-Ibadan-Kaduna-Kano, and the ones between Kano Jibia and Maradi. Others, according to the governor include the Kano-Dutse rail project and the substation at Kazaure. The railway projects, he said, were in addition to the roads executed in the state as well as the work on the international wing of the Aminu Kano International Airport. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com