The All Progressives Congress state houses of Assembly legislators from the North-West geopolitical zone have endorsed Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, for President in 2023. The endorsement was communicated in a communiqué issued after the extraordinary meeting of the forum, which also had in attendance former House of Assembly members from the zone, held in Abuja on Thursday. The communiqué was read by the former Speaker of the Niger State House of Assembly, Mr Ahmed Marafa. The North-West legislators also urged the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee to zone the party’s presidential ticket to the North. Marafa said the legislators agreed to support their colleagues from the North-Central for the Presidency, adding that the zone had been deprived of the number one position since Nigeria’s independence in 1960. Marafa stated, “We resolved that the state Assembly legislators from the North-West zone endorse and state their unalloyed and unshaken support for the aspiration of the young and ebullient Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, who has, against all odds, decided to take the bull by the horns by aspiring to the office of the President of Nigeria come 2023. “The members thank him for heeding the clarion call for the Presidency of Nigeria to come to the North-Central zone and urge him to have no fear or doubt in his race for the exalted office as members of the North-West zone are solidly behind him. “The meeting also agreed to call on the leadership of our great party, the APC, to zone the presidency to the northern region of the country. “This is because the North will rule for 10 years at the end of President Buhari’s tenure, while the southern region has ruled for 14 years.” The state legislators also passed a vote of confidence in the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for his sterling and cohesive leadership, urging him not to relent in ensuring that he leaves Nigeria a better place in 2023. The forum passed a vote of confidence in the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee for positively and aggressively repositioning the party. Earlier in his remarks, Speaker of the Kogi State House of Assembly, Prince Matthew Kolawole, canvassed the incumbent and former state lawmakers’ support for Bello’s presidential aspiration. 