The Federal Capital Territory Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists and a civil society organisation, Nigerians Against Bad Policies, have accused the FCT Police Command of failing to conduct an investigation into the alleged killing of a journalist, Alex Ogbu, while covering a protest by the Islamic Movement of Nigerian, otherwise known as Shiites, two years ago. Ogbu, a journalist with the Regent Africa Times Magazine, was allegedly shot in the head by anti-riot policemen from the FCT command, who were drafted to maintain law and order during the protest in January 2020 at the Berger roundabout in Abuja. A human rights lawyer, Femi Falana, SAN, in a letter dated January 28, 2020, to the then Commissioner of Police, FCT, Bala Ciroma, demanded that a coroner inquest into Ogbu’s death be conducted to expose the cop, who fired the shot. However, the NUJ and the group claimed that nothing had been heard on the matter two years later. Speaking with our correspondent on Sunday, the FCT NUJ Chairman, Emmanuel Ogbeche, said the union would continue to demand justice until the perpetrators were brought to justice. He said, “Alex Ogbu’s death in the hands of the police in Abuja is an unfortunate incident. It speaks about the wider violence against journalists and the inability of the government to bring perpetrators of such acts to justice. In the case of Ogbu, the police initially denied that he was shot, but the autopsy report reaffirmed that he was shot. “The police are responsible for his death. We had met previously with the then Commissioner of Police on this matter; we have held several protests, but in the very nature of the Nigerian state, where journalists are threatened, harassed and even killed, we have yet to get justice on the matter. We will continue to demand justice till we get it.” The leader of the NABP, Dimeji Macaulay, slammed the police for denying the family justice, adding that the group remained undaunted in its quest for justice. He said, “We use this opportunity to reiterate our call for justice. Without prosecution of the officers, who perpetrated this atrocity, justice is yet to be done. Over the last two years, we have engaged in a series of activities to bring this matter to the fore and press home our unflinching demand for justice. “We have submitted petitions to various relevant agencies, including the police force. So far, we have been embraced with criminal silence. The snail judicial system has also affected our calls for justice.” He demanded that adequate compensation be made to the family of the deceased as his wife had been going through a tough time fending for the family. Efforts to get the reaction of the FCT police spokesperson, DSP Josephine Adeh, were unsuccessful. Calls to her mobile telephone were not picked and she had yet to reply to a message sent to her on the matter. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com