A group under the auspices of the Network for Tinubu has urged the presidential aspirants in the South-West to wait for their turn and allow the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to get the presidential ticket of the party ahead of the 2023 presidential election. The group said the only way to repay Tinubu for his sacrifices for the country was to hand him the APC presidential ticket. The convener of the group, Mr Femi Adekanmbi, at the inauguration of the group on Monday in Akure, explained that the group was made up of no fewer than 1,000 members and delegates from each of the 18 local government areas of Ondo State and were ready to give their support for the Tinubu’s presidential ambition. He said, “Today (Monday) marks the revolutionary movement for Tinubu who is a benefactor to many. He is a man I know too well. He has assisted most politicians today and that is why we are rooting for him. “For us, this is the time to pay Tinubu back for what he has done for us as far as Ondo State and South-West is concerned. We have our people at the various local government areas and in each of the wards. In each local government, our members and delegates who are rooting for Bola Ahmed Tinubu are up to 1,000. “As a matter of fact, he is the best candidate for this job. We are all here to ensure that he wins 100 per cent in Ondo State and not only in Ondo but across the nation. He is the one that will take Nigeria to the greater height. He has what it takes to do this job.” In his remarks, the Director General of the group, Mr Tolu Babaleye, stated that the state will be sealed for the former Lagos State governor. He said, “When you look at the antecedent of Bola Ahmed Tinubu, it is the right time for APC to pay him. Nigeria and APC are what they are today courtesy of Bola Ahmed Tinubu. When the man was working day and night, spending his resources to the detriment of his family and business, the people who are aspiring today looked away.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com