The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, has expressed optimism that his predicament in the ongoing trial by the Federal Government over alleged terrorism would “last for a while.” He also told all his followers to embrace the peace initiatives and should not be distracted. Kanu’s lawyer and human rights activist, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, said these in a statement issued on Friday titled: “Update on our routine visit to our indefatigable client – Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu at the Headquarters of the Department of State Services, Abuja, being anuary 28 2022.” He said, “Our visit to our indefatigable client – Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, remains positive as our legal strategies were discussed, and he is in firm spirit. “Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu deeply appeals to Umu Chineke to avail themselves of the peace initiative presently ongoing and not to be distracted anymore. He further implored all Umu Chineke to keep their eyes on the ball because enemies are struggling in vain to entrench disharmony. “Onyendu reiterates that the ongoing interventions towards peaceful coexistence must be respected, encouraged and abided by. His call for unity among the entire Umu Chineke at all levels, who believe in his peaceful message cannot be overemphasised. “Further, Onyendu extends his warm regards to millions of his fans and followers who have equally remained consistently resolute and focused. He is convinced that the present situation will only last a while and he will emerge victorious. “He also used the opportunity to offer special prayers for me in commemoration of my birthday, as he believed most strongly that the future is crystal bright and holds much good tidings. “Consistent with our usual request, we crave for your unrelentless prayers and supplications to the Almighty Chukwuokike Abiama. It will surely end in praises. Thank you all, Umu Chineke and remain blessed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com