Lingering supremacy battle among cult groups in Ovwian-Aladja, Usiefurun, Mofor and Orunwohrun communities, all in Udu Local Government Area of Delta State, was on Wednesday blamed for the December 30, 2021 killing of three persons at the Mofor motor park in the area. Some concerned residents of the communities arrived at the conclusion at the end of a communal security meeting in the area, where they stoutly decried “the senseless killings of innocent victims in the on-going supremacy cult wars in the Local Government Area”. While calling on the police to beef up security in the communities, they however applauded the suspension of the Mofor Unit Executives of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria whose leader was said to be currently in police custody over the December 30, 2021, killings of three persons at the park. The residents expressed concern over the safety of their lives and property if the ugly trend continued unabated. They stated that most residents could no longer hide their apprehension over the series of attacks and counter attacks that had been recorded in the communities within a space of two weeks. Speaking with journalists, one of the residents, Philip Oghenesive, a businessman who claimed to have lived in Udu for more than 25 years commended the Delta State leadership of the RTEAN for the suspension of the Mofor Unit Executives as an aftermath of the December 30, 2021 bloody invasion of the park that resulted in the deagh of three innocent souls. “I have been using that park for more than 10 years but it is unfortunate that of late, we have been seen strange faces who converged there drinking and playing music like it is a party arena, and this is not ideal for a park, especially in a volatile area like Udu Council area”, he submitted. Also speaking, another resident, Mr. Matthew Onoriode, a commercial motorbike operator, popularly known as ‘Okada’ plying Mofor Junction to township, said he had followed the incidents that accumulated in the bloody attack at Mofor Motor Park for a while and “blamed members of the suspended RTEAN Executives for the lapses that caused the death of three innocent residents”. He said, “When some members of a particular cult group launched an attack on December 17 2021, at Orunwohrun town where one person was killed, the story was that the invasion was a reprisal attack following the reported assault carried out on the son of the suspended Secretary of the Mofor Park Unit who was sent on an errand by his father. “When we got this information we were all worried because we knew that when one group Invades the territory of another group to carry out an attack that recorded casualty there must be a reprisal at the invader’s territory, especially when the report indicated an official of the Motor Park masterminded it. “The dust had barely settled on this, when we heard again that the same cult group had launched another attack on December 22, 2021, in Orunwohorun community again, this time, killing two persons including a vigilante, and the same story was that the attackers mobilised from the Mofor axis. “We were expecting that the Mofor Park Unit Exco would be proactive in arranging a solid security within the vicinity of the Motor Park to protect the lives people who take vehicles from the Park, but that was not considered until the incident of December 30, 2021, when the Park canne under the attack of the opposing cult group who were on a revenge mission. “Three innocent persons were victims of that invasion and it was so sad that innocent residents would have to pay the supreme price for the negligence of the Mofor Motor Unit Exco, that ought to know that cult group do not give up on revenge missions, especially when the lives of their members was lost in the attack”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com