January 24th is celebrated across the world as the International Day for Education. It is a day that aims to celebrate the role education plays in peace and development. This date was adopted in 2018 at the United Nations General Assembly. Issues of concern: Education is at the heart of the individual, national and global development. Quality education, one of the Sustainable Development Goals, is also the pathway toward achieving all the other goals (poverty eradication, gender equality, innovation and infrastructure and many more). The right to education is a universal right of every child, however, ‘today, 258 million children and youth still do not attend school; 617 million children and adolescents cannot read and do basic math; less than 40% of girls in sub-Saharan Africa complete lower secondary school and some four million children and youth refugees are out of school. Their right to education is being violated and it is unacceptable.’ (UNESCO, 2022). In Nigeria, only 61% of children of primary school age attend school and the percentage is lower in the North. It is worse for the female child in the North of the country, where only about 40% are registered in school. Education is technically compulsory in the country but close to half of the primary school-aged children in Nigeria are not being educated. The number of unschooled children increases at secondary and tertiary levels (UNICEF, 2022) The first area of concern relates to the number of out-of-school children but it does not end there. The quality of education available is another issue and it spans across a number of areas, including but not limited to: the infrastructure and learning environment; relevance and adaptability of the curriculum; the quality of educators and the teacher training process. Mobilise political will: Many of the issues raised need to be worked on from a political strategy level. Government has a major role to play in the allocation of resources that are earmarked for the Ministry of Education. There is also a need for the government to address issues surrounding the current curriculum being used in schools at all levels. How relevant are they? Do they allow the average Nigerian graduate to compete internationally? Can they adequately prepare and equip these students to solve the problems of the future? These are pertinent questions that need to be addressed. The quality of our teacher training colleges and the entry requirements of student teachers need to be carefully evaluated. The cut-off point for studying education at the university ought to be reviewed as well. Are education courses a dumping ground for students who could not study their preferred courses, or is it a course that attracts the brightest and the best? While infrastructure is important, if the issues above are not first addressed, a wonderfully set up computer lab or library will be redundant and will not be used to its fullest capacity. Finally, the standardisation of the educational industry is also of concern. Schools can be set up overnight in people’s backyards. Unlicensed teachers are often employed to teach and each school may determine which curriculum they prefer to implement. While this allows for the bar to be set high in some instances, in others it also allows for the bar to be set very low. The role of implementation of policies and standardisation of procedures needs to be implemented across the board. Looking toward the 2023 elections, it stands to reason that these discussions need to hold between key stakeholders and players in the education space. Political aspirants also need to be interrogated on their roadmaps and plan to uplift education in Nigeria and eventually be held accountable. If education is not a key driving force in any campaign, it is already evident that other aspects of nation-building will be short-lived. Celebration of achievements: There are, however, a number of individuals and organizations that are involved in making a difference in the education space in Nigeria. They recognise that the government cannot do it alone and are investing in the best possible way to address some of the aforementioned issues. For example, there are a number of schools that provide 21st-century infrastructure that is at par with international standards and institutions. Some schools also adapt their curriculum to ensure sustained relevance, which can prepare their students for future career paths. There are schools that also offer quotas for scholarship students, high achieving students whose parents may be unable to afford the fees at these private institutions. By offering scholarships and discounts, these institutions are playing a small part in reducing the number of unschooled children and also mitigating the issue of poor quality in education. Individuals are not left out in their contributions to improving education in the country. It is a known fact that the impact of the individual may not be as noticeable but it should be celebrated. Many families adopt children of relatives, domestic staff or partner with organisations to cover the fees of one or two children. Each little drop adds up to build the ocean we so desire. Finally, there are organisations, like the Pistis Foundation, that aims to serve as a hub to allow all these parties to come together to do their part whilst also contributing their quota. Many NGOs provide scholarship programs, paying fees and placing students in schools. PF do this in partnership with schools that also want to make an impact in the lives of these children. Formal and informal education are both valid options for children, depending on their abilities and interests. Skills acquisition classes are being provided to train young students/children who will learn some musical instruments, chess, creative writing, robotics, et al. Call to action: In celebration of the International Day of Education, we can all play a part in improving the state of education in our country. Here are a few ways this can be done. Educators can create a few slots in their schools that are reserved for out of school children. Many of these children are around us if we look more carefully. Individuals can look in their own circles. Your domestic staff have kids who aren’t able to attend standard/good schools. Can you help? What we often forget is that these uneducated children around us pose potential threats to our children in the future if we do nothing. By saving them, we are also saving our children. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com