The Ohanaeze Ndigbo has described the late Head of the Interim National Government, Chief Ernest Shonekan, as a nation builder, manager of people, who was in a special class of his own. Speaking to our correspondent in Awka, on Tuesday, the Vice President, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Damian Okeke-Ogene, said Shonekan was a disciplined gentleman, who meant well for Nigeria. Okeke-Ogene added that Shonekan was drafted to head the Interim National Government which was a child of circumstances to prevent further anarchy arising after the June 12, 1993 election was annulled. He explained that within the three months Shonekan was head of the ING, “he was only concerned about how to keep Nigeria together”, but it was unfortunate, he was sitting on a keg of gunpowder which exploded within a short period. He said, “Shonekan must be counted as one of the greatest Nigerians, and to me, I respect him for his comportment, simplicity and gentlemanliness, and calm approach to issues. “After June 12, 1993, it looked as if the centre would not hold again, so the ING which he headed became a child of circumstances because he was willing to keep the country together, he was not ambitious for power. “We will remember him as one of the best presidents we never had because he was a human developer, all his life, he was busy training people.” Reacting to the 2023 presidential elections, Okeke-Ogene said the group was still making consultations and watching events as they unfold. “I think Nigeria has gone beyond staying in a corner and expect power to come and meet you. It is now your capability, Nigerians are going to choose the best among the equals come 2023. We have six zoning sections in this country and we believe all the zones can produce capable material to rule. Mind you, they don’t give power on a silver platter, you must fight for it by showing interest early enough and you must have outreach in all the zones and at least, acceptable in four zones,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com