Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has called for a waiver on the intellectual property rights to allow African countries to produce Covid-19 vaccines to contain the spread of the virus and improve protection for Nigerians and Africans. This is as he said the defunding of oil and gas projects by multilateral finance institutions will have medium and long term consequences on African economies and will ultimately impede the process of phasing out more polluting fuels such as coal, diesel, amongst others. Osinbajo made the call on Friday when delivering his Special Address virtually at the ongoing World Economic Forum in Davos. The Vice President lamented that less than 10 per cent of African countries had vaccinated 40 per cent of their population. He also warned that there would be a relatively slow rollout of vaccinations in Africa due to resource constraints. Yet, vaccinations remain essential because of the mutation of the virus and the emergence of variants that may be more dangerous than the Omicron. “It has proven impossible for individual countries to contain the virus, as long as there are outbreaks in other parts of the world…Right now, less than 10 per cent of African countries have vaccinated 40 per cent of their population. The reality is that due to resource constraints, there will be a relatively slow rollout of vaccines in Africa. National rollouts may take several years. Yet vaccinations remain essential because of the mutation of the virus and the emergence of variants that might be even more deadly than the relatively mild Omicron Variant. “There are also the issues around African countries being able to produce their own vaccines. And that is entirely possible with cooperation, especially around intellectual property issues. We have to look at issues around patent rights, intellectual property rights, and exclusivity rights; especially if we’re going to improve the chances of African countries to manufacture vaccines locally. “We have to look at relaxing those rights. Patent waivers and intellectual property waivers will be important. These are proved to be a problem now. No one seems to be making much progress in that respect. But we can’t really talk about African countries producing their own vaccines if we don’t address those important structural problems, I think that is that could very easily be done.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com