The Nigerian Air Force has said its Special Forces on Thursday rescued 26 kidnapped travellers along Birnin Gwari-Kaduna Road. The Air Force said its personnel while on a patrol met five abandoned vehicles near Anguwar Yako. In a statement on Thursday, the NAF spokesperson, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, said their abductors on sighting it personnel they fled into the bushes with some of the victims. The statement was titled, ‘NAF Special Forces rescue kidnapped victims’. It read, “Nigerian Air Force Special Forces today, January 12 , 2022, rescued 26 kidnapped victims while on a fighting patrol along Birnin Gwari-Kaduna Road. “The rescue operation occurred when the SF came across 5 abandoned vehicles with their doors ajar near Anguwar Yako, an indication of forced removal or evacuation and likely kidnap scene. “Acting on instincts, the SF began exploiting the general scene of the abduction and extended for about 3 kilometres radius well into the bushes while clearing the general area. Upon sighting the SF, about three kidnapped escapees suddenly came out from the bushes. “Further search by the SF led to the discovery of four different groups of victims hiding in the bushes. After a thorough search further into the hinterland, a total of 26 victims were rescued. “On interrogation, the victims who were travelling from Birnin Gwari to various locations including Kaduna, Minna and Kano, revealed that while enroute, large number of bandits in three groups suddenly appeared from the bushes from three different directions along the route and surrounded their vehicles. “However, on sighting the SF, the kidnappers fled into the bushes with a handful of the victims while the other majority took cover and hid in the bushes until they sighted the SF. ” He said the NAF Special Forces have extended their operations within the area with the hope of rescuing the remaining kidnapped victims, adding that those rescued had been moved to the 461 NAF Hospital Kaduna for medical examination. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com