This topic presents another context in which two major parts of speech appear to clash. These are adjectives and adverbs. At times, their forms so much overlap that people mistakenly use one in place of the other. Adjectives are words that describe nouns or pronouns while adverbs modify verbs: It is a commendable effort. She commended him immediately. While ‘commendable’ is an adjective in the first clause, ‘immediately’ is an adverb in the second. But in the case of ‘take someone serious’ or ‘take someone seriously’, which is correct? Note that the word needed is the one that should work with the verb ‘take’. We need an adverb of manner, telling us how someone is being ‘taken’, that is, being regarded. Now, which is the adverb between ‘serious’ and ‘seriously’? It is ‘seriously’. What this means is that the correct expression is take someone seriously, not take someone serious. Here is how Longman Dictionary defines the expression: Know full/fully well This takes us to another expression in which an adjective ‘clashes’ with an adverb – at least in terms of how people mishandle the construction.  Often, many people do say or write ‘know fully well’ or ‘knowing fully well’. This is also not correct. When in ‘take someone serious’ an adjective has been inappropriately used, in ‘know/knowing fully well’, an adverb has been wrongly used where an adjective should be: Here is how Longman establishes this saying also: Know full/perfectly well – used to say that someone does know something even though they are behaving as if they don’t know: You know full well what I mean. Between duly and duely In this concluding part of today’s lesson, I like to call your attention to another tricky aspect of the relationship between adjectives and adverbs. Here, the element to watch is more of spelling, though. When you need to use the adverbial counterparts of due and true, always remember that ‘e’ is an aberration: She truly went there. (Correct) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com