Dr Oluwayemi Banjoko, a chief nursing officer at the University of Lagos Medical Centre, speaks to ALEXANDER OKERE about her career, new academic feat, family and related issues You were one of the 145 doctoral awardees at the recent convocation of the University of Lagos. What does this academic feat mean to you? It serves as a fulfilment of my desire in my career path. It is a great deal for me. My PhD is in Health Education. Considering your years of practice as a nurse at the university’s medical centre, why did you decide to study for a doctorate? In my 26-year post-qualification experience as a nurse, I’ve come to realise that educating the patients and their families is a core aspect of nursing practice, especially if you want the patients to comply with instructions regarding their care and treatment. This triggered my quest for more knowledge in health education. The years of experience are not a barrier to a doctorate or any level of education. Once there is the desire and willingness to study, I think an individual is good to go. Looking ahead as a younger nurse, I thought of what I could do to keep busy aside from being a young practising nurse whose retirement age is now 65 years; hence, I pictured myself in the classroom giving back to my community and country, Nigeria. This led to my further study for a PhD. What were the challenges that came with the academic programme and how did you manage them? A lot of challenges came up, like stress, family and work balance, time management, managing my supervisors and the fear of the unknown, among others. It was stressful combining family, work and social life with a PhD programme. At a point, I had to opt for permanent night duty at work till I completed the (PhD) programme. For my family duties, I have a very understanding husband and family. They all supported me and made the journey quite easy. Most times, when I got in late, my husband and the children would have prepared dinner and made everyone at home comfortable. My husband and children were highly supportive. The children made sure all house chores were settled. They understood me even when I got cranky sometimes. My husband always stayed up late with me whenever I was studying and doing my work. He would say he was giving me moral support. All fees were duly paid by him. My social life had to fit into my academic programme to keep my focus. I had to forgo many activities but I am glad that it all ended well. Sometimes, I let go of my outings to be able to complete work or meet a deadline. I even had to take a break from choir rehearsals in my church. Managing my supervisors was part of the PhD itself. So, I took it in good strides because I realised it was all for the best of my work. A PhD is majorly about research. It is expected that one presents their work at every stage. The fear of the response and critiques of lecturers and colleagues are also a stressor. It is like one standing before the judge in the law court waiting for the verdict; although at each presentation the lecturers do their best to make the student feel calm and reassured. Some students who cannot cope with the rigours of a doctoral programme either defer or abandon their programme. Were there times you considered any of these options? On two occasions I decided to drop out. I felt I was not making any progress; I was frustrated with the rejection of some of my work. One of such times, I travelled for summer to the UK and called a PhD colleague that I was no more interested but he persuaded me and encouraged me. On the second occasion, I came home very upset and determined not to continue, but my husband calmed me down by telling me the story of how he was determined to be successful after several frustrations and failures. Your first and second degrees are in Health Education and Guidance and Counselling. How did you become a nurse? I had my nursing education before my first and second degrees at the then School of Nursing, now College of Nursing, Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, Lagos. There, I got my Registered Nurse certification in 1996. Did your interest in caring for the sick begin as a child? I remember as a child I used to tell my dad whenever we visited a hospital for treatment that I liked the nurses in their white uniforms and caps. Unfortunately, the uniforms have now been replaced with scrubs and trending outfits. But in all, I have a passion for caring for people. I actually took about two entry exams at the school of nursing but I was not admitted. So, I left for University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, to study Science Laboratory Technology. After my second-year registration, my admission letter to study Nursing came in and I joyfully left for Lagos. My father, the late Pa Harrison Obanla, fondly called, “Lord Mighty” among his friends, was a retired foreman at the defunct Public Works Department, Nigeria, who later started furniture business. He was a good Christian at the Christ Apostolic Church, Yaba, and Methodist Church, Ibereko, Badagry, where he served as the choirmaster till his death in 2017. My mother, the late Madam Abigail Obanla, also known as “Iya Alamala,” was a petty trader in the food and drink business. She was a dutiful wife and mother. She was also a prayerful member of the Cherubim Aladura Church, Yaba. Though she was not educated, she was married to a man who took Cambridge courses via correspondence. And I never for once saw them fight or quarrel. I learnt home management from my mother, despite her lack of education. In fact, my siblings and I taught her how to read and write the little she knew to run her business well, until her untimely death in 1994. If I have the chance to choose parents in another world, I would choose my parents over again. May they continue to rest in peace, their love abides in our hearts. What are the life lessons you learnt from your mum? My mum adored her husband, she taught me to always give honour to any man I marry. I learnt patience from my mum. In fact, what I have become today is a product of all I learnt from my parents. You are married to a community head. Can you tell me how you met and when you got married? I met my husband, Omooba Bimbola Banjoko, at the second hospital where I worked, Jon-Ken Hospital, Akoka. He was the Executive Director of Clearline HMO and his office was at the penthouse of the hospital. One day, I visited the penthouse to see the hospital’s medical director but I mistakenly opened his office instead of the door that led to the staircase on my way out. I hurriedly apologised and wanted to run out but he smiled joyfully and invited me to join in his meal as he was having his lunch. But I smiled and jokingly told him I don’t drink water but beer and that joke landed me in greater trouble as he took the opportunity. He said he had been waiting for an opportunity to invite me out for a drink. In a bid to run away, I agreed and left. The next encounter was on one rainy evening after my shift. I was trying to wait for the rain to subside as I had no car. Unknown to me, he was targeting me. He then approached me and offered to give me a ride but I refused, claiming that the road to my house was not motorable. But the woman, who was the matron at that time, said to me, “Haba! Are you okay, Nurse Obanla? Someone is offering you a ride in the rain and you are refusing. If his car gets stuck in the rain what’s your own business?” I eventually joined him, not knowing he even bought suya for us to eat. It was indeed a good ride and that was how we started (a relationship) in 1997 and eventually got married in 2003. It’s been a beautiful marriage with its ups and downs, like every other marriage. He became the Baale of Ogbogbo, Ijebu, Ogun State, on December 26, 2020. We are still friends and buddies in God’s hands. How did he propose to you? I can’t recollect any proposal before we got married. We became friends and both agreed to marry each other. But February 14, 2015, he made a romantic proposal. He got me a box of chocolate. I was busy and he also had some work to do in the office, so I did not open the chocolate box because I was saving it for later after cooking. By afternoon, I guess he was expecting my call and since he didn’t get one, he decided to prompt me. As I took the chocolate, I found a beautiful ring embedded in it in my mouth. I was overjoyed. I ran to the boys’ room to tell them what their father did and we all laughed and examined the ring. I called him on phone and we joked about it. We celebrated Valentine’s Day together as a family with lots of love and jokes. That night, he told me his intention of taking me to a marriage registry as we only did the traditional marriage years before. Preparation began and we went to the Ikoyi Registry in July of the same year. How did your parents react to his proposal? My mother was dead then but my father did not agree. In fact, he refused to collect his monthly upkeep allowance from me. I had to device another means of getting the money to him through one of his tenants in Ibereko, Badagry where he lived. Much later, he agreed when he realised I was not going to back down. He called my husband and they talked and marriage was fixed amid mixed feelings from my dad. The two men later became best of friends, drank and chatted together always till my father passed on. You believe the responsibilities that come with motherhood should not be a barrier to self-actualisation for women. How can they balance their work and family lives? Every woman can multi-task as long as they are interested in what they want to do. Family comes first in everything, with God at the centre, and every other thing will fall in place. Women must learn to read between the lines whenever their work is eating into their family life and make adjustments as quickly as possible, else both would crash and nothing would be left to fall back on. As women, we must learn to sacrifice our too-long sleep, some outings and interact to put things right in the home and at work. Also, we must remember that as women, our bedroom duty must not be toyed with. When the man is satisfied in the inner room matters, he can go to any length to give a helping hand to his woman. Mothers should train up the children in the right way, give caution and praises as the need arises. They should give room for family bonding, pray, chat and go on outings together. These give peace and allow for work and family balance. Health workers were at the forefront in the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic in Lagos regarded as the epicenter in Nigeria. Can you describe the risks you faced? As a health worker in the forefront, it was really challenging initially when the spread was on the high side. One could not reject official responsibilities. The fear of testing positive was evident on people’s faces. Though the students were initially not on campus, staff members, relations and a few students were still treated. The management, therefore, designed a different strategy of treatment that helped to reduce the spread among workers. Health workers were expected to stay healthy; hence, we designed new duty allocations where one worked on alternate days to create an opportunity for rest in preparation to face the next work day. Thank God the new wave is phasing out gradually and the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is pulling all strings and work right and smart for the state to stay healthy. Are you worried about the challenge of brain drain among young health professionals? The drive for greener pastures is draining Nigeria out of health care professionals. The future of our country is very worrisome in the health industry. Brain drain has affected nursing profession in Lagos badly. There is a shortage of nurses leading to fatigue and poor health care service delivery. This has also given rise to quackery, where unlicensed individuals parade themselves as nurses everywhere and private hospitals are compelled to employ auxiliary nurses who are not well-trained. There should be improved government policies. Only a well-coordinated health insurance system can stem the tide of medical personnel migration by increasing health care funds which would bolster recurrent expenditure on health. Focus should be on a community-based social health insurance scheme which ensures that everybody contributes to the fund, no matter how small. The current health insurance scheme is elitist in nature and not affordable for the majority that counts in elections. There should be better remuneration and good working conditions. There is no reason nurses should not rise to the position of permanent secretaries in the civil service. Nurses should be able to enjoy free health insurance for life after retirement, having served the country.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com