The Ohen, elders and members of Ekiugbo Community in Uhunwonde Local Government Area of Edo State, have petitioned the Inspector General Police, Usman Baba, over alleged attempt by the legal section of the Force Criminal Investigation Department to set free the alleged killer of their son, Ikpomwonsa Omoruyi. The community noted that after a painstaking investigation by the SWAT team which linked the murder suspect to Omoruyi’s death, they were shocked that the legal section had suddenly resort to measures unknown to the law to pervert justice. While appealing for justice on the matter, they pointed out that autopsy report linked the murder weapon (gun) to the suspect. They therefore appealed to the IGP to order either the Legal Section of the AIG Zone 5 Headquarters Benin to take over the case as they no longer have confidence in the way the matter is being handled. The petition to the Nigeria Police Complaint Response Unit, through the Solicitors to the complainants, led by Douglas  Ogbankwa Esq, read, “That the SWAT Team of the FCIID, who ultimately investigated the matter did a fantastic job and recommended that the main suspect -Justin Omoruyi be charged for murder, among other recommendations . “That the duplicate case file was handed over to one Inspector Gabriel of the Legal Section  of the Force CIID , who held on to the case file for weeks without any communication from him. “That a petition was filed against Inspector Gabriel by our client to the Inspector General of Police, the file was later assigned to one Omosun and despite that, the matter was not attended to. “That our client just discovered from the grapevine an attempt by the legal section of the Force CIID to pervert justice by using technicalities unknown to Nigerian law to exculpate the main suspect -Justin Omoruyi from murder on a doubtful alibi.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com