BISHOP Emmah Isong of the Christian Central Chapel International has said that the Islamic State West Africa Province would be routed in 2022. Isong, who is the Publicity Secretary of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, said, “ISWAP will be in trouble this year and their hideouts will be exposed, their operational base burnt and people released.” Revealing this in his 2022 prophecies during the annual crossover service in his church in Calabar on Friday, the cleric further said a disease would break out in East Africa which would claim many children. He stated, “There will be a disease in some parts of East Africa beginning from Kenya that will claim infants. So, we pray it should not come to Nigeria and let God take it away in Jesus name. In Bayelsa, we pray that the error of one man will not rob Bayelsa of the glory of God in the spirit realm. Error of one man will rob the entire state of what they are enjoying now. “In Akwa Ibom State, the plans of the mighty shall fail, the church shall be divided but God in between shall have his way. He says by February I will declare my will to the people of Akwa Ibom and within a few months I will show myself. The powers of the mighty will fall and the weapons of war will also perish. “Still on Akwa Ibom, the oil shall drop only on the head of David and not on his senior brother; you may have money but not the oil. You control the money but God controls the oil. “In Cross River State, the confidence of men shall bow to the plans of God. The house shall be divided against itself, the anointed shall be accepted and the selected and appointed shall be rejected, and the people of Cross River shall rejoice. They shall say ‘we have not had such a time like this before.’ Celebrities will be poisoned in 2022; the Lord says mind where you eat.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com