GOVERNORS of Bayelsa and Rivers States, Douye Diri and Nyesom Wike, said on Monday that the Peoples Democratic Party is better placed to return to the presidency in 2023. Both governors, who spoke when Wike visited Diri at the Government House in Yenagoa, also called for unity between the two states. Diri said only the PDP can rescue Nigeria from the present insecurity and economic woes as the party had been repositioned to ensure it wins the presidency in next year’s general election. The governor, in a statement on Monday by his Chief Press Secretary, Daniel Alabrah, described the presidency as a sacred office, saying that the PDP was the only party with the pedigree to give Nigerians hope and a sense of direction. “The presidency is one sacred office and we must do everything to protect it and ensure that our party clinches victory at the 2023 general polls. “The number one thing for our party is our unity. Second is, who becomes president? We have a capable national chairman that can steer us back to power come 2023”, Diri reportedly said. He commended Wike for demonstrating leadership and purposeful governance, adding that states in the Niger Delta needed to unite more to tackle their common challenges, particularly in the areas of environmental pollution and underdevelopment. The Bayelsa governor stressed the need for more consultations between him and his Rivers counterpart towards strengthening their bond of unity. Diri also lauded Wike for his role in ensuring the repositioning of the PDP, describing him as “a committed party man.” On his part, Wike expressed confidence that the PDP will produce the next president of Nigeria. He said Nigerians were waiting for the party to rescue them from the current situation in the country, stressing that leaders and members of the party cannot afford to miss this opportunity. Wike emphasised the need for unity of purpose between Bayelsa and Rivers and the entire PDP, saying without a united front success would be elusive. The Rivers governor lauded his Bayelsa counterpart for his developmental efforts and commitment to the party and urged the people of the state to continue to support him. Wike was accompanied on the visit by a high-powered delegation that included a former Rivers governor, Celestine Omehia, two former Deputy Speakers of the House of Representatives, Austin Opara and Chibudom Nwuche as well as a former Minister of Transport, Abiye Sekibo. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com