The University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital has disclosed that the health institution was on the move to commence transplant procedures. This was as the Chief Medical Director of UPTH, Prof. Henry Ugboma, flayed the poor work ethics of staff members and consultants at the hospital, vowing to replace non-performing heads of department. Ugboma, who spoke during the unveiling of the hospital’s five-year strategic development plan in Port Harcourt, tasked staff members and consultants to be committed to duty. He disclosed that UPTH would in 2023 begin transplant procedures, disclosing that the infrastructure for the transplant and Cardiac Unit would be completed in no distant time. He revealed that the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas had already donated the sum of $500,000 to support the hospital, noting that as part of its capital projects in 2022, the hospital would change it’s anaesthetics in order to make the health facility environment look better. Ugboma said, “Transplanting procedures is an important area we need to invest. Such will be beneficial to the hospital and the society. We shall change the aesthetics of the hospital to attract investors and beautiful the environment.” He stated that the main problem confronting the institution was the attitude of the personnel to work, saying that if the worker could turn their attitude to the positive, the hospital would improve within shortest period. The CMD said, “The biggest problem we have in this hospital is attitude of workers. If there is anything we must achieve and if we achieve that in the next one year, not even talking of five years; if workers can change their attitude, the way they relate with patients and themselves, their work ethics and all that, this hospital will go places. “You know we talked about workers empathy and committee said the hospital workers’ attitude was 51%, I don’t even think our attitude is up to 51%, I think it is very poor. Some people come to work late; some people are not serious with their work. “You look for files, you will not see, most of our consultants are not always on duty call, there is no handover note amongst them. If you are an HoD and you are not ready to perform, definitely, we’ll change you because we want this place to work.” However, the Board Chairman of UPTH, Muktar Anka, earlier in his remarks, appealed to staff members to improve their work ethics in order to enhance productivity and efficiency in the hospital.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com