..says favourite presidential candidate may be eliminated if known now The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has expressed fear that his favourite presidential candidate may be “eliminated” if he is known now. The President made the disclosure in an exclusive interview with Channels Television aired on Wednesday. He said this after noting that he has no special interest in the 2023 election. “It is not my problem,” he replied when asked about the next president election. “I am not interested. I believe that whoever wins the poll should be sworn in as the next leader of Nigeria. “All important things have been documented. No one should ask me to appear before the court to give evidence on any issue (public funds). All important things are already on record. I am sure about that,” he added. When asked about his favourite presidential candidate, the president replied, “I won’t tell you my favourite for 2023, he may be eliminated if I mention. I better keep it secret.” When asked about what comes to his mind when Peoples Democratic Party is mentioned, Buhari replied, “failure”. Buhari also expressed his readiness to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill after the National Assembly makes necessary adjustments. The president listed some of the expected changes to include the addition of consensus candidates and indirect primary options. “All I said (is that) there should be options. We must not insist that it has to be direct; it should be consensus and indirect,” he added. Asked if he would sign if the lawmakers effect the change in that direction, he affirmed, “Yes, I will!” I will sign. “There should be options, you can’t dictate to people and say you are doing democracy. Give them other options so they can make a choice.” When asked about his perception of Nigerian youths, Buhari said, “I wish when they go to school; when they work hard; when they earn their degree, they don’t do it thinking that government must give them jobs. “You get educated because an educated person is certainly better than an uneducated person even in identifying personal problems. So, education is not meant just meant to hang on to the government to give you jobs and then what the colonialists indoctrinated in us to believe – have a car, have a house; start work by 8:00 am and close by 2 pm.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com