The unethical practice by operators in the built environment is a major reason for the increasing cases of building collapse in Nigeria, the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors has said. The NIQS President, Olayemi Shonubi, disclosed this in Abuja at a strategy retreat for the institute’s National Executive Council (2021-2023), which had its theme as “Ethics, Corporate Governance and Strategic Planning.” He said, “The collapse of the high-rise building in Lagos, for me, was a failure of ethics by all professionals who were involved in the project. “Let me say all the stakeholders that were involved, not only the professionals but the government and developers as well as everybody that is involved in that. It was the failure of ethics.” He added, “And that’s one of the reasons we want to continue to focus so that we can prepare our members to be ready to act aright. “You know sometimes our actions or what we don’t do have an effect on the public. So, we shouldn’t basically focus on who’s paying us alone but what’s in public good and interest.” Shonubi said his team would be committed to entrenching ethics and corporate governance in the administration of the institute throughout his tenure. He also called for unity in the built environment so as to enable the sector to effectively tackle the many challenges confronting it. On his part, the Lagos Chapter Chairman of  NIQS, Ayodele Alao, said most recent building failures were due to unethical conducts of operators. “We’ve realised that most of the failures that have been recorded, especially in recent times in the built environment border on ethics,” he said. Alao added, “It is a cause for concern and has been a topic for discourse among all professionals in the sector because it is time we began to take the issues of ethics very seriously.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com