A human rights group, Take It Back, has called on the Inspector-General of Police, Alkali Usman Baba, to redeploy from Delta State Police Command some officers currently undergoing investigation for alleged involvement in child trafficking, banditry, and terrorism in the state. TIB made the call in a press statement issued by its Delta State Chapter Coordinator, Comrade Ighorhiohwunu Aghogho, copies of which were made available to journalists in Warri, on Sunday. The group recalled that the IGP, via a letter dated 22/11/2021, referenced CB: 7000/IGP.SEC/ABJ/VOL.560/352, had directed the Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone ‘5’ Headquarters, Benin to deal with the petition dated November 11, 2021, written by Take It Back Delta State Chapter. TIB also noted that its State Coordinator, Ighorhiohwunu Aghogho, in an adopted statement dated January 10, 2022, before the Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG) Zone ‘5’ Headquarters Benin, had provided the police high hierarchy with a comprehensive list of the suspected officers who were alleged to be “responsible for the disappearance of over 10,000 children from Delta State from 1991 to date”. “They have subsequently constituted themselves into a criminal gang similar to the proscribed group known as ‘Yan Bindiga’ and ‘Yan Ta’adda’ whose activities include acts of terrorism, banditry, abduction of children, children enslavement, child trafficking, unlawful imprisonment of children, severe deprivation of physical liberty of children, psychological torture of children etc. using the machinery of the Nigerian Police Force and the Delta State Government”, TIB further alleged. TIB statement added, “It will be further recalled, on/about the month of November 2021, the Federal High Court in Abuja declared the activities of bandits’ groups as acts of terrorism. In its ruling, the court proscribed the activities of Yan Bindiga and Yan Ta’adda group and other similar groups in any part of the country as “acts of terrorism and illegality” and same has been gazzetted accordingly by the Federal Government. “It is upon these grounds; we are calling for the redeployment of the affected Police Officers from Delta State with immediate effect.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com