No fewer than 12 people lost their lives in two fatal accidents in Ogun and Ondo states on Tuesday. At least four people were killed after an 18-seater commercial bus rammed into a diesel-laden tanker around the Fidiwo, Ogun State end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Twelve people were said to have been injured in the accident, which occurred around 9am. PUNCH Metro learnt that the tanker was travelling outward Lagos  State when some officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps  from the Ogere command stopped the tanker and turned it back. However, as the tanker was about to turn towards Lagos, the speeding commercial bus rammed into it. An eyewitness, who identified himself simply as Seun, said the officials fled the scene. He said, “I was coming from Ibadan when I saw that vehicles were turning to face the traffic, so I followed them. When we got to the spot where the accident happened, we saw that tanker coming from Lagos was about to turn back to Lagos, when a bus rammed into it. “I parked my vehicle to help in the rescue operation. People that were there said FRSC officials were trying to stop the tanker and in the process of turning it back to their office in Ogere, the 18-seater bus, probably on speed, rammed into the tanker. As soon as the accident happened, the FRSC officials ran away instead of rescuing the victims. “FRSC officials from Alapako took the survivors to a hospital. The driver and some other passengers at the backseat died on the spot.” The Public Education Officer, FRSC, Ogun State, Florence Okpe, denied that traffic officials caused the crash. She said, “A total of 16 persons were involved, which comprised 13 male adults and three female adults. A total of 12 persons were injured – nine male adults and three female adults. Unfortunately, four deaths were recorded from the crash, all male adults. “The suspected causes of the crash are excessive speed and loss of control. It is not true that the accident was caused by FRSC officials; we were the ones that rescued the victims. The injured victims were taken to Victory Hospital, Ogere, and Idera Hospital, Sagamu, while the bodies of those killed were deposited at the FOS, Ipara.” In a related development, eight passengers lost their lives while several others sustained injuries in a crash along the Ondo-Ore Expressway at Bagbe, in the Ondo West Local Government Area of Ondo State. It was gathered that the crash involved an 18-passenger Toyota Hiace with number plate, ARC 616 XA, and a truck with no number plate. An eyewitness said the accident occurred when the bus driver attempted to overtake another vehicle, thereby colliding with the truck on the other lane. The incident was said to have caused gridlock for several hours. PUNCH Metro learnt that it took the intervention of men of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Ondo State, and the police before the road was cleared. An official of the FRSC, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the accident was caused by speed limit violation and dangerous overtaking. He said those who lost their lives had been taken to a mortuary, while the injured were taken to a hospital for treatment. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mrs Funmilayo Odunlami, confirmed the incident. She said, “The accident happened as a result of dangerous overtaking by the bus. It was a case of a head-on-collision, as the bus collided with the truck. Eight passengers on the bus died on the spot, and five other people were injured. They have been taken to the Trauma Centre, Ondo, for treatment.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com