Sometime last year, my good friend, Mr Tola Faneye, who works in the banking and finance sector, had some discussions with me on what can be used for arthritis and I told him that he should start from the kitchen by looking at spices. His reply was that ginger gives him heartburn and palpitations of the heart. He also mentioned bitter kola as a culprit. He said his doctor advised that he should take them minimally or avoid them totally. Even if it is natural but causes an adverse reaction in your body, please, avoid it. This week, I will be discussing banana peels. Contrary to what many people believe, banana peels are not only edible but also rich in several key nutrients including potassium, dietary fiber, polyunsaturated fats and essential amino acids, Vitamin B6, Vitamin B12, Magnesium, Potassium, Fiber and Protein. They are used as food for animals, an ingredient in cooking, in water purification and manufacturing of several biochemical products. In fact, cooking with banana peel is commonplace in Southeast Asian, Indian and Venezuelan cuisines where the peel of bananas and plantains are used in recipes. Let us see ways to use banana peels Below are some potential health benefits of banana peels: Lowers cancer risk: Banana peels are packed with polyphenols, carotenoids and other antioxidants that fight cancer-causing free radicals. Eating more banana peels, especially green, unripe peels, can increase your antioxidant levels and help reduce your risk of cancer. Depression relief:  The high levels of tryptophan in bananas combined with the B6 in banana peels can help relieve some symptoms of depression and other mood disorders. Tryptophan turns into serotonin as it breaks down, which can improve your mood. Vitamin B6 can help improve sleep, which has a positive impact on mood over time. Digestive health: Fiber-rich banana peels can help regulate the digestive system, easing both constipation and diarrhea. This can be a particularly important benefit of banana peels for people with Crohn’s disease or irritable bowel syndrome. Weight loss support: Banana peels contain a high level of soluble and insoluble fiber which is known to slow down the digestion process and increase feelings of fullness. Not only are you likely to eat less if you sip banana peel tea during a meal, but it can help to prevent in-between meal hunger pangs. Promotes sleep: Banana tea has become a popular sleep aid. They are a good source of magnesium and potassium, two minerals that have been linked to better sleep quality and length due to their muscle-relaxing properties. They also provide some tryptophan, an amino acid that is important for producing the sleep-inducing hormones serotonin and melatonin. Better eyesight: Vitamin A can help keep your eyes strong and healthy. This vitamin is abundant in both bananas and banana peels. Low in sugar: Banana tea may be a good replacement for sugary beverages. Only a small amount of the sugar in bananas is released into the water during brewing. Most people consume too much sugar from beverages, which is associated with an increased risk of obesity, heart disease and type 2 diabetes. Therefore, opting for drinks with no added sugars, such as banana tea, can be an easy way to decrease your sugar intake. Supports heart health: The nutrients in banana tea may support heart health. Banana tea contains potassium and magnesium which have been shown to help lower blood pressure and reduce your risk of heart disease and stroke. Moreover, a diet rich in catechins, a type of antioxidant in banana tea, may reduce your risk of heart disease. May prevent bloating: Banana tea is high in potassium; a mineral and electrolyte that is important for regulating fluid balance, healthy blood pressure, and muscle contractions. Potassium works closely with sodium, another mineral and electrolyte to regulate fluid balance in your cells. Yet, when they contain more sodium than potassium, you may experience water retention and bloating. The potassium and water content of banana tea can help counterbalance bloating due to a high-salt diet by signaling your kidneys to excrete more sodium into your urine. Improves liver function: Animal studies have been promising when it comes to the use of banana peels in the treatment of acute liver failure. A mouse study revealed that all mice with acute liver failure who were given supplemental banana peels had significantly improved liver function, total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL-c and VLDL-C compared to the acute liver failure mice not given supplemental banana peels. The mice given banana peels also saw an increase in HDL-c known as “good cholesterol” Scientific studies In a study titled, “The effect of banana peels supplemented diet on acute liver failure rats,’’ by Mosa et al, the conclusion is that supplemention diet with fresh or dried banana peels may be useful for acute liver failure patients and retarded liver functions and lipid profile could be developed especially with fresh banana peel. In a study titled, “Banana fruit pulp and peel involved in anti-anxiety and anti-depressant effects while invigorate memory performance in male mice: Possible role of potential antioxidants,’’ by Samad et al, it is concluded that both banana pulp and peel have anti-anxiety, antidepressant effect as well as strengthen the memory possibly via its antioxidant mechanism. In a study titled, “Banana peel flakes alleviate blood glucose and stress in a dose-dependent Manner,’’ by Meliala et al, the study shows that the banana peel flakes provided an antidepressant effect in the diabetic rats model, which might occur through the mechanism of controlling blood glucose concentration. In a study titled, “The Radioprotective and anticancer effects of banana peels extract on male mice,’’ by Kamal et al, the conclusion is that banana peels extract possess anti-cancer agents and great protective potential against radiation. To make banana peel tea, place the banana skin (cut into tiny bits) in a pot and cover it with water. Bring to a boil. Strain banana peel water into a mug or teacup and serve. If you do not want to make tea out of it, you can blend the peels with your smoothies (blended fruits).Ripe banana peels are not bad but the unripe banana peel has higher antioxidant potency. ”Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com