A group under the aegis of Kaduna State Concerned Citizens on Wednesday called on Governor Nasir El-Rufai to terminate the appointment of Ibrahim, son of his deputy, Dr. Hadiza Balarabe. The group also urged law enforcement agencies to prosecute him, following alleged drug-related offences which include abuse, dangerous driving, and rascality. Ibrahim is a staff Kaduna State Contributory Health Management Authority. According to a press statement signed by the Chairman of the group, Musa Haruna, and the group’s Secretary, Jatau Hakuri, which was obtained by our correspondent, the group lamented the consequences of Balarabe’s actions. They also alleged that Ibrahim has on several occasions exhibited actions not befitting of a true citizen of the country, not to talk of one occupying the public position, adding that he has been a notorious ‘drug addict’. While enumerating various incidence where Ibrahim was culpable, the group stressed that the Police and other security agencies have failed to arrest him nor prosecute him because of the influence of his mother as Deputy Governor of the state. The statement partly read, “Ibrahim has no regard for the sanctity of human life, which he has shown several times by the way he often recklessly ram into people with his car, with impunity. “In 2019, Ibrahim drove Government vehicle attached to his mother and hit a person who had parked beside the road. The man died, but nothing was done. “In Sept 2021, he had three incidences of accidents where he hit people. The most fatal was that of 30th September 2021, when he hit a KASTLEA officer, in which the officer sustained 5 fractures. Yet Ibrahim began to fight other KASTLEA officers. Even at the hospital, he was not remorseful, as he was openly taking drugs. The KASTLEA officer was hospitalised at Barau Dikko.” They expressed dismay that such a person is given a public position, in government with a track record of integrity, commending the governor for landmark achievements recorded, it urged him to terminate his appointment. “We express shock at how Ibrahim has gotten away with serious crimes he has committed, such a person is a stain to a government renowned with integrity, justice, equity, and fairness,” the group added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com