Three health workers in Edo State were infected with Lassa fever between January 10 and January 16, 2022, according to the epidemiological report obtained from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. The centre stated that while 102 deaths were reported between week one and week 52 in 2021, 11 deaths had been reported in the first two weeks of 2022, making a total of 113 deaths reported so far. The PUNCH reports that Lassa fever, a disease endemic to Nigeria, thrives more during the dry season when more cases get reported. Since the last outbreak of the disease in 2016, the NCDC noted that there had been an increase in the number of recurring cases. In 2019, the centre noted that a total of 796 cases were reported, while in 2020, a total of 1,165 cases were confirmed during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2021, the centre added that it reported a total of 4,654 suspected cases of the virus, while a total of 465 suspected cases have so far been reported this year. According to the situation report, 11 states have reported at least one case across 27 local government areas. The report added, “Of all confirmed cases, 74 per cent are from Edo, Bauchi and Ondo states. Three new health workers were affected from Edo in the reporting week. “There is an increase in the number of recorded confirmed cases of Lassa fever across Nigeria. Symptoms include unexplainable bleeding from the ears, nose, mouth, other openings in the body; sore throat; fever; stomach pain; vomiting; cough; general muscle pain and diarrhoea. “Person to person transmission can also occur through contact with blood, urine, faeces, vomitus and other body fluids of an infected person. The time between an infection and appearance of symptoms of the disease is six to 21 days. “Early diagnosis of Lassa fever when experiencing symptoms increases chances of survival.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com