Borno State Government has signed a contract of about N11.5 billion with the Eighteenth Engineering Company and Obtuse Tech Engineering Company Limited for the construction and dualization of major roads within the Maiduguri metropolis. The road projects which are to be executed within the next 12 months will also have two bridges and drainage with specifications and guidelines approved in the contract signing. Speaking during the contract signing ceremony in Maiduguri on Friday, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Works, Engr Ali Goni Lawan, said the construction would effectively be monitored and evaluated by relevant government officials without compromise. Lawan, who now oversees the ministry following the redeployment of the former Commissioner, Architect Yerima Saleh, to the Ministry of Environment, speaking during the official signing of the contract between Borno State Government and the two road construction firms, said, the first slot of the road projects is the 5.3 kilometres combined dualization with drainages and two bridges at Ahmadu Bello Way to link Bama Road, Shehu Sanda Kura Road at the cemetery junction linking the Elkanemi Roundabout through to Elkanemi Bridge, down to Lagos Junction, Bolori Roundabout to Mogoram Junction down to Lafiya Road and was awarded to EEC at the cost of N8.8 billion. The second slot he noted, is the 8.2 kilometres road construction, consisting of Baga Road market – Jajeri – Umarari – Bulabulin with another one linking Texaco – Churchkime – Abdu One Road at the total cost of N2.8 billion which was awarded to Obtuse Tech Engineering Company limited. Lawan while recalling that in September 2021, a tender of documents in respect to the projects was advertised in some national dailies, after which, companies were invited for the bid, added that EEC and Obtuse Tech won and were considered to execute the projects, said, “Today is a great day not only for people in the ministry but the entire citizens of Borno State as we witness the signing of roads construction contracts that are very vital to open up the metropolis. “These projects were approved by our committed and patriotic governor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum. “The first batch of the roads contract was given to EEC and to be signed by its Project Engineer, Mr Li Chao Qi, on behalf of the company, these roads include; dualization of Ahmadu Bello Way to Bama Road junction, Shehu Sanda Kura Road, Monday Market Roundabout, Elkanemi Roundabout and Mogoram to Lafiya road at the total cost of N8,76,304,408.18. The second road project of 8.2km consists of Baga road market- Jajeri – Umarari – Bulabulin with another one linking Texaco- Churchkime – Abdu One Road at the total cost of N2,812,405,577.48. It was awarded to Obtuse Tech Engineering Company and will be signed by its representative, Engineer Umar Lawan Sheriff.” He added that the roads “are very vital, and we urge our contractors to do a good job and complete it within the time frame of 12 months. “I want to sound a strong warning to the contractors to stick to specifications and guidelines as anyone who violates such will be sanctioned. “I want to also inform you that our Engineers from the Ministry will always be on site to offer professional advice(s) as the need be and you should cooperate with our men on sites to ensure good job.” The Permanent Secretary stated. Responding on behalf of the two contracting firms, Qi thanked the Borno State Government for considering them worthy to execute the road projects and assured that they will do everything possible to meet specifications and complete the work within the time frame. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com