The University of Ibadan Students’ Union has apologised for the strong tone with which the Oyo State Governor was addressed in a recently circulated open letter. The union had written to the governor four days ago to draw his attention to the recent spate of robberies and criminalities in off-campus communities largely inhabited by students of the University of Ibadan. The letter which drew criticism from many, including the Special Assistant to Oyo Governor on Student Affairs, Victor Olojede, threatened protest by the students if the Governor did not take immediate action to address the issues. Reacting to the letter, Olojede had condemned the “harsh” tone with which the students expressed their grievance tagging it “uncalled for and unjustifiable”. However, the Union released a statement via its Twitter page on Monday to apologise for the manner in which the Governor was addressed in the previous letter titled “ADDRESS INSECURITY NOW, OUR STUDENTS ARE DYING.” The letter read in part, “We the University of Ibadan Student Union, under the leadership of Adewole Adeyinka (MASCOT), hereby give our unreserved apology to His Excellency, Governor Seyi Makinde for the strongly-worded open letter which was recently circulated by the Union. “Our choice of words was regrettably unguarded and we crave the indulgence of our dear students’ Governor to forgive and overlook our emotional outburst in the open letter.” The Union claimed that the tone of the letter was as a result of the “pain and agony arising from the death and injury” of their colleagues who were victims of the attack. They also thanked Makinde for the changes effected, including the beefing up of security in the said communities, as well as the delegates and security officers sent to the school. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com