The Director-General of the National Broadcasting Commission, Balarabe Illelah, has expressed satisfaction with the adequate provisions made by the National Youth Service Corp towards the commencement of radio transmission as soon as the broadcasting licence was approved. He commended the present NYSC management for procuring standard radio equipment and building a digital studio preparatory to a preliminary inspection which confirmed their commitment to publicizing the activities of the NYSC, especially through mainstream broadcast media. A statement signed on Thursday by the NYSC Deputy Director (Press and Public Relations), Emeka Mgbemena, said Illela was speaking while assessing the studio facilities installed at the proposed ‘NYSC Radio’ complex located at the NYSC Directorate Headquarters in Abuja. According to him, with the standard facilities he had seen, “the NYSC is on the right track towards obtaining a broadcast licence after a thorough screening procedure.” While taking the NBC DG round the studio, the NYSC Director-General, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, said that the proposed NYSC Radio was initiated to reach out to the grassroots and make the scheme more visible in its drive at promoting national integration, self-reliance and socio-economic development. He said the radio would complement other multimedia channels deployed in informing the public of all the invaluable contributions of corps members to national development. While reacting to the observations made by his guest, Ibrahim assured the NBC that all arrangements have been made to start broadcasting as soon as the licence is granted through the commission. He said the NYSC has competent personnel to operate optimally considering its multidisciplinary graduate manpower across the federation. Before leaving NYSC Headquarters, the NBC DG was taken around the resourceful NYSC Museum where he inspected historical artefacts and documented information on the evolution of the scheme, its activities, interventions and contributions to national development agenda over the years. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com