The legal team of the family of the late Timothy Adegoke, has disclosed plans to visit the Inspector General of Police or the Commissioner of Police in charge of prosecution to press demand for the transfer of the case back to Osun State. This is just as the remains of Adegoke, whose death occurred at Hilton Hotel, Ile-Ife, in November, 2021, on Friday left the morgue of Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, for Eruwa, his hometown for the commencement of the burial rites. The family’s counsel, Naim Adekilekun, spoke during an interview with Saturday PUNCH in Osogbo. Adekilekun, who insisted that the case should be transferred back to Osun, said the defence team could strike out for lack of jurisdiction, if tried outside the area where the alleged offences were committed. He said, “In criminal prosecution, you don’t give a chance, the court must also have the prerequisite jurisdiction to enable it to undertake the judicial function. In this case, what is probable is that this charge be quashed because of lack of jurisdiction and if that is done that would give the defence counsel an opportunity of getting their clients off the hook. “What the police need to do is to transfer the case file to the Ministry of Justice in Osun State and the needful will be done. If our complaint is looked into by the IGP, the charge will be withdrawn. Our petition has been submitted to the IGP and we will go to Abuja to see him or possibly the CP legal who is in charge of the prosecution.” Meanwhile, the remains of Adegoke, whose death occurred at Hilton Hotel, Ile-Ife, in November, 2021, on Friday left the morgue of Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, for Eruwa, his hometown for the commencement of the burial rites. Adegoke’s corpse was received by the late student’s brother, Gbade, some clerics and a few other relatives around 12:45am. Before the corpse was moved into a waiting ambulance, some operatives of the Osun police command, who came to sign necessary documents before releasing the corpse, were sighted on the hospital premises.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com