Former Deputy Governor of Cross River State and 2023 governorship aspirant under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Efiok Cobham, has said Cross River currently is a far cry from how it should be governed. He spoke in Calabar on Thursday while answering questions from journalists about his quest to govern the state in 2023. He said, “The way Cross River State is being governed today is a far cry from how government should be operated. Government should be for the people and not just for a select few. One of the levels of success of any government is the level of social inclusiveness. “I am bringing to the table a desire to remove the deficit of confidence that exists today between the governor and the populace. I am coming with a desire to stabilise our body polity and ensure the growth and development of our state. “I am bringing to the table first my level of experience and my knowledge of Cross River and I believe I am endowed with the capacity to get things done better than they are today. I am bringing to the table innovation in governance that will make Cross River State be what it used to be rather than what it is today. We are going to bring reforms into the civil service and reforms into our value system which is very critical, educational system, health and of course governance.” On the issue of zoning, he said that the PDP constitution recognises zoning even up to the national level, adding, “I like zoning but I am not running basically because of zoning. I am not against zoning. I used to ask my colleagues in the south(Southern Senatorial District), what if the party remains mute about zoning? Is our region not capable to produce somebody to occupy the position of the governor there? “There are more than enough materials in any Senatorial District to run for the position of governor of the state. “Maybe because of our peculiar circumstances in our country, not just our state alone, we have come to bring in zoning but definitely it should not be the main thing. I am not running because of zoning but I stand firmly that zoning is right. I am a Cross Riverian first.” He said he would renegotiate the state’s debt if he became governor, and would not allow the industries established by Ben Ayade administration to rot away but would rather create a conducive environment for the private sector to thrive. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com