I was able to speak with Mrs Ogundairo Kehinde, one of the women who treated the woman who had six children (sextuplet) last year. If you have not forgotten, the woman’s story went viral. There is even more to it. It was herbs that made her have multiple births and not IVF. Ogundairo explained how the treatment is done and even told me that there are herbs that can bring back the menses of women who have reached menopause. What she does is easily seen as being fetish because it has to do with conception and I was curious to know how the acceptance is by people. She told me she is a worker in her church (she told me the name) and that people in the church come to see her too. In my own opinion, I think that everyone (including the church) has come to the point of realisation that God indeed created herbs for the use of man, so, most people do not entertain any guilt about herbs usage again. Besides, there is a clear difference between the use of herbs for health and fetish reasons. Today, on my visit to nature’s pharmacy, I will be talking about watermelon seeds and rinds. The most popular part of the watermelon is the pink flesh but the truth is that the seeds and rind (the green part that is always thrown away) are edible. The seeds are one of the most nutrient-dense varieties of seeds. They are a rich source of proteins, vitamins, good fats, magnesium, zinc, iron, copper, potassium and more. Traditionally, the seeds are removed from the flesh and dried. Once dried, they are then pressed to extract oil. Not only does the rind contain all the same nutrients as found in the juicy fruit, it also contains higher concentrations of certain antioxidants, minerals and vitamins. It is low in calories but has high concentrations of vitamin C, vitamin A, vitamin B6, potassium, zinc among others. It also contains chlorophyll, citrulline, lycopene, amino acids, flavonoids and phenolic compounds. The shocking part of all is that flour for baking is made out of the rind. Some benefits of the seeds Good for the skin: Eating watermelon seeds can be beneficial for your skin. It prevents the outbreak of acne, moisturises your skin, prevents dullness and prevents early signs of ageing as well. It keeps elasticity in place. Better blood sugar control: Watermelon seeds are linked to better blood sugar control and reduced insulin resistance in the body. This is quite essential for the health of diabetic patients. Boosts immunity: Watermelon seeds are packed with iron and minerals which enhance immune functions. These seeds also contain vitamin B complex and it also helps in this regard. Helps in strengthening the hair: Watermelon seeds are full of proteins, iron, magnesium, zinc and copper which are known to improve the hair quality. These seeds help in strengthening hair and promote hair growth. Manganese in the seeds helps to prevent hair fall and damage. Prevents osteoporosis: The seeds are an incredible source of magnesium with over 140 per cent of your daily requirement in just one cup. They are also rich in copper, manganese and potassium. All these nutrients contribute to bone health. Improves male infertility: Watermelon contains a high amount of zinc which is important for the male reproductive system. Zinc can help to improve sperm quality which is the major issue in male infertility. Some of the benefits of the rind Lowers blood pressure: This rind has a surprisingly high level of potassium which acts as a vasodilator, helping to reduce the stress and strain on blood vessels and arteries. This can lower risk of atherosclerosis as well as heart attacks and strokes. Skin care: With a decent amount of lycopene and other flavonoids, this fruit rind is packed with antioxidants which can help to reduce the effects of free radicals and lower oxidative stress which minimises the appearance of wrinkles, blemishes and age spots as one gets older. Boosts immune system: With more than 30 per cent of one’s daily vitamin C requirement in a single serving of this rind (1 cup), it can give a major boost to one’s immune system since vitamin C helps to stimulate the production of white blood cells, the first line of defence against infections and foreign pathogens in the body. It is rich in fiber: Another benefit of watermelon rind is that it is a rich source of fiber. Fiber helps maintain regular bowel movements and may help reduce the risk of developing diseases of the colon. Weight loss: It can aid in weight loss efforts because of its dense fiber content. This can help one to feel full while also stimulating the metabolism and thus increasing one’s fat-burning capacity to help one shed some weight Prevents chronic diseases: Lycopene and citrulline in this rind can help to neutralise free radicals before they can cause cellular mutation and lead to chronic disease. Scientific studies In a study titled, “Effect of watermelon rind powder (WRP) on physicochemical, textural and sensory properties of wet yellow noodles,’’ by Lee – Hoon Ho et al, the study provides useful information for the future development of WRP-wheat-flour-based food products such as cakes, muffins, pastry and other bakery products. In a study titled, “Evaluation of the medicinal properties and possible nutrient composition of citrullus ianatus (Watermelon) seeds,’’ by Enemor et al, the findings show that watermelon seeds are a considerable source of nutrients in the diet and may have health and economic benefits due to its vitamins, minerals and phytochemicals with high levels of antioxidant activities and consequently a useful potential nutraceutical. In a study titled, “Watermelon seeds and peels: fatty acid composition and cosmeceutical potential,’’ by Petchsomrit et al, the study revealed that watermelon seeds and peels contain distinct profiles of fatty acid suitable for use in cosmeceutical formulations. In a study titled, “Ameliorative potential of methanolic extract of citrullus lanatus (Watermelon) seeds on the sperm parameters, testosterone level and testicular cytoarchitecture of male albino rats Induced with lead-acetate,’’ by Onyeso et al, the results show that methanolic extracts of C. Lanatus seeds have shown to be a beneficial treatment options against lead- acetate induced oxidative stress and toxicity in testicular tissue. Increased sperm motility, well defined cellularity of the testis, increased sperm viability, decreased sperm morphological alterations, increased sperm count and increased testosterone level were also recorded. You can eat the seeds while eating the fruit. You can dry it and roast it. The rind is like a vegetable which means it can be tossed in a pan and stir fried alongside broccoli and carrots and other vegetables. You can also scrape or cut the rind into salads. They can be blended too.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com