Marriage is a lifetime commitment between two individuals prepared to make the sacrifices necessary to bring the best out of it even in this unpredictable world.Commitment in marriage signifies the capacity to take charge of your own stake in the relationship and safeguard it every step of the way. However, many marriages today are triggered by simple challenges which may well have been prevented if the appropriate understanding was applied.  Every couple needs wisdom and competence to audit difficult situations in their marriage before things get out of hand. It is as simple as evaluating the things that make your marriage miserable and taking the bold steps to challenge them. Re-visit your commitment One of the most realistic ways to audit your marriage is to revisit your commitment again by going back to the beginning where it all started and remember those attributes that you saw in each other and took the bold steps to say, “I do.” When you can no longer deal with situations in your marriage, it is only fair that you begin to ask yourselves how you got to this stage considering the vows you made to love and care for each other. A thorough audit of your commitment can provide the tools you need to explore the things that are going well and the not so pleasant issues you desperately need to challenge so that you can get your marriage back on track. Evaluate your values Values are key fundamentals that can make or break your marriage especially when you are not prepared to compromise on them. Values are important in guiding couples in making difficult decisions in marriage irrespective of the outcome. Having different values is not the reason why a couple may disagree on most things but when those values are only subjective and not tangible you become opponents and find yourselves disagreeing on everything creating conflict and chaos in the marriage. Start by evaluating all your values, the ones that you both have in common and the values that are different which may be brewing the tension in your marriage.After years of marriage, you must be able to establish where your spouse is coming from and those values that are not likely to go away so that you can find a common ground for compromise. Take responsibility A successful marriage is one in which the couple are honest and want the best for each other and this requires discipline and holding each other accountable too. Marriage is teamwork and each person must be prepared to take responsibility for their own part in every challenging situation so that an experience is shared, and lessons are learnt. Playing the blame game sometimes can leave your other half feeling vulnerable, intimidated, demoralised and lacking self-confidence to take control of his/her own mistakes. Perhaps you or your spouse find it difficult to say “sorry” when you know it is the honourable thing to do, why not carry out an audit of all the times you found yourselves in this situation and the consequences thereafter. When you begin to take responsibility for your own actions, you will become self-aware and develop the freedom to share your fears and feelings together and begin to enjoy a healthy relationship too.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com