“The military formations, the uniforms, the starch, the saluting aides-de-camp, the parade-ground precision might look, at last, like the decisiveness of purpose that Africa needs in its leadership. They camouflage a regimented sterility of ideas and social policy” –Ruth First, “The Barrel of a Gun”. Mali, once a poster nation for orderly and qualitative elections, has in the last two years become the butt of global derision and pungent jokes on account of anti-democratic behaviour. The so-called transitional junta presided over by Colonel Assimi Goita increasingly exemplifies how quickly a once orderly country, even if poor, can be brought down to infamy through misdeeds and decoys in the bid to perpetuate a narrow military elite in power. From August 2020, when he toppled the government of President Ibrahim Boubacar, Goita has played one trick after another to elongate his rule and to fend off pressures from the international community, especially the Economic Community of West African States, to hand over power to elected civilians after orderly elections. Initially, he staged a second coup in May 2021 with the expressed aim, among others, of disrupting the transition timetable which would have resulted in a handover this year. Not done yet, Goita insisted that elections could only hold after a national conference had been mounted, resulting in the staging of such a conference which ended in December last year. In order to prevent the fulfilment of an earlier promise to do a handover early this year, the junta leader announced recently that a new transition would take place presided over, of course, by him and would gulp up an interval of anything between 6 months and 5 years. In other words, the supervision of a so-called legendary legerdemain for prolonging the rule of the junta beyond what is acceptable to men and women of good conscience. It was in this sad context that the ECOWAS announced a raft of sanctions including a trade embargo, freezing of national monetary assets and closure of borders to bring Goita to his knees. In the wake of the announcement of the sanctions, the junta, rather than show penitence, has so far gone for broke by threatening to recall its ambassadors, berating ECOWAS for “illegal and illegitimate sanctions” and riding a high horse to prevent doing the needful. “Transition Without End,” many will recall, is an influential book on the transition programme, so-called, of former Military President, General Ibrahim Babangida (retd.), who crafted a slow-motion transition agenda, that lasted eight years only to annul the presidential election which was its climax. This bag of tricks plunged the country into crisis and the infamous dictatorship of former Military Head of State, Sanni Abacha, unusual in its brutality and persecution of democratic activists. So, Goita’s script is far from being novel and has been borrowed, though uncreatively, from the playbook of Babangida and is unlikely to end well unless the Malian leader retraces his steps. To be sure, the ECOWAS leaders, the majority of them at any rate, have their own moral and legitimacy questions to answer. Questions such as the credibility of elections held in their own countries, the disconnect between them and the people, the worsening misery of the citizens they claim to govern and the reduction of polling to what is jocularly referred to as “holding elections for the Americans to notice.” This is to say that electoral chicanery and shallowness prevail in those countries that are now standing in judgment over Mali. That is why some have referred to ECOWAS as a union of West African Heads of State rather than one of the people of West Africa. That caveat articulated, ECOWAS is on course in deciding at its recent meeting in Accra to bring back the Mali junta to the path of democratic civility. It should be recalled that West Africa, indeed the whole continent, can ill afford the contagion of coups which the Malian example, if allowed to succeed, can spark. As martyred South African journalist, Ruth First, in the opening quote informed, there is much superficiality and mediocrity in the military experiment which was once thought by some to be the solution to Africa’s problems. Obviously, coup after coup, not counting counter-coups, have failed to change Africa’s fortunes. Ashamed to come through the front door of direct militarism, some African leaders such as Babangida and now Goita are using the backdoor of transitions without end to perpetuate their rule. That must not be allowed as it threatens the limited gains made by West Africa in this period of democracy with all its imperfections. Military rule, in whatever guise, let us recall, is fundamentally unstable for it does not provide for succession but can only be moderated or terminated by the assassination of the leader. Needless to say, this is ill-suited to a country like Mali facing existential challenges from Islamic militants backed by international terrorist organisations as well as Tuareg militias holding the country by the jugular. The junta leader waxes eloquent about the need to create lasting institutions. What he does not see is that prolonging his rule by subterfuge can only abort the kind of lasting order which democracy tends to bring in its wings. It is not for nothing that Western countries and the United Nations have voiced condemnations about the latest attempt of the junta to cling on to power through the crafty use of open-ended and indefinite transition programmes. It is important to say that useful as external sanctions may be, very often, they do not bite hard and quickly enough to bring about decisive changes. Recall, for example, that Abacha clung to power desperately in the face of sanctions by the Commonwealth and the European Union. The force of sanctions and international isolation to have maximum effects must be complemented by civil society struggles within the afflicted country as well as disagreements and conflicts within the state apparatus. In the final analysis, it is only the Malians that can deliver themselves from the jackboot of their current oppressors and recreate a social compact that will return the country to the club of civilized nations. It is interesting, in this regard, to note that the ousted politicians must be biting their fingers in regret that they allowed situations and events to turn so messy that the coup of 2020 was greeted with widespread celebrations on the streets of Bamako. It is not enough, therefore, for elected leaders to wallow fat in their comfort zones and turn the people into beasts of burden. They need to demonstrate that democracy is not just a fad or fashion to be waived at will. The taste of the pudding, as the British like to say, must be in the eating. Too often, to paraphrase an influential epigram, in between elections, the African people are slaves. This is because of the bankruptcy of successive presidents and power dementia resulting in a dialogue of the deaf between the people and their governors. It is a good thing that Nigeria and ECOWAS have taken the front seats in the campaign to pressurize the visionless Mali junta to return to the path of sanity and democracy. It is equally important, however, for our leaders to harvest takeaways from the Malian tragedy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com