The Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency has partnered with the World Bank, the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources and Lagos Computerised Vehicle Inspection Service to tackle vehicular emissions in the state. The Director, Noise and Emission Control, Mrs Bisi Shonibare, disclosed this in a statement made available to our  correspondent on Wednesday. She said, “Vehicular emissions contribute significantly to air pollution which is attributable to the quality of fuel available for use in Nigeria, considering the level of sulphur content. LASEPA has taken the bold step of addressing vehicular emissions by partnering with other organs of government and private sector on cleaner solutions. “This partnership with the World Bank has ensured data capturing of the state’s air quality in Lagos, with the provision of six Air Quality Monitoring stations within the Ikorodu metropolis, LASEPA office, Abesan, Jankara, University of Lagos and Nigeria Conservation Foundation metropolis. “LACVIS is currently carrying out emission tests on vehicles using the control standards provided by LASEPA, to ensure that non-compliant vehicles get retrofitted before they are certified for use. The agency is also in partnership with the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources and has been engaging private sectors on the need to explore the use of compressed natural gas as an alternative to petrol and diesel in our everyday vehicles.” Shonibare added that the agency had converted one of its utility vehicles to a hybrid that would reduce emissions. “To tackle the effects of vehicular emissions, LASEPA has conveniently converted one of its utility vehicles to hybrid whereby it could use both gas and petrol as pilot study. The outcome of this has been significant as emissions have been reduced drastically from the engine as well as low cost of operation and thus, the agency has saved over 53 per cent operational cost on the vehicle,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com