A former Chairman of All Progressive Congress, Mr Cyril Ogodo; immediate past Publicity Secretary, APC, Sylvester Imonina; Delta Central leader and elders council of APC led by Chief Sylvester Kowho; Ovie Omo-Agege Solidarity Movement; amongst others have decamped to the People’s Democratic Party. Receiving the decampees at the PDP mega rally on Saturday in Asaba, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State assured teaming supporters of PDP and party chieftain that there would be free and fair primary to decide the party governorship flag bearer. He cautioned all those aspiring for various positions to control themselves and their followers. He said, “We are family, we cannot fight. There will be a free and fair primary and so there will be no room for fight. “Let us work together to ensure that PDP remains on top. Today, I welcome our brothers who have joined PDP and I assure you that we are all one. “This rally has made a statement that PDP is prepared and united for 2023 elections and we will continue to work with love as one family unlike other parties where they fight.” The State Chairman of PDP, Kingsley Esiso, said that the essence of the rally was to reduce the position of APC in the state by 90 per cent. “APC is a failed party, it brought us hardship and negative change which has made Nigeria to become the capital of poverty in the world. “PDP is Delta and Delta is PDP and we will continue to harvest APC members in the state and we have leaders of APC that have decided to join PDP today” he said. Among those who spoke at the rally include former governor James Ibori; Senator James Manager; and Minority leader House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu, who called for greater unity and solidarity in the party, assuring that PDP remained the only party that can rescue Nigeria in its present challenge. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com