A former Governor of Imo State and lawmaker representing Imo West Senatorial District, Senator Rochas Okorocha, on Wednesday, told the Senate of his intention to run for President in the 2023 general election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress. Okorocha told the chamber that the move was based on the demands by Nigerians for quality leadership. The lawmaker said this in his letter to the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, which the latter read out at the plenary. Okorocha is the second member of the Senate to have declared their presidential ambition, after a former Governor of Abia State and current Chief Whip, Orji Uzor Kalu. Okorocha and Kalu are also top contenders among the aspirants from the South-East geopolitical zone, including Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi; former President of the Senate and ex-Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Pius Anyim; former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Kingsley Moghalu, among others. Okorocha said he would hold a world press conference on Monday to officially declare his presidential bid. The letter reads in part, “As you are aware, the Independent National Electoral Commission has announced the timetable for the conduct of 2023 general elections, including that of the Office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “With elections drawing nearer as the days go by, our citizens are concerned about the quality of persons to run the affairs of our nation; one who can address some of their major concerns; a detribalised Nigerian who can unite our country; a leader with a compassionate heart who will care for the poor, downtrodden and masses of the country; a visionary leader who can create wealth for our teaming populace by addressing the issues of poverty, insecurity and youth restiveness. “It is as a result of these concerns that I wish to hold a world press conference on my intention to run for the office of the President of our dear nation. I therefore wish to solicit for your prayers as I make known my intention.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com