The Association of Local Governments of Nigeria and the National Union of Local Government Employees have said that an upward review of the revenue allocation to the third tier of government will address insecurity, underdevelopment and other social challenges confronting the country. ALGON had proposed 35 per cent revenue allocation to the local governments, while NULGE recommended 40 per cent as the share of the local governments in the new revenue formula, which will soon be unveiled by the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission. Under the current revenue sharing formula, which commenced in 1992, the Federal Government takes 52.68 per cent; the 36 states, 26.72 per cent; and the 774 LGAs, 20.60 per cent, with 13 per cent derivation revenue shared to the oil-producing states. Speaking at a town hall meeting on the proposed new revenue formula in November, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, had proposed 50.65 per cent for the Federal Government; 25.62 per cent for the states; 23.73 per cent for local governments; and retention of the 13 per cent derivation formula. But speaking in an interview with one of our correspondents, the National President, ALGON, Kolade Alabi, expressed confidence that the new revenue allocation formula would favour the local governments. Alabi stated that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had always supported the local governments, “because he wants them to survive and to thrive.” According to him, autonomy and 35 per cent revenue allocation to the local governments will boost development at the grass-roots and also help in addressing other social-economic challenges. He stated, “When we get autonomy, local governments will be okay. The security challenges we are facing are local; the local governments should be given attention and we have to start with the review of the revenue sharing formula.’’ The NULGE President, Ambali Olatunji, insisted that the revenue sharing formula must be restructured in favour of the local councils, adding that only an improved revenue allocation to them could address the challenges facing the nation. He said the fact that 70 per cent of Nigerians live in rural communities meant that the local councils required more funds to stem insecurity, poverty, joblessness, provide employment for women and empowerment for youths. “We are proposing that 40 per cent should be allocated to the local governments, 30 per cent to the states, 20 per cent to the Federal Government, five per cent as consolidated savings, and five per cent for derivation,” Olatunji stated. The Public Relations Officer, RMAFC, Christian Nwachukwu, noted that the commission was working hard to get the new revenue sharing formula ready, stressing that the necessary issues were being addressed. He stated, “We have done the necessary things and as I’m talking to you, the committee handling the process is very much on it.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com