The Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, has hailed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for his untiring efforts at restoring peace and normalcy to the troubled North-East. This was disclosed in a statement signed by the Special Adviser to the Senate President on Media and Publicity, Ola Awoniyi, on Sunday. According to the statement, Buni, who spoke at the 2022 Annual Machina Cultural Festival which started on Monday and ended on Sunday, said the large and peaceful congregation that witnessed the cultural festival was an evidence that the security situation had improved. “As a result of this, the people in the north eastern part of the country can now sleep with their two eyes closed. “In case there is still anybody in doubt, this large congregation at this event is enough proof that the security situation has improved,” Buni said. He also commended the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, for providing the right leadership at the National Assembly and for providing the much needed support and cooperation to enable the executive arm of government perform. Buni said the various projects that the government had executed or are now being implemented were the results of the cooperation and support which once eluded the Buhari regime the first four years but are now being provided by the current Assembly. “I have earlier acknowledged Ahmad Lawan as Sardaunan Bade. He is not Sardaunan Bade alone but Sardaunan of Northern Nigeria. “He was voted here as a Senator because this is his constituency. But God has made him Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria “Since he assumed office as Senate President, the support and cooperation that he gives the executive arm of government led by President Muhammadu Buhari has brought about the development in the country that we are witnessing today. “That cooperation and support by the current National Assembly is what is responsible for the development we are seeing today in Nigeria because the first four years of President Buhari, he did not enjoy this kind of cooperation and support by the National Assembly. “This is why we are seeing projects of national and rural development and the likes and these projects will get to you here very soon,” Buni said. The Governor also thanked the traditional rulers, other community leaders and Imams for their prayers which he said, from evidence, had been answered by God. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com