“Oil is going to dry out. The Stone Age ended not because there were no stones…but because new ideas and knowledge overtook them. We have to think more and invest in a knowledge economy” – Toyin Falola, Distinguished Humanities Professor, University of Texas, Austin, opening remarks at the Regional Conference on Higher Education in Africa, January 6th, 2022. For two intellectually absorbing days a fortnight ago, a mini crowd of scholars, ranking professors, former and serving Vice-Chancellors, public intellectuals, journalists and administrators converged at Babcock University, Ilishan-Remo for the first leg of a regional conference on higher education in Africa. Billed to be held subsequently in three other African countries, the event had the theme, “The Impact of Private Universities on Public Universities in Africa”, and was facilitated by the Carnegie Endowment, New York, in conjunction with the University of Texas, Austin. According to Falola, the convener of the conference, five African countries, namely Ghana, Nigeria, Uganda, Kenya and South Africa were selected for in-depth research and comparative analysis. The convener, from whose remarks the opening quote is sourced, stated that the main objective of the parley is to make an impact on policymaking in higher education so that Africa can compete in a world where the velocity of change is rapidly increasing. Though the academic feast and fiesta lived up to its billings, it would have been more delicious still if top policymakers participated as well as exchanged ideas at the conference. Imagine if Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who has declared his ambition to be Nigeria’s next president, or the Vice-President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, yet to declare his ambition but considered in some quarters a prospective runner, had participated in such an auspicious intellectual exercise with bearing on policymaking. It could have ensured that whatever they took away from such an event would in all likelihood have an impact on the architecture of Nigeria’s tertiary education. Of course, I know that policymakers attend such conferences only as showmanship or for ceremonial reasons rather than to gain ideas and exchange perspectives. A colleague of mine narrated how pleasantly shocked he was when at a conference he attended in Rwanda recently, Paul Kagame sat through the gathering for a full day, not as a dignified bystander but as an enthusiastic contributor. Narrated my colleague, “Kagame often intervened in words like ‘Prof, I really like your paper and your suggestions for policy reforms. Here in Rwanda, we have tried such and such policies but it did not seem to have worked. In the light of your paper, what other things do you suggest we could have done?” Going forward, it would be nice to have a Nigerian leader, who shows more than casual interest in the flow of information and policy debate such as we had at Babcock, for a change. Discussion and analysis ranged over the entire gamut of higher education, as we pored intently over such topics as reforming public universities, the role of academic staff unions, curriculum reform, founders and promoters of private universities, universities of education, pitfalls in funding, reintroducing merit and global standards, staff-student relations, the role of gender. The keynote address by the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Professor Toyin Ogundipe, traced the history of Nigerian universities, as a case study, from the lone figure of the pre-colonial days to the contemporary times where the universities have leapfrogged to over 200 with a population of over 2.1 million students. This, of course, creates pressures on policy, bringing, in its wake, such problems as the erosion of standards, the decline of infrastructure, ineffective policy support, moonlighting by lecturers across public and private universities, and incessant strikes by the academic staff union. The situation is replicated in many other African contexts except in the phenomenal expansion of universities in Nigeria— public and private. Ogundipe made a distress call to policymakers to bail out Nigerian universities, especially public ones, from the current quagmire in which they find themselves. Part of the problem, at least in the Nigerian case, is that universities have become political resources with all the syndromes that go with resource sharing, over-politicisation, indigenisation of Vice-Chancellors’ appointments and the intervention, sometimes unwholesome, of non-academics in the running of universities. For example, in recent years, there have been demands by indigenes of places where universities are located to produce “the next Vice-Chancellor.” There may be a political logic to making such demands but it certainly detracts from academic freedom, merit and university autonomy especially where such demands are processed through a political system and structure that are anti-intellectual. One of the high points of the parley was the debate about the role of academic staff unions with the former President of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Prof Biodun Ogunyemi, maintaining that in Nigeria the limited gains that public universities have made, such as the Tertiary Education Trust Fund and improved but not adequate salary package, have been the consequences of successive agitations by the union. That it sometimes took protracted strikes to eke out limited concessions is not a comment on the union, Ogunyemi insisted, but on an unresponsive political culture that is structured to answer only to ultimatums, as well as strikes, which normally should be last resorts. On a broader level, how much interest in education — tertiary or basic — do governments, which allocates less than 10% of annual budgets, really have? Critics of ASUU maintained, however, that the strike option has been over-used to the detriment and demerit of public universities which are fast becoming strike-obsessed. There were suggestions that strikes apart, academic staff unions should do more internal reforms within the ivory tower, including emphasising the importance of teaching and paying detailed attention to students as most of the private universities do. This columnist has argued elsewhere that incessant strikes are themselves the product of political bedlam in which a delinquent state sets the pace for a delinquent civil society that has come to believe, perhaps rightly, that justice or demands for reform are not granted on a silver platter. Ideally, a developmental state, as this country once had under the regional premiers of the 1960s, and, to some extent, under some of the military leaders, would have set the pace for educational growth and averted the kind of educational decay that we currently have in many African countries. It should be instructive that at the height of the free education programme pioneered by Chief Obafemi Awolowo in the Western Region, close to 50% of the annual budget went to education. The conference arrived at the verdict that public universities can learn from private universities in the areas of efficient management of resources, emphasis on teaching and teaching innovations, a more student-centred mien and ethics. In turn, private universities can borrow from the more institutionalised, if slower decision-making processes of public universities, due emphasis on standards and merit, putting the right accent on human and physical resources as well as the benefit of maintaining orderly educational calendars. Many participants also weighed in on the need for private universities to be included as beneficiaries of TETFUND because after all the students are Nigerian citizens. A beautiful conference replete with several policy recommendations, which one hopes will attract the attention of policymakers and politicians. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com