Herdsmen on Wednesday sacked five village farm settlements in Mgbuji autonomous community, Eha-Amufu, Isi-Uzo Local Government Area of Enugu State, killing five persons, including children and women. This came barely five days after three members of the state Neighbourhood Watch were killed while pursuing kidnappers to rescue the wife and 11-year-old daughter of Dr Eugene Edeoga, younger brother of the Enugu State Commissioner for Environment, Chijioke Edeoga, that were abducted on January 1, 2022. Our correspondent, who visited Mgbuji Community on Wednesday, reported that people carrying their belongings were seen running into the town from the troubled settlements. At the residence of Chief Eric Ebe, one of the stakeholders in the town, over 50 women and children who reportedly escaped from the troubled farm settlements were seen in the compound. Ebe, in an interview with our correspondent, described the invasion of his community as horrific and unwarranted. He said since January 1, no fewer than 10 persons have been killed in his community while many others were kidnapped for ransom. A community leader, Chief Moses Olinya, lamented that more than 24 hours after security agencies were informed of the invasion and carnage done, they were yet to see any security personnel. According to him, the suspects invaded the community around 10am. Some displaced women, who spoke to our correspondent, appealed to the government to come to their aid. When contacted on telephone, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Daniel Ndukwe, did not take his calls. As of the time of filing this report, he had not responded to a text message sent to him. Meanwhile, the Chairman of Isi-Uzo Local Government Area, Jacob Abonyi, confirmed the invasion, describing the frequent attacks on Mgbuji community as unacceptable. Abonyi said, “When I got the information on Tuesday, I contacted the police but the Divisional Police Officer’s phone number was switched off and I immediately called the military. “About five days ago, we were battling with kidnapping in same Mgbuji when the wife and daughter of Eugene Edeoga were kidnapped and they were just released on Monday. “So, I called the military and we were ready this morning, including the Neighbourhood Watch and Forest Guard. Unfortunately, the soldiers that were already at Ikem said they got a call for another emergency from Uzo-Uwani and they decided to turn back and they have not returned. “That is the situation, but all our local security – Neighbourhood Watch and Forest Guards -are doing everything possible to calm the situation.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com