International music executive, Jada Pollock, on Friday revealed that she found it degrading to be referred to as a baby mama to popular Nigerian singer, Wizkid. Pollock revealed this in a Question and Answer segment she hosted on her verified Twitter page on Friday. The American-born music executive became popular in the Nigerian space after she welcomed her child, Zion, with Wizkid in 2017. Zion is Wizkid’s third child and that earned Pollock the nomenclature of ‘Wizkid’s third baby mama.’ Pollock, who had once managed American superstar, Chris Brown, also doubles as Wizkid’s manager, asides his main manager, Sunday Are. Speaking about this, the mother-of-one noted that she found it discriminating to be referred to as a baby mama rather than a music executive. She wrote “I think about this. It’s so degrading and discriminating when I’m referred to as Wizkid’s third baby mother before addressing me professionally by my name. “The credit of my journey/experience is so underrated.The sad thing is, it’s our own blogs that don’t heighten and uplift each other.” She also noted that international blogs accord her with her professional status. “It’s sad as we should all be a driving force to platform and push Africa and its movement to the world in its strongest form; Not the ones to tear down our own. Rolling Stones and Billboard to name a few would be the ones to professionally title, uplift and elevate,” she tweeted. Revealing how she met Wizkid, she tweeted, “I was managing Chris Brown at the time and we were on tour. We had an African leg to the tour and Lagos was one of the territories we had a show. Wiz came out on Chris’ show and the rest is history.” When asked if she loved Wizkid, she said, “With all my heart! I have never loved anyone like this in my lifetime. Our love is magical.” The 38-year-old added that she wanted to have a big family with Wizkid. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com