The National Universities Commission has said nine illegal universities, also known as degree mills, are currently undergoing investigation and court actions. The commission said it would also prosecute the proprietors and recover illegal charges and fees paid by subscribers to the programmes offered by the illegal institutions. The PUNCH reports that the NUC has been battling the rise in illegal universities in the country. In 2021, the Executive Secretary of the NUC, Prof Abubakar Rasheed, during the convocation of the Al-Hikmah University, had announced that the commission had so far closed down no fewer than 67 illegal universities. The NUC, in a circular signed by the executive secretary and made available to our correspondent on Tuesday, revealed the identities of the nine universities currently under investigation. It said, “The following degree mills are currently under investigation/and or undergoing court actions. The purpose of these actions is to prosecute the proprietors and recover illegal charges on subscribers. “For the avoidance of doubt, anybody who patronises or obtains any certificate from any of these illegal institutions does so at his or her own risk. Certificates obtained from these sources will not be recognised for the purposes of the NYSC, employment and further studies. “The institutions are the National University of Nigeria, Keffi, Nasarawa State; North Central University, Otukpo, Benue State; Christ Alive Christian Seminary and University, Enugu; Richmond Open University, Arochukwu, Abia State; West Coast University, Umuahia; Saint Clements University, Iyin Ekiti, Ekiti State;  Volta University College, Aba, Abia State; and illegal satellite campuses of the Ambrose Alli University and  L.I.F.E Leadership University, Benin City, Edo State.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com