THE Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, has met with the commandants of police colleges and training institutions on the recruitment of the next batch of 10,000 constables. The new intakes are expected to report for training on January 10 at the four police colleges in Lagos, Kaduna, Maiduguri and Orji River, as well as in the 12 other police training institutions spread across the country. Addressing the officers at the force headquarters in Abuja on Wednesday, Baba stressed the importance of proper training of the constables, noting that training and human capacity enhancement are fundamental determinants of the level of efficiency of any organisation. He further noted that no organisation could perform above the capacity of its human assets. He said, “The need for quality manpower is even more essential for an institution as critical to national security as the Nigeria Police. “The responsibility for this process falls squarely on the knowledge, patriotism, sense of dedication and discipline of commandants and other instructors of the police training institutions where the basic training of our recruit constables will hold.” The IGP stated that the current recruitment involved the Police Service Commission, the Ministry of Police Affairs as well as other strategic relevant stakeholders. “This explains why the process has not only been transparent and seamless but has also thrown up the best candidates that the country can offer at that lower cadre of policing,” he said. He tasked the commandants to facilitate the process of the transition of the recruits from ‘civilianship’ to well-groomed police personnel “that will see themselves as incorruptible, civil, and true security servants of the citizens with the right orientation as protectors of the rights of all Nigerians.” He added, “Our plan is to emplace a new training regime that must impart the virtues of professionalism, knowledge, discipline, confidence knowledge, and critical decision-making potential in the recruits.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com