The Borno State Government has said it would seize properties belonging to agencies of the United Nations in the state over tax evasion. The properties in question, which are based in Maiduguri, are used for operation by the World Health Organisation, World Food Programme, United Nations High Commission for Refugees, United Nations International Children Emergency Fund, United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, Food and Agricultural Organisation, and the United Nations Development Programme. Speaking to journalists on Wednesday in Maiduguri, the Executive Chairman Borno State Board of Internal Revenue Service, Mohammed Alkali, stated that the agencies had defaulted in the payment of income tax for their employees. He said, “It is noteworthy that the aforementioned organisations are generally exempted from payment of tax from their operational funds. “They are, however, mandated by law through the provisions of the personal income tax act, CAP P8 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 to remit to the state government what is known as PAYE ( Pay As You Earn) with Withholding Tax for their staff and individuals and enterprise contractors respectively,” according to Daily Trust. The BO-IRS Chairman stated that the agency had reached out to the agencies but did not get a favourable response but had given a 30-day notice. Alkali added that if the matter was not resolved at the end of the 30-day notice, the agency would be forced to use its enforcement powers to seize the properties. “Unfortunately, since January 2021, all effort to make them respond positively to the demand proved abortive, thereby forcing BO-IRS to serve them with 30 days notice of seizure of property, which is due to lapse on 24th February 2022 as earlier mentioned. “This service will thereafter trigger its enforcement powers by using legitimate means to seize the properties of the agencies involved,” Alkali added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com