Experts from various healthcare disciplines have stressed the importance of public-private partnership in delivering gynaecology care in the country. The experts comprising gynaecologists, radiologists, general medical pratictioners, sorologists and family medicine physicians after a three-day training in Warri identified inadequate funding and training as some of the major challenges confronting the practice of gynaecology in the country. They urged corporate organisations and well-meaning individuals in society to help bridge the gap by assisting in the purchase of ultrasound equipment. One of the facilitators of the programme, Dr Kingsley Agholor, said, “In the practice of Gynaecologic Ultrasound Sonography, one of the challenges is machines. They are quite expensive to buy.  We are trying to link up with firms like GE to see how they can support us by allowing us to buy machines and pay in instalments. “Another challenge is training and that is why we are trying to close the gap by offering this training. If we keep relying on the government, we will not go anywhere. Training doctors is a heavy load for the government; it will affect the provision of other amenities. “So, we are looking for ways of closing the gaps with corporate bodies and individuals why the government continues to offer support in terms of providing social services to the people.” Another facilitator of the programme, Dr Uche Menakaya, called for adequate funding and regulation of the operations of the gynaecological practice in Nigeria. “There should be a regulation that guide the practice of gynaecology. Government should invest in the service by way of training the practitioners,” he said. A gynaecologist at the University of Maiduguri, Prof Bukar Mohammed, urged women to go for regular checks, adding that obese women and those in their premenopausal period were at high risk of fibroid. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com