The Akwa Ibom State government has expressed disappointment with some communities in the state to writing letters to investors and issuing all manners of threats against them. According to the state government, the struggle between Ibeno and Iket local government areas over the ownership of the Stubb’s Creeks Reserves said to have been acquired for the construction of a refinery by BUA Petrochemical company is calculated to scare away investors in the state. The state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Ini Ememobong, stated this on Thursday in Uyo while speaking with journalists. He said the project located in the Ibeno Local Government Area would add value to the economy of the state, adding that the BUA Petrochemical “is coming with a road project that will open up the coastal areas of the state”. He said with the over 10 to 20 km of road the company has promised to build in the state, there was the urgent need to support investment in the state “The governor is struggling to bring investment and people are writing to scare away investors, threatening already existing companies. No matter where your pendulum will swing to, you will create a counter report,” he said. “An investment is coming to your side and this is when you are choosing to start a fight. As enlightened as you are, don’t help them in the fight because they want to be heard. Reasoning will come to them that investment is coming here.” He added that the Ibom deep sea port project in the Mbo Local Government Area, which is being promoted by the state government, would also boost the economy of the state. ‘There are people who love to read themselves on the pages of newspapers and hear themselves in the news, it gives them a sense of importance. “They don’t care what will happen to the larger majority, they are just interested in being seen because it is posturing them for their private business,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com