The Federal Government has agreed to use the 860 ongoing projects of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing as training grounds for engineers in universities, the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria has said. COREN stated that approval had been given by the Federal Government to allow students serve as apprentice on these ongoing projects across the country. The council’s Registrar/Chief Executive Officer, Prof. Joseph Odigure, disclosed this in Abuja while speaking on the sidelines of the COREN regional train-the-trainers workshop for implementation of Outcome-Based Education in engineering programmes in Nigerian universities. He said, “The Federal Ministry of Works, for example, has about 860 ongoing Federal Government contracts and they have agreed to use those contracts as training grounds for all universities within their catchment zones. “We are also talking with the Federal Ministry of Education. We don’t want to see a situation where this is seen as COREN activity. So we are talking with the NUC (National Universities Commission). “This partnership with the works ministry has already been approved by the National Council on Works. It approved that students can serve as apprentice in all Federal Government projects.” Odigure added, “So it is not an issue of looking for approval. All the university need to do is to go to the federal controller in the state and present what they have. COREN has already facilitated this, because it has been approved by the NCW comprising all 36 states in the federation.” The President, COREN, Ali Rabiu, explained that the Outcome-Based Education was an approach to education that focused on specific attributes in terms of knowledge, skill and attitude that must be exhibited by the students. “They must be measurable. The planning, process and assessment of OBE are reverse of that associated with traditional education approach. It is a shift from measuring input and process to include measuring the outcome,” he stated. Rabiu added, “The OBE approach pursues the design of curriculum and teaching process that focuses on producing graduates with capabilities to meet the expectations of the stakeholders. “By implementing OBE, students are expected to be able to do more challenging tasks rather than memorise what was taught, manage project, analysing data and make decisions based on the results.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com