THE All Progressives Grand Alliance has accused political opponents in Anambra State of attempting to pit the Governor-elect, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, against his supporters in the state. In a statement released to journalists in Awka, on Wednesday, the National Co-ordinator, APGA Media Warriors Forum, Evang Chinedu Obigwe, said the opposition has misconstrued the 80-member transition committee list released by the governor-elect. Obigwe pointed out that the attempt was calculated to cloth Soludo in a borrowed robe, adding that those behind it would fail. He said no amount of blackmail would pit the Anambra people against the governor-elect. He noted that Soludo, who would be taking over the reigns of governance in the state on March 17, 2022, was already prepared to offer excellent service to Ndi Anambra. He also explained that the outgoing governor, Chief Willie Obiano, had promised to give Soludo the free hand to do his job the way he likes and he would not be a disturbance to him in any way. He said, “Various interpretations have been given to the 80-member transition committee list, headed by Dr Oby Ezekwesili, that was released by the governor-elect. “But what the disgruntled opposition elements behind the evil attempt to cloth Soludo in a borrowed robe are labouring in vain to achieve is to demoralise his supporters by giving them the wrong impression that he has dumped them from the beginning. As I said before, they will fail and Soludo will not be distracted.” He reminded Ndi Anambra to expect radical changes from Soludo, adding that the governor-elect was prepared to hit the ground running from the first day of his swearing-in. The statement read, “What will happen that day will make ndi Anambra understand the direction he wants to go and they will be convinced he came for serious business.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com