Ahead of its February 26 national convention, the All Progressives Congress will begin the sale of forms to all aspirants vying for national offices on February 14, 2022. This is according to the schedule of activities for the convention approved by the party’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee after its 19th regular meeting on Wednesday at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. The party’s National Secretary, John Akpanudoedehe, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday titled ‘APC CECPC approves schedule of activities for 2022 national convention.’ According to Akpanudoedehe, the party will receive the interim report of the National Reconciliation Committee chaired by the Senator representing Nasarawa West, Abdullahi Adamu, on January 31, 2022. Consideration and adoption of reports of state congresses will take place on February 2, 2022. State executives will be inaugurated on February 3, 2022. The sale of forms to all aspirants vying for national offices will begin on February 14, 2022. Aspirants must return completed forms and accompanying documents to the APC national secretariat on or before February 19, 2022. The CECPC also said it would announce sub-committees by February 19, while screening of aspirants vying for national offices will run from February 20-22. On February 23, the party will entertain screening appeals to hear and resolve complaints arising from the screening exercise. February 24 to 25 will be for the accreditation of all statutory and elected delegates to the national convention. The National Convention to elect National Officers to the National Executive Committee will be held on February 26, 2022. The party also slated February 28 for its National Convention appeal, to hear and resolve complaints arising from the National Convention. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com