The People’s Democratic Party in Katsina State on Monday released it’s time-table for the April 11, 2022, Katsina council elections. The time-table which was signed by the State Chairman of the party, Alhaji Salisu Majigiri, revealed that sales of forms to the party’s aspirants in the election commenced on Monday and ends on January 31, 2022. According to the time-table, screening of aspirants would take place on February 1 and 2, 2022, respectively. Primaries for the party’s aspirants for the Councillorship and 3 “Ad hoc delegates” come up on February 5, 2022, while that for the chairmanship aspirants would hold on February 7, 2022. The party will hold appeals on the outcome of the primaries on February 6 and 8, 2022, respectively. The time-table also showed that the party would thereafter submit its candidates for the elections to the Katsina State Independent Electoral Commission. Investigation at the State Headquarters of the All Progressives Congress on Monday showed that the party was yet to formally release its own time-table for the election. The PUNCH recalls that the KSIEC Chairman, Mallam Ibrahim Bako, had last Tuesday revealed that council election in the state will hold on Monday, April 11, 2022. Bako who made the disclosure at a press conference in Katsina revealed that campaigns and rallies for the election commenced that day (Tuesday). He declared, “Council election in Katsina State will hold on Monday, April 11, 2022, while campaigns and rallies for the election commence today, Tuesday January 11, 2022. So, if you calculate from today to April 11, 2022, it will be exactly 90 days needed for the election notice. “All political rallies and campaigns will commence from today January 11 and end 24 hours before the date of the election. “Political campaigns and rallies will be conducted in accordance with the laydown rules, regulations and guidelines for a hitch-free Local Government Election in the state.” Bako emphasised that only candidates sponsored by registered political parties would be allowed to contest in the election. He assured of the readiness of his commission to conduct a “free, fair and credible election”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com