The Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa has condoled with the governorship candidate of Peoples Democratic Party in the last governorship election in Anambra state, Valentine Ozigbo, over the death of his father, Chief Andrew Ozigbo. Okowa, in a condolence message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Olisa Ifeajika, on Thursday in Asaba, condoled the Ozigbo family of Amesi in Aguata Local Government Area and PDP in Anambra. He eulogised late Ozigbo, who passed away at 93, for inculcating strong moral values in his children which bore testimony in the impeccable character of Valentine Ozigbo, his last child. Okowa described the deceased nonagenarian as a man of high integrity who stood by his son in the gubernatorial race and ensured that he called to congratulate the winner even before the final result was announced by Independent National Electoral Commission. The Governor said, “On behalf of my family, the government, and people of Delta, I commiserate with my dear brother and friend, Valentine Ozigbo, and the entire Ozigbo dynasty of Amesi in Aguata Local Government Area over the passing of their patriarch, Chief Andrew Ozigbo. “Chief Ozigbo lived a remarkable and fulfilled life as a foremost educationist and was always a role model for many in the society. “As a Headmaster and later, Principal, Chief Ozigbo was a great disciplinarian and teacher of immense repute, who molded the lives of many Anambra people during his years in service. “As a devout Christian, he was reported to have religiously attended morning mass until his passing. “Chief Ozigbo would be remembered for his phenomenal and outstanding contributions to God and the education sector.” The governor prayed to God Almighty to grant the family the fortitude to bear the loss. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com