Super Eagles interim coach Austin Eguavoen has shut down talks of his side being the favourites to win the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon following their 1-0 win over Egypt in their opening Group D encounter last Tuesday, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Kelechi Iheanacho’s first-half strike gave Eguavoen’s side the win over the Pharaohs – a performance that has heightened the expectations of Nigerian fans. “It’s hard to say that we are the favourites after one win (against Egypt). We all know that Egypt are seven-time champions of the competition and they are not pushovers. The Pharaohs are a very strong team and whoever thinks they are not a strong team is making a big mistake. “We were able to neutralise them and were lucky at some point as well. “Though we played very well in that game but talks about being favourites now are too early. We will approach the next game with all seriousness and respect and after crossing that hurdle we look forward to the next game (against Guinea Bissau).” He also allayed fears that his team won’t be complacent against Sudan, saying they were aware of the consequences of dropping points on Saturday. “I have shared my past experience with the team so they don’t lose grip, which gives the team a serious guard,” Eguavoen added. “The boys know that any setback will put us in bad stead, so we talk to ourselves regularly. Our eyes are on our target. We are putting our feet on the ground. We don’t expect to lose steam after that performance against Egypt. “We also don’t expect every game to be smooth, but we will try to win every game in this tournament.” The Eagles lead Group D with three points, followed by Sudan and Guinea Bissau with one point each after both teams played out a goalless draw in their opening encounter. Egypt are bottom of the group.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com