The Anambra State governor-elect, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, has said that as a strategy to promote local brands, his official vehicles will be locally made by Innoson Vehicle Motors. Soludo stated this on Wednesday during his interaction with the members of his transition committee. He reemphasised that there was not going to be any ceremony on his inauguration day. The governor-elect also said it was not a coincidence that he has been wearing local fabrics known as Akwete, saying that it was intentional to support local brands, with the intention to make a statement with it. He said, “My Akwete dress is not just a dress, it’s a statement. I want to make a statement with it. You know, in the entire South-East, this is the only textile thing alive, and it’s handmade, by the women of Akwaete in Abia State. “Igbo land is one and we must protect it. We want to bring back the zeal of patronizing our own. I have said it even during campaigns, and I meant it, that if I win, the official car of the governor of Anambra State will be Innoson motors. “The dresses I will wear are those made in our place here. We must protect the things that are made in our place. Something is about to happen in Igboland, and together we will get there.” On his swearing-in, Soludo said there would be no fanfare, just as not a Kobo would be spent on it. He said the day was simply his first day at work, and even though it is a weekend, he would spend eight hours of the day working. “I have made a wish that not even one Kobo of Anambra people’s money will be spent on that swearing-in ceremony. It is a wish, and I mean it. What are we spending money on? Just a few people coming to the inauguration and witnessing it, then I will open office and get down to work immediately. “I do not wish any event, dancers or players and all that. I just want to show up for work, like every first workday. Though it is going to be a Friday, which is the weekend, I’m going to work for over eight hours that day. “No ceremony, no event, no party, nothing. Not even 10 Kobo will be spent. So the people who are saying N20million has been budgeted should go and tell us where they will get that money. It is going to be work, work, work, and that is what we epitomize,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com