TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN visited the lepers’ colony at Oke-Eriwo, Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State to feel the pulse of the inmates as World Leprosy Day holds today The Ijebu-Igbo lepers’ colony is tucked on the outskirts of Oke Eriwo, Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State. It is by the roadside and marked with a green coloured signboard announcing the facility. A bike is the best means of transportation to the place from Ijebu-Igbo town. The inmates at the Ogun State Hospitals Management Board Hansen disease settlement in Ijebu-Igbo told our correspondent that they inhabited the place when it was still a forest. The structure has a brown fence on the right without a gate. The road is tarred and its inside is neat. It could be mistaken for an old colonial quarters built for civil servants. The tiny road leading to the quarters is tarred while the red sand appears neat. An elderly woman, later identified as Mrs Stella Titus, sat on a bench under a tree in one of the blocks in the facility and being assisted by a petite lady helping her to loosen her wool-braided hair. Surprised and welcoming, she spoke about her long stay in the building. Titus is the oldest female inmate in the settlement but she said couldn’t tell how old she was. She said, “I can’t recall the date I got into this place but I know I have been here for over 40 years. The first child I gave birth to after I got here is over 40 years of age.” She also said she was with her grandmother at Epe, and they were into cassava processing and used a certain kind of drum to fry garri. Titus added, “I realised one day that I had burnt a part of my skin and I got scalded. I thought it was a minor wound but that was how I started to treat burns and the endless years of treatment started.” According to her, when the treatment continued without a solution, she went to her parents’ home in Ijebu, Ogun State, to receive treatments. Titus stated, “At the time, traditional medicine was the basic thing. We started to move from one herbalist to the other but there was no solution for years. I wish I knew this kind of place existed long enough I would have recovered from it a long time ago. But we were on it, not knowing it was leprosy till it affected my hands and legs. I do not have a single finger left till again as you can see. It affected both my finger and toes.’’ She paused to unbuckle her rubber slippers converted into sandals with a rope to walk as there are no toes. Titus stated, “I was in Lagos nursing my second child when the issue started. By then, my grandma had moved to Lagos State. They took me from place to place. It was someone who earlier brought someone to the facility that told my mum I was battling leprosy when she saw me. The person advised my grandma to bring me here. That was how my grandma called my mum and some few relatives who knew what I was going through and took me here. I have been living here since then.” According to web.md, leprosy also known as Hansen’s disease is an infectious disease that causes severe, disfiguring skin sores and nerve damage in the arms, legs, and skin areas around the body. If not quickly treated, it could lead to permanent deformity in some parts of the body including the skin, nerves, arms, legs, feet, and eyes. The leprosy patients’ tales Hanah Robot is another inmate of the home who has been living there for some time. Dressed in ankara embroidered with a blue taffeta, Robot’s leprosy patches weren’t visible until one sights her hand and legs. She also took shelter under a tree where our correspondent and Titus earlier sat for an interview. Like Titus, Robot couldn’t tell her age but recalled that she started living at the facility when white people were our caregivers. She said, “I was in school when I got infected by leprosy. Initially, my mum thought it was measles but with time we found out that it was more than that. My parents spent a lot to get me treatment. She was told to kill a goat. “Eventually, people called my mum’s attention to the fact that it wasn’t measles but leprosy. She was scared on hearing the news and moved me from one place to the other and we were swindled. ” For another inhabitant, Mr Ganiyu Obisanya, he recalled his experiences through significant national dates. His spine appeared affected and he could no longer walk straight, bending while he moved around aided by a walking stick. He stated that he got to the Ijebu-Igbo during the second republic. Obisanya said, “I was in primary two when the infection started. It first started on my forehead. It became red and we tried to see how we could get rid of it when all attempts failed and it became worse. I couldn’t return to school any longer. I had to stay back at home but the sickness hadn’t worsened then. It was only the reddish forehead and peeling. “I used several medicines to no avail after I stayed back at home. I moved to Ibadan, Oyo State,  and stayed for 10 months. After that, I left for Lagos and stayed there for a while. I was in Lagos during the civil war before returning to Ibadan where I spent 13 years.” Obisanya narrated that he learnt shoe-making in Ibadan because he didn’t let the situation weigh him down. “In those 13 years, I learnt shoe-making; I got married and gave birth to a child during the Murtala Mohammed regime,” he stated. For Mrs Femi Adeiye, she had been badly affected by the disease and unable to walk properly. It took her a long time to cover a short distance despite using a walking stick. Adeiye has a bent back like Obisanya. After a few minutes of struggling to join her colleagues under the tree, she settled down on a pavement to share the story of her life with our correspondent. She said, “I got here in 1981.When the leprosy started, my right leg was swollen and toughened. I couldn’t stand nor walk.  I was in Lagos then, so, I was taken to the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi and I was there for three months. “When I was discharged, some people saw me and said I should go to the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba. From there, I was referred to the Eko Hospital, Lagos and later to another place. While I was receiving treatments my hands were normal. In the process of cooking my fingers often got heated by fire and became sore. That became a routine until I lost all my fingers.” Adeiye explained that she was working with an architectural firm before the disease struck and he lost everything in the process. She said,” I used to work at an architectural firm. It was the money I got from there that I used to start a business. I started to sell slippers and sandals across hospitals but when the sickness started, I had to stop the business. Amid it all, I lost everything including my family. My husband left one day with the children. He could have thought I would die but this is me today telling my story.” Tosin Adeleye is one of the youngest inmates at the facility there and should be in his late 20s or early 30s. He said the facility has two young persons, explaining that two had died out of four of them that came into the facility. Adeleye added, “I was in Lagos when the disease started. I cannot count the number of times I visited the Ikorodu General Hospital for treatment. I took several injections, drugs but none helped me. I was advised to go for traditional treatment.  I went to my maternal grandma at Ago-Iwoye, Ijebu, Ogun State where they also started another round of treatment. It was in the course of visiting different treatment that we located this place.’’ Nigeria’s leprosy burden The world celebrates Leprosy Day every January 30. Across the world, Around 200,000 people are diagnosed with leprosy every year and two to three million people live with leprosy-related disabilities. Leprosy is the leading cause of preventable-disability in the world, Leprosy Missions International stated. Despite the Global Leprosy Strategy by the World Health Organisation  on ‘Zero leprosy, zero discrimination, and zero disability by 2020,’ Nigeria still recorded 2,424 new leprosy cases in 2019, of which about six per cent are children and about 13 to 15 per cent experienced WHO ranking of ‘grade two deformity.’ Paying high to get a cure Robot said beyond being swindled, she did several things to overcome the challenge. She narrated, “They made me do many terrible things including drinking herbs, urine etc.’’ Adeiye also explained that after spending a lot on medicine, they turned to traditional medicine and continued losing money. She narrated, “We went from place to place looking for a solution that was where we met different traditionalists. Some requested a cow, ram, goat and palm oil. We spent and spent till we were drained of money.” Adeleye added that he and his grandma moved from place to place in search of a lasting solution and in the process got duped many times. He said, “My grandma and I visited an herbalist who said that we would buy a ram, pay N20,000 and get other items. We didn’t mind because that was the least of what we had been buying before then. We were duped several times in a bid to get a cure for leprosy.’’ Robot recalled that it was in one of the trips to get cure that they saw someone who described the facility to them. She said, “It was on one of those visits to get herbs that my mum saw someone who told her to take me to Ijebu-Igbo that I would be treated there. My mum got a taxi, packed my belongings and we left. We kept asking for directions till we located the place. This place was a thick forest when we came. My mum explained her predicament to the ‘oga’ (The former doctor who was in charge). He assured her that I would be better and we asked all the questions we had in mind.  In fact, that was when I knew that I could eat the food I wanted unlike where I had been lied to that I couldn’t eat fresh fish, salt and others.” Adeleye noted that God heard their cry when someone saw them after they left a traditionalist’s home to purchase the items they were told to buy. She said, “The person told us about a facility in Ijebu-Igbo where I could get treated.  The person told my grandmother and fixed a date for them to meet. On the agreed date, we met her at Ijebu-Igbo and she took us to meet a man who lived at Ijebu Igbo.  The following day, which was January 28, 2014, we came to the place. “The doctor treated me, gave me drugs and I started to feel better. One didn’t need to see my medical test to know that I was better. It was written all over me that my health was better.” A ray of hope Titus narrated that while seeking cure for the disease, her husband left her and took the children away. She however said she was grateful to her grandma and mum who stood by her during the period. She stated, “My husband left me during the crisis. He abandoned me and left with my children because he and the people around him felt that the disease was strange and weren’t willing to be a part of whatever I was battling at the time. My grandma and mother used to visit me before grandma passed on.” Titus said she moved on after the episode and fate made her find love again. She said, “After the incident, I found love here again. I remarried and gave birth to children. “We didn’t have means of raising our kids in terms of financial empowerment then, our stipend wasn’t even up to N10,000 but it was like God heard us.  While our children were young, the white missionaries came and took care of them. They were the ones who ensured they got education.” Also, Robot said she found love at the facility after her condition improved. She said, “It was at the facility that I got better. I married my husband here and had children. My husband too was an inmate before he passed on. “When I got pregnant with my first child, I was scared that I would give birth to a child with the disease but I was assured that the disease wouldn’t affect our children.  I am grateful that my children are healthy and doing well.” Obisanya noted that his wife went away with their only child when he had leprosy. He explained, “When the sickness started fully, my wife went away with my child and I reasoned that the child would look for me when the time comes. Now, the child checks on me here. After I felt better, I remarried and had three children but due to hardship, I lost one of them and my wife. It was after that I married another one who left, and then I married a young lady who is also an inmate about two years ago. One wouldn’t even know she has leprosy.” On her part, Adeiye said it wasn’t easy for opposite genders to live together in a place and things like romance wouldn’t happen. She added that doctors and caregivers who attended  to them told them that it was okay to marry one another when she sought clarifications on the matter. She said, “When I got here, I started to ask questions, but the white people who were with us told us that we could marry one another. That was how I got married and gave birth to healthy children. They all grew up here and still visit us.” Adeleye searching for a wife also said his wife deserted him when the problem became tough. He said, “Before I got the disease, I had a wife but after I had it she left.” Tough life Surviving in the facility is a tough one for the inmates. Titus lamented that it’s been difficult feeding especially now at their ages  amid the country’s economic situation. She said, “We get a monthly stipend which doesn’t come regularly. We get the stipend on the 10th, 15th or 20th of a new month. By then we would have collected food items on credit, so when the money comes, we don’t even have anything left on us and the circle continues. “This situation isn’t peculiar to only me. We all feed like that. Some of our children give us money. I don’t have the financial capacity to do any business. “We used to have a small farm where we planted cassava, corn and plantain to feed. But the owners of the lands had claimed them.” Titus further said she started piggery but lost them to swine fever outbreak. She added, “I wasn’t the only one who lost pigs, there were many others.” Robot noted too that surviving at the facility was difficult because of their condition. She stated, “The thing is once you get infected with leprosy it’s difficult to live among people or find support from them. No relative will ask after you, feeding becomes one’s problem. We are grateful for the stipend from the government but it’s not enough. We face the same economy as others. The money isn’t enough to feed let alone attend to other needs. “Sometimes, the only supplies we have are the ones brought in by well-meaning Nigerians such as Non- government organisations and some missionaries.” Obisanya also said that life had been cruel having to raise children with the meagre amount they get as stipend. He said, “Feeding has been difficult for us. No food, work and money. We engaged in subsistence farming to meet our feeding needs. But overtime, the owners of the lands collected them from us. The N10,000 stipend cannot feed one person let alone me and my family.” For Adeiye, the situation she endures is not different from others. She said, “My situation is the same with my colleagues. God used another set of white missionaries to help us. They helped to rebuild our shelter.  They built the fence for us and also took over our children’s education. They were the one that lifted our burden but now we can’t even feed well. Our children also try to do their best, but it’s still not enough.” Adeleye said when he was in a critical situation his family rallied for support, stating that they  stopped visiting him immediately they noticed  improvement  in his health. He said, “My family members and friends came check me at the facility when Ì took ill. They brought food, gave me some money but as time went on, one after the other, they stopped coming. “When I noticed that, as a young man, I tried my best to do whatever I could to earn a living. The doctor advised that I shouldn’t be in an idle position and that since I still had the strength to work, I should work. “Before I fell sick, I was a bricklayer, so, when I got better, I did whatever work was available. I would help people to cultivate farmlands and also do some other things so that I can earn a living. I usually go to sites to work too. But the doctor advised that I shouldn’t do that too regularly, so that I don’t weaken my fingers and it doesn’t eat up like others. But it’s been difficult to feed.” Poor access to healthcare, potable water The resident lamented that they lacked basic amenities such as potable water and toilets. Titus noted that any of them who took ill usually went to a hospital in the state capital, Abeokuta, for treatment. “A doctor visits us once a month. The last time the doctor took our blood samples and said we had been cured,’’ Titus said. Also, Robot decried lack of potable water, stating that they had no money to spend on it because they were struggling to eat. Sunday PUNCH observed that the source of water for the inmates was not a clean one. Adeleye who conducted our correspondent round the facility said the water often looked better in the morning. He said, “This is our only source of water now and that’s what we also drink from. We do not earn enough to be able to afford sachet water. We come early when the water is still clean and scoop what we can out of it.” For Adeiye, they no longer have water and the toilet has spoilt over time. Desire for a fresh start The inmates wished to live among other people but they feared stigmatisation. Titus stated that there was a mixed reaction whenever tried to mingle with people. “The doctor who attends to us has told us to call him whenever we face opposition from people. Before, people avoided us like a plague but things are changing now,’’ Titus said. Adeiye also lamented that they were tired of living in a secluded place and would love to live among people, stating that they were not sure people would accept them. She said, “Our drugs have been stopped since we were certified okay. We were more than this but others had moved out of the facility.’’ Robot expressed dissatisfaction over the continued stay in the facility. She said, “We are tired of staying in the facility. We want to also go into town and live with people but we do not have the means. We don’t want to be stuck here for life. Some people who have their homes have left but we can’t go because there’s nowhere to go to.’’ Obisanya pleaded for help to move out of the facility which he said he had been staying at for about 40 years. He was still hopeful that he could enjoy his life if he had a better place to live and settle in while he continued with his shoe-making job. He said, “I really wish to still do my shoemaker/cobbler work and be able to get a living from it.   If we have a place of our own I can do my own shoe making business while my wife can sell goods like provision so that we can have a reasonable income. It’s sad that at my old age, I still have to live like a destitute. Adeleye pleaded that he wouldn’t mind a financial assistant to start life all over again, even if it was to set him up with a shop where he can sell building materials. He said, “I am a young man and I still want to work but the doctor advised that I should discontinue the bricklayer’s job, so I don’t lose my fingers. Already they are disfigured but I still need them to carry and move things about like I do.” Patients treated, get monthly stipend, govt didn’t abandon them – Ogun The Director of Public Health, Ogun State, Dr Festus Soyinka, said that the Ijebu-Igbo leprosy station was not just a centre but a leprosy settlement, adding that most of them were used to the ‘beggarly mentality.’ Soyinka said, “Rarely would you find any leprosy patient in Nigeria admitting that anybody is looking after them because of their beggarly mentality. They would not tell you that the hospital management provided them stipends on a monthly basis and they would also not mention that people visit them from time to time to give donations to them. “They will always want to present the picture that if not for you; no one would remember them, now such is not good. It is not as if anybody is particularly responsible for them, it should have been the issue of women affairs but the hospital management under the ministry of health is the one that provides those stipends. “They used to have an ulcer dressing unit in the past but the officer in charge of that has retired a long time ago and since it is not a health centre, it is a settlement, which is more or less something anybody has not found convenient to do. That is the truth but they still receive some support here and there.” Soyinka said though the state was no longer responsible for their welfare, they had not been abandoned as they still provided them with the N10,000 monthly stipend. He said, “If anybody abandoned them, it would be their family members. What we are doing is to support them. Now, I want you to know that these are no longer leprosy patients, they are persons affected by leprosy who we have provided treatment for, who naturally are supposed to be part of a community. “However, in the past, when there was no knowledge, people felt that leprosy patients could not live in their midst. Most of those places you find as settlements today were hideouts for leprosy patients in those days. “So if you see those places developed like that, it is because people have come at one time or the other to put up structures here and there and to organise them into a community and keep providing one support or the other and about their handling, some of them may be able to pick up themselves and do some things for themselves. Some of them have been re-integrated with their families, some of them have agreed to be repatriated into a community and they were repatriated, some of them have got used to the support they were getting and remained in such a position.” Soyinka reiterated that they were not abandoned, rather they were the ones who refused to return to their communities. He added, “The issue of abandonment does not come in because we have reassured them a long time ago. Those who were repatriated were repatriated into a community and those who were re-integrated to their family were re-integrated. But the rule is that no new leprosy patient should be brought into that settlement. Persons suffering from leprosy are supposed to be treated and sent back home because leprosy is curable. “For those who were there then, we told them that the idea of settlement is a forgone issue and that decision was an internationally taken decision and the reason for that decision was to make them to be accepted in their community. If they were taken care of in the midst of their people, they would not be neglected and termed people that cannot live among us. We have given them this orientation over and over, except if there are new ones I don’t know about. “In Ijebu Igbo in particular, we tried to put them in some form of businesses and vocational training. In those days when we had support from partners, a few of them took advantage of it and some of them were used to the support they were getting and unwilling to do anything. But the government still gives them stipends to show commitment which cannot solve all their problems. Also, sometimes, we get some partners who want to show some form of commitment. That is the way it is.” Nigeria records 2000 leprosy cases yearly, says FG The Deputy Director, Leprosy and Buruli Ulcer Focal Person at the Federal Ministry of Health, Dr Peter Adebayo, said that there were 36 to 41 programme managers and 774 supervisors in charge of leprosy programmes across the country. Despite the WHO leprosy eradication programme, Nigeria still records yearly cases of between 1500 and 2000 cases making the disease a public health concern. Adebayo said, “In 2020, we recorded about 1,500 cases, I would not be able to give you comprehensive data for 2021 because we are collating data for the first quarter of 2021 but we already have close to 1,700 cases. Usually we record about 2000 cases but because of the covid-19, we recorded 1500 cases.” Adebayo noted that the treatment for leprosy was free and the disease curable in contrast to the long-held myths about it. He said, “Leprosy is curable, most times what people see on people is the deformity. We see people with deformity because they reported late and once you report late, the issue of deformity comes in. But when it is reported early, there would be no deformity.” Adebayo also noted health being on the concurrent list made it the responsibility of the federal, state and local governments. He said, “I am sure you know that the health of the citizens is important. The federal, state and local governments are responsible for the health of its citizens. The Federal Government supplies the drugs and the movement of such drugs. “The responsibility of the Federal Government is to provide the drugs and also provide logistics. If the state government gives them stipends at the end of every month, that is good. Also, we try as much as possible to ensure that they are re-integrated into the community because when they are in the community with other people, the rate of stigmatisation will reduce. So we try as much as possible to encourage them to be with others.” Adebayo also noted that there were Non-governmental Organisations partnering with the government to provides relief materials and also help with integration of persons affected by leprosy back into their communities.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com