The Akwa Ibom State High Court sitting in Uyo, the state capital, has commenced the trial of Ignatius Uduk, a professor of Physical and Health Education, University of Uyo, after many delays occasioned by technicalities. Uduk, who was the Collation/Returning officer for Essien Udim State Constituency, was arraigned under charge No HU/240c/2020 for allegedly publishing and announcing false results. The Head of Electoral Operations at INEC’s headquarters in Uyo, Vincent Oghene, who appeared as the first witness, presented eight documents admitted as evidence by the trial judge, Justice Bassey Nkanang. Oghene affirmed that Uduk was a collation constituency during the 2019 general election and attested to the documents marked by the court as exhibits when Uduk announced and published false election results. During cross-examination, counsel for the accused, Abasiodiong Ekpenyong, sought answers on the location of the prosecution witness at the time of the election, and if he witnessed the alleged violence that occurred on the said day. In response, Oghene said he monitored the elections from the Office and only visited some polling units in Ukana about 11am when they received reports of the violence, adding that when they arrived, they saw the polling units scattered, while the electoral officers were not insight. Ekpenyong who later sought for the adjournment of the case for further examination also prayed for bail extension of the accused on the grounds that Prof Uduk has been consistent in court for the proceedings and on time. Justice Bassey Nkanang approved the bail extensions on the existing terms when the prosecution counsel did not object to it. At the commencement of proceedings, Counsel for INEC, Clement Onwuenwunor, sought the leave of court to amend the three counts brought against Prof Uduk in which the accused pleaded not guilty. Speaking after the proceedings,  Onwuenwunor said, “Today actually started the case properly for us, the professor was re-arraigned today on a three-count bordering on publication and announcement of false election results and you could see he pleaded not guilty to the charges and we have opened our case. “We’ve called our first prosecution witness in this matter and he has testified. All our documents have been tendered and the defence counsel has opened cross-examination, but at a point, he had to discuss with us to seek an adjournment for further examination and the matter has been adjourned for next week.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com