Fiscal Policy Partner and Africa Tax Leader of PwC, Mr Taiwo Oyedele, speaks with SAM OLATUNJI on the Finance Act 2021, the tax implications, and how government can ensure an effective tax management system What would you consider as the main objective of the Finance Act 2021, and in what ways would it benefit Nigeria’s recovering economy? The objective of the Finance Bill 2021 is similar to the previous bills of 2019 and 2020. There are a number of objectives. One is clearly to generate revenue for the government because the government’s revenue is very low, and that’s why the government is borrowing significantly. However, we can debate on whether they should be borrowing as much and the reason for the borrowing. Another objective is to try and modernise Nigeria’s tax system and fiscal space. We also have an objective around fiscal equity, especially ensuring that similar sectors are treated fairly and equitably. We see a lot of movements in that regard for the insurance sector, which for many years were being treated unfairly when compared to banks that are bigger than them. We also have an objective to correct ambiguities in the law. Essentially, these are some of the major objectives. I think the biggest ones would be around generating revenue and reforming the tax system. Regarding boosting Nigeria’s economy, it is a difficult balance. Generating revenue has to be done carefully. Otherwise, the government will generate revenue but it would be a short-term objective because, in the medium-to-long term, it can be counter-productive to economic recovery.  In the Finance Act, there is a plan to limit the capital allowances available to small businesses on the basis that they have been exempted from paying company income tax. We have also seen an attempt in terms of revenue generation to try and harmonise revenue agencies so that the Federal Inland Revenue Service has a coordinating role so that it doesn’t have different agencies doing tax audits and trying to collect revenue from people, which leads to a lot of linkages. Some of these measures are positive. However, they should be done with a lot of caution.  I think the gaming industry requires a lot of understanding, and policymakers don’t fully understand the sector well. If you don’t understand the sector, and you are trying to impose a tax, chances are you would make a mistake. You may not generate the revenue you are looking for, and you may kill the sector and destroy the economic value. In terms of priority, the government needs to prioritise manufacturing. Some of the measures for the capital market as well I have my reservations about them. There is a proposal in the Finance Act to impose capital gains tax on the sale of shares if it exceeds certain thresholds. Even though the threshold is high, it sends a wrong signal when you start taxing shares at a point when the capital market is struggling, and the government has a development plan where it wants the private sector to contribute almost N300tn. Where will they find the money? Would they not go to capital markets? Also, the exemption of bonds has expired and the government did not renew it. Some of these initiatives would not help with recovery and stimulating growth. So, the government has to ensure that there is a proper balance and alignment of policies with national plans and objectives. Do you think that there is any possibility that certain tax requirements in the act would in a way contribute to inflation or lead to job loss with companies trying to cut costs? I think the gaming sector may be able to adjust to cover up the extra costs. I will be more concerned about sectors like manufacturing because their cost is rising and they are not able to increase their selling prices because the purchasing power is low. If you impose a tax, because they want to survive, they have to cut down on employment and find a way to survive. In terms of inflation, when you impose maybe an excise tax, if the sector is able to pass it on to customers, it would be higher selling prices, leading to inflation. But if the products are very elastic, and you are afraid of losing the market, then you bear the costs and your margins will be low. If your margin is low, it means what you pay in company income tax will be less, and your shareholders will get less in dividends, affecting their own purchasing power as well. So, taxes, sometimes, have unintended consequences, which policymakers must always consider. FIRS will be empowered to assess the CIT on the turnover of a foreign digital company involved in transmitting, emitting, or receiving signals, sounds, messages, images, or data of any kind including e-commerce, app stores, and online adverts. What are the possible implications of this? It may be difficult to force those foreign companies to comply with taxes in Nigeria. But I think many of them have agreed to comply voluntarily. If they already have a profitable business in Nigeria, they will accommodate and pay the tax and life will go on. But if they are already either not making profits or their profit margin is very slim, they are going to adjust their prices so that they can accommodate the extra amount they pay to the FIRS in company income tax.  If they do that, what it means is that it would affect the small and large businesses running promotions on these platforms, as their costs would go up. This may be passed on to customers by way of higher prices or bear the costs and have a lower margin. Would you say the Finance Act is lacking in any area? If yes, which specific area(s)? It is important to understand that we can’t use one finance Act  to solve all our problems. Therefore, we have to address the issues one by one.  Looking at different areas we are dealing with, how do you ensure that vulnerable people are protected in terms of the exemptions of the tax burden on them as well as even small businesses? I think the government can do more. So, if you look at the threshold of N30,000, which is the threshold for personal income tax, if you look at other countries like Ghana and Kenya, the threshold is higher than that. Can you even survive with N30,000 today? I think the government should have done more in that regard. I also think that government should have done a bit of making the upper class and the middle class contribute a little bit more by adjusting the tax rate for people who earn a lot, and also ensuring that the leakages we get from MDAs. This idea of don’t spend more than 50 per cent, I think they should not be spending the money at all. They should remit everything and be more transparent in how they spend money based on their expenditure budget. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, has repeatedly said Nigeria has a revenue problem. How can the government strengthen its tax base and boost revenue? The biggest thing that government can do to change the narrative is to use data and intelligence. This will give the government a full picture of what everyone has. In Nigeria, people are making a lot of money and not paying taxes, and nothing is happening to them. Government has to develop a system that brings all the information about individuals and companies together in a coordinated manner.  If they do that and do it well, the revenue of the government will go up by at least 200-300 per cent.   ,,  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com