•60 suspects arrested, 53 arraigned – Police Aisha Wakaso dwells on youth restiveness in streets in Minna, Niger State, hurting socio-economic activities and endangering lives of residents Terror gangs have been unleashing mayhem on residents of Minna metropolis in Niger State for some time. Their unending clashes affect socio-economic activities and cause untold loss of lives and property in the area. Sunday PUNCH learnt that the activities of the gangs have been ongoing for two years and become deadlier in recent times leaving residents in panic mode. Our correspondent gathered that members of the gangs aged between 14 and 21 who fight fiercely with dangerous weapons have become so emboldened that they fight in streets in the area and opposite a police area command. The areas where the fights usually take place include Anguwan Daji, Limawa, Ogbomoso road, Dutsen Kuran Gwari, Hanyan Gwari Kpakungu and Maitumbi (Cool Cat, Anguwan Kaje). The youth intimidate residents and instill fear in passers-by and traders in the neighbourhood where they take the clashes to. Shops are also not spared as they loot them to their satisfaction. It was observed that the state government and security agencies in the state appeared helpless to apprehend the youth who have turned threats to the communities and engage in mindless fights for unclear reasons. Our correspondent further learnt that the youth were not fighting for any tangible reasons but purely engaging in supremacy battles in the streets. It was observed that they usually gathered in groups whenever they intended to fight and move in large numbers to confront their rivals. They wield golf-like local sticks known as gora, cutlasses, knives, machetes, and stones publicly. In the past, the gangs fought only among themselves. But lately, the fights occur suddenly and they attack residents in their battle areas. The development has caused residents, passers-by and traders untold panic, often forcing socio-economic activities to end hurriedly. Sunday PUNCH learnt that whenever the fights break out, residents, commuters and traders scamper to safety to avoid being caught in the melee. Since the fights usually occur during the day, most times in the city centre, residents and commuters are usually trapped in the confusion. In the past, people have been injured, cars destroyed and valuables lost while running to safety. During the fights, the gangs throw stones at each other from a distance and anyone who falls, as a result, is attacked. The stones are said to be transported in wheelbarrows to the battlegrounds by teenage girls from the opposing camps. It was noted that police in the past didn’t take decisive actions against the hoodlums. This baffles Minna residents who always wondered why the police, who appeared battle ready anytime the fights broke out, would do nothing substantial to quell them. . There are different accounts regarding the cause of the clashes. An account noted that the fights are usually between the Anguwan Daji and Limawa groups and traceable to an age-old rivalry provoked by a girl otherwise called India who allegedly left a man she was engaged to be married to and married another man from Limawa. One fact is that no one can categorically state what causes the fights but there are speculations regarding what could be responsible. India was allegedly engaged to be married to a man known as Babayo before he was arrested for purportedly causing mayhem. While in prison, India reportedly married someone else. Since then, it was rumoured that Angiwan Daji boys and Limawa boys have been at loggerheads, engaging one another in fierce battles. The rivalry is said to be so intense that anyone from an opposing camp who seeks friendship from a rival camp is beaten and his kinsmen will come to avenge. The residents are worried about the festering clashes. One of the residents, Lanre Sadiq, who spoke to our correspondent, faulted the police’s strategy, adding that perhaps they were trying to handle the situation in a civil manner to avoid deaths which would incur human rights issues. He blamed the state government for what he described as its failure to live up to its responsibility to protect lives and property. Sadiq said, “I had been caught up twice in gang fights and a part of my car was damaged while I was trying to drive away from the scene around the Obasanjo shopping complex.’’ Sadiq claimed that the security agencies and the government seemed not to be in synergy on the matter, stating that the situation led to the lackadaisical attitude of security agencies towards tackling the restiveness. In November last year, youths from Dutsen Kuran Gwari and Hanyan Gwari clashed at a wedding and the development snowballed into reprisals. The youth from Dutsen Kura Gwari came to Hanyan Gwari, and injured two people, broke into shops and houses to loot. Another resident identified only as Lukman who lives in Ogbomoso said many didn’t know the genesis of the fights, adding that many residents were however aware that the rivalry between the areas had long existed. He accused the police of being aware of the issue but did nothing to tackle it. He said, “Most times, what they do is to vandalise shops to loot the goods and they attack people to make a statement of superiority. To them, it is a thing of pride for youths from an area to cause havoc in the territory of their rival.’’ Last week, a renewed fight between Ogbomoso and Limawa boys led to the death of a policeman and a 41-year-old businessman, Ifeanyi Ozoka, stabbed during the fracas. The cop’s death was allegedly caused by an accidental discharge from a fellow cop. Twenty-nine-year-old Chioma Ozoka, widow of Ifeanyi, said she was in the shop with her husband when some youths moved towards their shop. She said she ran to hide with her three-month-old son while her husband went to see what was happening. She stated that it was then that they accosted and stabbed him in his stomach which led to his death. He died the following day at the Minna General Hospital, where he was rushed to. Eugene, Ifeanyi’s brother, told our correspondent that his brother was good to the youths on Ogbomoso road, adding that he trained some of them in selling bicycle and motorcycle spare parts. He lamented that since the incident happened no government official had visited nor invited them for talks on the matter. Fifty-three out of the 60 suspects arrested in connection with the chaos that led to the death of Ozoka and a policeman had been remanded in the New Bussa, Borgu Local Government Area Correctional Centre on the orders of a magistrates’ court in Minna. Also, a barber in one of the affected streets identified only as Ujay, said he had a near-death experience when he was caught in one of the clashes sometime ago. Ujay stated, “On one of the days the youth of Hanyan Gwari and Dutsen Kura Ggwari clashed, we didn’t even know what was happening. I saw people running when I looked outside my shop. I saw some of them holding machetes, knives and breaking things on the road. “I had to run back into my shop and lock myself and my boys inside. They tried to break the door of my shop but they couldn’t. One of my boys out of fear urinated on his body because he knew how dangerous the youth are. They destroyed many things that night and stole things from many shops. The luck we had that night was that the vigilantes came early and confronted them. We heard gunshots but later learnt that it was the vigilantes that shot at the boys before they dispersed.’’ Another resident, Hajiya Hafsat Musa, who lives on Ogbomoso road, also narrated her experience. According to her, they live in fear in the area anytime there is a clash by the youth. She noted that the youths fight anytime, adding that on the day Ifeanyi was killed, she was in her house praying when she heard people shouting and running in different directions. Musa stated, “We live in fear because the youth cause chaos anytime unnecessarily to attack and steal from people shop owners in any street they choose as battleground. On the day they killed an Igbo man that sells motorcycle parts, we were inside when we heard people running up and down and shouting only for us to realise that it was the boys who were going about causing trouble that had started again.’ “We locked ourselves up inside only to come out the next day to learn that that people lost their lives during the mayhem.’’ Another trader who owns a boutique opposite the popular A.Y Shafa fuel station, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of attack, said they were always ready for anything since the restive youths use the spot as a battle zone. The trader said, “This place has become a battle zone for the youth. We believe that the youth hide under the incessant fights to loot shops because we have tried to find out the reason for the fights and till date no one can give a concrete reason for them. Many of us believe that they engage in the fights to loot our shops so the moment they start, we hurriedly lock up our shops and sometimes don’t open until the coast is clear. The trader further said the youth hide under the influence of drugs and wield weapons to cause violence. Commenting on the development, Secretary to the State Government, Ahmed Matane, told Sunday PUNCH that the state government was doing something about it, adding that a security meeting was recently held where Governor Abubakar Bello ordered that the miscreants should be dealt with without further delay. He said that some of the hoodlums had been arrested and charged to the court, stating that the action would be a continuous process. Matane added, “As you can see, action has already commenced, people have been arrested and charged to court and this action will continue for the next six months. Anyone who presents as a miscreant will be picked up and their sponsors will also be arrested and dealt with too.” When contacted, the state police spokesperson, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, stated that the state command had commenced an onslaught on the criminals. He added that a joint task force comprising the police, military, Department of State Services, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps and the vigilantes launched an aggressive raid and house to house search at Unguwar-Biri community, Limawa, Unguwar-Daji, Unguwar-Sarki, Abayi-close and Kongila. He stated that a total of 60 boys had been arrested, adding that investigation was ongoing before they would be charged to court. Abiodun said, “About 60 boys have been arrested and would be charged to court upon completion of investigation. Items recovered are arrows, cutlasses, knives, sticks, shisha pipes, wood cutters, iron rods, iron cutter, scissor, fry wheel, screw-drivers, handsets, Indian-hemp and charms.’’  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com