The Office of the Surveyor-General of the Federation has called for partnerships among professional surveyors and organisations in ensuring the provision of adequate geospatial data for Nigeria. Surveyor-General of the Federation, Abuduganiyu Adebomehin, made the call in Abuja recently while playing host the Chairman, Nigerian Institution of Surveyors, Peter Alonge. Alonge had led the Chairman of the Association of Private Practising Surveyors of Nigeria, Solomon Olutokun, with fresh officials of the FCT Chapter to the Office of the Surveyor-General of the Federation. A statement issued in Abuja by the spokesperson of OSGOF, Abu Michael, stated that the surveyor-general encouraged his guests to consider partnerships when delivering geospatial services to the country. Geospatial data is used to describe data that represents features or objects on the earth’s surface. Whether it is man-made or natural, if it has to do with a specific location on the globe, it is geospatial. The OSGOF statement read in part, “He (Adebomehin) appealed to the NIS, APPSN and other surveying professional bodies to work in tandem with the OSGoF towards providing the Federal Government the requisite geospatial data and models for the planning and implementation of projects for the proper development of the Federal Capital Territory and Nigeria as a whole.” Adebomehin stated that surveying remained an integral factor to the durability of development projects because man would continue to use earthly materials to improve his environment. “Surveying gives man the idea of his landspace, location and quantity of material resources therein to enhance effective planning, utilisation of resources and implementation of projects,” he stated. He stressed that it had been acknowledged that the most developed countries of the world today were the ones that ensured surveying in their development enterprise and placed premium on the use of geospatial data and maps for planning and implementation of projects. Meanwhile, Adebomehin called for the engagement of qualified surveyors in every stage of ongoing projects in the Federal Capital Territory to ensure improvement and durability of projects. He observed that Abuja was still in its first and second stages of development and would require requisite geospatial inputs to achieve the desired infrastructural arrangements and expansion. He said there would be need for the surveying of the entire FCT for effective monitoring of violations against the master plan of the country’s capital and other inimical activities that might frustrate the developmental efforts of government. Alonge and Olutokun commended the vision and efforts of the surveyor-general towards putting the country’s apex surveying and mapping office on world-class pedestal. [ All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com