The Abia State Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Ayinla Taiye Olowo, has charged his Anti-Vandalism Team, to be ruthless with vandals and other economic saboteurs in the state. Ayinla dropped the charge during an important meeting he held with personnel attached to the Command’s AVT at the Command Headquarters in Umuahia on Monday, instructing them to remain focused and committed to carrying out the Corps’ mandates which, among others, include the protection of lives, Critical National Assets and Infrastructure of the government at all levels. “Let me remind us that every nation’s economy sits on its Critical National Assets and infrastructure, hence any attack on the Critical Infrastructure is a direct attack on the economy and this, we must vehemently resist. “The protection of petroleum pipelines, telecommunications infrastructure, power installations and others, remains our core mandates that must be vigorously carried out,” he stated. The State Commandant reiterated the zero-tolerance directives of the Commandant General, Ahmed Abubakar Audi, against all forms of vandalism of petroleum pipelines, bunkering activities and all illegal dealings in petroleum products, stating, “While the Corps has redoubled efforts towards arresting and prosecuting vandals, we will equally not spare any person whose activities are reasonably suspected to be inimical in realizing our mandates.” On the Abia State Government’s directives regarding the disbandment of all Petroleum Taskforce operating in the State, Commandant Ayinla said he had directed his Men to fully enforce it. He added that the officers should not forget to follow the rules of engagement while carrying out their duties to protect the image of the NSCDC. “While I charge you, once again, not only to remain focused but also ruthless to all enemies of our nation’s economy, remember that in carrying out these important directives, rules of engagement must be strictly followed. “The enviable reputation of the Corps earned over the years must be jealousy guarded,” Ayinla added. Finally, he thanked the general public for their confidence in the Corps which reflects in their support by way of providing credible and actionable intelligence information which have enabled many successful arrests of suspects. He appealed further to them to remain reliable partners in the business of providing adequate security to the good people of the state adding that every information received from the public shall be treated with a high level of confidentiality. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com