A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Chief Yomi Aliyyu, has urged members of the public to disregard whatever comment is emanating from Olayomi Koiki and Pelumi Olajengbesi regarding Chief Sunday Adeyemo, aka Sunday Igboho. Aliyyu, who is the counsel for Igboho, said in a statement on Monday that Olajengbesi was never engaged as counsel for Igboho and had no right to speak on his behalf. He explained that Ilana Omo Oodua engaged Olajengbesi to represent the 12 persons arrested by the Department of State Services at Igboho’s house during the bloody raid of July 1, 2021. Based on this, Aliyyu said the lawyer did not have Igboho’s authorisation to speak for him, adding that whatever he said should never be attributed to the Yoruba Nation activist. The counsel also said Koiki’s statements about Igboho should be disregarded because the activist did not ask him to speak for him on any issue. Aliyyu stated, “My attention has been directed by Chief Sunday Adeyemo himself to the online statement of Pelumi Olajengbesi that he has resigned from the legal team of Chief Sunday Adeyemo, aka Igboho Oosa. “I instructed Pelumi Olajengbesi to secure the release of the 12 people arrested in Chief Sunday Adeyemo’s house. I never involved him in Chief Sunday Adeyemo’s matter. Thus, he has a limited brief. “He is at no time counsel for Chief Adeyemo, but rather, it was Ilana Oodua that paid him for the services he rendered to them. Whether he could turn around to condemn the arrow head of those who paid him depends on his conscience. “He knows I turned down their wish to pay me for professional services to Chief Sunday Igboho. Let it be on record that I also condemn the statement of Prof Akintoye that there will not be elections in Ekiti and Osun states. “Justice is not a one way traffic but three-way! One for them; one for the public; and another for the government.” “I seize this opportunity to plead with members of the public to disregard whatever Pelumi Olajengbesi, or Mr Koiki stated to have purportedly emanated from Chief Sunday Adeyemo. They lack the vires to so do! “However, why Pelumi could say anything for the 12, and that will be after clearance from me, which he has not taken in recent times, he has no right to say anything on behalf of Chief Sunday Adeyemo, aka Igboho Oosa, since he is not his counsel, without infringing on rules of professional conduct. “No good counsel does that. Koiki, on his part, can say whatever he likes on behalf of his Ilana Oodua group, but not Chief Sunday Adeyemo! Each of them should be personally held liable for their utterances.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com