Christian Eriksen is set to sign for Brentford on a six-month deal to make a remarkable return to the Premier League, just seven months after suffering a cardiac arrest. Eriksen left Inter Milan last month by mutual consent after being suspended by the Italian medical authority from playing in Serie A due to a rule prohibiting the use of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) device he has had fitted. The 29-year-old was implanted with the ICD after he suffered a cardiac arrest during Denmark’s Euro 2020 match against Finland in Copenhagen. He has completed all the necessary medical checks and is fit to return to football. Eriksen has resumed training in Denmark as part of his rehabilitation after suffering a cardiac arrest at the European Championship. Eriksen has said his heart is “not an obstacle” to get back playing – and in England athletes are given the autonomy to decide themselves whether or not to continue on the balance of risk. It is not illegal in the UK for Eriksen to play with an ICD and he will become the first ever to play with one in the Premier League. Before signing for Brentford, Eriksen had been training just over the border in southern Switzerland and stepped up his preparations for a return last week by training with his former side Ajax. Eriksen will move to Brentford with a strong Danish connection at the club. Manager Thomas Frank and international team-mates Christian Norgaard and Mathias Jensen are among many known to Eriksen. The midfielder will be moving back to London after spending six-and-a-half years at Tottenham before leaving for Inter in 2020. Eriksen revealed earlier this month he “died for five minutes” before being revived by medics, who gave life-saving treatment on the pitch in Copenhagen. He also told Danish broadcaster DR he wants to play at this year’s World Cup. Eriksen said, “My goal is to play in the World Cup in Qatar. I want to play. That’s been my mindset all along. It’s a goal, a dream. “Whether I’ll be picked is another thing, but it’s my dream to come back. “Physically, I’m back in top shape. I want to prove I’ve moved on and that I can play on the national team again. Christian Eriksen insists his ‘heart is not an obstacle’, as he targets a return to football and participation in the Qatar World Cup. “It’s up to the manager to assess my level but my heart is not an obstacle.” Last month, Eriksen’s agent Martin Schoots said the midfielder was “optimistic” about resuming his football career and had been working hard to return to playing.