Fertility experts have urged parents to pay attention to pains their daughters experience during menstruation, noting that it could be an indicator of a more severe health condition known as endometriosis. The experts cautioned parents against ignoring menstrual pain in their teenage children, stressing that it is wrong to assume that such pain is normal. According to the experts, early diagnosis of endometriosis is crucial to the management of the health condition. The experts noted that endometriosis can now be diagnosed in teenagers, adding that the condition is often characterised by lower pelvic pain as well as heavy bleeding during menstrual periods. According to mayoclinic.com – an academic medical center focused on integrated health care, education, and research, endometriosis is an often-painful disorder where tissue similar to the tissue that normally lines the inside of the uterus grows outside of the uterus. It is a disease that affects the reproductive health of a woman. The site noted that endometriosis usually affects ovaries, fallopian tubes as well as the tissue lining the pelvis. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise, the experts, Prof. Oladapo Ashiru, Dr. Faye Iketubosin, and Dr. Mojisola Aderonmu, however, noted that endometriosis can be successfully managed and treated when diagnosed early. Ashiru, who is the Chief Medical Director of the Medical Art Centre Clinic, stated that endometriosis is a condition that affects one in 10 women within the reproductive age, adding that 176 million women are estimated to live with the condition globally. Ashiru noted that endometriosis can be found in 35 to 45 per cent of women who are trying to conceive but are dealing with infertility, noting that It occurs in about 20 per cent -25 per cent of females of the reproductive age (15-45 years). He urged parents to pay attention to the symptoms their teenage daughters have during menstruation. He said, “Endometriosis occurs from the age of 15. It is also true that early diagnosis can help in the management.” Explaining the condition, Ashiru said that endometriosis is the occurrence of tissue that lines the womb outside of the womb which should be its natural place. Ashiru, who is also the president, Academy of Medicine Specialties urged parents to pay attention to the severity of pain their teenage daughter experiences during menstruation as it could be an indicator of the condition.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com