NSIA Insurance Limited says it has launched an initiative, tagged ‘Project Act Together,’ that will improve working relationships and promote cohesion among NSIA subsidiaries in Africa. The company disclosed this during an event in Lagos on Friday where it brought together employees to participate in fun-filled activities. The Managing Director, NSIA Insurance Limited (Nigeria), Ebelechukwu Nwachukwu, said the project aligned with the African Continental Free Trade Agreement’s goal of promoting inter-African trade. According to her, customers can now freely conduct business in any of the 12 African countries where NSIA subsidiaries exist, regardless of their home base. “Project Act Together is a great initiative that will improve working relationships and promote cohesion among NSIA subsidiaries in Africa. NSIA Nigeria will continue to instill the 12 common goals and connect its culture with the group,” she said. She said NSIA Nigeria would continue to instill the 12 common goals and connect its culture with the group. Nwachukwu thanked the company’s employees and insurance brokers for their support. According to the company, the goal of the project is to develop a consistent mindset across all NSIA Group businesses, ensuring that each subsidiary will be well-positioned for success. It said the individuals and subsidiaries within NSIA Group would combine their distinct talents to propel the business. The company said the project began with a message from the Group President, Jean Diagou, on January 4, 2022, adding that he disclosed 2021 accomplishments and 2022 goals to NSIA subsidiaries across Africa. NSIA Insurance Limited (Nigeria) is part of NSIA Participations, which is currently present in 12 African countries, namely Benin, Cameroon, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Mali, Nigeria, Senegal and Togo. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com