The Ohanaeze Ndigbo has expressed disappointment and worry over the low turnout of people for the voter registration in the South-East. The region recorded the lowest turnout among the six geopolitical zones during the voter registration conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission. According to the new voter registration figures, the South-East had only 302,595 newly registered voters, which is about 30 per cent compared to other regions. Speaking to our correspondent in Awka on Wednesday, the Vice-President, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Okeke-Ogene Damian, said Biafra agitation and distrust in the country’s leadership structure might have caused the people to show apathy toward the exercise. Damian lamented that despite efforts by Ohanaeze and critical leaders of the region to encourage the people to participate in the voter registeration, many people still did not register. He said although, Nigerians had lost confidence in the country’s leadership, the Igbo, no matter the problems, should do whatever was necessary at any given time. He added that as long as the Igbo were still part of Nigeria, they should wake up, register and get ready to vote. Damian also advised INEC to embrace electronic processes, saying that people should be able to register anywhere and vote from anywhere. He said, “It is an unfortunate that the last time they did the registration, people because of agitation, disturbed the process and after that, our people are still showing apathy to the voter registration. It is a real setback amd it is worrisome. “Although, you can’t rule out the effect of Biafra agitation in all of this, and definitely, with what is going on in Nigeria, not only in the South-East, the country’s leadership has not encouraged the people that there is a Nigeria that they will like to belong to. “But for now, the Igbo, no matter the problems, should always do whatever that is necessary. And my advice is that as long as they are still in Nigeria, the Igbo should wake up, go and register and get ready to vote. Also, note that the Igbo are the most travelled ethnic group in the country, so those areas you think have more registered voters may actually be Igbo, but our worry is that they should be more politically involved in their region.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com