A group of multidisciplinary biomedical and healthcare researchers have developed the candidate vaccine for Cholera. The team led by the acting Head of Department, Microbiology, Adeleke University, Ede, Dr Oladipo Kolawole, is under the coordination of  the Vice-Chancellor, Precious Cornerstone University, Ibadan, Prof. Julius Oloke, Deputy Coordinators;  Prof. Olubukola Oyawoye of Federal University, Oye Ekiti and Prof. Olatunji Kolawole of University of Ilorin. Kolawole, who is the founder of Helix Biogen Institute, said the methodology and the validation processes using artificial intelligence had been submitted to peer review journal, saying it was currently under review. He said the whole process took place at the research laboratory of Helix Biogen Institute, Ogbomoso, adding that  the candidate vaccine had been fully developed but lack of fund was a major challenge to progress to the preclinical stage. Kolawole revealed that it was the same team members that developed the candidate vaccine for COVID-19 in Nigeria which was captured by World Health Organisation. He stressed,  “The team would have completed the animal trial (pre-clinical) and partner with international organisation to start the clinical trial ( the stage of using humans) once it passes the preclinical stage (safety and immunogenicity). “Though the speed of this work is dependent on the availability of funds through donations, grants and investors. Funding has been the major challenge the research group is facing, only few individuals’ support / fund research and development in Nigeria. “The team is experienced based on the completion of the animal trial of the candidate vaccine for COVID-19 which is promising. The team is dedicated to solving many problems in the health sector as much as possible.” “Cholera is a waterborne disease, whereby the risk of transmission is higher when there is poor sanitation and disruption of clean water supply. “The water-borne disease is characterised by sudden onset of profuse watery diarrhoea, this can in turn lead to sudden death as a result of dehydration, if not managed on time,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com