A former governor of Enugu State and Senator representing Enugu East in the Senate, Dr Chimaroke Nnamani, on Wednesday, reiterated that it was the prerogatives of the state Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, to produce his successor. Nnamani, who stated this in a statement, maintained that it was the precedent for the incumbent governor of the state to determine his successor since 1999. The former governor in a statement said that Enugu State is among the few states in the country that enjoyed political harmony on account of adherence to zoning or rotation of key political offices among the three senatorial districts, especially the governorship seat since 1999. He said “We have a tradition in Enugu State politics: The governor is the leader who directs affairs. He will determine who succeeds him without compromising the electoral processes and whomever he chooses will be our next governor. “I have absolute loyalty and respect for my governor who is also the leader of the Ebeano political family. He has demonstrated capacity and leadership. We are waiting for him to lead the way to go in 2023 and we shall follow”. Senator Nnamani from Enugu East was the governor from 1999 to 2007, while Sullivan Chime from Enugu West took over from 2007 to 2015 and the incumbent governor from Enugu North is expected to complete the cycle in 2023. It is expected that the governorship slot would return to Enugu East for the second round of the rotation in 2023. The statement noted that all the aspirants belonged to the Ebeano political family. Nnamani added, “One hundred per cent of them are my primary, secondary and by-products. Some may have a close affinity with me which explains the understandable speculations on whom I may be supporting. But it is the governor that will choose his successor. The political machinery in the state, including the Ebeano family, will be rolled out to support whomever he chooses. “I advise those fanning the embers of war to sheathe their swords because there is no war to be fought. We are one family, whoever emerges will be governor for all. “No matter the machinations, conspiracies and subterfuges over the governorship primary of our party, we will have a successful transition under the leadership and guidance of our governor.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com