The Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union, has called for the establishment of the implementation committee for the newly upgraded Adeyemi University of Education. A member the House of Representatives, Abiola Makinde, representing Ondo West/Ondo East Federal Constituency had recently announced that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had assented to the bill that upgraded the institution to a university, after the bill had been passed into law by the House of Representatives . To this end, COASU urged the Minister for Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, not to allow the upgrade to negatively affect its members who were already staffs of the institution before the upgrade. This was contained in a letter issued by the Secretary General, Dr Ahmed Lawan to the minister. The letter was made available to journalists in Akure, on Sunday. The COEASU, in the letter said, “The union received the news of the upgrade of the Adeyemi College of Education by the Federal Government. The upgrade confirms its insistence that most colleges of education in Nigeria are qualified for upgrade to degree-awarding status.” “The history of conversion of colleges of education to universities by state governments has left sour tastes in the mouths of staff as existing staff members were whimsically downgraded and new staff drawn from the university sector were imposed on the system,” the union said. It stressed that such a tendency has resulted in frustration and untimely death of affected staff members. To forestall such a development, COEASU appealed to the minister of Education to empanel a “transition committee that comprises critical stakeholders to work out the implementation so that our members will not be short changed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com