As the January Transfer Window across Europe comes to a close on Monday (today), KELVIN EKERETE writes about how Nigerian players fared in the transfer market Maduka Okoye (Sparta to Watford) Okoye became the first Nigerian to make a move in the transfer window after completing a five-year deal from Dutch Eredivisie side Sparta Rotterdam to English Premier League club Watford for £5.1m in November. The goalkeeper was immediately loaned back to Sparta till the end of the season before returning to the EPL club. He will be an immediate replacement for Ben Foster, whose contract comes to an end in the summer. Innocent Bonke (Malmo to Lorient) After an impressive performance for Malmo FC in the Swedish topflight and the Champions League, Nigerian midfielder Bonke was snapped up by Ligue 1 strugglers Lorient on a free transfer on a three-year deal to help them salvage their season. Bonke completed his move on January 18, after Lorient agreed terms with the player and Malmo. The 26-year-old, who has been capped twice by the Super Eagles, made a total of 92 appearances for Malmo, providing an assist. Samuel Kalu (Bordeaux to Watford) Super Eagles winger Kalu completed a €3m deal to join English Premier League strugglers, Watford, on a three-and-half-year deal from French Ligue 1 side Bordeaux on January 26. The 24-year-old winger was deemed surplus to requirements as Bordeaux worked on reducing their wage bill and getting new players to continue their Ligue 1 survival push. Kalu had been a subject of transfer speculations in the past and had also seen his play time at the club reduce this season. He scored one goal and provided one assist in the 11 games he played for the team in the 2021/22 season. Overall, he scored 10 goals and provided eight assists in 86 games across all competitions for Bordeaux, during his over three-year stint at the French side. Odion Ighalo (Al Shabab to Al-Hilal) Super Eagles striker, Odion Ighalo, completed a shock move from Al Shabab to rivals, Al-Hilal, on a one-and-a-half year deal on January 29. The Nigerian striker spent 11 months at Al Shabab, having joined the Saudi Arabian league side in February 2021. Before his departure, Ighalo scored 13 league goals in 19 appearances in the ongoing 2021/22 league season. John Ogu (Hapoel Nof HaGalil) After being inactive for over a year, Nigeria midfielder Ogu returned to club football joining Israeli Premier League club Hapoel Nof HaGalil. Ogu is a cult hero figure at Hapoel Be’er Sheva after helping the club claim three league championships in his earlier spell in Israel. He last played for Saudi Arabian club Al-Adalah FC in 2020. Ahmad Abubakar (Trencin to Liberec) Former Nigeria U-20 forward Abubakar signed a two-year deal with Czech Republic side Slovan Liberec from Slovak club AS Trencin on January 27. The former MFM FC player spent the last two seasons at AS Trencin and is set to join his new side next week. Ogenyi Onazi (Al-Adalah FC) After terminating his contract with Turkish Super Lig side Denizlispor on December 9, Nigerian midfielder Onazi joined Saudi Arabian side Al-Adalah FC on a short term deal for an undisclosed fee on January 21. The former Lazio midfielder is currently valued at €200,000. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com