A former Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister for Justice, Kanu Agabi (SAN), has called on the Federal Government to stop interfering with pending proceedings in the appeal filed by a formal acting Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency, Ambassador Mohammed Dauda, challenging his removal and dismissal. Agabi, who is Dauda’s counsel, made the request in a letter dated January 1, 2022 and addressed to the AGF, Abubakar Malami (SAN); Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; and the Department of State Services. In the letter obtained by journalists on Thursday Agabi said Dauda had, after his removal from office subsequent dismissal from service, challenged the decision at the National Industrial Court in Abuja. He said the court, on October 15, 2020 adjudged the plaintiff’s dismissal as unlawful and ordered his immediate reinstatement. Agabi said the NIA and its present DG appealed the judgment. He said, “As the Attorney-General is well aware, appeal does not stay execution and so the judgment of the Industrial Court is valid and subsisting and all authorities are required by law to give effect to the judgment. “There is no application for stay of execution but even if such an application were pending, it would not operate to our client in a position worse than he was before the delivery of the judgment in his favour. “Despite the two appeals at the instance of the NIA, the Nigerian media space is consistently awash with news reports suggestive of attempts by the NIA to compromise the personal liberty of our client on account of these appeals and or matters connected thereto. “Arising from the above, we hereby appeal that the Attorney-General sees to it that the sanctity of the pending judicial process are not compromised by the NIA, acting either by itself or through any of its sister agencies by arresting, attempting to arrest or by whatsoever means compromising the personal liberty of our client on account of these appeals and or matters connected thereto.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com