Governor of Bayelsa State, Douye Diri, and his major contender for the Peoples Democratic Party’s ticket in the 2019 governorship election, Timi Alaibe, have resolved their political differences and resolved to work together for the development of the state. It was gathered on Monday that Diri and Alaibe, both political associates of over two decades from the same Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government Area, embraced peace at a reconciliation meeting held at the Government House in Yenagoa on Sunday. Diri is a prominent member of Alaibe’s political structure since 2002, and worked for his governorship ambition in 2003, 2007 and 2011. Alaibe, the pioneer presidential adviser on Niger Delta Affairs and coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, was accompanied to the parley by a former Minister of Transport, Abiye Sekibo, and a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Austin Opara. The two serving members of the state House of Assembly from Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA, Tonye Isenah and Wisdom Fafi; managing director of Bayelsa Electricity Company, Olice Kemenanabo, Principal Secretary, Government House, Irorodamie Komonibo and one Moa Anyamah, were among those who joined the governor to receive Alaibe. The duo fell apart after the PDP primary election in which Diri emerged the party’s candidate among 20 aspirants, including Alaibe, that contested the party’s governorship ticket. Alaibe, a former managing director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, rejected the result and challenged the result in a pre-election case he filed and pursued to the Supreme Court where it was dismissed. Miffed at Alaibe’s action even after he was sworn in as governor of Bayelsa and despite overtures made to him, Diri in strong terms publicly condemned his opponent’s determination to derail his victory. The development, however, strained their political and brotherly relationship and Alaibe kept a long distance from the state and the Diri-led administration since its inauguration on February 14, 2020, until the peace meeting on Sunday. There are speculations that Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike and ‘some friends’ might have brokered peace between Diri and Alaibe when he visited the former in Yenagoa on January 10. One of those present at the peace meeting, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that Alaibe acknowledged the several years of relationship with Diri in their political journey. He said they embraced each after the reconciliation. He quoted the ex-NDDC boss as saying that he had returned to fully support his brother to succeed as governor, noting that power comes from God. “We are one people, we know ourselves and I am happy to see these faces with the governor here. I am here to support my brother for us to move Bayelsa State forward. The development of this state should be our interest,” the source quoted Alaibe as saying. The source further said on his part, Diri commended his friends from Rivers State who made the reconciliation possible, stating that he and Alaibe shared a common vision as sons of the same council area. He was also quoted to have described the reunion as historic and lauded Alaibe for the courage shown in his desire for peace to reign between them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com