The Governor of Sokoto, Aminu Tambuwal, has called on Nigerians and those in the ruling All Progressives Congress who are patriotic enough to join the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party, in its determination to rescue Nigeria. Tambuwal, Chairman of the PDP Governors Forum, said this at the gala night event hosted by the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, for PDP governors at the Banquet Hall of Government House, Port Harcourt, on Sunday night. He said the PDP governors and other party leaders are already working in synergy towards rebuilding the party. “All Nigerians of goodwill who believe in this country, who believe Nigeria is going the wrong direction, ought to join us. “And like I always say, there are two divides in Nigeria today. Those who are happy with the confusion because they are benefiting from what is happening at the centre, and those of us who are truly patriotic enough to disagree with the way our country is being governed and being run.” “I appeal and beseech every Nigerian, even those in APC that are patriotic enough to join hands with us as we continue to march towards rescuing Nigeria together. “I believe it is our responsibility to do so, not for ourselves but for our younger ones and generation unborn,” Tambuwal said. Also speaking, the National Chairman of the PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, said poor leadership has presented Nigeria at home and abroad as an extremely divided country. He said the leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress has been unable to harness the rich diversity of Nigerians into better fortunes that should strengthen the bond of brotherhood and promote peaceful coexistence. Governors present at the gala night were, Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri (Adamawa), Udom Emmanuel (Akwa Ibom), Mohammed Bala (Bauchi), Samuel Ortom (Benue), Seyi Makinde (Oyo) and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu). Also in attendance were the Deputy Governors of Rivers and Zamfara, Dr Ipalibo Harry-Banigo and Mahdi Aliyu Mohammed Gusau; PDP national secretary, Senator Sam Anyanwu and several other dignitaries. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com