The Gbagyi community, in the Kagarko Local Government Area of Kaduna State, commended Governor Nasir el-Rufai over creation of Dnata Chiefdom. Recall that Dnata Community was under the Jere Chiefdom before its pronouncement as a Chiefdom by the Kaduna State Governor on 1st November 2021. The Local Government Chairman, Nasara Rabo, conveyed the Governor’s message, in a letter during a meeting held yesterday at Gujeni community, the proposed headquarters of the chiefdom. He explained that the action followed consideration of an earlier request for two decades by the community and the need to strengthened peaceful coexistence. Rabo Urged the Gbagyi community to look for a credible person who will uphold the principles of culture and pursue peaceful coexistence by bringing all people and ethnic groups within its domain together. He applauded the people for their resilience in the search for proper representation and their display of unity. He advised that the contest for the chieftaincy should be devoid of rancour but play within the ambit of the law. The council Chairman, while expressing confidence in the kingmakers, urged them to use their power in providing credible leaders after which the State Governor would make his final decision. Chairman, Gbagyi elders forum, Dr Philemon Ahmed, explained that the new Chiefdom was separated by the rivers within the boundaries of Jere and Tafa between Kaduna and Niger state. He said, “The creation of the Chiefdom with its proposed headquarters at the historic town of Gujeni would give the Dnata community a sense of recognition and belonging at this level of grassroots administration and traditional governance. “The people are constrained of words of immense gratitude to the present administration of Governor Nasir el-Rufai for the bold decision and the willpower to create the long-awaited Chiefdom,” he added. He said the Gbagyi people in Kagarko Local Government have been yearning for the Dnata Chiefdom for two decades. The Chairman Gbagyi Development Union Kagarko Chapter, John Bako, expressed gratitude to God and the state government for taking the bold step in creating the chiefdom. Bako added that all the ethnic nationalities have been living peacefully and will continue to do so and advised those seeking to occupy the seat not to make it a do or die affair. While applauding the governor for bringing their son, the Executive Chairman, and others to the political limelight through his tutelage, he promised that the community would continue to live in peace and harmony. “We want to assure the governor of our resolve and pledge to do everything humanly possible to live in harmony, ensure fairness, equity and justice, promote peace, growth and development of our community, the state and the nation,” he promised. The PUNCH reports that there are 5 ruling houses in the area, which are Kagumi, Gujeni, Idda Dulumi, and Chakunwo. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com