The Niger State Police Command has blamed the rough terrain and lack of communication network for the delay in giving out information about the attack by gunmen in the Nakundna and Wurukuchi communities of the Shiroro Local Government Area of the state, which occurred five days ago. The Public Relations Officer of the command, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, also said 13 persons were killed by the gunmen in the attack and not 37 as earlier reported. Abiodun stated these in a statement made available to our correspondent in Minna on Thursday. “The attention of the command has been drawn to reports that 37 persons were killed in Nakundna and Wurukuchi communities, Shiroro LGA, which are untrue,” he said. He stated that the attack occurred around 10am on Monday when suspected bandits attacked farmers, who were harvesting their farm produce. Abiodun said, “The command wishes to state that on January 10, 2022 around 10am, suspected bandits/terrorists attacked some villagers, who were harvesting crops in their farm at Nakundna village near Kaure in the Shiroro LGA, and unfortunately, 13 persons lost their lives as a result of the attack. “Details of the incident were not immediately available due to the rough terrain and lack of communication network in the area.” He assured residents of the state that the police and other security agencies would not relent in the ongoing onslaught against bandits and other forms of criminality in the state. It will be recalled that a resident of one of the communities attacked said 10 members of the same family were killed, while corpses of 24 others were found in bushes. The resident also stated that barns and houses that accommodated over 200 villagers were burnt down, adding that some of the local vigilantes were also abducted by the bandits. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com