Rivet Software limited, a subsidiary of Inlaks, and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators has launched a capacity development and learning management system, called ‘Skilldorm’. The organisations described Skilldorm as an e-learning marketing place for professional bodies to accommodate their members all over the world for their personal growth, development and sustenance. At the launch in Lagos, the Managing Director, Inlaks, Kyari Bukar, represented by the Executive Director, Femi Muraino, said the platform was designed to cater to every professional body desiring to increase its value through its members. He said, “The platform is for professional bodies to reach out to members to keep learning. It is also open for the public who want to add value to themselves in different professions. “As an information technology solution provider, we are poised to provide solution to anyone who wish to be at pace with trends in the knowledge industry.” The President/Chairman of Council, ICSAN, Taiwo Owokalade, described the system as a platform to reach out to its members all over the world as its members keep learning and relearning to add value to themselves and the institute. He said, “Skilldorm is an avenue to accommodate members and other non-members to do some courses and our mandatory continuous development programme. “We are a forward-looking governance and training institute. It’s going to be a game-changer for us to expand our network. We want to keep pace with the future needs for capacity building to match up with future challenges.” The General Manager, Rivet, Tony Ayoko, said that Skilldorm is a platform where professionals could access courses of their institutions and institutes from anywhere in the world. He said, “We partner with professional bodies to reach out to their members and design contents according to their unique needs. “It is a B2C platform, but we are doing it as an indirect B2C through a B2B model. Every course study you see on the platform is tailored according to the needs of each professional body.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com