The Founder and President, Moahz Group Of Companies, Dr. Ojo Abdulqadir, says the proposed fuel subsidy removal by the Federal Government will significantly increase Nigeria’s hardship index. As a result, he said the planned fuel subsidy removal should be strategically implemented in a manner that would not plunge more Nigerians into unprecedented levels of economic hardship. Abdulqadir made this known in a statement on Sunday. According to him, the planned subsidy removal is a major decision that will weigh heavily on all Nigerians regardless of their economic or social status, warning that the downsides may inevitably outweighs its benefits. The statement read in part, “The governments’ involvement in a major economic determinant like petroleum is pivotal to how well the country and economy functions. “This issue of petroleum subsidy removal, I believe should be strategically deployed to avoid panic and diffuse all agitations from the stakeholders that are acutely affected. “Yes, there have been initiatives and interventions to defray the impending shock of subsidy removal, but are these solutions being deployed on their merits? “The CBN gas intervention fund has been touted by the handlers since its roll-out. The potential for this programme is yet unmet, as there are still no commercially viable alternatives to allow the market forces achieve proper equilibrium when petrol subsidy is totally removed. All of that shock is transferred directly to the masses, hence the resultant agitation and panic. “In my opinion, government should not in right judgement increase the hardship index of the country as an increase in fuel prices translates directly to increased cost of survival in Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com