Olusola Owonikoko, the President of the Carrington Fellowship Network, in this interview, she tells GRACE EDEMA the importance of youth participation in political leadership among sundry issues In politics, why does old generation hold tightly to power? The first is that I don’t think  the people in the old generation truly understand what the power of the young people is and as such the power and the things young people can do have been grossly underestimated. The second part  is many of these older people do not have an alternative so they  are stuck in position of power.  If you take politics away from them, what would they do? So it is their career. It is the only thing they know how to do, but in  many other developed climes, you see professionals in government positions such that when those positions are no longer there, they return to their professions. Telling them to leave power  to younger people is a threat to their livelihood. How can we address this? We should promote people who are professionals. We should promote people who have skills; who have capacity; who have a lot more things to contribute to power. That way, it is easy for people to see that politicking is just one of their options and they can do some other things.  The other part of it is that some of these  are sometimes not given. They  have to be taken and I think that is where it is important for young people to begin to organise and form strong agencies  that can respectfully challenge the older generation. How can young people be ready for leadership?  How can they take over leadership productively? So, again I want to start by saying my own emphasis is not always on young people just taking power but more about competent people taking power.  The question is, the young people that we are clamouring for, are they exactly competent? Let me speak on how we can prepare competent young people. The first one I think is for us to get economic power, many of us that are going to school, just graduating. What have we built? What have we done? What opportunity have we harnessed? Have we even taken leadership position in our community, in our school?  Have we leveraged that? Have we got the practice? Have we exercised some of the things, ideals that we hold in our heads? So, it is important that we equip ourselves economically and in skills and competence, getting training, getting mentorship. Sometimes, it is not just about older people relinquishing power, it is also more about we learning, connecting with them, bridging it and everybody knowing that there are places for wisdom, old time wisdom and there are places for foresight which many young people have because we belong to this generation.  What is more important is a collaborative efforts where both the young and the old come together based on competence to create policies that affect everybody.  If you give every position to young people, we might be in trouble just as we have given most of the positions to older people and we are already in trouble. The point is inclusive participation; giving young people more seats at the table because they are the trustees of posterity. Most of decisions that are made today, all these loans that we are collecting as a country, young people will suffer  for them. Why did you say young people will suffer the loans Nigeria is collecting? If an 80 or 70 years old man takes loans that will take 30 years to repay, in another 10 years the man is out of service, retired or may even be dead, who is alive to keep paying the loans? It is we young people that we are still alive for the next 60, 30,40 years. It is we that our future labour is already taken from us as dividends or repayment of loans that sometimes we are not beneficiaries of. Somebody  in a position is 70 years old, takes a loan of N50bn,  plans to pay back in 10 years, in another one or two years he is out of power.  He is back in his house. It is actually a phenomenon called moral hazard; when you take actions that you are not responsible for the consequence and that is the case of Nigeria. That is why young people have to be at the helm of affairs so that if they take such loans, then they know they have benefited from them. There will be elections next year.  What  should the youth  look out for when electing  candidates? When we talk about a leader, like I said earlier, age is important but it is not everything. We should not be deceived by those who come in the name of youthfulness or who come as young people rather we should focus on those who are  competent. Competence is recognisable and commendable either it comes in a young age or old age. I think the number one quality we should look  for is competence and how do we find competence? by asking questions. What exactly do you have to offer? And of course we have to critically examine their responses within historical perspective. So, somebody who has previously been in position and has messed things up cannot come and bring  a paper plan to us and present it as competence.  We cannot ignore that critical aspect of what has been done previously. Do you think Nigerian youths are ready for leadership positions, especially political leadership? I will say it’s a yes and no. Are there competent, highly competent young Nigerians? Yes. Are there also highly incompetent young Nigerians? Yes.  But you see,  the way politics has been structured, it is difficult for an average Nigerian to step in and the journey to having young people at the helm of affairs is not going to be a short term journey. It is a long term journey. If you’re looking for any drastic change in 2023, I don’t think that will happen. What we can do is to start building up. Can we have more young people joining politics? You see, there are several ways we can influence politics. There are positional leadership. What is even more important is for more young people to take part  in  party politics so at the end of the day we would be presented with two or three choices to vote for.  We have been told that our permanent voter cards are our power, but in reality, where decisions are made is at the primaries of political parties because who you vote for is who is presented to you by the parties.  It is at the primaries we all decide who we will be presented to Nigerians.  I think one of the biggest ways we can influence things is if we have many young people en masse joining political parties and demanding  changes. We have value problem in the country, especially with young people. How do you think this can be tackled? The way we have behaved all our lives cannot be changed overnight. It’s going to take time. You know, many of these wrong values that young people have, have been worsened by poverty, unemployment.  I don’t think anything drastic would happen in 2023. However, we must learn to lay the foundation, continue to build on it.  When we are choosing the next set of leaders, can we have a youth agenda which I think EndSARS started, but was not able to complete. We need a youth agenda.  We need to be able to say that in the next four years, whoever is going to be president must do certain things.  I think priority of those things should be more investments in education, more investments in ICT and technology, more investments in employment, entrepreneurship and innovation so that we can build young people that are truly equipped; more investments in security.  An average young Nigerian does not feel secured.  We need to invest in those things so that young Nigerians  can have peace of mind, get the best of education, be able to participate in global innovation and use technology to drive things. When we do this, our value system would gradually be impacted because poverty as a motivator will be removed, unemployment as a determinant of values will be addressed and it will only be a matter of time because value and culture cannot be addressed at once. What advice do you have for youths on political leadership? So my advice will be in three parts. The first one is for us to get power and by power not necessarily political power for a start. Let’s get economic power. Let’s get intellectual power.  Let’s get social power, social network. With these, we would be better positioned to get political power because that is where we are going but trying to get political power for a start without necessarily putting in place the intellectual, economic, media and social power would be a wasted effort. Then two, let’s participate en masse, let’s see what we can do in our local government areas.  Do you have an idea for an organisation that can drive participation.  Let’s do something.  It’s not just enough for us to speak from afar. Then I think the third part is for us to understand that being young is not necessarily an advantage if we do not leverage it; being young is not an automatic advantage.  It is what we are able to do with it that is important and in that light it is important. You are the president of the Carrington Fellowship Network, tell us more about it The Carrington Fellowship is a United States funded programme that is focused on training young people in Nigeria, young Nigerians and positioning them for leadership in the private sector, public sector and civil society sector and  we use  different approaches. Number one is in-class training, our fellows basically go through a one year fellowship programme where they learn from people. The second one is mentorship. Mentorship usually from US Consulate network including Americans and Nigerians and then the third part is, the US Consulate also make grand funding available and by extension our partners. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com