Gombe State Governor,  Muhammadu Yahaya, on Thursday, witnessed activities in the Nigerian pavilion at the ongoing EXPO 2020, holding in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The activities were aimed at attracting investors to Nigeria. The Expo 2020 is an exhibition of industrial goods and services, which is meant to last from October 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022. It was originally scheduled for October 20, 2020 to 10 April 2021, but was later postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The President, Maj-Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had in December, 2021 led a Nigerian delegation to Dubai to attend Nigeria Day. Buhari also participated in a trade and investment forum where he stressed the need to reinforce partnerships to limit the catastrophic consequences of the global surge in cases of COVID-19. According to a statement by the Director, Press, Gombe Government House, Ismaila Misilli, there are over 20 different minerals and agricultural produce from Gombe on display at the Nigerian pavilion in Dubai. The statement read in part, “During the visit Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, interacted with the Nigerian officials as well as some prospective investors with Gombe State’s potentials in agric entreprenuership, agro-allied processing and marketing brought to the fore. “Especially with the establishment of the Muhammadu Buhari Industrial Park in Dadinkowa, located within the vicinity of the completed hydropower plant, which already has 40 megawatts of power. “The project has been described as big attraction for investors and industrialists, as the zone boasts of fertile agricultural land and other natural resources.” The EXPO 2020 Dubai, which has the theme, “Connecting Minds, Creating the Future”, provided the opportunity for Nigeria, state governments and organisations to build meaningful partnerships for the betterment of their people. . Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com