Former President Olusegun Obasanjo will lead farmers across the 36 states of the federation to attend the maiden edition of Nigerian Agricultural Mechanisation Exhibition 2022 holding in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. The convener of the exhibition, Paul Hephzibah, disclosed this on Tuesday at a press briefing held in Abeokuta ahead of the event. He said the exhibition was put together by Hephzibah Nigeria Limited to serve as a platform for global key players in the agricultural mechanisation space to collaborate and deliver solutions to help Nigerian farmers leverage technology for food production. According to him, the theme of the event is Redefining agricultural mechanisation to enhance food security and boost agribusiness’. Hephzibah said the programme was organised to address the gap between peasant farmers and mechanised farming. According to him, Obasanjo is expected to deliver a keynote address while other stakeholders in the agribusiness, including the World Bank, the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, 36 state governments and Tractor Owners and Hiring Facilities Association of Nigeria, among others, are also expected at the exhibition. He lamented that Nigeria had not been able to attain food sufficiency because of lack of government funding for mechanised farming. He said, “Despite decades of immense expenditures and investments into agriculture in terms of funding and inputs distribution by the federal and state governments, international agencies and non-governmental organisations, the average Nigerian farmer remains an indigent serf, regarded by today’s youths as a dreadful anachronism. “Agricultural industry, though highly rich and potentially endowed with capacity to employ large number of unemployed youths from the labour market, has been paralysed through carelessness and lack of right approach. “The international development partners are not successful with their various support and intervention programmes on agriculture because the implementation lacks the engagement of the major driver, mechanisation. Nigerians have continuously and unconsciously enriched the businesses of other nations and their farmers by importing much of her food and agricultural raw materials into the country while the aged and the ageing farmers are left as peasant farmers in their localities. “Without a genuine discovery of sustainable agricultural mechanisation services, well designed to be suitable for our agricultural sector, the continued importation of foods and raw materials for industrial uses will persist and create more paralysis to the economy of the country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com