Air traffic engineers under the aegis of the National Association of Air Traffic Engineers have issued one-week ultimatum to the management of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, stating their intention to embark on industrial action over issues affecting condition of service. The development came barely one week after the NAMA management reportedly increased the emolument of air traffic controllers. To forestall industrial unrest, the Managing Director of NAMA, Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, was said to have met with several groups with a view to resolving the issue. The PUNCH could not confirm if the matter had been resolved as of the time of filing this report. In a notice to all the NAAE chapters, the Secretary-General, Ishaya Akaaba, stated that “subject to the one week notice of commencement of industrial action issued to NAMA management on January 4, 2022, all NAAE chapters are reminded to immediately organise emergency meetings to sensitise and mobilize or members in line with the issues of great concern discussed at the emergency NAAE NEC meeting of Tuesday, January 4th, 2022.” Akaaba said the failure of the NAMA management to “holistically and expediently address their demands that are similar to that of air traffic controllers” had drawn an outrage among its personnel. The group, as part of their demand, proposed Air Traffic Safety Electronics Personnel Professional Allowances and radiation allowance. It also proposed an increase of remuneration of ATSEPs on contract. It was learnt that the engineers became angry over the decision of the NAMA management to raise the conditions of service of air traffic controllers without extending same to them. The annual aero-medical allowance for air traffic controllers has been increased from #200,000 to #500,000 with effect from January 2022, according to findings. The monthly remuneration of air traffic controllers, who are on contract, has also been increased from the present #400,000 to #580,000, with effect from January 2022. Also approved is that all ATC officers are to be registered on the gold plan of the customised NAMA NHIS which is to be implemented soonest. Management has concluded plans to engage the services of a specialist to evaluate and define the type and level of risks or hazards that controllers and other technical staff are exposed to in order to consider an appropriate allowance as well as mitigation methods. This, NAMA noted is to be done in conjunction with the NATCAs’ committee. The engineers appear to be fighting to get the NAMA management to improve their condition of service. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com