Nollywood actress, Adebimpe Oyebade, recently spoke on her marriage with actor Adedimeji Lateef, stating that she didn’t see it coming. The new Mrs Adedimeji took to her Instagram page on Friday night to give a recap of how 2021 went down for her. The actress had married Adedimeji in a star-studded event on December 22, 2021 held in Lagos. Recounting her 2021 experience, she wrote, “Let’s talk about 2021, shall we? “The plan was always to be happy, to do me regardless and live above inhibitions but I wasn’t prepared for the twist, I prayed for the rain and then I saw hurricane, I prayed for the sun and before I knew it, there was a wild fire, Omo I didn’t even know what to believe. “So there was All my life and that one time, there were people’s projects and trust me to give my all, there were stories on blogs and I didn’t even know how to react, but I started the year 2021 as MISS OYEBADE and I ended the year as MRS ADEDIMEJI … believe me I didn’t see that coming. “Sometime in MARCH, it became more clearer to me that my best friend wanted more, dude was relentless, he knew what he wanted and as childish as I was, he was patient, it was a no brainer, I gave love a chance and today I’m happy for it.” Celebrating her husband, she said, “I love you today and a day after forever, you’re the real definition of skin deep happiness and I promise to be your girl everyday and three times on Sundays, thank you for everything especially for making me laugh foolishly. I’m glad were locked together forever. ” Speaking on the new year, the newly wed said, “Hello 2022, I’m ready. I’m married but I’m also gingered to be the best version of me. I have my husband as my number one fan, I’m ready for the grind.” Few days after the wedding, celebrity stylist and designer, Toyin Lawani, revealed that actress Toyin Abraham paid millions for Adebimpe’s wedding dress. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com