Nollywood actress, Kemi Afolabi, has revealed how she prepared for death after being diagnosed with incurable disease. In a statement via her Instagram page on Friday, the actress stated that she wrote her Will and booked a space with a funeral ground after her diagnosis. She wrote, “I wrote my will and booked a space with ebony vault this year 2021 but God showed me how faithful he is despite my unfaithfulness. “Who am I that God is so mindful of my existence? Me ordinary sand? That was toss around from my private hospital to LASUTH, to Army barracks hospital WAEC and finally LUTH where I spent over three months! “I did COVID-19 test every 48hrs at LASUTH emergency because I was short of breath, was on oxygen for about a month, still no diagnosis after several test conducted. “Only a mad man says there is no God. I sold my properties after spending all my savings because I knew the thoughts of bringing my condition to the public eye or beg for funds at the time will kill me faster! “Finally, I was diagnosed of a condition that has no cure but can be managed by medications and takes me in and out of the hospital at will (SLE). “Fluid blocked my lungs, affected my heart from functioning well which was the reason for my breathlessness and that is caused by the condition diagnosed! Surgery was the only option to drain out the fluid fast. “My life has changed forever but I am thankful, I am still breathing. “Being in an industry that places high value on appearance, it’s been a struggle taking medications that’s helps ease the pains but affect my weight and people will constantly remind you of how FAT you’ve become without hesitations. “The year 2021 has been tough! but with God showing up for me and some special people by my side, I made it through.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com