A clinical psychologist, Dr Oluwafisayo Adebimpe, has lamented the impact of bullying on schoolchildren. Adebimpe, in an interview with our correspondent on Tuesday, said being bullied in school could lead to poor academic performance, anxiety, depression, fear and apprehension. “It can cause social phobia; school phobic; some students will develop anti-social personality traits. If aggressive behaviour persists they can develop into criminality, sexual harassment and death of the victims. “Bullying is a repeated aggressive behaviour, intended to harm another person or group of people. It can be physical assault, teasing, making threats, name-calling, exclusion of an individual from any form of group without any concrete or justifiable reason, disseminating false rumours and malicious information about a person in order to demean, damage to property or schoolwork. “The victim encounter face to face aggression with persistent humiliation, they are being ridiculed or criticised in front of others, picking on one person,  the self-esteem are being undermined by belittling them or putting them down. The individuals bullied are deliberately left out of discussions or decisions,” Adebimpe said. The expert added that expression of anger or frustration due to problems from the home could be part of the reasons behind bullying in schools. “There are certain reasons which can explain why bullying happens. Children and adults can be bullied for a number of reasons. Many have been bullied themselves. Sometimes it can be an expression of anger or frustration due to problems they have, such as problems at home or struggling at school or work. “The behaviour can be exhibited as a form maladaptive coping mechanism. A lot of children are growing up with resentment, parental deprivation and neglect which can hinder their relationship with others children whom they feel are more opportune in the area of parent-child bonding. They eventually become threatened with the affection their counterparts are receiving. “Rather than embracing, some may start throwing tantrums and becomes vindictive. Their inadequacies or deprivations are now transferred to innocent children. Their mindset will be to bully so as to make their victim experience what they lack. Parents and caregivers are saddled with these responsibilities. “Most of these behaviours exhibited can be traced to their homes. The dysfunctional family setting, peer pressure and moral upbringing go a long way in what a child would turn out to be whether good or bad,” she said. The clinical psychologist urged parents and teachers not to neglect the emotional intelligence of children. “Parents and caregivers should be sensitive to their child or ward’s needs. Parents should approach a teacher to discuss the situation and its impact if they notice any changes. “Most times some parents may not pay attention to details of the information their children share. Teachers too are not exempted in terms of bullying, there are certain inappropriate comments that should be avoided during teaching. Schools are obliged by law to have anti-bullying policies, the structures are not generally put in place.  It is not advisable for the parents themselves to approach the parent of the alleged bully but rather with the school authority,” she added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com