Ayinke, a daughter to the recently deceased juju musician, Dayo Kujore, has stated that she had a premonition of her father’s death. Recall that Kujore died at the age of 69 on Monday, January 10, 2022, at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, after a brief illness In an interview with Saturday Beats, Ayinke stated that she had a dream about her father’s demise. She said, “I saw the death coming. I actually dreamt about it a month before he died. I wept in the dream and I prayed for it to be reversed. I never knew that it would certainly come to pass.” Describing her relationship with him, she said, “My relationship with my dad was so cool and very cordial. He confided so much in me. Seeing me becoming more successful in the entertainment industry was another thing that gave him joy. I saw him as a friend; not a father.” Ayinke also stated that she was happy to have witnessed her father’s last moments. She said, “I was always around my father.  We were so close. My father was actually a loving and accommodating man, and a disciplinarian. Watching him die in the hospital induced mixed feelings in me. I was happy that I was on ground when he breathed his last. However, losing one’s parent is never pleasant, irrespective of how old they are. I never thought my father would die so soon. We shared many things. He had plans for himself and the entire family for 2022. As I speak with you, it still feels like a dream. It feels to me like he is having a deep sleep and would soon wake up. I have indeed lost a good friend and gist mate.” On what she would miss about him, she said, “I would miss many things about him, including the attention and affection he always showered on me.” Ayinke also stated that the late singer would be given a befitting burial. She added, “Being an entertainer, we are planning to give him a befitting ‘celebration of life’ at a date that would be announced later. We plan to bury him in Robiyan town, Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State between January 27 and 28. “Meanwhile, I want to seize this opportunity to register my anger at the government. They don’t value talents. Since my father’s death,  we have not received condolence letters from either the Federal Government or his state government— Ogun State.  My father’s music promoted the rich cultures of Nigeria and Ogun State in particular to the entire world.” Revealing some of his unfulfilled dreams, Ayinke stated that he was scheduled to go on a three-month musical tour of the United States of America.  According to her, he was planning to use the proceeds of the tour to build a church.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com