A Consultant Endocrinologist, Dr. Oluwarotimi Olopade, has cautioned type 2 diabetes patients against engaging in intermittent fasting, noting that those engaging in could be at risk of serious health complications. According to Olopade, there have been contentious discussions recently about the benefit of intermittent fasting for people living with type 2 diabetes and whether it can help reverse the health condition. The discussion, he said, has further been encouraged by a study on the issue conducted by some researchers in Newcastle, United Kingdom. The Newcastle University Study published by diabetes.co.uk examined 11 people with diabetes who slashed their food intake to 600 calories per day for eight weeks. After three months, the researchers in their findings said seven of the 11 people studied were free of diabetes. The endocrinologist stressed that while intermittent fasting could help reverse prediabetes, it cannot help those already with type 2 diabetes. Intermittent fasting & prediabetes Olopade, speaking in an exclusive interview with PUNCH HealthWise noted that intermittent fasting may be one of the approaches useful in reversing prediabetes. He, however, stressed that the state of prediabetes does not have any symptoms that show the condition until the patient presents and is checked. “I believe intermittent fasting can help people with prediabetes and that is when you are able to see people with prediabetes. “However, from the Newcastle study on the issue, there’s a mention of people with diabetes but we need to know what their profile is before we can find out “Maybe for those who have prediabetes it may be easier to reverse it with intermittent fasting. An example is that we see people with prediabetes in our clinic and we place them on dietary management and they do well. “This is because if you look at the dietary approach to stop diabetes – you’d find out that almost 53 per cent of those who use proper dietary management did well compared to those who are placed on metformin in preventing prediabetes. “We are talking about a low glycaemic index diet. Not taking fine sugars, honey, things that would worsen their state. So those who require medication would not fit into the news castle study,” he said. Can type 2 diabetes be reversed with intermittent fasting? While the consultant says intermittent fasting cannot reverse diabetes mellitus permanently, he acknowledged that the study conducted by the researchers at Newcastle showed that out of the 11 participants in the research on reversing diabetes, seven were reversed. “I know about the study that was done in Newcastle, United Kingdom called the Newcastle Study. “They found out that out of 11 people diagnosed with diabetes mellitus, they found out that if they are able to take less than 600 calories per day for some weeks and seven out of the 11 persons had a reversal of their diabetes. That is the only study that has been published on that. “These are people that don’t have obvious complications. For someone that has chronic kidney disease and diabetes cannot fast. You need to treat that complication. “Now the question is, was the reversal sustained? We don’t know. That is where the issue is.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com