Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has inaugurated construction works on the Ojota-Opebi Link Bridge and the Approach Roads project, which was first initiated over 20 years ago. Sanwo-Olu said his administration recognised the need to begin the project, saying it was vital to connect Opebi Road from its tail end with the Lagos-Ikorodu road via Odo Iya-Alaro. This, the governor said, would ease the traffic situation at the Opebi-Sheraton Link Road and the Mobolaji Bank Anthony Way. According to him, the inauguration demonstrates the priority his administration has given to the welfare and well-being of the people of the state, stressing that the project will invariably reduce travel time for motorists plying the routes. He also said the project is a testament of his commitment to the greater Lagos vision in line with the traffic management and transportation pillar of the T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda. He said, “We have a firm conviction that the 3.89 kilometre Ojota-Opebi Link Bridge and Approach Roads will, upon completion, inject considerable life into the socio-economic activities of the thousands of people who live, do business or use the road to connect to their various destinations. “We recognise the strategic importance of road infrastructure to sustainable development, which explains our administration’s focus on the provision of road infrastructure to achieve some preconceived targets like reduced travel time on our roads; (by saving important man-hours that would have been otherwise lost to traffic); enhanced inter connectivity; provision of better riding surface; and elimination of traffic gridlocks while generally making life more meaningful to commuters in Lagos State. “We have committed substantial resources to the provision of quality road, waterways, and rail infrastructure to the people of Lagos and we have so far expended billions of Naira to modernize highways, upgrade our road infrastructure, complete projects inherited from the previous administration, and replace the lighting systems on our roads”. The Special Adviser on Works and Infrastructure, Aramide Adeyoye, said the Ojota-Opebi Link Bridge and Approach Road was conceived over 20 years ago but Sanwo-Olu, in further consolidation on the gains of its administration’s policy on public infrastructure development, decided to take the bull by the horns to ensure that the long overdue project, which will transform the entire Ikeja and environs, becomes a reality. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation, Mr Kamar Olowoshago, acknowledged the tenacity of the governor and his team, the House of Assembly and other stakeholders, in ensuring the successful inauguration of the project. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com