Three Nigerians were on Friday announced by the Federal Government as winners of the Nigeria National Order of Merit Award for the years 2020 and 2021. While Dr Oluyinka Olutoye was named the winner in medicine (2020), Prof Charles Chidume clinched the award in science (2020), just as Prof Godwin Ekhaguere emerged as the winner in science (2021). Olutoye, a renowned surgeon and scientist, was selected for the award for performing in-utero surgery on a foetus with large tumours, making him the first African to perform the feat. Chidume, a professor of Mathematics at the African University of Science and Technology, Abuja, was selected for the award for introducing a new and powerful interactive algorithm, which is the only one that does not involve the resolvent for approximating a zero of maximal monotone map. Ekhaguere created new directions in Mathematics, deploying the outcomes to solve outstanding problems in the branch of Mathematical Physics called Axiomatic Quantum Field Theory. While announcing the winners at a press conference in Abuja, the Chairman, Governing  Board of the Nigerian National Merit Award, Prof Shekarau Yakubu, said the three winners were found worthy of the award for distinguishing themselves in their chosen careers. According to him, they were selected out of 46 nominations by specialised committees, including external assessors, and considered by a committee of chairmen and the Governing Board of NNMA before the approval of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Each awardee takes home N10 million, a medal and NNOM certificate. Each year, the NNMA advertises for nominations of candidates for the NNOM Award in Engineering/Technology, Medicine, and Humanities, including Arts and Culture and Sciences. The investiture of the three awardees would be performed by the President on a date to be announced by the Presidency at the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa. Meanwhile, the NNMA said the nomination for the 2022 awards has begun and would end by March 31, 2022.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com