High Chief Raymond Dokpesi has said what Nigeria has become under the All Progressive Congress-led Federal Government of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (Retd.), which robbed the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, of power in 2019, is a country flowing with blood of her children. Dokpesi, who chairs a consultative technical committee for Atiku Abubakar’s presidential bid in 2023, stated this in Yola, during a meeting with stakeholders of the PDP, on the possibility of Atiku re-contesting for president in 2023. Dokpesi also noted that giving the circumstances which the country has found itself, only a person with proven track record of performance and capacity as a unifier in the mould of Atiku would be able to stir the country out of its present quagmire. He said, “Now that the 2023 is approaching again. Now that the economy of the country has totally collapsed, and our children cannot find employment. It is very glaring that we need somebody who is a unifier, who is very sound, who has business acumen,who himself has investment and wealth of experience and wherewithal to be able to properly lead the country out of its present quagmire like Atiku.” According to Dokpesi, who noted that since 2019 when Atiku was deprived of the presidency, the country has been in trouble and in tatters. He added that all the country has received following the outcome of that election is disunity, hunger and poverty in the land. He said, “The country has never been disunited as we have it today, both on religious and ethnic lines. Our economy is in shambles. We have not borrowed as much money externally and locally as we have experience in the last six or seven years of the APC-led federal government. “What we have under the Buhari administration is a Nigeria that is flowing with the blood of our children. The banditry and insecurity that is available is one which is unprecedented.” Also speaking, the PDP chairman, Adamawa State chapter, Tahir Shehu, the chairman PDP, said Adamawa is sealed for Atiku. He said while it won’t discourage other presidential aspirants nursing presidential ambition in 2023, the party would support Atiku who isna son of the soil because he’s the only solution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com