President of Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, Sam Ohuabunwa, has said he is poised to deliver quality leadership to Nigerians and run the nation’s affairs like he will a business. This is as he informed the Peoples Democratic Party of his intention to contest its ticket in the 2023 presidential election. Addressing correspondents after meeting with the PDP National Chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja Thursday, Ohuabunwa warned against seeing the country’s security challenges as sectional problems. According to him, creating distinctions between Nnamdi Kanu, Sunday Igboho, or the killings and kidnapping in other parts of the country will not resolve the security issues until they are approached holistically. The presidential hopeful also said that when electing leaders, Nigerians should not consider age but health in the body, soul and spirit, and the ability to lead right and galvanise the people. He said as a private sector player, he would take governance as a business to deliver appropriately to Nigerians. Ohuabunwa stated, “There are many young people chronologically, but yet they behave and act like old people because of their vision, because of their worldview. “A young worldview is an exploratory worldview, a worldview that can entertain and accept a larger picture of the globe, be able to learn from each other, a mindset that is willing to try new things, to get into new opportunities. “Secondly, to be able to discharge the function of office as a president or governor, you need to have a healthy body. You need to have a healthy soul. You need to have a healthy spirit; body, mind and soul must be together to function in this office. “This office of president is serious. You must have experience in managing many things at the same time. It’s not to take six months to form your cabinet; take six months to plan how you’re going to work. I have the experience. I’ve been trained.” He said while he belonged to the older group, he was young in spirit and heart adding that he understands how to motivate people to achieve their goals because the job of a president is the job of a CEO, and the work of the CEO is to set and sell the vision and then appoint lieutenants in the company to actualise the vision. Ohuabunwa added that the era of leaving people in the office when they are not achieving targets has to end. “That is why good companies succeed because they do not tolerate stories. For me, that’s the experience you need to run a country, not necessarily chronological age. I am young in my heart, in my spirit, in my physique and my ability to do the job,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com