The wife of Lagos State Governor, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, and her counterpart from Ondo State, Arabinrin Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu, on Saturday presented gifts items to the first babies of the year. Sanwo-Olu presented gifts to babies in four state-owned health facilities; Ijede General Hospital, Agbowa General Hospital, Ketu-Ejirin General Hospital and Lagos Island Maternity Hospital. Mrs Bukolo Agede was delivered of Baby Agede, a male who weighed 2kg, at exactly 12.01am, which made him the first baby of the year in Lagos State. Dr Sanwo-Olu said the birth of a child did not happen by chance but required that the mothers should take steps to ensure that they lived a healthy life while pregnant. Anyanwu-Akeredolu also presented gifts to other first babies of the year 2022, the last baby for the year 2021, as well as the Christmas babies in the state. She was accompanied during the visits to the hospitals by the Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Dr Juliana Oshadaun, and the Permanent Secretary, Mrs Foluke Daramola, Commissioner of Health, Dr Banji Awolowo Ajaka, the PS Health, Pharm Folukemi Aladenola, and the PS Primary Health Care Board, Dr Francis Akanbiemu. In a related development, the wife of Oyo State Governor, Mrs Tamunominini Makinde, on Saturday welcomed three babies born on New Year Day with cash and gift items. The Three babies; two girls and a boy, who were delivered on January 1 and christened ‘New Year Babies’ were received and presented with cash and gift items at two different  government-owned hospitals. The first two babies were delivered at Adeoyo Maternity Teaching Hospital, Yemetu, Ibadan, while the third baby was delivered at Adeoyo State Hospital, Ring Road, Ibadan. The First Lady who spoke with journalists after the presentation of gifts said giving birth to higher number of female children signified blessing and prosperity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com