The Governing Council of the University of Abuja has set up an ad hoc committee to look into the employment and promotion of staff members between 2011 and 2021. This was contained in a statement by the Head of Protocols and Public Relations of the university, Dr Habib Yakoob, and made available to journalists in Abuja on Tuesday. According to the statement, the committee was inaugurated due to concerns expressed by council members on the deposition of staff members and actual staff strength and requirements of the various segments of the institution. The Chairman of the Governing Board, Prof Modibobo Muhammed, stated, “The ad hoc committee will look at employments and/or promotions made by this university from 2011 to 2021, a period of 10 years; sight the original certificates of all claims made by staff in their files; establish whether or not the positions staff members were appointed and or promoted to during the period met laid-down requirements and were well deserved; identify where staff members were over-placed or under-placed; and make appropriate recommendations for adjustments, where necessary. “The committee is also to provide council with vital data on the number of academic staff in the employ of the university department by department; staff mix to see whether or not the university is conforming with the requirements of the National Universities Commission; the number of non-academic staff vis-a-vis senior and junior staff members; and the total number of security personnel.” Mohammed added that the committee would “provide statistical information regarding state representation in line with the requirements of the Federal Character Commission; and identify and make recommendations on all establishment breaches observed within the 10-year period and those responsible for them.” The committee was given a month to conclude its assignment and make its report available at the next council meeting for consideration. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com