The Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria has urged the Federal Government to reconstitute the health sector reform committee. The PSN President, Prof. Cyril Usifoh, in a statement on Monday, said there was the need to inculcate more health professionals of diverse backgrounds into the committee. Usifoh said the PSN would continue to opt for productive dialogue to enhance nation-building. “We observe that of the 28 members of the health sector reform, about 23 appear to be physicians while only one Pharmacist, a Nurse and a Laboratory Scientist, the DG, BPE and DG, Federal Consumer Protection Council are confirmed not to be physicians. The Federal Government’s proposed health sector reform committee may just go the way of previous health sector reform projects because the philosophy and execution plan is one and same. “Typical of the processes involved in the sharing of benefits packages, privileges and resources in the health sector, the reform committee with over 85 per cent presence of physicians already negates the rights and liberties of the majority of health workers in Nigeria. A Committee of this nature has slots for the DG, Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Council, a lawyer, but not for an agency like NAFDAC which regulates all the drugs, medical devices, vaccines, medical equipment and chemicals. “We observe with consternation that at least four of the major trade unions including MHWUN, NUAHP, NASU and SSA have no representation on this committee. MHWUN alone is reputed to have about 60 per cent of the entire health workforce in its fold. What is the significance of this reform process if it does not bequeath a legacy of equity to health workers who remain the human resource to reckon with in this reform bid?” Usifoh added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com