A police officer, Arastus Dimka, deployed to Gombe State House of Assembly has lost property worth over N2 million, rendering him, his wife, and five children homeless. Dimka, who was the only member of the house around when the incident occurred, has been hospitalised since the incident occurred. Narrating the ordeal of the family to our correspondent, an eyewitness, Garba Amidu, said the inferno razed the entire belongings of the family. Amidu said, “It occurred around 11 am on Friday, I heard a shout (fire outbreak). So, I just came out and we saw the house already engulfed by fire.” Commenting on the arrival of the emergency service, Amidu noted that their late arrival made members of the community pelt stones on them. “The fire service arrived at least an hour after the youths had put out the fire. A lot of people came with water, with sand, mixed with detergent, we tried as much as we could. “Those that were deployed lacked the confidence of working because before they could arrive, the place was already burnt. Some women stoned them, poured them sand. When they were initially called they said they were coming. “We heard that they use to be something like a tower, where fire activities are monitored from time to time. “So, without even calling them they will try and find out the destination of the smoke. Instead, the complaint was that there was no fuel, one of the fighters said if they left water in the tank, the tire will be affected.” On her part, 42-year-old Hannatu Dimka, wife of the officer appealed to public-spirited individuals in the state, and government to assist them to bounce back. “Since yesterday I couldn’t even take my bath, no dress to wear, I can’t change from morning till this time. I want to beg philanthropists to help us, to assist us,” Dimka pleaded. Reacting to the allegations of negligence, Gombe’s Commanding Officer Federal Fire Service, Jonas Ayuba, noted that the state has one functional fire appliance in the state. He disagreed with eyewitnesses that firefighters arrived at the scene without water, saying it was impossible. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com