The alleged defamation of the Head (Media and Public Relations) at the Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board, Dr. Fabian Benjamin, is now a subject of litigation at a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory in Gwagwalada. Benjamin, in a suit filed by his lawyer, Chris Alashi, has dragged the CEO of Human Rights Radio, Ahmed Isah, before Justice E. O Ebong claiming N6 billion damages over injurious broadcast, false allegations and innuendos which amounted to defamation of the his character. The PUNCH reported that Premier Broadcasting Ltd (owners of Human Rights Radio) of Plot 1184, Kaura District, besides Games Village, Abuja, and Isah were listed as first and second defendants in the suit marked No. CV/3211/2021 obtained by journalists in Abuja on Sunday. Benjamin is claiming N6 billion as compensation for general damages for the deliberate, libellous and malicious public broadcast by the 1st defendant and anchored by the 2nd Defendant, Ahmed Isah. The claimant averred that on April 16 2021, between 7:30 am and 10am, the 2nd defendant, while on air on Human Rights Radio and Television (Brekete Programme), put a call to him via his mobile number from the 2nd defendant’s mobile number 08037888880, during which the latter maliciously defamed the claimant by impugning, maligning and discrediting his integrity and reputation as the PRO of JAMB and an academic. In particular, the claimant alleges that the 2nd defendant, while on air, accused him of forging his Ph.D certificate as well as being insane, incompetent, unscrupulous and a sadistic person of questionable character. The claimant also charges the 2nd defendant with saying his (claimant’s) bad behaviour and arrogance are hereditary and were acquired from his parents, adding that there was no solution to it and that the claimant’s parents were also arrogant and damnable. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com