The Anwar-ul Islam College Agege Old Students Association has called for the privatisation of their alma mater. The President General of Anwar-Ul Islam College Agege Old Students Association, Mr Lawal Pedro made the appealed at the commissioning of the renovated college library. The Library was named after the school’s first principal, Alhaji Jimoh Gbadamosi. Pedro advised the Anwar-Ul Islam Movement of Nigeria to consider handing over the college to a professional to run it as purely private school without interfering in the operations. Pedro said, ‘’Despite the huge financial interventions of the old students the college is not within the bracket of the first 50 mission secondary schools or colleges in Nigeria. This is obviously because the college has continued to be managed as mission school and not private secondary school like its contemporary Christian mission schools in Lagos State. These Christian mission schools have now been developed and built with much trust and quality educational.‘’ In his speech, the 77/78 set president, Mr Raham Alarape, said the commissioning of the library was a show of ACAOSA’s  unequivocal commitment to the school. His words, ‘’More to come of course in terms of the soft contents but for now the physical infrastructure being opened today is worthy of praise and adulation.’’ In his remarks, Nigerian Former High Commissioner to Ghana, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, who funded the project,  explained that the remodeled library was to celebrate Alhaji Jimoh Gbadamosi whom they fondly called OGA for his huge influence and impact in their lives as Principal of the college. “Ahmadiyya College now Anwar-ul Islam College made me what I am today. Baba who we fondly called OGA is the reason for this commissioning. His impact in our lives cannot be overemphasized. “I feel sad looking at this school today. Some people paid for us to get education. As much as I agree with the President of old students association that the environment is a huge influence on the school; we will see ways to raise this school to the level it deserves,” Obanikoro said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com