Following the crisis rocking the Abia State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, the Donatus Nwankpa-led faction on Friday tabled its complaints before the party’s National Reconciliation Committee in Abuja. The committee, led by former Nasarawa State governor and Senator representing Nasarawa West District, Adamu Abdullahi, said the meeting became necessary following a petition from concerned party members. The Abia APC had been divided between the Ikechi Emenike group and the faction led by Nwankpa. The Nwankpa faction, which has Orji Kalu, Nkechi Nwogu, Chris Adighije, Ben Apugo, Ben Kalu, Acho Obioma, among others, did not participate in last October’s congress, which produced Enyinnaya Harbour as the Abia State Chairman of the APC. Harbour, however, died on December 9, 2021, a day after an Abia State High Court declared his faction illegal and ordered the faction’s executives to stop parading themselves as executives of the party. On January 8, 2022, the Abia APC elected Kingsley Ononogbu as new chairman to replace Harbour. Briefing journalists in Abuja on Friday, the Chairman of the APC National Reconciliation Committee, Abdullahi, said though the two factions were invited only Nwankpa faction showed up, while the Emenike faction did not. Abdullahi said, “We’re just arriving from a meeting we’ve had with principal stakeholders of our great party APC in Abia State. This is after a petition that we received at the secretariat of the National Reconciliation Committee. We had very useful discussions. We have reasons to be optimistic about what we’ve heard and seen in Abia State. “But the person who would want to be seen as a complainant did not appear. His name is Ikechi Emenike. We invited him, and he refused to turn up. He was duly invited. And from all indications, he has no case to put before us. And we have no hesitation whatsoever to listen to the delegation from Abia State. “I don’t believe we could have any better representation in terms of the interests of the party, the leadership of the party and stakeholders of the party than we have had today. So, we appreciate them. We’ll submit our report to the national headquarters, and with time we’ll do reports for all the others that we have undertaken. And we are hoping that the outcome will be extremely positive.” On his part, Nwankpa, blamed the national secretary of the party, John Akpanudoedehe, for crisis in the Abia APC. He said, “In 2015, we didn’t win any elective positions as we did in 2019. We got senators, members in the federal House and to that effect in 2023, mathematically, you know where we’re going to. And because there is interest to sabotage this pattern, some people have conspired with the National Secretary of this party to undermine the growth of APC and not just in Abia but in the South-East. “You all are aware of the recent drama that happened in Anambra. That is the conspiracy; to put Abia state on the same terrain with what happened in Anambra, and we say ‘no’ to it.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com