The Lagos State government has said the newly introduced ‘no-vehicle inspection, no road-worthiness’ policy is not an exercise targeted at generating money for the state. This is as it appealed to car owners in the state to come forward with their vehicles as the cost of inspection is already inclusive in the total package they paid for the renewal of vehicle particulars. The Director, Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS), Engr. Akin-George Fashola, said this during a radio programme as revealed in a statement issued by the state government. He said the old format of issuing a roadworthiness certificate and then expecting the vehicle owners to bring their automobiles forward for inspection within 30 days is no longer sustainable as most people do not bring their vehicles for the said inspection once the certificate is issued. “The referral note that we give when you come to us is just for a grace period that covers 30 days in which we expect you to have checked and fixed the vehicle. The referral note is not an automatic clearance,” the Director informed. Fashola further explained that the Vehicle Inspection Service is ramping up its capacity to accommodate more vehicles through the 27 fully-equipped centres with 30 more underway to cover up the 57 Local Governments and Local Council Development Areas. He added that a Mobile Testing Centre is also available for companies and owners of large fleets of vehicles. He said, “You can go to any centre within the length and breadth of the state. Even if you do your first inspection on the Mainland and you had to do your second inspection on the Island, you have no problem because they are all connected up ” According to the Director, the existing 28 Computerised Vehicle Inspection Service centres are located in Ayobo, Oko-Oba, PWD, Lagos Island, Agric-Ishawo, Owode-Onirin, Bolade-Oshodi, Oke- Odo, Epe, Ojodu, Gbagada, Coker-Aguda, Yaba and Ajah. Others centres are Cele, Ibeju-Lekki, Odogunyan, Oko-Afo, Badagry, Ojota, Agbowa, Alausa, Anthony, Suru-Alaba, Omorege-Alaba, LASU, UNILAG, and a Mobile Centre. Commending motorists for their quick responses as recorded in the number of vehicle inspections conducted between Tuesday 4th and Friday 7th January, which totalled 388, Fashola solicited for higher turnout from motorists and urged them to take advantage of easy accessibility of the centres for their vehicle inspections and services.