Popular comedian, Olateju Oyelakin, aka Teju Babyface, has said that he is not fulfilled at this stage of his life. Oyelakin, who marked his forty-third birthday on Thursday, January 20, 2022, told Sunday Scoop, “Fulfilled? Not even close. Thankful? Absolutely! I have lived a charmed life thus far and the prospects of what is to come excite me even more. I have been very fortunate, and with that realisation comes gratitude to Jehovah. “I am a man of very high ambitions. I also know that those ambitions must be submitted to the ‘divine’. In a nutshell, I hope to be worthy of my endowments and the attendant responsibilities.” The comedian, who welcomed a set of twins in 2018 after being married for six years, maintained that he was not under pressure to have more kids. He said, “More kids? (laughs). No, thanks. I am confident that God is able to keep that which He has given us already to the perfect day.” Oyelakin also disagreed with the misconception of many that if people were no longer in the limelight, they must be facing certain challenges. The Diamond Ring actor said, “In today’s world of snowballing media hunger and the accompanying self promotion and quest for the limelight as you have put it, the art of slowing down or taking a pause from the grind or giddy heights of stardom is relatively unheard of. In fact, one of the greatest lies of celebrity is that if one is not always in people’s faces, they would forget one. But, we have not quite forgotten Bob Marley or Fela Kuti. “The confidence to take time off is the preserve of those who have been excellent in productivity. The obscure but no less powerful truth is that if one intends to have a career that shines brighter until the end, one’s needs must take time off sometimes. It is a duty in fact. A period of absence from the limelight is often the precursor and prerequisite for greater things. Such a period actually preceded the debut of the Teju Babyface Show in 2010. While I cannot speak for anybody else, I can speak from that perspective. “Sometimes, life forces people to slow down. Whatever the case, the imperative is to always have a sense of destiny and purpose per time. One must never be afraid to take time off and if that includes stepping out of the ‘limelight’ for some time, that is what must be done with faith.” The father of two also stated that he was disrespected because of his young looks about 18 years ago. He said, “The last I remembered (about being disrespected because of my young looks) was around 2004 when I was cruising my first luxury car and I had a traffic altercation whereupon the misguided lady (with whom I was having the said altercation) shouted from her car that I should go and return my father’s car. I still laugh thinking about it.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com