Bandits, who abducted the wife and two daughters of a lecturer with the Federal College of Education (Technical) Gusau in Zamfara State, Dr Abdurrazak Muazu, have demanded N50 million ransom. A family member, Mohammed Jamilu, told The PUNCH that the bandits have called and informed them that they needed the sum of N100 million but later reduced the amount to N50 million. “They initially demanded the sum of N100 million but later reduced the amount to N50 million,” he said. Jabaka, however, explained that negotiation was still ongoing, stressing that the amount was outrageous. “Where can we get that amount? It is too much for us. We are still negotiating with the bandits in order to rescue the three victims who are all females,” he added. Some gunmen suspected to be bandits, last Friday, kidnapped the wife and two daughters of a lecturer with the Federal College of Education Technical Gusau in Zamfara State, Dr. Abdurrazak Muazu. The wife, Binta Umar Jabaka and the two daughters, Maryam Abdurrazak and Hafsat Abdurrazak were kidnapped in their house, in Mareri village the outskirts of Gusau town, the state capital at about one o’clock in the night on Friday. A staff of the institution, Mohammad Lawal, informed The PUNCH that, the gunmen entered the house of Abdurrazak in an attempt to abduct him but could not see him as he hid into the ceiling when he heard their movements. Lawal said, “The gunmen jumped over the wall and entered into Dr Abdurrazak’s residence in order to kidnap him but he escaped through the ceiling. “They searched the house for over an hour looking for him, but when they could not see him, they abducted his wife, Binta, and his two daughters, Maryam and Hafsat.” The spokesperson of the state police command SP Mohammed Shehu has confirmed the incident to The PUNCH, stressing that, “the Command has since drafted its Tactical operatives to pursue the bandits in order to rescue the victims.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com