The Zamfara State Police Command has arrested a 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, for allegedly eating and selling human body parts. The state Commissioner of Police, Ayuba Elkana, who paraded the suspect before journalists on Thursday, said Baba connived with three other persons, who usually sold the parts to him at the rate of N500,000 per body. The suspected accomplices were identified as Abdulshakur Mohammed, 20; Buba, 17; and Tukur, 14. The commissioner said the suspect and his collaborators were apprehended based on intelligence information from members of the public. Elkana said, “On December 12, 2021, around 2pm, one Ali Yakubu Aliyu reported at the Central Police Station, Gusau, that his son, Ahmad Yakubu, 9, was missing. “On receiving the report, police detectives swung into action and commenced a discreet investigation into the matter. “On December 28, 2021, around 9.30am, police detectives received an intelligence report with regards to the earlier report, that on the same date around 9am, the corpse of a human being was found in an uncompleted building at the Barakallahu area, Gusau, with the two hands and legs tied with rags, and the head covered with a polythene bag.” The police boss said detectives proceeded to the scene and found the corpse with some parts removed, adding that the remains were taken to a hospital for an autopsy. He explained that on January 4, 2022, around 2am, police detectives acted on an intelligence report and arrested Baba in connection with the case. “During interrogation, the second suspect, Abdulshakur Mohammed, confessed that it was the third time he was contracted by the first suspect, Aminu Baba, to source human parts for him at the sum of N500,000, which he successfully did for the first and the second time, before his arrest.” Mohammed recalled that he connived with Buba and Tukur to deceive a victim who was taken to an uncompleted building, where they killed him and removed his  intestines, oesophagus, private parts and eyes. He claimed that the parts were taken to Baba, who gave them N500,000. The police commissioner said Baba, a father of 19, confessed to the crime, adding that his revelations were assisting the police in the arrest of other members of his gang. He said, “The suspect further confessed that he usually ate the body parts and identified the throat as the most delicious part. He also sold some of the human parts to his customers. Exhibits recovered from the suspect included intestines, oesophagus, penis and two eyes.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com