The Governor of Katsina State, Aminu Masari, on Sunday, said there had been a heavy reduction in banditry and kidnapping in recent times in the state. He, however, disclosed that Faskari and Kankara local government areas of the state were still experiencing banditry attacks due to their proximity to the forests of the neighbouring states of Zamfara, Kaduna, Niger and up to Kebbi. The Governor made this known when he received the national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who was on a condolence visit over the murder of the state Commissioner for Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Rabe Nasir. Masari said, “In recent times, there has been a heavy reduction in kidnapping and banditry in the State. It is, however, still happening in Faskari and Kankara local government areas. Even yesterday(Saturday), there was kidnapping in Faskari.” The Governor said government had set up fourty Conflict Resolution Centres in various parts of the state that handle domestic issues that are not crime-related, as part of efforts to ensure harmony among residents of various communities in the state. He also revealed that government had found out that many banditry and kidnap cases in the state were community based, the development, according to him, made the state to amend the local government laws to get district heads and traditional institutions involved in curbing crimes in their various communities. He said, “What we have at hand now is community banditry; most banditry and kidnapping are still within same communities. Not necessarily from the forests. That is why we amended the local government laws to allow community participation. We now have security structure that includes village heads, religious leaders, youths leaders and representatives of vigilante. The structure has the support of the police.” Masari, who maintained that the current security challenges in Nigeria were not peculiar to the country, declared that “what is required is a leadership that is purposeful and with a political will to confront the problem.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com