Youths drawn from the 19 northern states and Abuja, under the Arewa Youth Assembly, have asked the President, Major Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to appoint more Nigerian youths into his cabinet. They stated this while appraising the one year anniversary of the appointment of the 40-year-old Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, AbdulRasheed Bawa. The President appointed Bawa as the Chairman of the nation’s anti-graft agency on February 24, 2021. The youths said so far they were excited by the performance of the 40-year-old Bawa, thereby urging the president to put more youths in positions of authority under his regime. The group also noted that under one year of the EFCC chairman, a lot had changed as “looters are being forced to surrender” their loot as they no longer have a place to hide. Addressing a press conference in Kaduna, the Publicity Secretary of the AYA, Aliyu Sani while reading from a text jointly signed by Mohammed Danlami, who is also the Speaker of the Assembly, noted that the Commission headed by their peer had taken a giant stride, saying that the EFCC chairman had redeemed the image of Nigeria youths. According to him, in under one year, “Bawa has become the nightmare for internet fraudsters, corrupt politicians, and banks chiefs, among others.” Showering more encomiums on the EFCC boss, the youth leader added, “Bawa had become a nightmare for internet fraudsters, corrupt politicians, and bank chiefs, among others. “Bawa has reinvigorated and collaborated with schools mostly tertiary institutions by extending culture reorientation in the younger Nigerians to shun corruption and do the right thing always. “Bawa also revived the engagement with our religious leaders through the inter-faith dialogue and development of corresponding manuals to facilitate conscious teaching of their followers for effective behaviour modification.” Against this backdrop, the youth, according to Sani, are appealing to the President to make room for more youth to be saddled with responsibility in his regime. “This kind of action, sincerity, hard work, commitment and dedication is what you get when you have a vibrant youth, who is educated, whose education is coupled with experience and application of knowledge. “Bawa is standing tall as an icon for a new Nigeria free of corruption, a symbol of hope for other youths. “As a matter of national development, the Arewa Youths Assembly are pleading with the president to make room for more youths in his cabinet and in such strategic positions, so as to fight and together restore the lost glory of our fatherland, we need more of AbdulRasheed Bawa in Nigeria and in doing that, indeed, we will have the dawn of a new Nigeria,” Sani added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com