A woman was on Thursday confirmed dead in a road accident which occurred in Babale community, Jos North Local Government of Plateau State. It was gathered that two others sustained injuries and were rushed to the Plateau State Specialist Hospital in Jos. Eyes witnesses said that the accident which involved a tanker vehicle and a tricycle (Keke Napep) occurred around 4pm . A resident of Babale community, Musa Ibrahim, who participated during the rescue operation for the surviving victims said,” There was an accident today (Thursday ) in our community in Babale around 4pm . A tanker lorry and keke Napep were involved. “One woman, a resident of Zakaliyo lost her life. The other woman who was with the Keke Napep driver sustained injuries with fracture. “They were taken to the Plateau state specialist hospital for further management. “It took us more than three hours to rescue the tanker driver who was trapped inside the vehicle after soliciting the help of a crain and another tipper to help lift and pull the head of the tanker before he was rescued alive. He was also rushed to the hospital”. The Sector Commander of the FRSC in Plateau state, Alphonsus Godwin, could not be reached for comment on the accident but an official of the command who would not want his name mentioned confirmed the accident to The PUNCH in Jos on Thursday . The official who attributed the accident to over speeding said, ” Yes,the accident occurred and unfortunately,one person lost her life.” He urged tanker drivers and other road users to maintain their vehicles properly and avoid over speeding so as to forestall the risks and danger associated with non compliance. “We want every road user to put into practice the sensitisation we have been given them because it is for their own good and safety”,he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com