The House of Representatives has passed a bill to create a South-South Development Commission despite the existence of the Niger Delta Development Commission. The lawmaker representing Andoni/Opobo/Nkoro Federal Constituency in Rivers State, Dagomie Abiante, who sponsored the legislation, justifies the proposal in this interview with LEKE BAIYEWU What does the establishment of South-South Development Commission portend for the people of the Niger Delta? The country, as of today, is segmented or divided into geopolitical zones and we have six of them. The North-East had had a development commission, already established and working. We have had bills passed to establish the same for every other geopolitical zone. Ours (South-South) is about the last; the sixth to have been passed in this 9th National Assembly. So, what it portends is equity. There have been instances where we have had things like 95-5 per cent; that is a reflection of inequity. So, what happened today is to give hope that there still exists that word ‘equity’ in the context of the management, the governance of this country. The closest analogy I can draw is about those who are butchers. Those who are butchers, there tends to be a difference in the way dogs are killed and the way goats and chickens are slaughtered. When you want to kill a goat, you will be very playful with it; you will lie the goat down, you will pamper the goat, you can hold the head and you can even hold the legs; your child of three years old can come and play with the goat. Then, you put the knife and slaughter it. But that is not the same thing with a dog. That is why we have come to say ‘the way you have treated the North-East people, treat us from the South-South the same way.’ Everything is geared towards developing the area. There are challenges. The North-East has its peculiar challenges, same for the North-West, North-Central and the South-South. If these development commissions created for other people were meant to solve their problems, it should also solve our problems. We are not immune to the problems and challenges of the times. What are the peculiar problems that the SSDC seeks to address that the Niger Delta Development Commission cannot? Every challenge that is peculiar to the Niger Delta environment, it will attempt to cure them. When people talk about issues of the Niger Delta Development Commission, I see that as a little bit insulting and as not being enlightened enough and not having a sense of history. These three are usually my consideration when I hear people say we have the NDDC. How many states are under the NDDC? Nine states! How many states do we have in the South-South? Six! Is six equal to nine? A state like Ondo State, where does it belong? It belongs to the South-West. If they have a development commission tomorrow, will you take it away from the Niger Delta Development Commission? States like Abia and Imo; they are already captured in the NDDC. Are you going to take them away for the mere fact that there is a South-East Development Commission? That is the question that people have not answered. But before then, historically speaking, talking about nation building, the issues of the Niger Delta had been there and the solutions had been proffered long before most of us were born – even long before Nigeria got independence; if you talk about the Willink (Minority) Commission and things that happened from the 1940s to the 1950s. It had been a constitutional matter, provided for in the constitution of this country. We are not talking about a single Act of parliament; we are talking about a constitutional matter. The 1960 (Independence) Constitution provides in Section 14 the establishment of the Niger Delta Development Board, which we can equate with today’s Niger Delta Development Commission. The 1963 (Republican) Constitution, which was a product of negotiations, consensus and whatever it is that develops a constitution that is the very basic foundation for nation building, still had that component in Section 159. So, the issues of the Niger Delta are not issues that you and I can sit here and end, or escalate, or try to reduce its imports. It has always been a constitutional matter. Mind you, nobody from the Niger Delta environment as of today gave us this instrument that we refer to today, that didn’t contain that which our forefathers had negotiated. The way and manner the negotiations were discountenanced is still part of the challenges that we are trying to overcome today. So, if for the purposes of having a sense of history people came together and agreed that there should be a Niger Delta Development Commission, that is just one segment of what our forebears, the political grandfathers of the Niger Delta, negotiated for us, which we cannot just throw away because somebody somewhere does not understand the true definition of Niger Delta. And when these things were embedded in the Constitution of the Federal Republic, the derivation principle was at 50 per cent. So, if anybody says ‘Oh, you have 13 per cent in the Niger Delta,’ derivation was at 50 per cent which was denied for decades. There was a Niger Delta Development Board equivalent to the NDDC today. But today, we have a paltry 13 per cent, which does not assuage the pains and sufferings of the people. And based on whatever the contents of the NDDC is as of today, somebody wants to tell us that we don’t qualify to have the South-South Development Commission? You cannot justify it. I cannot justify it. I cannot go back to my people and tell them that ‘Oh, I traded away the opportunity to be like others because there is something which they had negotiated for us.’ That cannot be justice. If you have the SSDC, why then should you maintain the NDDC? It is you that I should be asking. Why was it in the Constitution of 1960? Why was it in the 1963 Constitution? Did your father and my father negotiate the (1999) Constitution that we are operating today? Our forefathers negotiated for the 1960 and 1963 Constitutions, so get back to the very foundation. If you have the (Federal) Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, which is almost domiciled in the North-East, why do they have the North-East Development Commission? If all the geopolitical zones now have a development commission each, is this not a back-door return to the regional system of government? Everybody has been canvassing for what they think will work for Nigeria. If this is what will work for Nigeria, let us give it a try. Now that the current governance structure has been criticised as bloated and expensive, are these commissions not going to be another burden on the lean resources available to the government? If you are cooking stew and you add one cube of seasoning and the soup does not taste good, if you add another cube, it could taste better. Why are you not talking about the management and efficiency of the existing NDDC and the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs which is the first and only ministry dedicated to a part of the country? Who told you that the people are complaining that the management of the NDDC is not yielding results? What about the abandoned projects and allegations of contracts racketeering and the financial scandals rocking the commission? Who manages the NDDC? Who manages the affairs of the Niger Delta people? Why has it been so difficult to appoint a board for the commission? Why was it so easy to take out (a former acting Managing Director of the NDDC) Joi Nunieh? That is because we are not in control. He who pays the piper calls the tune. The Niger Delta environment has never been run by those who actually own the environment. You take a man whose village is on top of a hill and want him to manage the affairs of those inside the creeks. At no time – go and check your records – have we had persons who are directly impacted by the issues of the Niger Delta running the affairs of the Niger Delta. What about the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, who is now in charge? Where is Akpabio from? How many oil wells are there in his village? Does his community suffer coastal erosion? These are issues that you gentlemen (of the press) should be tackling. Since he is the Minister of the Niger Delta, does his village suffer coastal erosion? Is this not a systemic problem? I just asked you that even those that appoint those that are managing the NDDC, who are they? Those that are appointed…there is a saying that he who wears the shoe knows where it pinches…when you don’t wear the shoe, how do you know where it pinches? Going by your analogy, how are you sure that this new commission will be managed by the kind of people you think should manage the affairs of the Niger Delta? Everybody in this country has a commission. Everybody feels one pain or another. So, those that would be appointed to the commission to be created would be those who feel the pains. And that will
also drive home our point that even in the Niger Delta Development Commission, people who feel the pain should take charge of the affairs. There was a Timi Alaibe at a point in the NDDC. Can you tell the same story now? Have you forgotten that it is the President, Major General Mummadu Buhari (retd.), and the government of the All Progressives Congress that would determine how the affairs of the region are run? That is exactly our point collectively. Appoint those who are wearing the shoe. You will join the crusade because even in your own South-West Development Commission, it could be the same thing; in your North Central, it could be the same thing. You now join the chorus so that our voices will be loud enough; to say in appointing those who will manage these commissions, please appoint those who are wearing the shoe. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com