Father of Itunu, the 24-year-old Nigerian lady, who died in a prison in Cote’d Ivoire, Abayomi Babalola, has called on the Federal Government to help his family to get justice. Babalola, who is a member of the Non-Academic Staff Union at the University of Ibadan, said, while addressing journalists on Monday, that he had been sick following the sudden death of his daughter. He said the family did not trust the report of the autopsy done on the corpse of his daughter by Cote’d Ivoire government, saying he suspected the report was doctored. He said, “My daughter must not die in vain. I am still in shock over the death of my daughter. Though, the Chairman House Committee on diaspora, Tolulope Sadipe, has promised to take it up but I think the executive arm of government needs to do something about it also. “We rejected the autopsy result because we suspected that the result has been doctored. I want justice. If our fellow African men are treating us this way, then we are doomed. “The only thing that will give me and the entire family rest of mind is justice. I want justice for Itunu.” The deceased was said to have come to Nigeria in November 20 and she received a call from Cote d’Ivoire that her apartment had been burgled. She was said to have returned to Cote d’Ivoire and reported the burglary at a police station in the country. But unfortunately, the Divisional Police Officer she reported the case to was said to be the suspect’s cousin. Babalola, had said the DPO offered to pay his daughter an equivalent of N100, 000 but said his daughter insisted on being paid N300, 000 or that her goods which were stolen should be returned by the suspect. The DPO was said to have gone to the Nigerian’s apartment three days after and accused her of human trafficking which she was eventually jailed 20 years for. The jail term was commuted to 10 years after the Federal Government got a lawyer and the verdict was appealed. However, while she was said to be about to be released, she took ill and was rushed to hospital where she died. The family of the deceased and Nigerians in Diaspora Commission headed by Abike Dabiri-Erewa had said during the burial of the lady in Ibadan that they suspected a foul play in her death.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com