A non-governmental organisation, A Mother’s Love Initiative, has said the COVID-19 pandemic has stressed the need to focus on the physical and mental health of children. The NGO said this in a statement released to celebrate the 2022 International Day of Education, with the theme, ‘Changing course, transforming education.’ The statement reads, “Consequent upon the impact of COVID-19 on the educational system, it is important to reiterate the significance of giving attention to the physical and mental health of children and educators within the educational system. This is because there are stress-related events associated with the pandemic that have impacted the learning trajectory and need not be catalysed by the practices of hurrying at the school level. “Our Initiative’s current mission and activities concern the hurried child syndrome and practices in Africa that emphasises the need to focus on the social and emotional components of learning. The press secretary of the NGO, Mr. Uchechukwu Ginika, in the statement, said the theme for 2022 International Day of Education speaks to the overall quality of life of the Nigerian Child within the educational system in the country. “At home, parents have to be aware of the need to support the healthy educational development of their children by creating a healthy home climate for learning to take place. At the school, educators and school managers must understand the importance of unstructured play and extra-curricular activities in ensuring a child grows in the cognitive, social and emotional domains of development.” “At the community level, religious and community stakeholders must champion the culture of collectivism as a form of social support to education in the semi-formal and informal sectors of the economy,” he said. Ginika added that government agencies and ministries at the federal, state and local levels must review and enforce policies that would curb the excesses of private and public schools.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com