Singer and disc jockey, Florence Otedola, popularly known as DJ Cuppy, ordinarily seems to have it all. Not a few Nigerians would sacrifice limbs to enjoy the privileges she has as a daughter of billionaire businessman, Femi Otedola. However, just like many others on the Internet, Cuppy has been at the butt of jokes on social media by trolls who never forgo any opportunity to bully her online. Sunday Scoop takes a look at some of the times she has been bullied Short hair In an Instagram Live chat with reality star and fellow rich kid, Terseer Waya, aka Kiddwaya, Cuppy spoke about how people, especially men, view her low cut. She said, “A lot of guys are not attracted to someone with short hair. And it’s really annoying because I am the same person. It made me insecure and I asked myself, ‘Am I ugly?’ “I feel that as Nigerians and young black people, we need to stop being so on the surface. We are putting ourselves under too much pressure. Even with make-up, lashes, we cannot kill ourselves. Even weight is a thing.” Fashion sense On several occasions, many critics have lampooned her fashion sense. A Twitter user, Uncle Prince, once commented on her post, writing, “This Cuppy girl does not know how to dress at all.” Another commenter, Kawun Kowan, added, “Bro, she is always looking like a teletubby (cartoon character).” Body shaming Cuppy once posted a picture of herself in a beautiful white dress on Instagram but some of her followers felt her body did not do justice to the outfit. One of her followers, Sleaky Freak, wrote, “The face and the rest of the body colour don’t match. Legs like an athlete, bloated tummy like a pregnant woman, excess fat on the upper body.” In response, Cuppy simply posted emojis which depicted love and kisses. Music career On account of her music career, Cuppy has been trolled several times on social media. On one occasion, she took to her Twitter page to implore her fans to listen to her songs but her post was greeted with some negative comments. One Chuchu Ezekwem wrote, “My family is forever indebted to DJ Cuppy for saving my uncle’s life. He was in a coma for six months but when DJ Cuppy’s song was played in the hospital ward, he got up and switched off the television.” Love for dogs Otedola’s love for dogs has also got her some negative comments on social media. When she bought two dogs, she referred to them as her children, and that did not go down well with many Nigerians. Posting pictures of the dogs in matching outfits, she added the caption, “Being a mother to @dufupoms has changed my life.” A follower, Sister Monique, commented, “Someone needs to check on this aunty. She’s different from her sisters.” Yet another follower, Mz Rossypop, wrote,” It is those who have money that act as mother to dogs, please.” Healthy_living20211 also added, “This girl seems autistic to me. Something does not seem right.” Social media break In August 2021, the singer announced on her Instagram page that she would be taking a break from social media for some days. “I am taking a three-day social media break. (I would) be back soon.” Though she did not state the reason for the ‘break’, many assumed she did that so as to get a breather from cyber bullies. Celebs too Apparently, not just random individuals troll the disc jockey, some entertainers have also lambasted her online. Singer, Omoniyi Raphael, aka Zlatan Ibile, once blocked her on WhatsApp and Instagram for 10 months. Cuppy said she was surprised by his action as they had a ‘great’ relationship and had worked together on her song, Gelato. Though Zlatan did not reveal why he blocked her on social media, singer, David Adeleke, aka Davido’s logistics manager, Israel Afeare, stated that Cuppy did not pay Zlatan for the collaboration. Apparently not pleased with Israeal’s comments, Cuppy sued him for libel and defamation. After pleading with Cuppy and her dad on social media, the case was dropped. A social media personality, Abisoye Michael, aka Oyemykke, also ‘advised’ Cuppy to quit singing. According to him, she could do more than singing by producing people’s songs and supporting up-and-coming artistes. Comedian, Justice Nuagbe, aka Ushbebe, also took a swipe at the Green Light singer, when during his show, he described her as a ‘wack DJ’.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com