80-year-old Senator Salisu Matori, who represented Bauchi South Constituency, Bauchi State in the Senate between 1999 and 2003, speaks to ARMSTRONG BAKAM about his life experiences and the picture of his dream Nigeria Where and when were you born? I was born in Bauchi on April 22, 1941. How did you know your birth date? My uncle, Mahmud Tukur, was literate at that time; so he recorded the dates of important happenings in the family. He told me when I was born. Who were you parents? My father was Mallam Ibrahim who was a renowned Islamic scholar in Bauchi. He was also a businessman, a man of high integrity respected in society at that time. My mother, Hafsat, was a granddaughter of the Matori of Bauchi. How was your childhood like? Well, the story of my childhood is the same as that of other people of my age all over. It is always the beautiful memories that linger on. It was a very peaceful era when you feared nothing and you left your doors open and slept without any thought or fear that anybody was going to attack you. There was no problem because you could walk from one village to another. You could travel at night and the only things you feared were hyenas and other wild animals. But today, you on’t fear hyenas;, what you fear are human beings, which is very unfortunate. Which schools did you attend? I had my primary school education in Bauchi. In 1962, I did Diploma in Business Administration and I got professional certification from the U.A.C. Training School, Lagos and the London School of Careers, England. I worked at various places. I was Director, Nigeria Asbestos Industry Limited from 1980 to 1983; I was a member of the Governing Council, Federal Polytechnic, Akure, Ondo State from 1980 to 1982; I was also Director, Nigeria Machine Tools, Osogbo, Osun State from 1984 to 1986. I worked in so many other places before going to the National Assembly where I was in the upper chamber for eight years, between 1999 and 2003. What were the experiences you garnered in the various places where you worked? I had very interesting experiences. For instance, in the National Assembly, as far as we were concerned, particularly in the Senate, our main drive was the love for Nigeria or what we could contribute to bring development to Nigeria and Nigerians. In other words, the main focus of each and every one of us at that time wa, to the best of my knowledge, ‘Nigeria first’ and not any other consideration. For example, when you look at the benefits aspects of it, when we came in, our salary was just N13,000 per month and we did not get any other allowances, apart from allowances for particular items. But that did not discourage us from giving our best to Nigerians. On the other hand, the electorate, their expectations and urge for material things were less than what we have today. You see, our society has become more or less polarised today by the quest for acquisition of material things and this is very unfortunate. When did you retire and what do you do in retirement? Well, the question of retirement in Nigeria is an on-and-off thing because even when you retire, you will still be useful to your society – local government, state and by extension, Nigeria at large – by serving in various boards and advisory committees, and so on. I was a member of the Nigeria Vision 2010 and apart from that, I served in several other committees that were set up with the hope of finding solutions to the myriads of problems confronting us in our country. But I am currently a farmer. What do you plant and are you still able to go to farm with the insecurity all over? Yes, of course, I still go to farm and my farm is one of the biggest in Bauchi State today. It is along the Bauchi-Gombe Road in a village called Kangere. I plant rice, maize, soya beans and white beans. These are the major crops that I plant. How did you meet your wife? (Laughs) I think this question should be directed to her rather than to me, but all the same, there were so many times, in our localities here, when you meet girls at occasions, not necessarily with the sole intent of getting them to marry you or something. There are such occasions like graduation from Quranic schools, marriages and so on where you meet a girl or she meets you and all that. So, that was how it all started, then, we got married. What professions are your children into? They are in different disciplines. There are some who are political scientists, some are business administration graduates; my two children that died were also in different disciplines. The women are all graduates also; two graduated from the ABU (Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna State); there is one studying at the University of Maiduguri. They all attended Queens College while the males attended Kings College in Lagos. When and in what circumstances did you lose two of your children? One of them died when he was barely two years old while the other one died in a fatal crash along the Bauchi-Kano Road many years ago. The common thing is for politicians to send their children to school abroad. Why didn’t you send your own children abroad to school? I chose not to send my children abroad for studies because I believe in Nigeria and I believe that we can make our educational system work. I believe that it is ours and it is our duty to make it work and if we don’t do it, who else will do it for us? If we send our children outside the country for whatever reason, who will fix our own system here? Nobody! We have to start from somewhere and that is why all my children schooled here and are still here, including my grandchildren. What kind of music do you love? (Smiles) This is very interesting. The songs of Haruna Ishola are my favourites because there is a lot of sense in them. Most of the people, who sang in that generation, sang about women, someone who was rich or that, but when you listened to Haruna Ishola’s songs, he either praised intelligence or praised people who had made sacrifices for the community, the society; rarely did he extol anyone because of the financial empire the person had built. And that is the major reason why I developed interest in him. Again, he sang melodiously. But you are a northerner. How come your favourite songs are by a Yoruba musician? (Laughs) Music has and knows no bounds. Music is something that comes from the soul and that’s to tell you that we don’t have to bring in the petty tribalism into even music. It’s a shame that we try to put tribalism and all the bigotry in almost everything we do. I think that’s the reason why we are where we are as a nation. What is your favourite food? Amala – the black one – with ewedu and gbegiri and the orisirisi (assorted meat).  I can eat this anytime of the day. I spent the best part of my life in Lagos. Most of the Yorubaland, there is hardly any part that I have not been to. More so, when I went to the Senate, my committees, ranging from transport, education, women affairs, and so on, made it possible for me to travel far and wide and to meet with people from different backgrounds. What more do you want from life? A lot. But what I do know is that it’s not all you desire that you get. I would have loved to see, before I leave this world, a country that is deeply rooted in peace and justice. There is no nation on earth, no matter how developed they think they are or what they have achieved, without those major ingredients of peace and justice. If you look at even the developed democracies in the world, one of their major showcases is democratic ideals. So, if one is leaving behind a beautiful country that is developed based on these principles I mentioned, he will be satisfied that his children and children’s children will have a place to be proud of. When have been your happiest and saddest moments? You see, this is something one has to look at from many perspectives but from a wider context in the home, the nation. The happiest moment for me was when we heard that Nigeria was becoming independent and was going to enjoy freedom. From the picture being painted at that time, there was that feeling of happiness. But when things started to go apart, we had the Congo crisis; I could still remember, it was in the evening and people came running and saying they had killed (Patrice) Lumumba and we asked who he was but still, people were crying. Nationally, everyone saw it as a period of sadness, whether you knew him or not. Do you have any regrets? I will not categorically call it regret.  It is something that one has the feeling that before you die, you (should) see a nation that is very sound, you see a nation where people are not judged by their colour, creed or their beliefs, you see a nation where things will work purely on merit. Now, we bring in many petty and trivial things. Even a councillor, they’ll say he’s not from this place or that. This is not a good ingredient for true and good development. Look at this country, people keep making reference to Rwanda and mentioning Paul Kagame. He couldn’t have achieved what they achieved alone after the trouble they went through between the Hutus and the Tutsis over such a period of time. But go to Rwanda and see what has been achieved now! This is the kind of society one would have loved to see, but it is not impossible, all that is needed is determined leadership and the support of the populace. You said earlier that when you were in the Senate, your monthly salary was N13,000 and you got little or no allowances. Today, we the National Assembly members collected millions of naira monthly as salaries and allowances. How does this make you feel? My pay slip is still there and the record is there for you to check at the record office or the accounts department in the Senate. But that’s not the issue because with that N13,000, we were contented and were very happy. We did not look at the material aspect of it; what we were concerned about was how to lay a solid political foundation for Nigeria and we were also looking out for the interest of the country. If the interest of Nigeria conflicted with our personal interests, we would abandon our personal interests and go with Nigeria’s interest. Take for example, in the petroleum industry of which I was a member at that time, I devoted my time, energy, resources, thinking and push to reintroduce oil exploration in the Benue Trough and the Lake Chad Basin. It was I who engineered the motion which was passed and a committee was established to look into the reason why oil exploration, which would have helped Nigeria tremendously, was stopped. That committee headed by Senator David Brigidi, we travelled far and wide to the nooks and crannies related to the industry. We submitted our report and the Senate adopted it. So many Nigerians see the current National Assembly as ‘rubber stamp’ and you mentioned earlier that during your time, it wasn’t so because national interest was put first in all you did. Does this worry you? Well, if you are not in the National Assembly, you can only be talking from outside, but from the perspective of the generality of Nigerians today, sometimes they judge and then the press, including the social media, distorts what is presented to the public. It is not an easy thing for one to just pass judgment instantly on whether what they are doing is right or wrong. But, by and large, the question of the interest of the country should be glaringly clear and not under any guise but straightforward and understandable by everybody. When I was in the committee on education, Alex Kadri was my chairman, and we knew the efforts we made for the education of this country. Even this TETFund that we are now proud that it is assisting the various tertiary institutions, at that time, it was Education Tax but to bring it to bear, it was our committee and the Senate of that time that did it. Can you compare your generation to this one? What has changed? We are sorry for your generation and if care is not taken, it will be referred to, in historical books, as the lost generation because majority of you have lost direction; they have lost what the meaning of life is. During our time, it was a taboo for someone to start taking drugs. At that time, the drug was Indian hemp and nobody wanted to be associated with it because it is bad. Today, it has gone to a higher degree and this is very unfortunate. What is your advice to the younger generation? Well, it is complex – complex in the sense that the younger generation is terribly in a hurry. ICT has done a lot of good and also a lot of bad, including even the social media which is assisting us to develop many ways. It (ICT) has destroyed a lot of things that we may not be able to repair; we may only reduce the damage that is being done. It has eroded our moral capacity, it has eroded our honesty and sincerity, it has eroded quite a lot of things but we can rebuild things. How do you relax? I sit down with my grandchildren; get very nice kunu since amala is no longer available as much as it used to be when we used to go to Apapa Road in Ebute Metta. I work in the morning if I can; if not, I sleep. Then, I come out to my small office and read newspapers if I can. If I can’t, I watch television, or listen to radio, visit family and friends.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com