This article may sound disturbing to some people especially, to some religious people that outrightly forbade the consumption of alcohol. Also, some researchers have attributed even moderate alcohol consumption to be a leading risk factors for both deaths and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) globally. It is even opined that alcohol consumption contributed immensely to the disease burden of the world and health loss in humans. That, it also increases the risk of cancer and there may be no level of alcohol consumption that may be beneficial to health. But what is actually called alcohol? Alcohol is generally, the name given to ethanol, which is the main psychoactive content of alcoholic beverages that make alcohol users to get drunk. It is produced as a by-product of the fermentation of sugars like glucose, fructose and sucrose. It is in fact, the effect of ethanol on heart, liver, brain, stomach, and gallbladder that make alcohol use to be a double-edged sword. Ethanol alters mood, concentration and coordination. It also have impartation on the blood levels of lipids and insulin as well as on inflammation and coagulation. Moderate use of alcohol is said to be beneficial to health while heavy drinking, even binge drinking, is without any health benefits. Binge drinking is when four or more alcoholic drinks are consumed within two hours by women and when men consumed five or more within the same two hours. In other word, it is when a large amount of alcohol is consumed over a short period of time , so as to get drunk. Heavy or high risk drinking is the consumption of more than three drinks in a day or more than seven drinks in a week by women and men older than 65 years. For men less than 65 years, this is when they consume more than four drinks in a day or more than 14 drinks in a week. However, the definition of “moderate drinking’ is highly debatable, since it is suppose to be a balancing act to indicate a point at which the quantity of alcohol consumed would bring more health benefits than harm. But lately, the consensus is that the consumption of no more than 1-2 drinks per day for men, and not more than 1 drink per day for women may be the point at which this balance may occur. Examples of one drink mentioned  above include: beer: 12 fluid ounces (0.355 liter); wine: 5 fluid ounces (0.145 liter), distilled spirits (80 proof): 1.5 fluid ounces (0.044 liter). Heavy alcohol drinking can inflame the liver, cause alcoholic hepatitis and eventually a fatal liver disease called liver cirrhosis. It also can increase blood pressure and damage the heart and had been linked with innumerable cancers. Such as the cancers of the mouth, pharynx, larynx, esophagus, breast, liver, colon and rectum. The risk of heavy drinking of alcohol causing some cancer is even more potentiated when drunk concomitantly with cigarette smoking and by people with poor diets. However, some of the health benefits attributed to moderate alcohol consumption include: reduction of the risk of developing and dying of heart diseases, prevention of ischemic stroke and possibly reducing the risk of developing type 2 diabetes and gallstones. But it is also believed that even moderate drinking of alcohol comes with some risks like sleep disruption etc. Alcohol, no matter the quantity consumed, is also known to dangerously interact with some medications like paracetamol and some other pain-killers, antidepressants, anticonvulsants and sedatives. Hence, should be avoided by people on such medications. Age, gender and the overall health of the individual exert some effects on each alcohol user. It is these effects that determine whether moderate consumption of alcohol would be beneficial on health or not. Hence, the reason behind the debate ofwhethermoderate consumption of alcohol isbeneficial or not. But it is advised that women trying to be pregnant or currently pregnant should avoid alcohol use. So also, people with medically diagnosed alcohol addiction, hemorrhagic stroke and liver or pancreatic diseases. Matter-of-factly, those diagnosed with heart failure and weak heart should totally avoid alcohol. It is also advised that no one should start drinking alcohol just because of wanting to have the health benefits associated with alcohol use. But for those healthy and already consuming alcohol in light to moderate amount, it is a good idea for them to always constantly consult a medical doctor to know whether it would be good for them to continue or completely stop alcohol use. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com