Nantes winger Moses Simon has urged the Nigerian Football Federation to take a timely decision on the coach who leads the Super Eagles for the World Cup play-offs against Ghana in March, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Simon was the Eagles’ standout performer despite their early exit from the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations tournament in Cameroon. The Eagles, three-time continental champions, won all three group games at the Roumde Adjia stadium in Garoua, Cameroon but were beaten 1-0 by COVID-19 a Tunisian side 1-0 in the last 16. Youssef Msakni’s striker two minutes into the second half sealed the seventh win over Nigeria for the Carthage Eagles. Speaking ahead of the Eagles play-offs clash with the Black Stars, Simon said, “Of course, Nigerians should expect victory and we will not underrate the Ghanaians because we want to go to the World Cup in Qatar. “It’s the dream of every player to go to the World Cup and that is the hope we want to give to our fans. This is the only gift we can give to Nigerians and nothing less. We will redeem ourselves, but you know that the key decision lies with the Nigerian Football Federation because they need to decide if the coach will stay or not. And secondly, the coach needs to drill his team on time.” On the Eagles ouster from the competition, the forward said, “It feels really bad losing out in the round of 16. I don’t know what to say because I’m disappointed. “I thought about the Nigerian fans, I thought about my family and I also thought about myself because this wasn’t where I wanted to be, we didn’t prepare for this, we prepared to go forward, but we didn’t make it that way. “They should keep supporting the Eagles and we will never let them down. We are in pains and we feel their pains too. For those that are insulting the players, my word for them is that we are human and they should just think about it.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com