Amid reports that All Progressives Congress leader, Bola Tinubu, will be picking a Muslim running mate if he emerges the APC Presidential ticket, Tinubu’s Spokesman, Mr. Tunde Rahman, says it is too early for such speculations. Rahman said this in a text message sent to our correspondent when asked to respond to reports that Tinubu, who is a Muslim, would be picking a northern Muslim as his running mate. The Director-General of the Tinubu Support Group, Abdulmumin Jibrin, had said during an interview on Channels Television that it does not matter if Tinubu picks a Muslim as his running mate, adding that Nigerians will choose competence over ethnic and religious considerations. Jibrin argued that currently in the House of Representatives, the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila; and the Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, are both Muslims while in the 6th and 7th Senate, Senator David Mark and Ike Ekweremadu who are both Christians, were Senate President and Deputy Senate President respectively. He had said, “For me, it doesn’t matter. If you bring a Christian-Christian presidency or a Muslim-Muslim presidency, for me, personally, it doesn’t matter. Even within the party and my TSG, we have had this conversation.” But in a chat with The PUNCH on Thursday, Tinubu’s spokesman said it would be premature to be discussing the issue of running mate when the former Lagos State governor had not even publicly declared his intention to contest. He said, “His Excellency Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is yet to formally declare for the presidential race because as he said a few weeks ago in Abuja he is at present engaging in intense consultations and deliberations with the various stakeholders.
“I think we should not jump the gun. When he makes that declaration, other things will follow. Until he does that I will advise that we don’t speculate on his presidential pairing. To do that will be tantamount to putting the cart before horse.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com