Ahead of the end of his tenure in October this year, the Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi, says he has raised the bar of governance in the state. He said he was proud of “a solid foundation” that his administration had laid, adding that his achievements in office had become a benchmark against which subsequent administrations in the state would be rated. This was contained in his New Year message titled, ‘2022 – Our year of fulfillment.’ Fayemi said he would not leave of the projects he embarked upon uncompleted. The governor, who would complete his second tenure in office on October 16, 2022, expressed his determination “to complete all major projects, including the Ekiti Passenger-Cargo Airport, the Ado-Iworoko section of the Ado-Ifaki Road, renovation of township roads and finally commence the construction of our farms to markets roads across the state.” He added,   “This year will also witness construction and renovation of more schools, provision of learning materials for students, completion of the ongoing construction and equipping of our Intensive Care Unit at the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, as well as various ongoing projects in many of our secondary and primary health centres. “We have made deliberate efforts to ensure that every town and indeed every indigene and resident has been impacted immensely by our generic social welfarist programmes and policies, massive investments in infrastructure, closing observable gaps in our drive for sustainable development and the enactment and enforcement of progressive laws. “We also addressed community-specific demands that were made, in the spirit of equity and inclusive governance. We are proud that we have laid a solid foundation and raised the bar in governance and set a backdrop against which subsequent administrations would be assessed. “We are proud that we have kept faith with the sacred mandate you (Ekiti people) entrusted to us and advanced the development of the state significantly in the outgone years.” Ahead of the governorship election in June, Fayemi appealed to politicians and people of the state to ensure that there was no division or bitterness among them. Fayemi said, “This election is another opportunity to reclaim our reputation as decent people and correct the negative perceptions we were once smeared with because of the ignoble actions of a few of us in previous electoral cycles. “As you know, the year 2022 is an electoral year for us in Ekiti, I would like to use this opportunity to implore us, one and all, to conduct ourselves as the truly honourable people that we are and avoid stoking divisions and bitterness among us. “On our part, we will do everything to ensure that we hand over to a new administration in a rancour-free environment. “As you all know, we as mortals can only put in our best efforts, but power ultimately belongs to God who rules in the affairs of men and it is His will that will prevail in our homeland.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com