The Nasarawa State Police Command on Thursday said it was on the trail of the killers of 54-year-old Grace Dauda. Dauda, who was the Chief Nursing Officer of Federal Medical Centre, Jabi, Abuja, was murdered by unknown persons at her residence in Auta Balefi, Karu Local Government Area of Nasarawa State, on January 7. The Federal Capital Territory Council of the National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives had on Tuesday lamented that the killers are yet to be arrested. But speaking with our correspondent on Thursday, the command’s spokesperson, Ramhan Nansel, explained that the police had carried out a preliminary investigation on the matter, leading to the arrest of three persons. According to him, two persons had been granted bail, while one is still in their custody. Nansel added that the case has been transferred to the State Criminal Investigative Department. He said, “We are not sleeping on this issue, investigation of cases like this requires a lot of effort. “The incident happened around 11pm on January 7 and at about 9am the following day, one Philip reported the case at one of our stations after they did not see her in the office. “The police went to her house, they broke the door and they saw the lifeless body of the woman lying on her couch. Our men did the preliminary findings that they ought to do. They found out that there was a sign of injury on her and later discovered a knife. “The body was recovered and was taken to the hospital. The doctor confirmed her death. She was deposited in the mortuary for post-mortem. “We arrested three persons and the Commissioner of Police ordered that they should be brought to the State Criminal Investigation, Lafia, for interrogation, two were granted bail but one is still in custody. We are still on the trail of those behind the crime.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com