A Telecommunication Company, 9mobile, has advised stakeholders in the education sector to invest in training of teachers. Executive Director, Regulator and Corporate Affairs, 9mobile, Mr Abdulraham Ado, stated this at a one-day train the trainer workshop for teachers within the Lagos State Education District III comprising Lagos Island and Eti-osa Local Councils. Ado who was represented by PR Lead, 9mobile, Chineze Amanfo, remarked that 9mobile was committed to prioritising the interest of the youths and would continue to invest in initiatives that impacted their development. He also said the workshop which was titled, ‘Understanding Affirmative Communication and the Emotional and Psychological Needs of a Child’, aimed at equipping teachers with the skills to manage and influence the upcoming generation of students to be future agents of positive change. She said, “Some months ago, we held a career counselling session for students of Akande Dehunsi Senior Secondary School on making career choices. Today, we are back with a train the trainer workshop for teachers. Besides guiding students in academics and extracurricular activities, teachers play a critical role in shaping a child’s future. This has informed the decision to put this session together according to 9mobile’s focus on education as one of its CSR pillars. We recognize the efforts of our teachers, and we are here today to further encourage and equip them with skills that will further enhance their effectiveness and impact.” One of the facilitators, a trained counselor and therapist, Emike Oyemade, advised the teachers to develop an effective communication strategy with their learners. “As teachers, your style of communication must align with modern reality. You must learn to speak and understand your students’ language, use the right words to impact and influence them, and connect to correct where mistakes have been made.’’ A certified life coach and management trainer, John-Mabun Adesoga, said , “You cannot deliver well if you donot see your students as your children. Understanding the psychological and emotional needs of your students is a skill, and you must be deliberate about it.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com