Amarachi Okeh Nutrition and animal scientists have cautioned against the use of animal fats as a healthier substitute to vegetable oils. While warning that the intake of animal fat is dangerous to health, the experts noted that it could cause serious health complications including heart attack. According to the experts, animal fats also known as animal tallows have a high content of saturated fat which could cause hypertension and heart attacks. Tallow, as explained in an article published by delightedcooking.com, is a form of rendered fat, classically made from beef. The article stated further that technically any animal could be used as a source of tallows, noting that tallows are harvested from cows, goats, and horses. “They have high economic value as they are an integral and useful ingredient in the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries but in terms of health, they are considered to be an unhealthy option for oil,” it said. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise, the experts, a professor of animal nutrition, Leonard Agwunobi, and a professor of Ruminant Nutrition, Isaac Osakwe stressed that tallows deposit faster in the arteries unlike vegetable and virgin oils. Explaining why tallows are not a good option for health, Agwunobi said using them for cooking could cause atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is the build-up of fats, cholesterol and other substances in and on your artery walls. This build-up is called plaque. The plaque can cause arteries to narrow, blocking blood flow. The plaque can also burst, leading to a blood clot, according to mayoclinic.com. The medical site added that although atherosclerosis is often considered a heart problem, it can affect arteries anywhere in the body. Speaking, Agwunobi said, “It is a dangerous oil for human health. It is dangerous because it has a lot of health implications like atherosclerosis. “That is, it deposits faster on the blood vessels, veins and arteries blocking the passage of blood through the arteries, veins which can result in the person dying of arteriosclerosis. “That is why sometimes you see a person who looks healthy collapsing while walking. It is one of the reasons. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com