The Parent-Teacher Association of Nigeria has decried the spate of bullying, abduction, assault and murder of school children in different parts of the country. The National President of the association,  Haruna Danjuma, while speaking with our correspondent, said the association was shocked and worried over these incidents, adding that schools were no longer safe for pupils. On June 19, 2021, a 14-year-old pupil of Premiere Academy, Abuja, Karen-Happuch Akpagher, was allegedly raped in her school and a condom was left in her private part, leading to her death. A 12-year-old pupil of Dowen College, Lekki, Lagos, Sylvester Oromoni Jnr, death went viral following a social media post by his cousin, Perry Oromoni, who alleged that some senior pupils of the school beat him up in his hostel because he refused to join a cult. On January 21, a senior pupil of Elkanemi College of Islamic Theology, Maiduguri, slit the throat of an 11-year-old junior pupil of the college, Jubril Mato, while in Kano, a five-year-old girl, Hanifa Abubakar, was allegedly kidnapped and killed by the principal of her school, who also burin her body parts within the school premises. Also, schoolchildren have also become targets of terrorists and kidnappers across the country. Lamenting the situation, Danjuma said, “ It is so sad. As I speak, our National Working Committee is planning a meeting to find ways we can solve these issues you have mentioned. Most of these things are happening in private schools. “We want to see how we can put hands together with relevant stakeholders to arrest the situation. We are shocked and worried by the recent happenings in schools across the country. It means our children are no longer safe in their schools which is very bad.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com