The Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, has called on residents of the state to cooperate with the government and pay their taxes as and when due. Akeredolu said payment of taxes would enable the government to deliver more dividends of democracy for the people, saying it was imperative for them to support government initiatives through the payment of taxes. Speaking through the state Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Mr Emmanuel Igbasan, on Monday, at the approved 2022 budget analysis of the state in Akure, the state capital, the governor said the people would have the moral justification to ask questions from the government if they pay their taxes. He said, “Let me reiterate that everyone living and earning income or have significant economic presence in the state must pay his or her taxes as and when due. “By so doing, we will have the moral right and justification to enjoy public facilities provided by government and demand accountability from our leaders.” Akeredolu lamented that the global crises had affected the state drastically, adding that the poor oil sector performance and the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 had a direct negative impact on the economy and revenue inflow to the state and the nation at large. According to him, the budget, christened ‘Budget of economic re-engineering’, has well-defined policy thrust and priorities within the medium-term expenditure framework and the second blueprint, titled ‘REDEEMED Agenda.’ He said the competing needs of the people were programmed and prioritised in alignment with the medium-term sector strategy. He hoped that there will be a significant improvement in independent revenue generation. “Even though the coronavirus pandemic may not kill as many people in Africa as it is doing elsewhere, the greatest challenge that stares every one of us in the face is the attendant economic impact,” he said. Akeredolu said the 2022 budget would be funded from the major sources, namely federation account (N57.84bn), independent revenue (N30.9bn) and other sources (N110.4bn). He said the N110.9bn revenue from other sources would come from “cash reserve, special FAAC allocations, excess crude, short-term borrowing/domestic, long-term borrowing, grants and health insurance contributions”. Copyright PUNCH. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com