THE Nigeria Labour Congress has endorsed the planned bill on monthly house rent in the Federal Capital Territory introduced by the Senator representing Kogi West District, Smart Adeyemi. The bill titled, ‘Advanced Rent (Residential Apartments, Office Spaces, etc.) Regulation Bill 2022,’ has gone through first reading at the Senate. It provides for a maximum of three months advance rent payment in the first instance and subsequent monthly payment for the rest of any tenancy lease in the FCT. The NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, in a statement on Thursday, said the bill was in tandem with the rent regime in most parts of the world, including South Africa and Kenya. The statement was titled, ‘The Nigeria Labour Congress throws its full weight behind the bill on monthly house rent in the FCT.’ Wabba said, “Nigerian workers welcome this legislative initiative by Senator Smart Adeyemi who is also a comrade as a former President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, an affiliate of the NLC. “We also recall that the issue of high rents in urban places like Abuja was raised during the recent NLC National Roundtable on Social Protection Cover where Senator Smart Adeyemi represented the Chairman of the Roundtable, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau. “It is heart-warming that Senator Adeyemi took to heart the concerns of Nigerian workers on the asphyxiating trauma occasioned by high rent, hence this bill.” The labour leader noted that workers are paid monthly, saying it is callous to expect them to pay on a yearly basis. He said the crisis of house rent in Abuja is so problematic that it has become the sub-burner for all manner of social misnomers such as official corruption, prostitution, and violent crimes in urban centres, particularly the FCT “as most Nigerians are put under the insufferable pressure to make a lot of money to afford a roof over their heads. “We hope that the passage of this bill will rescue many Nigerian workers and ordinary people from the rent-siege.” Meanwhile, the congress has faulted a statement credited to the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan, that the Academic Staff Union of Universities is not a recognised trade union. “It is truly sad that such a pan-Nigerian and progressive union composed of some of the very best intellectuals in Nigeria could be easily dismissed as not being a trade union by the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation. Whatever Dr Yemi-Esan wants to achieve with such a fallacious claim is difficult to discern,” Wabba said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com