THE objective of the Anambra 2022 transition committee is to get the incoming administration of Prof Chukwuma Soludo fit and ready to govern from day one. A media aide to the governor-elect, Joe Anatune, stated this in a statement in Awka on Wednesday. He said the panel headed by Oby Ezekwesili will not come out with wish list. Anatune said the government team, led by the Secretary to the Anambra State Government, Prof Solo Chukwulobelu, would interface with the transition team, led by Dr Oby Ezekwesili, to ensure a seamless transition. He restated his high expectations from the committee, assuring that the mantra – One Anambra, One people and One agenda, would underscore “Soludo’s liveable and prosperous smart  megacity vision that will be developed holistically.” He added that the seamless transition of power would ensure that Ndi Anambra continue to enjoy the dividends of democracy that the All Progressive Grand Alliance governments were known for. He said, “Having provided a clear template for problem-solving to members of the transition team, we are optimistic that we will not come up with wish lists but people-oriented policies, projects and programmes that will help the governor-elect take Anambra State to a higher level and bring smiles to the faces of the people. Anambra is poised to break the glass ceiling. “It marks a new dawn in the South-East where specialised human resources are harnessed across the states in the zones to overcome development challenges and advance progress. “The transition project is a family affair, it will strive to ensure that the outgoing government departs in a blaze of glory. Fortunately, it is a change of power from one APGA government to another – a family affair.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com