The Ijaw Youth Council Worldwide has berated the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, over his silence on the agitation of stakeholders for the inauguration of a substantive board for the Niger Delta Development Commission. The IYC President, Peter Igbifa, in a statement on Tuesday, wondered why Amaechi, who was hitherto known for his boldness in speaking out, had maintained an unusual studied silence since the agitation for justice and fairness started regarding the NDDC. He stated, “The silence of leaders like the Transport minister, Rotimi Amaechi, on the illegality at the NDDC is no longer golden. “Why has Amaechi, who is known for his boldness and for withstanding all opposition to support President Muhammadu Buhari, suddenly lost his voice concerning the NDDC? “Amaechi and other leaders must explain to us the reason for their silence.” Igbifa, who reflected on some of the achievements of the council since he took over its leadership, also condemned the President, Major General Muhamadu Buhuari (retd.), for his silence on the NDDC board in his speech during the recent inauguration of the hostel project completed by the commission in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. He said though the extension of Effiong Akwa’s tenure as the sole administrator of the NDDC expired on December 31, 2021, the Presidency was doing nothing to inaugurate the board of the interventionist agency. Igbifa added, “We condemn the silence of Mr President on this board matter. President Muhammadu Buhari portrayed himself as an insensitive leader when he failed to speak on the matter during his recent speech to inaugurate the hostel project built by the NDDC at the University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. “It is obvious that persons surrounding the President and who wrote that speech for him are misrepresenting him, because the real Buhari that we know would have inaugurated the NDDC board at least as a new year gift to the Niger Delta people, who gave him the goodwill of regional peace like no other.” The IYC boss said the council would continue to demand transparency and accountability in the NDDC and called on the President to make the forensic audit report of the commission public. Igbifa said the council would also monitor the implementation of the Petroleum Industrial Act to ensure that it would not become another political strategy to steal billions of naira to pursue the 2023 general elections. He advised local government councils and communities in the Niger Delta to embrace unity in setting up their management teams to work with oil multinationals. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com