Dearest Temilolu, I’m always thrilled and proud of you whenever I read your instructive and reformatting admonitions to young and adolescent ladies and even the male folk in your weekly contributions in the Punch newspaper. I’m not surprised because of your godly upbringing. You will notice the profound gratitude and prayers poured on you by the people. Please my dear daughter, keep it up. Lord God Almighty will continue to multiply your blessings and anointing in Jesus’ mighty name! Pa G.O.  Adewunmi, 90 My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian daughters, In the last two weeks, I’ve been discussing how wonderful and phenomenal this year is going to be for the sexually-pure. Even if you’ve been engaging in premarital sex and other forms of ungodly sex- the good thing is you can enjoy what God has prepared for those who would follow Him in obedience if you can retrace your steps and surrender your flesh immediately. You will be amazed to discover what He’s planned for you in particular which could in fact settle you for life. I pray you learn from this. Please Google 2022: A phenomenal year of shinning for the sexually-pure! (I & II) Ensure you are not carrying and starting the New Year with evil luggage and strange spirits: Believe me, the reason why 2021 was unpleasant for many is the interference of a strange spirit from a sexual partner. This is a very serious matter! A lot are engaging in premarital sex and have been seeing snails in their dreams, dreamt their purse full of money was stolen, dreamt they were stark-naked, discovered their crown was missing, some dreamt they couldn’t find their keys, some were captured in a raid etc. If you experienced one of the above and you’re still engaging in ungodly sex, I’m sorry you’re undoing yourself by yourself and not the enemy!!! Not only does ungodly sex diminish your spiritual power, it steals from you and strengthens your battles. Why put your destiny at risk and allow yourself to be at the mercy of the devil? 2021 was meant to be the year God scheduled for someone’s 360° turnaround, a year marked for someone’s phenomenal success but diverted because of that person’s fleshly lust. Haaa….if you’ve been engaging in premarital sex, it’s in your best interest to ensure you rid your life of strange spirits and evil baggage from your sexual partner and all of those he/she has slept with weighing down your life. And abstain, abstain, abstain till marriage! You never can tell what God has planned for you for 2022 which the devil wants to scuttle. Are you not tired of being stagnant and begging for the good things of life? May the power of God hit you right where you are and set you on a journey of recovery. I repeat, if you’ve been engaging in ungodly sex, it is dangerous and cataclysmic to your destiny to carry demonic, strange, foul spirits consisting of ill-luck, curses, stagnation etc. you may have got from your sexual partners into a new year that could give you the best days of your life. I’d advise you fast and spend some time in church praying. If you can find a deliverance pastor to lead you in prayers VERY GOOD! If not you may just fire your prayers backed up with scriptures and run round the church if you wish telling God to expunge strange spirits that have been transferred into your life through sex which could stop you from enjoying the best of the glory 2022 will bring! After all, It is written, “My house shall be called a house of prayer” (Matthew 21:13). Some pastors would tell you there’s no need for deliverance as old things have passed away after becoming born-again. Says who? You who can’t stop living a sinful life after several altar calls, you who won’t read the Bible till you get to your one hour Sunday service and forever opening the door for the devil! Hmmmm… May God visit you in your dreams tonight and give you just a piece of information that will show you the way forward, change your life forever and skyrocket your destiny in 2022 in Jesus’ mighty name! To be continued. I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com