The Nigerian Army has shut down the Song Cattle Market in Adamawa State following intelligence that Boko Haram members were sending rustled cattle to be sold in the market. The closure of the market had raised concern as some traders alleged that the action of the military followed their refusal to yield to demands of soldiers stationed there for huge amounts to allow them transact business. A trader, who spoke to The PUNCH, said the soldiers demanded millions of naira from the traders’ association overseeing the market. But the Brigade Commander, 23rd Armoured Brigade, Gibson Jalo Cantonment, Brigadier General Aminu Garba, said the market was temporarily closed to check the activities of terrorists. “The market was closed because of security concerns. Intelligence confirmed that terrorists were sending rustled cattle to sell in the market,” he said. In the same vein, the District Head of Song, Alhaji Ahmadu Saidu, told our correspondent that he was not aware that the market was closed by the military because the traders refused to cooperate with soldiers. “I’m not aware of any attempt to extort the traders. The soldiers informed me that they shut the market to investigate something related to terrorism,” he said. On December 14, 2021, it was reported that a weekly market in Gombi was shut by the military over the fear of Boko Haram attack. Gombi shares a boundary with the Mandara mountains, which Boko Haram insurgents have often used as a safe haven in launching attacks on villages and communities in the Askira Uba Local Government Area of Borno State, and the Michika, Madagali, Hong and Gombi local government areas of Adamawa State. Military sources claimed at the time that the Golongtabal Market in the Gombi Local Government Area was shut down to avert infiltration by terrorist groups. The measure, the military disclosed, was taken to foil planned attacks and safeguard the community from any imminent threat. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com