The Senate has invited the heads of 62 revenue agencies over the low remittances and the need to boost government revenue. This is according to an advertorial published by the Senate Committee on Finance. Some of the agencies include: the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, Nigerian Ports Authority, Federal Inland Revenue Service, Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation, Nigerian Meteorological Agency, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, Federal Road Safety Corps, Nigeria Customs Service, Standards Organisation of Nigeria and the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency Others are: Bank of Agriculture, Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading, Tertiary Education Trust Fund, Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria, Nigerian Railway Corporation, Federal Reporting Council of Nigeria, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, Corporate Affairs Commission, Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority, National Broadcasting Commission, Joint Admission Matriculation Board. The Nigerian Port Authority, the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation, National Automotive Design and Development Council, Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria and the Nigerian Communications Commission are expected to be present at the meeting. Also expected at the meeting are heads of tertiary institutions. A top source in the Senate told The PUNCH that the meeting had become necessary because of the dwindling government resources. “The truth is that we believe a lot of these agencies are not doing enough. Funds are still not being remitted into the Treasury Single Account while there are several leakages that need to be plugged. This could help reduce the country’s debt profile. We need more revenue now that the government’s spending will increase due to the retention of fuel subsidy,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com