The Coalition of 52 Northern Groups on Monday announced the postponement of its security summit in honour of Kano elder statesman and former presidential candidate of the National Republican Convention in the June 12 ,1993, election, Alhaji Bashir Othman Tofa. Tofa died in the early hours of Monday after a protracted illness. The national coordinator of CNG, Balarabe Rufai, told journalists that the inadvertent postponement of its planned Pan Northern Security Summit scheduled for January 5 and 6, 2022, was a mark of honour for the late politician. Rufai who described the late Tofa as a passionate believer of the organic links between generations who were always available for young people, said the date for the summit would be announced soon. He said, “It is with a heavy heart and deep sense of sorrow and resignation to the will of the Almighty God that the Coalition of Northern Groups announces the death of His Excellency, Alhaji Bashir Othman Tofa, following a brief illness on Monday, January 3. “On behalf of the entire CNG family and affiliates, we hereby express a deep sense of sorrow over the death of this great elder statesman and one time Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Bashir Othman Tofa, who has been a great statesman and mentor. “The CNG owes immeasurable gratitude to the late Bashir Tofa whose leadership, sacrifice, statesmanship, patriotism and unwavering commitment to the interests of the people of Northern Nigeria, and citizens of Nigeria as a whole has few parallels. “As a mark of respect and with a grieving heart we wish to announce the inadvertent postponement of the planned Pan Northern Security Summit scheduled for January 5 and 6 to a date to be announced soon. “We mourn the passing of this man from whose life and works we have drawn inspiration and we must strive, in all we do, to live by the personal and social values and standards he lived and set for himself. “The late Tofa was a passionate believer of the organic links between generations who were always available for young people. “The CNG in particular, the North and Nigeria generally have certainly lost a great statesman, but the youth lost a mentor, guardian, a living history and an embodiment of all the exemplary qualities young Northerners should strive to achieve. “The CNG also acknowledges the immeasurable contribution of the late Tofa in stabilising the North and Nigeria as a whole. We pray the Almighty Allah to overlook his shortcomings, forgive his gentle soul, admit him to Jannah and grant his family the fortitude to bear the loss “We also wish to condole the convener of the Northern Elders Forum, Prof. Ango Abdullahi; Chairman, Arewa Consultative Forum, Chief Audu Ogbeh; CNG BOT Chairman, Dr. Nastura Ashir Sharrif and the entire CNG family over the loss of this great man.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com