The Nigerian Army has rejected an appeal for reinstatement by a soldier, Lance Corporal Sunday Danwanu, who was dismissed for allegedly stealing fuel from the United Nations fuel point in Sierra Leone. It was learnt that Danwanu was a batman to then Captain Ibrahim Attahiru before he was deployed in Monrovia, Liberia, as a driver to the UN Mission to Sierra Leone in 2003. The authorities said Danwanu, then attached to the 65 Battalion, Bonny Camp, Lagos, was caught by his Commanding Officer collecting fuel from the UN fuel point, which was not meant for him or the Nigerian contingent, as his unit was supplied petroleum, oil and lubricants directly by the UN fuel depot. The Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Yahaya Farouk, in a letter dated January 12, 2022, signed on his behalf by Col A. Audu, addressed to Danwanu’s lawyer, Okereke Joel of Johnson Oye and Co, explained that the former soldier was charged with “disobedience to particular orders and making of false documents in relation to extant laws.” The CoAS said Danwanu was tried, found guilty and dismissed from the regiment, accordingly. The letter, with reference AHQ DOOA/GI/300/200, was titled, ‘Re: Appeal for reinstatement of L/Cpl Sunday Danwanu into the Nigerian Army brought pursuant to Section 179(2-6) and 191 of the Armed Forces Act, CAP A20, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 (Amended) ’. It read, “In view of the above, I am further directed to inform you that your client was dismissed on November 6, 2003, and his first letter of appeal came nine months after his dismissal, which violated the provisions of Section 147 (2) of the Armed Forces Act, CAP A20, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, thereby making his appeal statute-barred. “Hence, your request lacks merit and is hereby discountenanced for being statute-barred.” The former soldier had in his appeal alleged that he was not formally tried or given any chance to defend himself before he was summarily dismissed from service by one Lt Abubakar at the Lungi Airport, Monrovia. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com