African Alliance Insurance Plc has said it paid N7.5bn claims to its policyholders in 2021. The company said this in a statement from the Brand, Media and Communications Manager, Bankole Banjo, titled ‘African Alliance Insurance excites customers with N7.5bn claims’. The statement said, “Foremost life insurer, African Alliance Insurance Plc has revealed that in the month of December 2021, it has paid N475m claims to its customers ahead of the yuletide season. This is part of a larger N7.5bn claims paid thus far in the year.” Speaking on the firm’s claims profile, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, African Alliance Insurance, Joyce Ojemudia, reaffirmed the company’s commitment to satisfying its policyholders. She said, “At African Alliance Insurance Plc, we are in the business of paying genuine claims as due. This is more important as the year rolls to an end with many uncertainties that may affect the festivities. “For us, we have promised we will be with them for life; this is our ongoing fulfillment of that mantra.” She noted the company’s long history of claims payment, saying a seamless claims process had been instituted. According to her, the process includes fortifying the claims unit with agile and nimble claims experts enabled by technology to join the existing team. “This has resulted in a faster processing time for claims. As we end this year on a good note, we are reassuring our customers that we won’t renege on our commitment to paying claims as due,” Ojemudia said. The statement showed that the breakdown of the claims profile showed that the company paid N1.23bn in individual life claims; N1.36bn, group life; N626m, Takaful; N25.2m, Esusu payouts; and N4.35bn in annuity payments.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com