Illustrious sons and daughters of Esanland in Edo Central Senatorial District, including late Chief Paul Engo Okojie, Prof Ambrose Alli and Chief Tony Anenih were posthumously honoured for their contributions to the growth and development of Esanland and her people. Others posthumously recognised by the Esan communities during the Esan Mega Summit organised by Esan Descendants Assembly are Chief Tony Enahoro, Sir Christopher Abebe, Admiral Augustus Aikhomu and Chief Francis Ijewere. The award ceremony in its maiden edition was attended by eminent personalities from Esanland, including Arch. Mike Onolememen, AVM Okpere rtd, Professor Francis Inegbeniki, Eugene Anthony Enahoro, Hon. Stella Alli, the Ojuromi of Uromi Kingdom, the Onojie of Ujiogba, and the Onojie of Urohi, among others. The awardees, according to the organizers, were meritoriously selected by Esan indigenes at home and in the Diaspora to appreciate and recognize some illustrious sons and daughters who had, while they were alive, selflessly and relentlessly contributed in various ways to the growth and development of Esanland. Presenting the award to the son of late High Chief Paul Okojie, Barr Chief Percy Okojie, in recognition of his father’s immense contribution to sports development in Nigeria, the chairman of the Board of Trustees, EDA, AVM Okpere rtd, eulogized the unique lifestyle of the late community development enthusiast. Recalling the supportive role played by the late Okojie in ensuring sports development in his community, the state and country, the BOT chairman enjoined his family to sustain the sterling qualities and numerous legacies of the late community leader. In his response, Barr. Percy Okogie thanked the people of Esanland for recognizing his late father, pledging to uphold the values and principles that he lived for. He said: “Let me use this opportunity to thank all sons and daughters of Esan descent across the globe that have made today possible. In the same vein, I wish to, on behalf of the Okojie family and Ohordua Community, appreciate this distinguished Esan Forum for not only recognising my father who departed this world about three years ago, but also for recognizing some of our past and present heroes. This is another morale booster for the rest of us and a sure catalyst for the development of our fatherland.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com