The World Health Organisation has stated that unintentional poisonings kill an estimated 355,000 people globally each year. In developing countries – where two-thirds of these deaths occur – such poisonings are associated strongly with excessive exposure to and inappropriate use of toxic chemicals. The top six environmental toxins to avoid: Pharmaceutical drugs are in tap water. Seventy-four percent of the US population takes prescription drugs. Because the drugs do not metabolize fully, small quantities are excreted via feces and urine and flushed away. Toilet water is often treated and filtered before being discharged into lakes and rivers, thereby re-entering the water supply. The trouble is, many drugs are not filtered out via the normal filtration process. Minute quantities of chemotherapy drugs, contraceptive pills, antidepressants, anxiolytics, anabolic steroids, HRT (hormone replacement therapy), heart drugs, etc., have been found in tap water. Use a dual filtration system. Buy a double filtration water system that filters particles smaller than 1 micron (this will filter out the drugs and heavy metals). Use the filter in your shower and your kitchen. Shower steam contains the same chemicals, which you can end up inhaling and absorbing through your skin. Aim to eat an optimal fertility diet Your growing embryo will increase 20 million times during the first trimester of pregnancy. In the first eight weeks, your baby’s organs, hands, fingers, legs, feet, head, eyes, nose, ears, etc., are being constructed. To ensure the best possible foundations are laid down during this phase, you want to make sure there are plenty of building blocks in the form of the proper nutrients in the right combinations. If you have to eat fish, remove the skin with fat laced with toxins and heavy metals from the waters. What does a fertility diet contain? An optimal fertility diet is about what to avoid as much as what to include. A fertility diet should be as fresh as possible and organic wherever possible. Key elements are good quality protein sources (favor vegetable protein sources) and good fats. What should you eat? Organic meat in small quantities, small deep-sea fish like sardines and red snapper, organic legumes home cooked (not canned). Whole grains, nuts, seeds, vegetables, and fruit in season, organic where possible. Increase your consumption of good fats and avoid dangerous fats. Good fats include monounsaturated fats in olive oil, polyunsaturated fats in oily fish and nuts, and mid-chain fatty acids found in coconut oil. For cooking, use coconut oil or palm kernel oil as they do not become unstable when heated. For non-heated oil requirements (salads, etc.), use cold-pressed olive oil, flaxseed oil, and nut oils. Avoid dangerous fats Did you know that consuming trans fats hidden in foods such as; doughnuts, biscuits, lollies, candy, chocolate, chips, pies, fries, take away and thousands of other foods may increase your risk of infertility as much as 70 per cent? Scientists from the Harvard University School of Public Health advise women wanting to get pregnant to avoid all trans fats. The sole purpose of adding trans fats to food is to extend its shelf life. To minimise your consumption of trans fats, be diligent about reading the ingredients, and avoid the most likely culprits altogether. Trans fats are mainly listed as’ hydrogenated fat’ or ‘hardened vegetable fat’ or only ‘vegetable fat.’ Minimise animal-derived estrogens Dairy products account on average for 60 to 70 per cent of estrogens consumed. Humans consume milk from cows in the second half of pregnancy when cows’ estrogen levels are high. We usually associate dairy and drinking milk with calcium and never think about what else we may be consuming along with the calcium (and dairy, by the way, is not the best source of calcium). Here is a list of hormones found in cows’ milk: Prolactin, Somatostatin, Melatonin, Oxytocin, Growth hormone, Luteinizing releasing hormone, Thyroid-stimulating hormone, Estrogens, Progesterone, Insulin, Corticosteroids and much more. Do you think an excess consumption of all these hormones could disrupt your hormonal balance? You bet! The use of milk has been linked to some instances of male infertility. Excess estrogen and pesticide exposure have been linked to PCOS and Endometriosis. Studies have found higher concentrations of pesticides in cheese than in non-organically grown fruit and vegetables. The first line of naturopathic treatment I recommend for PCOS and Endometriosis is to minimize animal products’ intake. Animal products have high hormones, pesticides, and herbicides, known as endocrine disruptors. They play havoc with your hormones, and this can lead to anovulation. Meanwhile, in Nigeria, we have coconut milk, Tigger nut milk, and many more of excellent quality. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com