The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has set up a committee to identify plots of land in the state in order to resolve the crisis over   landed property in the Magodo Phase 2 Estate. Addressing journalists after meeting with representatives of the Shangisha Landlord Association, Magodo Residents Association, Nigeria Police Force, and other stakeholders, at the Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja, the governor said his administration would ensure justice and fairness in the matter. He said, “We have been having meetings with stakeholders and representatives of Magodo Phase 2 and they listened attentively, stating that the issue had been the well laid out 549 plots of land to the Shangisha Landlord Association. “It has been well resolved that the committee already set up should identify available plots and additional plots at mutually agreeable areas. “We will ensure that the injustice complained about by the Shangisha Association of Landlords is addressed and there will be a de-escalation of the crisis on the estate. “We want to assure residents and landlord associations that in no distant future, we will all work in our various capacities to ensure that fairness, equity and justice are shown and we will see to it that all the stakeholders with me are happy and the residents are also happy with the government.” The Chairman, MRA, Bajo Osinubi, said Sanwo-Olu agreed to give the judgment creditors plots in the low land area of Magodo, adding that the governor said the development would make the policemen to disengage from the estate. Osinubi said, “We told him about the continuous presence of policemen on the estate and the governor said he expects the police to tell their superiors that there is no fight and that they should disengage. “The Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, was there and he should be able to brief the Inspector-General of Police. They should not expect them to start giving them the land today, but the governor said they will start work tomorrow.” The Chairman, SLA, Adebayo Adeyiga, said he had submitted his demands to the governor. “It is only when these demands are met that this is settled. This is the beginning of the engagement towards solving this problem, but it depends on how they handle it. But I will be willing to engage all the way,” he added. PUNCH Metro had reported that landlords and residents on the Magodo Phase 2 Estate protested against the continuous presence of policemen on the estate on Tuesday. The policemen had accompanied members of a family to claim possession of the land on the estate. The group had marked buildings and were about to invade the estate with a bulldozer when the estate management ordered a closure of the gates. It took the intervention of Sanwo-Olu before the gates were reopened as the IGP, Usman Baba, reportedly promised to withdraw the policemen. The refusal of the policemen to leave the estate led to another protest, as the estate management expressed its grievances against the continued presence of the policemen. Calm returned again when Sanwo-Olu said a meeting had been scheduled with the judgement creditors and other stakeholders.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com