The Indigenous People of Biafra has said that it did not authorise anyone to enforce the Monday sit-at-home order which has led to killings and destruction of life and properties in the South-East. Reacting to Monday’s hoodlum attacks in communities in Anambra and Enugu states, the group said the attackers were sponsored by politicians in a bid to blackmail IPOB. The group, therefore, urged the governors of the region to deal decisively with anyone using Monday sit-at-home to torture innocent citizens/residents of their states. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, on Tuesday, the group explained that no genuine member of IPOB or the Eastern Security Network was involved in any enforcement of Monday sit-at-home order, adding that anybody doing so is working against Biafra restoration. According to the statement, anybody unleashing terror on innocent citizens under the guise of enforcing sit-at-home order is a criminal and does not deserve pity. The statement read in part, “We have severally explained that IPOB has not authorised anybody to enforce any Monday sit-at-home which has been suspended since September 19, 2021. Anybody unleashing sorrow on innocent citizens under the guise of enforcing sit-at-home order is a criminal and does not deserve pity. “The attention of the global movement and family of IPOB has been drawn to the senseless shootings and destruction of properties in the South-East on Monday by hoodlums and cultists recruited and sponsored by some evil politicians in the state who derive joy in spilling the blood of their fellow citizens.” The group warned criminals conniving with security agencies and enemies of the freedom fight to desist from doing so adding that IPOB was not formed to terrorise people. It, therefore, tasked the governors in the region to provide security for the people on Mondays as “ESN is now ready to confront these criminals.” While stating that the group was not formed to terrorise the people, it reassured them that they remain peaceful and focused on the pursuit of Biafra freedom and independence. “Nobody should link IPOB or ESN with these bunch of criminal acts in our region and those enforcing non-existent Monday sit-at-home order. How can we stop sit-at-home and then turn around to compel people to observe it? “IPOB is not a hypocritical group and we must come out victorious. The media should stop linking IPOB and ESN with the criminals behind this sad development. They are not our members and we can never accommodate these kinds of criminals in our movement and family of IPOB. “Now, we want to inform our people to stand firm in the fight for their liberty. IPOB did not ask anybody to enforce sit-at-home of any kind. Henceforth, ESN operatives will come from the bushes and forests and go after these criminals unleashing mayhem on the innocent people and visitors to Biafra land in the name of enforcing a non-existent Monday sit-at-home order,” it added. The statement also said, “We ask the governors to also deal decisively with any hoodlum using Monday sit-at-home to torture innocent citizens/residents of the state. No genuine member of IPOB or ESN operative is involved in any enforcement of Monday sit-at-home order. Anybody doing so is working against Biafra restoration. “We equally call on our people and members of the public to deal with any idiot caught inflicting sorrow on the people in the name of enforcing non-existent Monday sit-at-home order. “Such evil soul and messenger of death doesn’t deserve to live. Those shooting sporadically in the markets are criminals and bandits using the name of IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu and ESN to humiliate our people and demonise the movement. Their aim is to give the Federal Government excuse to hold our leader perpetually in detention. “ESN operatives must be ready to confront criminals creating these problems in the name of ESN and IPOB in the region.  We have suspended the Monday sit-at-home a long time ago, and we have not rescinded that decision. Biafrans must be strong to withstand our enemies and their collaborators every Monday.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com