Kwara State Commissioner for Tertiary Education, Ibrahim Suleiman has advised youths who attained higher education to continue to be a source of support to humanity. Speaking at the celebration of a Custom Officer, Dr Issa Eletu, who bagged a Doctor of Philosophy degree in Human Resources from the University of Porthacourt, Suleiman who was the special guest of honor commended the zeal and hardwork of the celebrant for achieving such academic feet. A renowned Islamic scholar, Alhaji Lukman Isale-koto in his sermon admonished him to see his academic success as Allah’s unending favors in his life. He also advised the youth not to be proud because of their academic attainment but charged them to make the knowledge impactful to the people and as well as their primary place of work. Speaking in an interview with our correspondent,  Eletu said his reason for pursuing the degree despite his work schedule as a top public servant was borne out of determination to acquire more knowledge that would distinguish him as a scholar and as well add value to the work. Eletu, a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Human Resources and Strategic Management, a member of the Nigerian Institute of Management and a writer who has contributed to many articles in newspapers and Journals said there were several departments that made up the Nigerian Custom Service in which Human Resources Management was a key one. He said it was a win-win for him and the custom service. The newly decorated Dr Eletu advised the young generation never to relent by adding more academic feathers to their various disciplines. Top dignitaries in politics, business, religion attended the celebration, they included Hajia Muhybat Eletu, wife of the celebrant, his children and family, Special Adviser on Politics, Abdullateef Alakawa, Senior Special Assistant to the Kwara State Governor on Legal Matters, Mr Murtala Sambo, top On Air personality in the state, Abdulfatai Dan- Kazeem, Muftau Akanbi of Shagaya Foundation among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com