National Chairman of the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, has said poor leadership has presented Nigeria at home and abroad as an extremely divided country. He said the leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress has been unable to harness the rich diversity of Nigerians into better fortunes that should strengthen the bond of brotherhood and promote peaceful coexistence. He maintained that the current inept rule of the APC-led Federal Government, which he said has pulled the country backwards economically, has to be changed. According to Ayu, the only way for this to happen is for the PDP to be supported in its determination to produce the next leadership in the country. Ayu said this at the gala night event hosted by the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, for PDP governors at the Banquet Hall of Government House, Port Harcourt, on Sunday night. This was disclosed in a statement titled, ‘PDP Will Definitely Produce Nigeria’s Next President -Ayu,’ signed by the Special Assistant to the Rivers State Governor on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, on Monday. “Unfortunately, very poor leadership has presented Nigeria at home and abroad as an extremely divided country. “We must change this narrative and the only way to change this narrative and harness not just the culture but the environment and the richness therein is to back the Peoples Democratic Party which is determined to produce a new leadership for this country,” he said. Ayu expressed the belief that Nigeria will bounce back again with the PDP at the saddle because the project of rescuing the country and making it great is realisable. The PDP national chairman stated that the expected leadership they will offer at the national level will change the negative characteristics associated with the APC that have been used to deepen the divide among Nigerians in the country. “The PDP will definitely produce the next president and take the country back to the days when we were in power, when we cleared all foreign debts, when we were developing this country at reasonable speed and when we became the richest country on the African continent. But today we are the poverty capital of the world. All that will change,” he said. In his welcome address, Governor Wike said the gala night event is a pride to the usual meeting of PDP governors that is rotational. He stated that such meetings have always been used to discuss salient issues bordering on how to chart a virile Nigerian society. “It has been ritual for PDP governors to gather and meet and discuss the welfare of the party. And this has been rotating from one state to the other,” he said. Governors present at the gala night were, Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri (Adamawa), Udom Emmanuel (Akwa Ibom), Mohammed Bala (Bauchi), Samuel Ortom (Benue), Seyi Makinde (Oyo) and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu). Also in attendance were the Deputy Governors of Rivers and Zamfara, Dr Ipalibo Harry-Banigo and Mahdi Aliyu Mohammed Gusau; PDP national secretary, Senator Sam Anyanwu and several other dignitaries. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com