The Nigerian Defence Academy has informed members of the public that it would embark on tactical and battle simulation drills meant for its Army cadets in Plateau and Kaduna states. The Academy Public Relations Officer, Major Bashir Muhammed Jajira, made this known in a statement on Friday. He said the final outdoor field training exercise for Army cadets of Short Service Course 47, nicknamed Exercise Camp Highland, in Plateau and Kaduna States, is slated for eight to 29 January 2022. Jajira noted that the drill would involve battle simulation, live shots from small arms, armour and artillery weapons within the military exercise area, near the Nigerian Army Base Camp in Kachia, Kaduna State. Jajira appealed to locals around the Aninkwa area of Kachia and the neighbouring communities to stay away from the live firing area during the period of the exercise. He said the drill was designed to ascertain the preparedness of the cadets in areas of leadership skills, physical fitness, as well as command and control abilities. He also noted that the training activity would be used to determine whether the cadets become commissioned officers of the Nigeria Armed Forces. He also said that residents of Katul Crossing, Fadan Kamanta axis in the Zagon Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State would observe the same tactical drills involving firing, simulation of small arms and artillery fire from January 15 to 19, 2022. He added that training activities would also take place in Jos. He said, “Phases of the exercise that would take place in Plateau State include Map Reading Exercise at Heipang and Adventure Training at the Citizenship and Leadership Training Centre, Shere Hills, Jos, from 8 to 14 January 2022.” Jajira notified communities living around Heipang and Shere Hills, Jos in Plateau State, that it would observe a mass movement of military personnel, vehicles and equipment in the general area from January eight to 15, 2022. The Academy’s PRO urged all residents in the areas of tactical training to remain calm while the Army prepares its cadets for high national assignment. “Residents in the general areas mentioned above are therefore advised not to panic but to go about their normal daily routine activities without fear. “They are, however, advised to report any breach of security to the nearest authorities,” he said. “On our part, all necessary safety measures and arrangements have been put in place to ensure safety in the exercise areas. “We wish to appeal for cooperation from the local communities directly affected by the exercise and Nigerians as a whole as we train future military leaders for our Armed Forces,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com