A traditional ruler in Plateau State, His Royal Highness, the Bra Ngwe Irigwe, Rt. Rev Ronku Aka, on Friday, escaped an attack by irate youths of his community. His palace in the Miango community, Bassa Local Government Area of the state was however vandalised by the angry youths. Aku, an octogenarian, is the Paramount Ruler of the Irigwe ethnic nationality in Bassa LGA where suspected bandits had killed several people with their properties destroyed with the latest being the killing of 18 persons in the Ancha community on Wednesday. It was learnt that the youths were irked over what they described as the failure by the monarch to defend his people from continued attacks in their communities. The President of the Irigwe Youth Development Association, Ezekiel Bini, confirmed the development to The PUNCH in Jos on Friday. He said, “I have just been informed that some people who call themselves youths have attacked the palace of our Paramount Ruler and destroyed properties in the place. I don’t know where the youths come from but our monarch is safe. “When I enquired what the problem is, they told me that the youths are angry that the monarch has not done enough to stop the killings, which is not true. I don’t know what they expect him to do because he has been crying to everyone that his chiefdom is under siege of gunmen suspected to be herdsmen. “He has on several occasions drawn the attention of the government to the carnage going in his domain expecting the government whose primary responsibility is the protection of the people and their welfare. But up till now, the authorities involved have done little or nothing to stop the killings while the people have continued to suffer.” The military task force in charge of maintaining peace in the state, Operation Safe Haven, also confirmed the attack on the palace of the traditional ruler in a statement on Friday According to the statement signed by the Military Information Officer, Major Ishaku Takwa, it said, “Troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN were notified of an attack on the palace of Mbra Ngwe Irigwe the paramount ruler of Irigwe land of Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State. “The attack was carried out by irate youths suspected to be Irigwe youth of Bassa Local Government. “Troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN have been mobilised to the scene to ensure law and order.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com