Nigeria defeated Guinea-Bissau 2-0 at the Stade Roumde Adjia to emerge as the only team with a 100 per cent record in the group stage at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. Sadiq Umar and William Troost-Ekong were both on target as the Super Eagles moved into the knockout stage as Group D winners with the maximum nine points, after making it three wins from three games on Wednesday. With qualification to the knockout stage guaranteed, interim boss Austin Eguavoen made eight changes to the side that defeated Sudan 3-1 in the second game of Group D. Goalkeeper Francis Uzoho replaced Maduka Okoye, while Jamilu Collins, Semi-Ajayi and Tyrone Ebuehi played in defence, with only captain William Troost-Ekong retaining his place in the backline. In midfield, Alex Iwobi, Kelechi Nwakali and Chidera Ejuke all got their first starts at the tournament. The Eagles quickly got a hold of the game and could have at least scored three goals in the first half but Almeria striker Sadiq Umar fluffed several begging chances. Kelechi Iheanacho thought he had won a penalty for Nigeria after he was brought down by Guinea-Bissau defender but Kenyan referee Peter Waweru waved for play-on. The three-time African champions continued to press hard but couldn’t unlock the Djurtus defence as the ref brought the first 45 minutes to an end. Guinea-Bissau were more confident after the restart and had the first chance as Jorginho fired narrowly wide. Sadiq then atoned for his misses, when he broke the deadlock with his first international goal in the 56th minute, after he was given the simple task of tapping in a superb low cross from Iheanacho, who moments earlier had forced Guinea-Bissau goalkeeper Maurice Gomis to turn over the crossbar with an audacious effort from more than 40 yards. Troost-Ekong extended the lead in the 75th minute, scoring his second AFCON goal, having opened his tournament account against South Africa in 2019. The defender was the quickest to react to a rebound after the excellent Moses Simon had smartly dribbled past a sea of legs inside the Guinea-Bissau box before rattling the upright with a ferocious strike. Troost-Ekong looked to have been denied by the offside flag, but after a lengthy VAR review the goal stood. Guinea-Bissau rarely threatened thereafter, and head home having failed to score for a competition record seventh consecutive AFCON game. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com