A legal practitioner, Chief Mike Ahamba (SAN), on Monday called for an investigation into the circumstances leading to the long adjournment of an appeal in respect of the controversial Gwandu Emirate headship tussle by the Supreme Court of Nigeria to November 23, 2023. But another legal practitioner, Innocent Daagba, called for the creation of Regional Supreme Courts in the country to decongest the backlog of appeals at the Apex Court. The PUNCH reported that the Supreme Court had on November 29, 2021, ordered a two-year adjournment, further shifting the Gwandu Emirate leadership tango to November 2023. The hearing in three appeals was challenging the five-year-old order of the Court of Appeal, Sokoto Division, which reinstated HRH Alhaji Mustapha Haruna Jokolo as the 19th Emir of Gwandu. Justices on the panel that ordered the two years adjournment were Olukayode Ariwoola (presiding), Amina Augie, John Inyang Okoro, Abdu Aboki and Emmanuel Agim. But Ahamba told journalists that the Nigerian Bar Association should convene a discussion on the issue to investigate the real causes of long adjournment and delay in dispensation of justice, particularly at the Supreme Court, with a view to finding solution in the interest of justice. He said, “Our Courts are congested, the Supreme Court too is congested with appeals. Nobody can explain, they say it’s workload, but one has to investigate the causes of long adjournment. “We must find out why it is so now. I hope the Bar will one day call for a discussion on the issue. The truth is that the Supreme Court is congested.” Daagba blamed the country’s procedural law and Court system for the delay in justice dispensation. He argued that if the Supreme Court is unbundled by creating Regional Divisions, cases like land disputes and chieftaincy matters emanating from certain regions would terminate at the Regional Supreme Courts, thereby reducing appeals and workload at the Supreme Court of Nigeria. Daagba said, “Some of us have been clamouring for the establishment of Regional Courts of Appeal and Regional Supreme Courts so that certain matters will terminate there. “I feel for the Supreme Court, I believe it is the busiest in the world. By our constitutional making, every conceivable appeal goes to the Supreme Court, and this causes long adjournment, which in turn delays justice delivery. “To ensure quick dispensation of justice, we must create Regional Supreme Courts and give them power to terminate certain proceedings there.” While acknowledging that long adjournment of cases by the Supreme Court may have been due to heavy workload, he insisted that “Nigeria’s law is too procedurally inclined than substantive law.” Daagba posited that due to the country’s procedural structure, every little interlocutory application, most times, find its way on appeal at the Supreme Court. He said, “We need to rework our Court system. For instance, a land case in Benue, Ekiti or Ebonyi states, why can’t it terminate at the Regional Appeal or Supreme Court. Why bringing it to the Supreme Court of Nigeria to encumber the apex Court.” A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Ishaka Dikko, admitted that justice delivery in the country is characterised by incessant delays due to the psyche of Nigerians, the structure of the constitution as well as the way and manner lawyers practice law in Nigeria. “Quick dispensation of justice to my mind will remain a mirage in Nigeria until our constitutional structure is changed, and the psyche of Nigerians changed, and lawyers too, change the way and manner they practice law in Nigeria,” he said. Though Dikko said that the Supreme Court was overworked due to heavy workload, he, however, said “the procedural structure of law that allows appeal to be filed on every trivial issue is not helping matters.” The Apex Court had shifted hearing in the long-drawn legal battle on the Gwandu Emirate of Kebbi State to November 23 2023. By fixing November 2023 to adjudicate on the matter, the Apex Court would determine three appeals challenging the validity or otherwise of the order of the Court of Appeal, (Sokoto Division) issued five years ago which reinstated Alhaji Mustapha Haruna Jokolo, as the 19th Emir of Gwandu. During a resumed sitting on the protracted Gwandu Emirate headship tussle which commenced in 2005, the apex court Justices led by Justice Olukayode Ariwoola adjourned the matter to November 2023 in the face of a fresh appeal filed by one of the appellants at the Court of Appeal. Justices on the panel are Olukayode Ariwoola, Amina Augie, John Inyang Okoro, Abdu Aboki and Emmanuel Agim. The proceeding was for the Court to hear a motion for substitution of the names of deceased kingmakers in the three appeals marked SC2/2013 (Attorney-General of Kebbi State and others against Alhaji Mustapha Haruna Jokolo); SC314/2016 (Alhaji Muhammadu Iliyasu Bashar against Alhaji Mustapha Haruna Jokolo and anor); and SC266/2017 (Governor of Kebbi State and others against Alhaji Mustapha Haruna Jokolo. The briefs for the three appeals were filed in 2019 and consolidated on the order of the Court. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com