The Ogun State Police Command has raised the alarm over a viral fake compiled list of suspected internet fraudsters in circulation. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday. Oyeyemi denied that the viral list circulating on social media emanated from the state Police Command. The list had 31 persons purportedly drawn from Sagamu, Ago-Iwoye, Ijebu, and Abeokuta, and signed by one Assistant Commissioner of Police, Yahya Wakilu. The PPRO said the command suspected that the fake list might have been used to extort the public, hence, the need to alert the public that the list did not emanate from the command. He said the command has no Assistant Commissioner of police with the name Yahaya Wakilu that signed the fake list. The statement read, “The attention of Ogun State Police Command has been drawn to a purported compiled list of suspected internet fraudsters, popularly known as Yahoo boys, circulating on social media and alleged to have emanated from the Ogun State Police Command. “The command would have ignored the said list, but for the fact that some extortionists may use it as an opportunity to turn those on the list to easy prey, hence the need to alert the public that the list did not emanate from the command. “To start with, the command has no Assistant Commissioner of police with name Yahaya Wakilu who signed the said list. “It is also worthy of note that no Assistant Commissioner of Police serving under a Deputy Commissioner of Police will use a red pen to sign any document. “Also, the phone number on the fake police letterhead used to compile the list is that of a retired Commissioner of Police, who was one time, the DC Operations in the Command. “The command is hereby appealing to members of the public to disregard the said list as the command has nothing to do with it, it is nothing but fake news. “The command will continue to work with other relevant agencies to wage war against crimes and criminality in order to make the Gateway State a better place to live for all,” the statement concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com