A group, the Coalition for Equity and Good Governance has backed the rotation of the governorship position in Enugu State among the three senatorial zones of the state. Addressing a press conference on Saturday, the Coordinator of the coalition, Chief Gerald Obasi, said they had rejected the suggestion that the rotation of the governorship position in the state should be jettisoned. He warned that the “resultant chaos from so doing will serve the narrow interests of those who will benefit from the chaos.” Obasi, who said the coalition was made of professional bodies, disclosed that the proponent of the abolition of rotation of the governorship position were individuals that had been benefiting from such arrangement since the inception of the Fourth Republic. “We align ourselves totally to continuation of zoning that has shaped our political firmament in our beloved state. For those who like to attack the word “zoning” when it suits them, perhaps “rotation” would serve better. “There is no cogent reason to disturb or toy with a system which has, to a very large extent, given us uncommon stability, peace and harmony in Enugu State. “Consequently, our thesis is no longer on whether zoning by way of rotation across the three senatorial zones in Enugu is official or not. We firmly hold the view that, by providence and political consensus, it has been designed and has come to stay for good.” While the coalition supported the zoning of the 2023 governorship position to the Enugu East Senatorial Zone, it however, made case that within Enugu East, it should be zoned to the Nkanu East Local Government Area of the state. On their choice for Nkanu East, Obasi said, “It is undoubtedly clear that Enugu East Senatorial Zone should produce the next governor of Enugu State. The debate on this matter should therefore be rightly focused on the question of which part of Enugu East should produce the next governor. In answer to that question, there is increasingly a strong sway of public opinion in favour of Nkanu East Local Government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com