Thugs, alleged to be loyal to the member representing Jere Federal Constituency at the National Assembly, Hon. Satomi Ahmed, have assaulted a lady, Fadila Abdulrahman, for purportedly denigrating their principal on social media. A trending video, which surfaced on Sunday night, showed youths slapping and hitting the Abdulrahman, raining expletive statements at her for ‘insulting’ Satomi on Facebook. In the video, the thugs were heard screaming in Hausa, Fadila zan ci ubanki! (Fadila, your father!) Da abun da Satomi yayi maki Zaki to mashi wannan abun? (With all that Satomi has done for you, you still did this to him?)… Kije ki durkusa a gabansa Satomi ki role Shi. (You must go, prostrate before Satomi and seek forgiveness). Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police Borno PPolice Command, Abdu Umar, in a briefing on Monday said the incident happened around 2 p.m. on Sunday at Sanda Kyarimi Zoo, in Maiduguri, and that four suspects had been apprehended and are in police custody. “It happened on Sunday around 2 o’clock, in the afternoon, at the Sanda Kyarimi Zoo in the heart of Maiduguri. Some political thugs, loyal to Satomi Ahmed, a member of the Federal House of Representatives representing Jere Constituency stormed a restaurant known as Zahura Restaurant owned by a member of the Police Community Relations Committee member, 29 years old Fadila Abdulrahman. “She was beaten up and her restaurant was completely destroyed and her phone missing on the excuse that she posted and circulated a picture with inscription undermining their master, Satomi Ahmed. “The suspects under custody are Nasiru Abubakar alias Mana, Ali Dungus Shettima, Bello Mudasa, and Mallam Mohammed. The principal suspect is still at large, known as Saadu Suleiman and one Saleh but we shall arrest them. “Meanwhile, one of the suspects arrested and paraded at the police command, Bello Mudasa, 21 years old, said he was engaged by Saadu Suleiman to carry out a job on behalf of the honourable. “I am a shoe cobbler within Maiduguri metropolis. I was in my shop when Saadu Suleiman came and took me on a tricycle that he has something he wanted me to do for him. “When we got to the zoo, he confronted the lady and started insulting her. The lady began to insult him back, that was when I rushed and begin to slap her,” Bello stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com