The Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma has declared that his government has succeeded in restoring democracy in the State. The Governor made the declaration during the State’s sixth stakeholders meeting involving leaders drawn from across the State. According to the Governor, his government was founded on the democratic principles of open, transparent, accountable, and inclusive governance. He said, “I am sure that many of us will readily recall that there was once upon a time, when the governance process of Imo State was shrouded in secrecy. Not only did Imo people not know how their State was governed, there was in fact a big wedge between the people and the government. “So wide was the wedge that those who attempted to cross it to know what was happening in government got marooned in it. I challenge anyone to produce one single document of the previous administration where it showcased its report card to the people of the State. “It was this regrettable state of affairs that informed my resolve to run an open, transparent, accountable and inclusive government. As you very well know, on each of the six occasions we have met, I have documented an address detailing an account of my stewardship. This is accountability in action. “So, I can proudly declare at this point that with your support we have restored democracy to Imo State, because we have restored the process of open, accountable and inclusive governance. Yes, we have banished the dark ages of government by necromancy and replaced it with the government of the people, for the people and by the people. Congratulations to all of us.” The stakeholders meeting, which was chaired by Mr. Leo Stan Eke, Chairman Zenox Group and drew massive attendance from across the State, saw the Governor give an account of his stewardship as his administration nears its second anniversary. Governor Hope Uzodimma, while delivering his account of stewardship, informed the people of the State of the accomplishment of his government in 16 broad sectors of governance within two years of his administration. The sectors included Road Infrastructure, Security, Local Government Administration, Revenue generation, Agriculture, Tourism Health, Land Administration, Commerce and Industry and Education, among others. “For us one of our greatest achievements in the education sector is the recovery of the K. O. Mbadiwe University for Imo people. As you may well know, the University was built and furnished with tax-payers money of not less than 40 billion naira. Yet, an individual abusing his office as Governor, brazenly wanted to appropriate it to himself as a privately owned establishment. I am glad to report to you that at the second week of December, I received a certificate of ownership for the university on behalf of the Government and the people of Imo State. Today, as we speak, that university is now the rightful property of Imo State,” he disclosed. On Commerce and Industry, the Governor said his administration had commenced moves to revamp all moribund industries in the State. “This administration has paid off debts owed to Assets Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON) by successive administration in the State in respect of the Imo Standard Shoe Industry. The sum of 1.3 billion naira was negotiated down and full and final payment made. I am hopeful that operations will commence in the industry in the next few months. On infrastructural development, the Governor disclosed that no fewer than 90 roads have either been completed or about to be completed across the State. According to Governor Uzodimma, the infrastructural projects cut across urban and rural areas within the three senatorial zones of the state with an urban renewal program that has given Owerri the State capital a facelift. On health, the Governor informed the people of the State of giant strides made through the provision of basic medical services in Primary, Secondary and Tertiary Health sectors. He emphasized the efforts made to contain the Covid-19 pandemic in the State including the rehabilitation of 305 health centres across the State to enable Imo people live healthier lives even as he appealed to the people of the State to get vaccinated due to the dangers of the Delta and Omicron variants of the virus. The high point of the event was the vote of confidence passed on the Governor by the stakeholders of Imo State. The motion for a vote of confidence was moved by Chief Dan Nwanyanwu, the National Chairman of Zenith Labour Party. Chief Nwanyanwu before moving the motion for the vote of confidence said “I was unable to attend the last 4 meetings. I want to say that our state has been good since the governor came on board. The chairman said he is not a politician; I am not an APC member. I am not a PDP person. I have been in opposition since 1999 and I have never shifted, but when you see something that is good, you need not to pretend as if it’s not good. “I am known in the country because I speak the truth and I’m never afraid to say so. I want to say that just as you came in you saw Owerri, I went to Orlu and I can see that the state is working. All we have to do is to pray for those who have eyes and have refused to see. “I have not come to Imo State for the past 5 years, but I am happy with what I am seeing. We should call our people to come home. I want to thank you for the recoveries you have made. That is the things that has attracted me the most. I have spoken about it publicly and if that is the only thing you do for Imo people, Imo people will be grateful to you because it has never been done before. “You have rolled out the constructions that are completed and those that are ongoing. We are all from those areas. They are not voodoo projects. They exist. Those of us in opposition we see it and we should not be afraid to speak the truth. “We as a people need to stop what we are doing; painting a bad image of our state. Why are we not speaking out? Why are we keeping quiet? I will not run away. We should not. We did so for eight years that is why things went wrong; because we kept quiet and we did nothing. We did not interrogate the man at the helm of affairs. “But we have a governor now who is calling us from time to time to listen to him, that is what we call transparency, leadership and engagement. So as we leave here today, it behooves on us to talk about the things our governor is doing because we believe that our state should grow. On our own we must play our own part. Everything should not be left to the government. For me, this is the midterm results of this government, even though it’s not up to two years. Because you must remove nine months of COVID-19, so this government has worked for 1 year and 3 months. I think I’m satisfied and I hereby move that this house pass a vote of confidence on the Government. Following his motion, Dr. Mrs. Dorathy Nnaji, the Chairman of Imo State Chapter of National Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) rose in secondment with the overwhelming support of all Stakeholders. Among those who graced the event were Chief Eng. Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, former Governor Ikedi Ohakim, former Inspector General of Police, Mike Okiro, President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Prof. George Obiozor, retired banker and member of the Imo Economic Summit Group, Dr. CNC Nwachukwu, Chief Greg Mbadiwe, Onyeka Onwenu and a host of others, all of whom commended Governor Uzodimma for an outstanding performance within a short period in office and collectively sued for peace for the government to do more.