A retired professor of Botany from the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Julius Faluyi, speaks to ALEXANDER OKERE about his growing up, education, career and related things How would you describe your childhood? I am from Omu Ekiti, in the Oye Local Government Area of Ekiti State. I was born in 1951. My childhood was in a village setting, community life. The primary occupation was farming; my parents were farmers. But then, I was born at a time when the (old) Western Region was leading the pace; there was free education. So, at the age of five, children were already in missionary schools and the primary occupation was farming. There was hardly a parent who was a teacher or educated as of that time. There was minimal trading. It was a cash-crop economy with cocoa as the major crop. It was a communal occupation and everybody, including nursing mothers, was involved. My parents did not have the privilege of being able to engage workers on their farm. Houses were built through communal efforts. There was a lot of community life. It was great growing up at that time. Being farmers, were your parents the tough type? No, I had the misfortune of not knowing my father as a healthy man. It was unfortunate that he had tuberculosis and that was what killed him. I moved in with my maternal uncles after I lost my father when I was nine. My maternal uncles trained me and I didn’t lose anything. I think I gained because I am not sure my father would have been able to give me the kind of education my uncles gave me. It was a painful experience, a major one for a child, losing my dad to TB. But my maternal uncles took adequate care of me. My mother was their younger sister and they took her as part of the decision-making tripod of the family. They couldn’t do anything without my mother. It was a unique experience. I attended St Theresa’s Catholic School, a primary school, in my village. In 1959, my nephew and I attended three schools in the same year due to my uncle’s transfers. I attended a modern school and a secondary school; they were all Catholic schools. Do you remember anything about your dad? He was a great man, a traditionalist. He was a Christian. One of the things the Christian religion did was to fight our culture head-on. We are of the Catholic faith. But then, the new religion could not cater to the spiritual needs of our people. It couldn’t foretell the future. It was only the traditional worshippers that could do all that. So, my father was a church warden – with that, you can understand that he was deeply involved in the Christian religion – but then, he had to subscribe to the traditional religion. He was a member of the Ogboni Confraternity and I know that at the age of three, he took me to the conclave. I don’t know how I got there but that memory has stuck with me. My father was a socialite and a musician in his own right. He built his house in his maternal home. So, you can see that I crossed from my father’s maternal home to my mother’s maternal home. This defined my youth. Were you persuaded to join the Ogboni? No. when I grew up no one mentioned it to me. I am a Catholic. I was baptised in the Catholic Church. You are a professor of Botany; at what point did your interest in that field of the biological sciences begin? If you are a rural person and you go to a farm, you are already a botanist or a naturalist – you know the thick forest, birds and other kinds of animals. So, we were closest to nature. Life in the village is life with landmarks and timelines and you are tied to nature. So, I would like to say that my interest began at that time. Why did you not opt for medicine? People have their individual experiences. The schools you attended and the pictures that came your way define your interest. One teacher can make a difference in one’s life, particularly if it is a positive difference. I had teachers in secondary school who made it clear that science was the fortress of knowledge, so I was never crazy about medicine or pharmacy. There was a science teacher from the South-East that taught me mathematics in secondary school and he always said science is the powerhouse and we grew in that kind of ambience. So, at no time did I want to be a medical person. So, I studied biology; you know botany is an aspect of biology. Did you always want to be an academic? After my service year, when I got my first degree, I taught in a secondary school for one year but then I got a job at the National Cereals Research Institute in Ibadan (Oyo State). After one year in the secondary school in Ado Grammar School, Ekiti, I wrote to them that I wanted my job and they said they didn’t have a replacement for me and told me to come. So, two weeks later, I was back in Ibadan. I specialised in genetics in my first degree so by that, I was able to practise plant breeding, specifically, maize breeding for disease resistance. That was how I started my career at the research institute. From the institute, I was sent for in-service training, so I went back to Ife (OAU) for my master’s. Immediately, I completed the programme, I was persuaded to transfer my service and that was how I started my teaching career in the Department of Botany at OAU. Did you find anything different between your experience at the institute and working in the university? Of course, there is a difference. As a research officer (at the institute), I just did research; I didn’t teach anybody but I had subordinates and superiors. I started from a training post, under tutelage and mentorship because we were called pupil officers. The in-service training was part of the efforts to ensure that we improve our capabilities, so we went back to the university at their expense. It so happened that when I got to the university for my master’s degree, my experiment was on Moor Plantation in Ibadan. My boss was based in the university, so it was a seamless transition. My project was on maize disease; the nature of the hereditary control of the pathogen responsible for that disease. That disease is called maize rust. It was endemic in the West African belt. In fact, it was the first major crisis that confronted Moor Plantation and that it solved when it was established in 1945. Across the whole West African belt, there was an epidemic of maize rust in the entire West African agricultural zone and it was tackled from Moor Plantation. You were obviously a dedicated researcher. But as a young lecturer, at what point did you decide to settle down and start a family? I had someone. In fact, I married very early. How old were you when you got married? I was very young but I won’t tell you (laughs). How did you meet your wife? Or was she an academic too? We are from the same village. When I completed my secondary education and was posted to be an auxiliary teacher in my village, she was there also, teaching in another school. That was how we met. We knew each other from the beginning. She was from a high-profile family. Her brother was the first university graduate our town produced. He graduated with a degree in English Language from the University of Legon, Ghana, so you can imagine what it was as of that time. When he was leaving for Ghana, the entire town gave him a send-off. So, that put their family on a high pedestal. Why did you choose her among other ladies you might have admired in the university? It just happened. What do you consider the most remarkable thing about your life? My life is guided, growing. I had protection, I was never alone. In those days, everybody took care of their children. It was a community life. The good children were models to younger ones. When a child misbehaved, the older ones chastised them and urged them to emulate the good ones. Education was the goal in those days. Our parents sold their clothes to pay our school fees. Occasionally, farmers sold a part of their cocoa farms so they could get liquid cash to pay their children’s school fees. Was becoming a professor your target as a lecturer or were you only interested in knowledge transfer and research? At the time I entered the university, I did not think about becoming a professor. It (professorship) was something right there at the top. There was a time a dean told me to bring my papers, that he wanted to push me forward for readership and some of the teachers who taught me were not professors then. The readership was next to a professorial class. But I refused. Also, I had made up my mind that I would not become a professor until I was satisfied that I had bridged the knowledge gap in the areas I demarcated for myself. What were the areas? I was working on rice as a generic plant, cultivated and wild. That is the way good science looks at it. The rice one eats has wild relatives and there are good attributes in the wild. So, you must study the wild so you can solve the problems that the cultivated materials have if you need to go to the wild and borrow genetic resources. That is what plant breeding is about. That was the goal I set for myself and I didn’t look back until I knew I had understood some things from the cultivated rice to the wild rice. My quest for knowledge earned me a professorial title. The fundamental thing is the quest for knowledge. The title will come if one does what they need to do and that is the only trajectory for honour, the other way round doesn’t bring honour. In terms of education, my family is on top. There are three professors in my maternal line. I am the first one and two of my uncle’s children are professors. Three other ones are lecturers in the university. Were there times people doubted your capacity as an academic? No. By the special grace of God, I have always been in the front line. I never wanted to be like anybody. It is possible that there were some people who saw some things about me that they don’t like. I am not a particularly social person. I have devoted my time to my studies and I have enjoyed doing what I have to do. I didn’t care how others felt about me. I tried not to play politics. When I came to the university, I defined a role for myself. My mentor had political leaning and was deeply involved in the Academic Staff Union of Universities but I decided to man the laboratory and gradually, I was able to share his responsibilities and that became a solid platform for development and mentorship. Would you say your retirement came at the time you wanted it? I retired  in August last year. I think it came at the right time. I would have been sad if it were later than this. The retirement age of 70 came as a government response to the dearth of experienced teachers and the creation of additional higher institutions. I am not sure anybody who is 70 would not be tired clearly, physically and emotionally. Nobody who was there in the 70s would be happy with the way things are now. Although you are no longer in the public university system, what are your thoughts about the industrial tussle between ASUU and the Federal Government? It is unfortunate the way we have progressed in the last few years. I’m not sure incessant strikes are really useful. I also don’t think that the government should play the kind of game it’s playing. It should make up its mind about what it wants from tertiary institutions in this country and take up a scheme of action that will put an end to strikes. The last one (strike) was during the lockdown. To me, I think it didn’t make sense. The government sits with people, they talk all the time, they reach an agreement and in another one year, another strike comes. There must be something to replace these strikes and there are certain actions that the government needs to take about the university system. Do you have any regrets about being an academic in Nigeria? Lectureship is a noble profession and Nigeria is a great place. Sometimes, I wonder – the storm rocks it and it never breaks. People who say they want to pull out, where will they go? It is an expensive joke. We should accept that we are tied together and do everything humanly possible to ensure that this union doesn’t break up. As a plant researcher, do you think Nigeria has taken advantage of its flora, in terms of the production of modern medicine to cure ailments? The problem is that we neglect our responsibilities to mother nature; we are just users, prodigal users. We consume all our timber species. At the time when people started sawmills 50, 60 years ago, they got Iroko and all the big wood. The trucks couldn’t carry more than one at a time and they got a lot of wood very close to the towns and villages. They didn’t have to travel far and they carried on for years like that until they had to travel farther before they could feed their sawmills. But it didn’t occur to them that they were just feeding on the magnanimity and mercy of nature. How do people consume and not worry one day how the things come? That is irresponsible. The tree that my father used to build his house was an Iroko tree and that tree was in his cocoa plantation. Every year, we used a cock to worship it; some people would think it was a fetish practice. No. it was respect for nature. No, there are no trees. The vegetation is completely decimated. So, medicinal plants are part of this. When people want to harvest the bark of trees, including the trees planted in the university, they would peel it around. I was in charge of the forestation project. People came over the weekend and cut the trees, removed their barks and dug out the roots. That is irresponsible and they will get the punishment that they deserve. I don’t know how this nation will move forward if the government does not take decisive action and ensure we start replanting timber species and stop degrading the forests. We will suffer irretrievable losses of our genetic resources if we continue like this. With our medicinal plant resources, do you think Nigeria should be a major drug manufacturer? We are not the only ones blessed with medicinal plants. What we should do is to publicise the knowledge we have about medicinal plants and encourage people to go into production, from plant genetic resources. Also, people should have gardens, from where they can take plant materials they want to use for medicinal purposes. What worries you about the way many Nigerians consume herbs? People generally abuse things. They started with pawpaw leaves, gossypium leaves way back. When moringa came, they finished it. Aloe vera came, they finished it and it didn’t work for them again. They moved from one plant to the other. That is what our people are still doing today. People should eat food not drugs. If one thinks a plant is useful to them, let them plant it in their house. Nobody weeds things again; there are a lot of herbicides, so there is a lot of poisoning also through the plant people consume as medicine. So, it has become complicated. What is a normal day for you? It is very busy. The things I couldn’t do when I was working, I do now. I give a lot of attention to gardening and I also raise plants. That is what I do, it’s enough exercise for me; I don’t have any other hobbies. So, I am busier than when I was in service. When you go close to nature, you learn new things and appreciate God. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com