A mental health advocate, Mrs Esther Adekoya, has urged parents, role models and caregivers to model appropriate behaviours for all to see. Adekoya, in an interview with our correspondent, said there was the need for concerted efforts in the fight against bullying. She said, “It is our responsibility as role models, caregivers and bystanders to model appropriate behaviours for all to see. Let us teach our young people kindness, empathy, respect and compassion. If your child is the one bullying people, please don’t just think he will outgrow it, help him see that he is causing damage to another person. “There needs to be more focus on teaching how to interact both online and offline and make a difference in how young people treat each other. Everyone has a story to share so active listening without judgement can make the biggest difference in someone’s life.” The expert noted that bullying could come in form of verbal or emotional attack, cyber Bullying and physical attack. “Bullying is being mean to another kid over and over again. As a parent, if you constantly compare your children to other children, you are emotionally bullying them. If a teacher asks other kids to sing an abusive song to your child for failing a class assignment or a test, please see them and ask them to stop it. This is really dangerous. “Cyberbullying happens online or through text messages or emails. It includes posting rumours on social media, sharing embarrassing pictures or videos and making fake profiles or websites. Technology plays a vital role today in all our lives and especially in the lives of young people. We only hope that everyone can act appropriately both offline and especially online when using their technology devices,” Adekoya said. She added that physical bullying involved using one’s body and physical bodily acts to exert power over peers. “Punching, kicking and other physical attacks are all types of physical bullying. Unlike verbal bullying, the effects of physical bullying can be easier to spot. “Bullying in childhood throws a long shadow into victims’ adults lives – long-term negative consequences for health; job prospects; relationships; school bullies are likely to grow up into adults criminals,” she said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com