Nigeria will hope to make it two wins from as many games when they take on Sudan in their second Group D game of the Africa Cup of Nations at the Roumde Adjia Stadium on Saturday (today). The Super Eagles got their 19th AFCON campaign off to a fine start with a 1-0 victory over Egypt in their Group D curtain-raiser on Tuesday. Carlos Queiroz’s side were second best for virtually the entire game as a Kelechi Iheanacho wonder striker got the Eagles on the right foot in the 33rd edition of the AFCON. Fresh off the back of the impressive win against the seven-time African champions, Nigeria now turn their attention to the game against Sudan, and know that a win will earn them a spot in the knockout stage. Nigeria, who are seeking their fourth title, are now unbeaten in all but one of their last seven games in all competitions, claiming five wins and one draw in that time. Speaking at a press conference ahead of the game, interim Eagles coach, Austin Eguavoen, said his side would approach the game against Sudan with all seriousness. “We all know what it means to win the next game and it’s not going to come easy and I think the sooner the better for everyone,” Eguavoen said. “Cameroon already sailed through to the knockout stages and we will try to follow suit. It is not going to be easy but that is our mission. “We are going to approach the Sudan game with all seriousness and a lot of respect as well. After crossing that hurdle we will look at the third game.” Meanwhile, the Falcons of Jediane will look to avoid defeat after playing out a goalless draw with Guinea-Bissau on Tuesday. While Sudan manager Burhan Tia will be impressed by the result, the 57-year-old will be concerned with his side’s lack of firepower upfront, as they have now failed to score in six consecutive games since October’s 2-2 draw with Guinea. But the coach said they have prepared well ahead of the clash against Nigeria. “We have prepared ourselves well to face Nigeria and I have great confidence in the players,” Tia said during the match press conference. Sudan head into Saturday’s game on an 11-game winless streak, losing seven and claiming four draws. The game will be the 14th time both sides will be encountering each other since they first met in 1963 at the AFCON where the North Africans emerged 4-0 winners. Since their first meeting, Nigeria has recorded eight wins, three draws and two losses with the last loss coming in a 1-0 defeat in a 2015 AFCON qualifier.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com