The Abuja Municipal Area Council candidate of the Social Democratic Party, Chief Eric Ibe, has promised to take 1,285 commercial sex workers off the streets of the Federal Capital Territory if elected as chairman. According to him, 1,285 women and girls in the FCT were allowed to “disgracefully sell their bodies every night” to afford food and other basic necessities for their families. Ibe stated this during the FCT Council Chairmanship Debate organised by The Pink Vote Movement and aired on Wazobia FM in Abuja on Friday. He said, “We conduct a research and discovered that about 1,285 women and girls prostitute on the streets of Abuja every night. This figure is very alarming and disturbing. “We must see what we can do to put a stop to all of this. The people we are talking about are our wives, sisters and daughters. So, we have to do what must be done to get them off the streets. “Against this background, we have identified some civil society organisations that are ready to collaborate with the government to ensure that we give these women and girls a better life.” The candidate of the National Rescue Movement, Ms. Minabo Horsfall, said if elected, she would focus on helping the people, especially women, to achieve their dreams. She said, “My biggest plan for the women is collective prosperity for them through empowerment and education. I will put a scholarship structure in place for bright and exceptional students from indigent backgrounds.” She also promised to be transparent with the internally generated revenue of the Abuja municipal area. The Africa Democratic Congress candidate, David Zamani, promised to ensure a strict enforcement of laws against gender-based violence if elected. He said, “My basic agenda for women is to present them with basic and social amenities. We’ll also provide them with relevant skills for empowerment as well as protect them through the strict enforcement of the laws against gender-based violence.” Earlier, the Executive Director of Engage, Empower, Educate Initiative, Belema Meshack-Hart, explained that the ‘Pink Debate’ was organised to mainstream gender-based issues in Nigeria’s electoral system.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com