More than ever recent happenings within our socio-political settings in Nigeria keep driving home the fact that our nation Nigeria only pays lip service to the practice of federalism as a nation state. The latest which saw an exchange of words between the Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and a police officer at Magodo Phase II on January 4, 2022; in what can be defined as a total denigration of the office of the governor who is supposed to be  the chief security officer of his state. A Chief Superintendent of Police publicly disregarded the directive of the governor to vacate Magodo Estate. While many Nigerians have come forward to utterly condemn this unwholesome act, we need to commend the calmness and nobility with which the governor handled the entire discomforting saga. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu here again clearly displayed his innate highly cultured nature of peace and stillness even at the height of provocation and moral assault. The governor’s reticence and visible restraints confirm that he is a fit and proper person in character and comportment to occupy the exalted position of the chief executive of the metropolitan and civilised mega city of Lagos. While some have extolled the virtues of others who in this situation might have acted forcibly to establish their stamp of office and authority, we respect and appreciate the dignified rectitude and equanimity the governor displayed on this occasion. The late ex-US Secretary of State, Colin Powell, once said, “One of the most alluring things about power is having it but yet exercising great restraint by not using it.” Regrettably however, this latest inglorious event has further shown that there is a serious and urgent need for the nation to collectively rise up, rescue and re-establish the federalist system if we desire government for this nation. Beyond reasonable doubt, the response of the CSP to the governor established the impracticability of the current federalist system we operate. It is an arrangement which compels an elected governor of a state with the mandate of his people to be subjected to and seek clarification from extraneous bodies or authorities on security issues in his own area of jurisdiction. This political anomaly and constitutional incongruity is strange in a modern democracy. We must take a look back at the anarchy caused during the #EndSARS incident, the action of the cop on the order of the Inspector- General of Police and the Attorney General of the Federation now conclusively and incontrovertible prove the innocence and non-culpability of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on who truly ordered the Lekki incident. The current system which has been tagged, federalism is one which makes our governors, ceremonial chief security officers. If the purported chief security officer of the states of a federation requires clearance from the office of the IG on matters within their areas of Jurisdictions, then we must readjust our reasoning faculties to ask the necessary questions about who truly is in charge of the states security architecture. This incident has thrown up the challenge on the pretence called the Federal Republic of Nigeria. We are not running a federation because matters like the command structure of police and other security agencies show that we are running a unitary system of government as forced on us by the military. The reason the country is not developing is because of the centralisation which only benefits the elite. When a state governor elected by over 20 million people is helpless on security matters, it shows an abnormality within our system. It shows that even his own personal security details can be withdrawn anytime and that his personal safety can only be secured by a third party. This incident makes everything meaningless and should be looked into by the National Assembly. The Nigeria Police Force belongs to the federation and not the Federal Government. It is wrong and a misrepresentation of the constitution for the police to see themselves as exclusive to the Federal Government. With these various anomalies happening in our country, there’s no doubt that we are not practising true federalism. It further drives home the point for the establishment of a state police, one that will empower a sitting governor to perform his duties as the chief security officer of his state. This is a call for action, not just because of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, but also for the dignity of all other governors in the federation and their ability to perform their constitutional roles to enable them to safeguard their people whose mandate they enjoy. They must be adequately empowered and protected. The federalism which we claim to practise does not ensure that. We as a people must rise to the occasion and do all that is needful and lawful to restore sanity and make a commitment to make our constitution practicable and workable. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com