The Nigerian Institution of Surveyors has urged the Ekiti State government to intensify efforts on security with a view to ensuring that kidnapping and other criminal activities, threatening peaceful stay and investment, are eradicated in the state, The Chairman, NIS, Ekiti State, Timothy Ajala, who said this, also urged the state government to fix inter and intra-city roads, particularly those in and around the capital city. He spoke in Ado Ekiti when the institution’s national and state executives led by NIS National President, Dr Kayode Oluwamotemi, visited the Ekiti State Commissioner for Housing and Urban Development, Chief Oladiran Adesua, ahead of their Annual General Meeting billed for the state in July. Ajala, who said that no fewer than 3000 NIS delegates would be in the state for the AGM, with the theme, ‘Spatially enabled society: Vision for the sustainable infrastructure geospatial solutions”, said, “We implore the government to support in terms of infrastructure by putting all the roads in good order within and outside Ado Ekiti”. He said that apart from good road infrastructures giving the delegates good impression about the Kayode Fayemi administration, “We are extending hotel accommodations to Ikere, Ilawe etc. It is necessary to use good roads, this will also be a plus for security. “We want the state government to come in, in terms of security of the delegates when they are coming and while they are here and in the course of their return. We want to encourage the state government to work harder so that there will be no kidnapping and banditry.” The NIS national president, Oluwamotemi, said the AGM/conference of surveyors would among other things examine the core values of surveyors’ services and expertise to economic, as well as the infrastructure and social developments of Ekiti and Nigeria. The NIS president solicited the assistance of the government for the success of the programme billed for the state. The commissioner, Adesua, pledged the state government’s support for the activities of NIS for the year, saying, “I want to assure you that the Fayemi administration is fully prepared as much as possible.” Adesua said, “I have told the Surveyor-General that he should come up with a checklist of what and in what areas the Ekiti State government can be of assistance.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com