Warri South Local Government Council in Delta State has resolved to set up a committee to investigate the immediate and remote causes of the fire incident that destroyed goods and property worth millions of naira at the Ogbe-Ijoh Market in the Council area on Sunday. The Local Government Chairman, Dr Michael Tidi, who visited the market to ascertain the level of destruction caused by the inferno at the market, however, disclosed that the Council would liaise with the State Ministry of Commerce and Industry to see how they can assist the victims of the fire disaster. Tidi declared, “The Council will set up a Committee to investigate the immediate cause of the fire. If there are technical or man-made issues, we will find out and look at how the market can be resuscitated to benefit Warri South people. “The frequent fire outbreaks at the market is truly regrettable as it is one incident too many. On the face value, millions of naira have been lost and traders have been reduced to zero level. It is very painful.” The Council Chairman lamented that the magnitude of the damage caused by the Sunday afternoon fire incident at the market was “huge”. “I sympathise with the traders over these losses,” he said. Tidi who explained that his visit to the market was “to help the affected traders restart something” then ordered the Secretary to the Warri South Local Government, Mr. Joseph Oribioye, to immediately liaise with the Ogbe-Ijoh Market master and take statistics of the shops that were burnt and their owners as well as the goods they were trading in. “We know that they have to pay their children’s school fees,” the Council Chairman stated. But he advised that in order to prevent further reoccurrence, there was need to remove all wooden stalls in the market and replace them with modern buildings. Tidi spoke further, “As a Council, we will liaise with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry to see how they can help us to rebuild this market. It’s long overdue. “We cannot continue to have these kind of shops in this market. This is Warri, an urban area and there is need for modern indices to be brought to it. “And again I must use this opportunity to beg all stakeholders, there are a lot of agitations here and there over this market. You must give government the necessary support for a modern edifice to be sited here. “We cannot continue with this wooden structures because if it were block structures the spread of the fire would have been prevented.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com