In its bid to realise the United Nations’ target of ending HIV/AIDS by 2030, the Lagos State AIDS Control Agency, has partnered with the state Health Insurance Management Agency. The Chief Executive Officer of LSACA, Dr Mosurat Adeleke, on Monday, said the partnership would help in attaining global epidemic control of HIV by 2025. She said, “We’ve developed new set of interventions strategies to ensure that we meet up with the target that has been set globally; we are trying to attain global epidemic control of HIV by 2025 and we want to eradicate completely new infections by 2030. “We are partnering with LASHMA in order to scale up completely the package that is entrenched into the state’s health insurance scheme. It is worthy of note to say that this is one of its kind in Nigeria in terms of the scope of services that LASHMA is integrating in their health insurance scheme for HIV. Because of this partnership, the health insurance scheme is able to accommodate empaneling private health facilities to make sure they are also part of the HTS services that they will render to the citizens. They also have included client initiated testing as against the provider initiated testing that they were offering before. “They are able to accommodate ANT testing in clinics. This is going to be instrumental for us in achieving a whole lot. Like the prevention of mother-to-child transmission in Nigeria, for instance, the coverage is very low, it is about 37 per cent. With all of this that we are doing, it will help us to achieve more and to get more targets settled in the HIV space.” Adeleke added that about 300 private facilities that were enrolled in the state health insurance scheme had been trained to provide robust HIV/AIDS services to residents of the state. The General Manager of LASHMA, Dr Emmanuella Zamba, said a three to five years plan was in place to increase some services under the care of HIV patients in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com