The Ota-Agbara Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture has disclosed plans to partner with the Ogun State government to enhance the growing profile of the state as a choice destination for investors. The President, OTAGCCIMA, Mrs Cynthia Saka, disclosed this when she led other executive members of the organisation on a courtesy visit to the Ogun State Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mrs Kikelomo Longe, in her office in Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. A statement by the press office of the Ogun State Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment quoted Saka as saying the chamber was ready to provide the necessary support that would help the ministry to assist businesses operating in the Ota-Agbara axis and draw the government’s attention to various opportunities that could be utilised for the development of the state’s economy. “As the chamber in the axis with the largest concentration of industries in the country, we would continue to partner the state government in its move for rapid economic and industrial development of the state,” she said. The president lauded the government for assisting the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises through the MSMEs Business Clinic, saying businesses were already feeling the positive impact of the programme. “We thank the state government under the leadership of the Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, for organising the Ogun State’s first and second MSMEs Clinic, spreading it across the three senatorial districts of the state, bringing the promotion of entrepreneurship to the grassroots,” she said. Reacting, the commissioner said the government had continued to support different categories of businesses existing in the state, adding that the need to assist businesses operating in the Ota and Agbara axis led to the agreement between the federal and state governments for the reconstruction of the Atan-Lusada-Agbara road. Longe enjoined the chamber to mobilise its members to participate actively as exhibitors at the 11th Gateway International Trade Fair, which would hold in April this year, and register their businesses on the business premises permit portal via businesspermit.ogunstate.gov.ng. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr Olu Aikulola, and directors of the ministry were present at the meeting.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com