Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has warned political detractors spreading falsehood with the intention of causing crisis ahead of the 2023 elections to steer clear of the state. The governor urged citizens to be wary of the antics of some selfish politicians, who he said were envious of his achievements and were hell-bent on causing chaos in the state to achieve their personal interests as the country approaches another election season. Obaseki claimed that the detractors are envious of the successes recorded by his administration. He said, “The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria should pray for our administration as some people are envious of the successes and progress made so far, and are working hard to ensure we fail. “They propagate lies, saying the state is not peaceful, Christmas was not peaceful and no unity in Edo State. “They have planned to continue to create more havoc because it is an election year, but we are not afraid because God is with us as we continue to build and develop Edo State.” The governor said his administration will continue to pursue programmes and projects aimed at ensuring economic prosperity for the state and improving the livelihoods of the people. Obaseki added, “We are rehabilitating and constructing roads and street lights, building infrastructure and developing the economy of Edo State. We are ready to do more for the people of Edo State as my emphasis this year is on the people. “We want to partner with you, the PFN, because you are closer to the people and interact with them daily. We want to collaborate with you to be able to deliver the dividends of democracy to Edo people. “We will also partner with you to bring healthcare closer to the people through Edo-HIP, ensuring affordable healthcare to Edo people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com