Edo State is perfecting plans to establish a pilot model ranch in the state after four other states earlier received grants for the development of same in their domains, the Federal Government has said. Officials of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Project for Agricultural Coordination and Planning, a Federal Government project, said the establishment of model ranches by states was part of measures to halt clashes between herders and farmers. It was learnt that Edo indicated interest to establish a pilot ranch under the National Livestock Transformation Programme of the Federal Government, hence joining Nasarawa, Plateau, Adamawa and Kaduna in the scheme. Late last month, The PUNCH exclusively reported that the Federal Government had released N1bn seed grant to Nasarawa, Plateau, Adamawa and Kaduna states for the development of pilot ranches in their domains. It was gathered from the FMARD-PACE that the fund was released after about 22 state governors had earlier indicated interest in developing ranches in their states. Speaking on the latest move as regards the establishment of ranches, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Agriculture, Andrew Kwasari, who also coordinates the NLTP, told our correspondent that Edo State would soon join the league of states with model pilot ranches. He noted that Edo had commenced work for the establishment of the pilot project, as the State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, had given officials responsible for the scheme an ultimatum to perfect the process. “We have been talking with Edo State since over the Christmas and we need about two to three weeks to understand what format it will take,” Kwasari stated. He added, “I think they have a 90-day ultimatum from the governor to put some things in place.” The presidential aide further told our correspondent that work was ongoing at the pilot ranches that had so far received grants from the Federal Government. He stated that for instance, cows would be moved to the pilot model ranch in Nasarawa State by March this year, as other required items at the facility were currently being put in place, adding that many states had earlier indicated interest in the NLTP. On October 27, 2021, The PUNCH exclusively reported that no fewer than 22 states had written to the Federal Government to indicate interest in the NLTP. Kwasari had explained at the time that the the Federal Government would start disbursing funds for model ranches in the next one week. According to him, states whose governors had written the Federal Government include Kaduna, Benue, Taraba, Adamawa, Plateau, Zamfara, Kano, Ondo, Katsina, Bauchi, Yobe, Borno, Gombe, Nasarawa, Niger, Sokoto, Ekiti, Kogi, Ebonyi and Kwara. Following incessant clashes between farmers and herders, the Federal Government in 2018 came up with various ranching models, including Ruga and the NLTP, to settle nomadic herdsmen, who are mostly Fulani. The government had also outlined some conditions that must be met by state governments before funds would be released to them for the development of ranches. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com