Operatives of the South West Security Network, otherwise known as Amotekun Corps, in Ogun State have arrested a 24-year-old Hussaini Abdulsalam for allegedly stealing a motorcycle in Ijebu-Ode. The Field Commander of Amotekun in the state, David Akinremi, disclosed this in a statement on Thursday. Akinremi said the suspect, alongside another member of the gang, now at large, had hired a commercial motorcyclist to take them to a hotel within Ijebu-Ode metropolis, but in the process, the duo reportedly became friendly with the motorcyclist. He said the two suspects allegedly offered the motorcyclist a drink that had been drugged, which he took and became drowsy. The suspect and his runaway accomplice reportedly took the bike and disappeared. Akinremi said Abdulsalam was arrested following a credible intelligence, linking him to the alleged crime. Akinremi said, “Operatives of the Corps in Sagamu Local Government Area arrested one Hussain Abdulsalam, aged 24 years, with a stolen motorcycle registration number OGLIN TTD 439 VN. “The said motorcycle was stolen in Ijebu-Ode by a two-man gang who hired the rider to take them to a hotel in the town. The two men became friendly with the rider and offered him a drink unknown to him that the drink had been drugged. “The rider, having taken the drink, became drowsy. Consequently, the suspect took away the motorcycle. “However, based on credible intelligence, the motorcycle which registration number has been changed to OGUN AAB 252 WI was traced to the above named suspect, Hussoni Abdulssalam in Saba Area of Sagamu The suspect who claimed to be a mechanic alleged that the motorcycle was brought to him for repairs but could neither give the name of the so called customer nor his address.” Akinremi, a retired Commissioner of Police, said the suspect has been handed over to the Police Headquarters, Eleweran, for further investigation and prosecution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com