The Lagos State Development and Property Corporation says it has unveiled 480 units of one, two and three-bedroom flats in B.O. Benson Estate, Ibeshe, Ikorodu, as part of its efforts to provide affordable housing for the state’s teeming population. According to a statement by the corporation, the flats go for between N5m and N13.5m. The statement noted that the project, which was supervised by the state’s Ministry of Housing, began during the administration of former governor Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN, and was completed and inaugurated by the incumbent, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The statement added that the project was borne out of the need to provide decent accommodation to urban dwellers and subsequently reduce the housing deficit in the state. The B.O. Benson Estate sits on a land area of 15 hectares opposite Nichemtex factory on Ibeshe Road in the Baiyeku Local Council Development Area of Ikorodu. The statement noted that the estate was constructed by seasoned professionals in the LSDPC and built by contractors who employed artisans within the local community to provide economic empowerment for the locals. It read in part, “The estate is also well equipped with modern facilities to provide homes for the people in a conducive, serene and well planned environment. ‘The structure comprises 40 blocks of 480 units of one, two and three-bedroom flats. Each flat comes with kitchen fittings, store and visitor’s toilet. “External features of the estate include seven transformers, one injection station, two refuse houses, car park, water treatment plant, ground/overhead water tanks, borehole and two pump houses. “Other ancillary in the estate include generator house, community halls, roads/drains and central sewage system.  The B.O. Benson Estate joins a long list of housing projects embarked on by the Lagos State Government in its drive to provide affordable homes to all Lagosians” Other projects embarked on by the Lagos State Development and Property Corporation include; Anthony Enahoro Housing Estate, Ogba, LagosHoms Shitta Surulere, LagosHoms Suco Road, Oko Oba, LagosHoms Akerele/Randle, Surulere and LagosHoms Amuwo Odofin.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com