A cancer care specialist has cautioned cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy against taking the COVID-19 vaccine, noting that they should only consider vaccination after their treatment. The cancer specialist who is also the Chief Clinical Oncologist at the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority, Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, Prof. Francis Durosinmi-Etti, noted that giving COVID-19 vaccine to cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy is dangerous. Durosinmi-Etti was reacting to a new study that looked into COVID-19 vaccination in cancer patients. The study from the Mayo Clinic Cancer Center found that cancer patients who are undergoing chemotherapy and certain other treatments may have an inadequate immune response to COVID-19 vaccination. The study led by Saranya Chumsri, MD, of the Mayo Clinic Cancer Center Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, shows that this inhibited response to vaccination is also showing up for those with targeted therapies, like CDK 4/6 inhibitors and therapies targeted at B cells. The study which appeared in the Mayo Clinic Proceedings: Innovations, Quality & Outcomes was titled “Humoral Responses after SARS-CoV-2 mRNA Vaccination and Breakthrough Infection in Cancer Patients.” The researchers say the study demonstrates that cancer patients, particularly hematology malignancy patients, had significantly impaired humoral responses after both SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccines. “Our study highlights the importance of further evaluation of humoral responses to COVID-19 vaccines in patients with hematologic and solid malignancies on chemotherapies and, CDK4/6 inhibitors. “Current guidelines pertaining to social distancing and face-covering do recommend caution after COVID-19 vaccination in immunosuppressed patients, as they may still be susceptible to COVID-19 infection despite full vaccination. “Further evaluation of T-cell response and duration of humoral responses in these patients is currently ongoing at our institution. “Additional studies are needed to further define the optimal antibody response that provides adequate protection from SARS-CoV-2 infection,” they said. They added that further clinical trials are also needed to evaluate the potential benefit of booster vaccinations, different vaccine doses or dosing intervals, and the comparative performance of different vaccine platforms in this group of vulnerable patients. Commenting on the study, Durosinmi-Etti said that it is very risky to give COVID-19 vaccine to cancer patients, especially when they are undergoing chemotherapy Prof. Durosinmi-Etti, however, noted that cancer patients can take the vaccine after the treatment and based on the doctor’s advice. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com