The Zamfara State Police Command said it rescued 21 Islamiyya pupils abducted by bandits along the Gusau-Tsafe-Funtuwa Road on December 31, 2021. Briefing newsmen in Gusau on Saturday, the spokesperson for the command, SP Mohammed Shehu, said the children include 19 boys and two girls. He, however, said their teacher, Lawali Ibrahim, who was also kidnapped was yet to be not rescued. Shehu said, “The 21 kidnapped children including two females were among the people abducted by suspected armed bandits at Kucheri Village, along Gusau-Funtua Road on 31st December 2021 at about 2300hrs”. He said, “On 31st December, 2021 at about 2300hrs, a distress call was received from Kucheri Village Via Tsafe LGA that, armed bandits in their large number blocked Gusau – Funtua Federal Highway at Kucheri axis, and abducted unspecified number of commuters in five different vehicles”. “Police Tactical Operatives in conjunction with the military promptly responded to the distress call and moved to the scene, where they engaged the hoodlums to a serious gun battle”. “The Police Operatives succeeded in rescuing 21 kidnapped children including two females who were coming from Rini Village in Bakura LGA to Katsina State for Almajiri Islamiyya school along with their teacher named Lawali Ibrahim.” According to the PPRO, the teacher of the children Ibrahim and the driver of their Hummer Bus vehicle were among the victims that are currently in captivity. He stated that the Commissioner of Police, CP Ayuba Elkana, has already sent a reinforcement of police operatives to complement the effort of the joint security operatives currently working to rescue the remaining victims and apprehend the perpetrators. “The command is calling on the general public especially drivers and passengers to desist from night journey. “The nighttime is the period that is mostly used by the bandits to block roads and kidnapped commuters in the state. “The Police Command will continue to work assiduously to ensure the safety and security of the citizenry,” Shehu added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com