A 51-year-old woman, Evangelist Victoria Agori, has appealed to the police hierarchy to release her son, Daniel Agori, 21, allegedly shot dead by the Inspector general of Police squad in 2019. Recall that the National Human Rights Commission had in December last year announced payment of monetary compensation to 27 victims of police brutality. But Mrs Agori who is one of the beneficiaries said the real justice for her would be when her son is released to her for burial and those who killed him must be fished out and prosecuted. While appreciating the panel for the compensation, she recalled that it was a tough road for justice, saying she wrote many letters and petitions without response. She said, “It was tough. I wrote a petition to the office of the Inspector General of Police and to the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN. “I also wrote a petition to the Commissioner of Police, Rivers and Bayelsa State Governors, the human rights group and the International Federation of Women Lawyers. “Also, I wrote to the Senate and the House of Representatives and the Rivers State House of Assembly. I wrote petitions to help me get justice for my late son. I sent text messages for them to come to my aide.” Mrs Agori recalled with bitterness that a team of policemen came to her house in Nkpolu, East West Road, arrested her and two of her children on May 11, 2019, accused them of armed robbery and kidnapping, manhandled them and bundled them into a vehicle to the police station “They took us to Aluu police station and called us armed robbers, that we were selling guns, they tormented us and shot my son dead in my presence. No amount of money that was awarded to me will make me forget my son that I gave birth to after nine months,” Mrs Agori stated. On what she remembered most about her son, Mrs Agori said, “He (Daniel) usually calls me ‘mumsy’. He will say mummy how are you? Mumsy what do you have? “Mumsy what are we going to eat? Mumsy I want to drink tea, please buy bread and all that. Anytime I see bread or when I am drinking tea, I always cry because he likes taking tea and bread, just like me. People that know me well can tell you about my love for tea. “So, I cannot forget him. I want them to release his corpse to me. That has been my cry all these years so that I can give him a proper burial. “Then, I am demanding that all the policemen involved in the death of my son should be prosecuted. The Nigerian constitution says anyone that kills, except you are not seen. If that person is identified he or she will be prosecuted. “These policemen should be made to face the law and dismissed because they are not fit to wear that uniform,” she added. She however expressed sadness that the police hierarchy was shielding her son’s killers. “It seems like the IGP is shielding his children, the policemen from prosecution. He should not do that because he is a father,” Mrs Agori stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com