Nigeria faces various social, political and developmental challenges but none greater than the burgeoning education crisis – which stems from long-overdue reforms amplified by recent global health and economic crises. Problems abound at various levels of institutional education in Nigeria. According to UNICEF, approximately 10.5 million Nigerian children aged 5-14 are currently out of school. Only 61% of 6–11-year-olds regularly attend primary school and just 35.6% of children aged 3-5 receive early childhood education. These early dropouts will often never attain the education levels required for a growing economy to prosper, and a significant proportion of Nigeria’s youth population reaches adulthood without basic literacy skills. This lack of education imposes almost permanent shackles of inequality and poverty. In contrast, Nigerian universities have faced criticism for fostering elites rather than improving access to higher education. Annually, approximately 1.8 million Nigerians apply for only 800,000 university places. There is a need for higher education institutions to reorientate themselves and focus more on what Nigeria needs in the 21st century, which includes a significant investment in increasing capacity through the adoption of online learning. It cannot afford to remain stagnant any longer. The UNESCO Institute for Statistics reports enrolment in tertiary education in Nigeria grew rapidly during the late 1990s and early 2000s, but levels have hovered around 10% since 2003. Even young Nigerians at university face problems deeply rooted in their institutions. Andrew Alli, CEO of the investment bank, SouthBridge, recently argued that — apart from improving access — reforms of the educational system should chiefly target enhancing the technical skills of Nigerians to provide workers for a 21st-century economy. He suggests Nigerian education is stuck in an atavistic mode of learning. The problem, however, does not lie with the importance Nigerians ascribe to education. On the contrary, households in Nigeria spend large amounts of their income, at least 20%, on education. The Nigerian diaspora in the US ranks among the most educated groups, with over 60% of Nigerian Americans aged 25 or older holding a bachelor’s degree or higher, compared to less than 35% of the total US population. The annual Africa Youth Survey recently revealed the pandemic compounded the already-high unemployment levels in Nigeria. Moreover, 37% of students suffered temporary or permanent disruptions to schooling. The findings highlight the clear need for more computers and greater internet access across the country. Their absence condemns many promising youths enrolled in tertiary education to return to subsistence labour or street trade. Remote jobs, in contrast, would enable young talent to find opportunities outside of local economic hardship. The Nigerian higher education system needs ground-breaking reform. One group that could act as particularly powerful agents of change is the employers. Nigeria’s labour market suffers from a condition common in the 21st century. As many promising young Nigerians are cut off from high-quality tertiary education and in turn enter the job market without core skills, employers scramble for capable employees. Despite Nigeria having over 20 million people unemployed, top local employers commonly attest to the fact that finding qualified talent is very challenging. Slow adoption of digital transformation will only increase gaps between the supply and demand of qualified labour. Imagine now employers teaming up with skills-focused online universities, offering viable pathway programs to Nigerian students looking to escape the dire outlook of graduate unemployment. For companies, this could amount to a new pre-recruitment process, yielding a wealth of data points helping to choose the right candidate. On the other side of the bargain, students would acquire skills needed on the job market – and perhaps have the chance to receive funding. Sterling Bank and Dangote Cement are two notable examples, pioneering this proactive and alternative approach. The respective companies have partnered with the American online education platform, Nexford University, in the quest to make Nigerians more employable. Further synergies might ensue. For some firms, pre-recruitment funding programs could entirely supplant expensive, inefficient, and subjective hiring processes. Alternatively, employers could seed EdTech companies’ case studies to jointly develop curricula and introduce a new realism to higher education. High mobile penetration, coupled with Nigeria’s tech-savvy youth population, provides a beacon of hope and the ingredients necessary to adopt online education rapidly. Government initiatives, like President Muhammadu Buhari’s government, recently launching several jobs programs, might be a step in the right direction. However, promising to provide 750,000 short-term employment opportunities to unemployed graduates in 2021 cannot solve a problem with deeper roots. While economic mismanagement, rising insecurity and outdated institutions pose grave problems, Nigerian society does not suffer from a shortage of talented, bright, and ambitious youth. Nigerian business leaders should take on the responsibility and embrace the challenge to help their country’s young generation develop the skills needed to thrive in Africa’s fastest-growing economy. The reward will be worth their investment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com