The umbrella body for Yoruba self-determination groups, Ilana Omo Oodua, has berated a lawyer engaged by the group, Pelumi Olajengbesi, for resigning from representing group’s interest. The group’s spokesman, Maxwell Adeleye, said in a statement on Sunday that Olajengbesi was not engaged on social media, saying resigning via social media showed his action was unethical. The group also accused Olajengbesi of hobnobbing with the government to sabotage Chief Sunday Adeyemo aka Igboho and other self- determination activists’ struggle for actualisation of Yoruba Nation. The statement read, “The Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide, the umbrella body of Yoruba self-determination groups all over the world, has received the media report of the resignation of Mr  Pelumi Olajengbesi, the lawyer that the Yoruba nation self-determination groups worldwide retained and paid to defend the aides of Chief Sunday Adeyemo  against the Department of State Services  at an Abuja High Court. “We want to state expressly that we did not hire Mr Olajengbesi through the social media and it is not ideal for him to have resigned through the social media. “Choosing the social media to resign is an indication of his lack of understanding of the ethics of his profession. It clearly raises questions on his integrity and honour. “Lastly, it should be on record that contrary to the claim of Olajengbesi, he is not a personal lawyer to Sunday Igboho, but a lawyer to the Yoruba self-determination struggle. “He was introduced to us by Chief Yomi Aliyu, SAN. The self-determination struggle hired, retained and paid for the services of Pelumi Olajengbesi, not Chief Sunday Igboho. Olajengbesi, perhaps, looking for fame and popularity, used the media to brand himself as Ighoho’s lawyer. “We chose to allow him to enjoy the fame to avoid distraction. Now having appropriated some fame, he turns to hobnobbing with the Nigerian government to trade Chief Sunday Adeyemo Igboho and our self-determination struggle for financial and political gains.” The leader of Ilana Omo Oodua, Prof. Banji Akintoye, had in his New Year message said, “There shall be no state governorship and House of Assembly elections in our homeland in 2022. The next election that we Yoruba people will engage in will be the first election in our own new country. “The second issue is that the Yoruba self-determination struggle will employ the powers of the law more emphatically to resist the abuses of human rights in our Yoruba homeland.” But Olajengbesi condemned the position of Akintoye on no election on Yorubaland. His condemnation attracted criticisms from Ilana Omo Oodua and other self-determination groups. Copyright PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com