Troops have reportedly rescued eight kidnap victims in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State, according to the state Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan. The Commissioner also said three terrorists were killed by troops in separate operations in Chikun, Igabi and Giwa local government areas of the state. Aruwan, who did not give details of when the operations took place, made this known on Tuesday, adding the state was furnished with the information regarding the troops’ operations by military authorities. The Commissioner said, “Military authorities have reported to the Kaduna State Government that troops engaged and repelled terrorists during operations in Chikun and Igabi local government areas. “According to the first operational feedback, troops in the Maraban Rido general area of Chikun LGA responded to sounds of gunfire and swiftly mobilised towards the target location in Ungwan Musa. The troops fought their way through an ambush, which they cleared aggressively as they approached the scene of the attack. “An intense firefight followed at the targeted building. The troops’ superior firepower eventually prevailed over the terrorists who escaped through a back fence with gunshot wounds, as confirmed by bloodstains that lined their exit. “The troops pursued the terrorists through their withdrawal route and in the process rescued eight persons who had initially been taken hostage. “One of the outlaws was neutralised by the troops during the operation. “Similarly, an attack at Unguwar Tasha in Birnin Yero general area of Igabi LGA was successfully foiled by security forces when terrorists tried to force their way into residential buildings in the area. One of the bandits was neutralised in this operation. “Also, a terrorists’ attack was foiled in Hayin Kanwa, Giwa LGA. One of the terrorists was similarly neutralised during the encounter.” He also quoted Governor Nasir El-Rufai to have expressed satisfaction over the troops’ display of gallantry and hailed “the troops’ swift response to the attacks and their relentless force in beating back the outlaws to rescue the citizens.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com