A former Kano State Commissioner for Works and Infrastructural Development, Mua’zu Magaji, has been referred to the Police Clinic of the Kano State Police Command by a Kano Senior Magistrate Court, presided over by Aminu Gabari for medical attention. Magaji was docked over the alleged injurious falsehood, inciting disturbance and defamation of character and insult against Governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Ganduje. When the case came up on Friday for arraignment, the defence counsel, Barrister Garzali Datti Ahmad, told the court that the defendant had an accident in Abuja alleging that he was being pursued by security where he had an accident The counsel explained that the airbag of his vehicle smashed his face and that affected his hearing organs He urged the court to refer the defendant back to either the police clinic or his personal doctor for medical attention as his client was not capable to answer his alleged offences. In his response, prosecution counsel, Barrister Wada Ahmad, said Magaji was in court, arguing that the matter was for arraignment and the court will entertain any application after taking a plea of the defendant. He prayed the court not to entertain any prayer at this stage arguing that the defence did not support his application on the health condition of his client with any law. He urged the court to support any documentary evidence with supported law, alleging that portraying the health condition of Magaji in the courtroom was mere speculation and documentary, He stressed that the defendant who was already in court and his counsel did not cite any law to warrant the court to answer his prayer. In his ruling, Senior Magistrate Aminu Gabari referred Magaji to the police clinic and adjourned the case to Monday, 31st January 2022 for arraignment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com