The Nigerian Red Cross Society, Lagos Branch, has appealed to the Lagos State Government for subvention, to enable it to serve humanity better, through its health and disaster management activities. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the society made the appeal during the 54th Annual General Meeting, on Saturday in Lagos. According to the branch Chairman, Adebola Kolawole, the issue of government subvention had been a great challenge to the Society over the years, and receiving it will help lessen some of its burdens. “Our various activities and programs which centre on health and disaster mitigation/management, we believe, would be better-off with government subventions and support,” she said. The chairman listed the achievements of the branch in 2021, including effective participation of volunteers during emergencies, successful cash transfer programme and smooth running of the Motherless and Abandoned Babies Home. Others are community-based health and youth development programmes, disaster relief operations and psychosocial support to victims of disasters. Kolawole noted that the Red Cross was always at the forefront during disaster management and response, building collapse, fire outbreaks, flooding and road accidents. She, however, noted that to function effectively, the branch needed more support for its priority needs. These, she said, include six ambulances, four utility vehicles and the provision of personal protective equipment. Others are; purchase of medicines, hospital equipment, the establishment of a mini-laboratory and payment of salaries for four medical personnel for the branch clinic. Kolawole urged philanthropists, corporate organisations and well-wishers to partner with the Red Cross by sponsoring some of its projects to help alleviate human suffering. She thanked the International Committee of the Red Cross, International Federation of the Red Cross, donors, schools and religious institutions for their support in 2021. NAN also reports that five patrons were honoured and decorated during the Investiture Ceremony to motivate them for their support to humanity. (NAN)