Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, on Wednesday, arrested a skit maker, Sunday Joshua, aka De-General. The operatives were said to have stormed Joshua’s residence at midnight after reportedly trailing some suspects who ran into the building. In an Instagram live broadcast, which went viral on Wednesday, Joshua could be seen querying the mission of the officials. One of the operatives, a woman, who was observing as Joshua’s friend recorded the scene, challenged him, saying he had no right to film them. The statement angered Joshua, who flared up. “We will just escalate this matter, thank God, everybody is seeing it,” the skit maker said. One of the operatives subsequently smashed the phone used in recording the incident as a scuffle ensued. As the live broadcast continued, one of our correspondents heard as the operatives pounced on the skit mater and ordered him to lie down. The spokesperson for the NDLEA, Femi Babafemi, in a statement, said the agency, while acting on intelligence, stormed a drug joint on the estate. He noted that three suspects were arrested with illicit drugs, including 200 sachets of 225mg tramadol and 1.5 kilogrammes of cannabis sativa. “In the course of the operation, some persons, including the suspected dealer, ran away with bags suspected to contain exhibits. “A trail showed they ran into a house at 2B, Saula Akinlolu Way, Orchid Estate, which is the residence of 22-year-old Sunday Joshua (aka De General). The young men started to make noise to prevent a search. The operatives introduced themselves as officers of the NDLEA and submitted themselves for a search before entry. This was done and a search was conducted. “The search led to the recovery of drug exhibits, including cannabis sativa, tramadol 225mg, and some paraphernalia for drug use. This was after the suspect had requested to record on video the search, which the officers out of sense of civility allowed. “The video trending on social media was the moment the suspect and his friends decided to disrupt the bid to conduct a search of the house. In his confessional statement in custody, the suspect admitted to ownership of the drugs recovered from his house.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com