A member of the House of Representatives representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal Constituency, Shina Peller, has called on Nigerian youths to register for permanent voter cards to enable them to participate in the next general elections. The lawmaker also urged youths to join political parties of their choice which would allow them to lead in electing credible and competent leaders into various positions in the 2023 elections. He said this while speaking on Friday at a virtual lecture to mark the second anniversary of Lead Generation Initiative with the theme: ‘Engaging for credible election: Role of the youth and technology; strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats’. Peller, who is the founder of LGI, said having voter cards without joining political parties was useless because the youths would not be part of the process to nominate candidates who would stand for various elective positions. He said, “You can’t change anything with your PVC unless you join a political party. Having a PVC without joining a political party is useless because you will be left to choose one of the incompetent candidates the political parties have nominated. “If you really want to make any change, you have to get your PVC and join a political party. That is when you really make a change.” The Executive Director, Youth Initiative for Advocacy, Growth and Advancement, Samson Itodo, said in his presentation that youths should make use of technology mobilise for political engagement. Itodo, who was represented by the Programme Manager, Ibrahim Farouk, said it is almost criminal for the youth not to show interest in electing those who governed them. The Regional Technical Manager, Airtel Nigeria, Kazeem Sulaiman, said without technology there would be no credible elections. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com