Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, on Tuesday, charged Nigerians to choose wisely in 2023 by electing people that have the required physical and mental capacity to run the affairs of the country. The governor gave the advice at the 65th birthday anniversary and thanksgiving service, as well as launching of a ministry by the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Rev. Samson Ayokunle. Makinde, at the service held at Oritamefa Baptist Church, Ibadan, urged the aged politicians jostling to contest elections to have a rethink. The governor congratulated the CAN president on his birthday and the launch of his ministry- Waymaker International Ministries. Makinde siad, “We have seen a lot of elder statesmen who want to run this country at age 75 or 78. I want them to think twice and I am saying to the people of Oyo State and Nigeria that this world is not easy. “It is possible for you to delegate, ask people to go all over the place but when they are reporting to you, if something has not been added, a few things may have been removed. “We are in election season basically and what I will say to us as a people is that we need to choose wisely and elect the people who have the energy to truly serve the country.” The governor described Ayokunle as a pride of the state, swing he has contributed in no small way to the development of the Christendom and the nation. “To the celebrant of today, it is my pleasure to celebrate with you. We thank God for what he has used you to achieve, not only for the Baptist Convention but for Christians in Nigeria. “In Oyo State, we are the most blessed. This is because we have the President of CAN; President of PFN and President of CAC worldwide. They are all within here. “So, we really thank God for securing your life to see today. In Yorubaland, we do hope that when we start well, we should end well. We believe you are ending well. ” And the icing on the cake for us is that though you are retiring because you have done enough for the Baptist Convention, you are not tired,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com