The House of Representatives on Wednesday warned that the resurgence of military coups in the West African subregion poses great dangers to democratic values. It called for international condemnation of the series of successful and attempted coups in the subregion in recent times. The House also recommended the imposition of sanctions against countries where such undemocratic methods had been used to upstage a people’s government. This followed a motion of urgent public importance moved by a member, Julius Ihonvbere, with the title, ‘Need To Condemn Increasing Resort To Military Coups In The West African Subregion.’ The lawmaker lamented that there had been at least four coups in the subregion in the last six months alone, with recent cases being Burkina Faso and Mali. “These coups violate the constitutional rights of the people and subvert democratic processes, as they can erode the achievements so far recorded in rebuilding good governance across the subregion,” he was quoted by the Facebook page of the House as saying. Ihonvbere further noted that if the trend was allowed to gain traction, the subregion could return to the dark era of “inconsistencies in governance.” He said, “This culture must not be allowed to continue. “We have to speak out now else history will not forgive us.” Lending his voice to the motion, House Minority Leader, Rep. Ndudi Godwin Elumelu, pointed out that the lesson in the coups was that African democratically-elected leaders must wake up and deliver good governance to their people. He noted that bad governance would lead to frustration and resentment among the citizenry, allowing them to fall to the temptation of supporting undemocratic change of government. On his part, the Chief Whip of the House, Mohammed Tahir Monguno, observed that the worst democratic government would always be better than the best dictatorship as the freedom enjoyed in the former remained unequalled. Members passed the motion in a unanimous voice vote. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com