The Gombe Police Command has nabbed six persons for impersonating the Nigerian Army wearing its camouflage and hunters uniform. According to a press statement signed on Wednesday by the Public Relations Officer, Mary Malum, the men were arrested by a ‘stop and search’ team around Kalmai in the Mile Three area of the metropolis. Malum explained that three were caught with hunters uniforms, while three others wore camouflage belonging to the Nigerian Army. The statement also confirmed that one Pte. Michael Jude, said to be serving at 151 Battalion Bama, Borno State, who is an indigene of Billiri in Gombe State, provided them with the uniforms. Malum said the suspects are Gambo Zakari Mohammed, male, aged 30 of Kawo quarters Kaduna North LGA, Kaduna State. Idris Barau, male, aged 17 of New Mile Three, Gombe; Abdulrahaman Shehu Usman, male, aged 20 of Herwa Gana quarters, Gombe. Others are Danladi Baka Baba, male, aged 30 of New Mile Three, Gombe; Adamu Suleiman, male, aged 20 of New Mile Three, Gombe; and Abubakar Abdullahi, male, aged 21 of Tumfure quarters, Gombe. “On the 31st December 2021 at about 1830hours, police operatives from Billiri Division, while on stop and search operations at Kalmai junction, arrested six suspects mentioned above in a case of Impersonation. “Three among them were wearing Nigerian Army camouflage uniform while three others were wearing hunters uniform, armed with dane guns. Two dane guns and one single barrel gun were recovered as exhibits, in the course of the investigation, they confessed that the uniform was given to them by one Pte. Michael Jude, serving at 151 Battalion Bama Borno State a native of Billiri.” While confirming that investigation is going on, Malum stressed that the suspects would be charged subsequently to court for prosecution. “The Command, under CP Ishola Babaita, warns individuals or groups with such nefarious act to desist from such. The command wishes to assure the good people of Gombe State of its readiness and commitment to fulfilling its constitutional mandate of protection of lives and property, also, information given will be treated with utmost confidentiality,” she added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com