Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, on Saturday commended Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State for his developmental strides and pleaded with him to join the ruling All Progressives Congress. The lawmaker said though Emmanuel belongs to a different political platform, the Peoples Democratic Party, the governor deserves to be a member of the APC. According to the senator, it is not shameful to ask the governor to join APC because he is a champion. The Senate President stated this on Saturday in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State while speaking at Senator Bassey Albert’s thanksgiving service and inauguration of sports facility in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. “Even though we are not in the same political platform, we are waiting for you to come and work with us. You are a champion, we are not ashamed to say come and work with us,” he said. He lauded Senator Baasey Albert, who is representing Uyo Senatorial district at the National Assembly, for always thinking about his people, adding that the Senator a true Nigerian who cases about the development of his country. He said, “We are here to thank God for Albert for what he has done today, this multipurpose facility which is not only for sports, but also an educational facility. “This facility shows that members of the National Assembly take care of their constituents first because they voted him and we are proud of the three Senators from this state. “Albert has done something that remains indelible in my mind. He never care about political parties but he care about the development of the country.” Earlier in his remarks, Emmanuel said he was proud of the performance of Albert, adding that God has used him to do many things for his people, especially the building of the multipurpose facility. “I thanked God for today, it could have been a different story, we are proud of our brother, Bassey Albert, for want God has used him to do,” he said. While calling on the people to make good and proper use of the facility for their self development, the governor warned against abuse of the facility. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com