Some bandits have invaded two local government areas of Igabi and Zaria in Kaduna State, killing nine people, including seven members of the same family. Troops however succeeded in neautralising two of the bandits and recovered an AK47 rifle from them. A source said the attacks, which occurred on Monday night, had forced the villagers to flee their homes. The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, confirmed in statement on Tuesday that nine people were killed while five others were injured during the attacks. Aruwan said, according to a security report made available to the state government, the bandits first attacked Kudu Da Gari settlement in Sabon Birnin where seven people were killed. He gave the names of the seven members of the same family killed to include, Dahiru Bilya, Jibrin Bilya, Dayyabu Adamu, Bashir Habibu, Jabir Shuaibu, Buhari Habibu and Abubakar Habibu. The commissioner also listed the four injured persons in that attack as Audi Mohammad, Mubarak Ilya, Balarabe Junaidu and Umar Bilya. Similarly, Aruwan said bandits invaded another herders’ settlement known as Ruggar Goshe, on the outskirts of Kangimin Sarki village, Rigachikun, Igabi Local Government Area where one person was killed. “One Auwal Koshe was shot dead by the brigands, who then rustled about 250 goats and sheep from the settlement,” he said. Aruwan added that bandits attacked another herders’ settlement in Zaria where one Abubakar Mohammad was killed and another resident, Abubakar Aliyu, sustained gunshot wounds. The commissioner said, “Security forces have reported to the Kaduna State Government that nine citizens have been killed, with five injured and hundreds of animals rustled by bandits during three attacks across Igabi and Zaria local government areas. “According to the first report, bandits attacked Kudu da Gari settlement in Sabon Birni, Igabi LGA and killed seven residents. “Four others were left critically injured, and were rushed to a medical facility for treatment. “In another incident, bandits invaded a herders’ settlement called Ruggar Goshe, on the outskirts of Kangimin Sarki village, Rigachikun, Igabi LGA. One Auwal Koshe was shot dead by the brigands, who then rustled about 250 goats and sheep from the settlement. “Furthermore, bandits attacked another herders’ settlement at Filin Idin Barebare, Zaria Local Government Area, where they killed one Abubakar Mohammad. One Abubakar Aliyu sustained gunshot injuries to his ribs, and is receiving medical attention. The bandits then rustled an unspecified number of cattle from the settlement.” He said two of the bandits, while retreating the Malul Forest in the same Igabi local government, were gunned down by troops. “On another note, troops have reported that two bandits were neutralised around the outskirts of Tumbau village, Kerawa, Igabi LGA. “The bandits were retreating to the Malul Forest when they were intercepted by the troops, and two of them were neutralised in the ensuing firefight, with an AK-47 rifle recovered,” he added. The commissioner also quoted the state governor, Nasir El-Rufai, as expressing grief over the attacks while commending “the troops for their alertness and swift response during the engagement which saw two bandits neutralised.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com