The Ondo State Command of the  Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps says it has formed a special squad made up of only female officers to guard schools in the state. The state commandant of the corps, Mr Hammed Abodunrin, who disclosed this on Friday in a chat with journalists, said it was part of the command’s new strategy in the face of new trends in criminalities. Speaking at the state headquarters of the NSCDC in Alagbaka, Akure, the state capital, commandant also disclosed that the command arrested no fewer than 124 people for various criminal activities in the state in 2021. Abodunrin said, “Our Anti-Human Trafficking and Irregular Migration and Gender Unit handled 185 cases, 140 arrest were made with four of the cases transferred to NAPTIP and two transferred to the state Ministry of Women Affairs and 157 of the cases were settled/resolved. “The command was able to use Alternative Dispute Resolution to resolve 305 cases in the year 2021.” The NSCDC boss further explained that the newly set up special female squad was made up of female officers who  had acquired optimal training required to respond to crime situations within the state and as well tackle it promptly. The commandant said the all-female squad would be deployed to schools in the state to forestall security breaches. He added, “In the just-concluded year, a special female squad was tactically trained to respond to school protection in the state and rapid response squad to tackle crimes promptly. As crimes are becoming more and more sophisticated, the command has devised several security strategies to combat the new trend. “It is also worthy to mention that the command enjoyed a seamless working relationship with sister agencies in the state and this could be seen before, during and after the Yuletide period as we collaborated to keep the state safe.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com