A report listing hundreds of attacks by vandals and thieves in the first half of 2020 demonstrates how the hydra-headed menace of pipeline vandalism has defied solutions for years, just like many other problems plaguing Nigeria’s economy. Reflecting a recurring failure of leadership over the years, the Nigerian National Petroleum Company reported that “products theft and vandalism have continued to destroy value and put NNPC at disadvantaged competitive position.” Given the huge losses of about 200,000 barrels of crude per day and the current precarious state of public finances, the Federal Government should mobilise to stop the haemorrhage quickly. The PUNCH reported that a total of 350 pipeline points were vandalised from January to July 2021, citing the latest data from the NNPC. It revealed the Port Harcourt area, Rivers State, as the hotbed of pipeline vandalism, followed by Mosimi in Ogun State, and Kaduna areas. A total of 441 points on petroleum products pipelines were damaged in 2020, compared to 1,484 points in 2019, according to the NNPC. That the wanton destruction of these strategic assets has festered for many years is not only a clear indication that the relevant security agencies have not lived up to their responsibility of protecting them but is also a sad indictment of the current state of the country. Bizarrely, some of those vandalising pipelines hold the notion that stealing petroleum products and crude oil is having their own share of the ‘national cake.’ Worse still is that some security agents connive with the thieves to perpetrate these acts of vandalism. Rivers Governor, Nyesom Wike, pointedly made this point late last year, complaining that military and police personnel were actively involved in the criminal activity. A promise by the Chief of Naval Staff, Awwal Gambo, to flush out naval personnel involved in such crimes has not been carried out. Collusion partly explains why the various task forces set up over the years to stamp out pipeline vandalism have not succeeded. The Nigerian government and oil companies operating in the country have suffered huge losses due to crude and refined petroleum products theft. This is one of the reasons some international oil companies are auctioning their onshore assets in the country. The Indigenous Petroleum Producers Association lamented in November that its members were struggling with “the incidence of crude theft, which is unprecedented and becoming unsustainable.” It noted that security costs had also escalated significantly. If this situation is allowed to linger, the Federal Government’s drive to reduce the cost of producing a barrel of crude oil to $10 or below will remain a mirage. In February 2021, the Group Managing Director, NNPC, Mele Kyari, held talks with the Chief of Defence Staff, Lucky Irabor, to put an end to the frequent attacks on pipelines and wholesale crude theft.  He said although petroleum products theft on the system 2B pipeline had reduced considerably due to support from the security agencies, the country was still losing about 200,000 barrels of crude oil daily to theft and vandalism. That volume is more than the output of some oil-producing countries such as Ghana (173,000 barrels per day). Millions of litres of refined products are also stolen inland. Shamefully, Nigeria lost its Africa’s top oil producer status to Libya in October as its crude oil production plunged to 1.23 million barrels per day amid lingering supply disruptions. The latest figures from the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Resources Commission show that the highest volume of crude oil produced last year was about 1.43 million bpd (in March), compared to the projected production level of 1.86 million bpd in the 2021 budget. An estimated N556 billion was lost between August and October last year as vandalism, sabotage and other challenges led to due to the shut-in of over 17.86 million barrels of crude oil, according to NNPC data. Aside from the cost of the stolen crude and petroleum products, the NNPC and other operators spend a king’s ransom on the repair and maintenance of their pipelines. The national oil company said it spent N53.36 billion on pipeline repairs and management costs in 2020. Drastic measures are required. The government must develop a failsafe strategy to solve this seemingly intractable problem, which is increasingly putting the lives and livelihoods of many Nigerians in jeopardy. Recently, Wike ordered the immediate shutdown of all illegal oil refining sites in Rivers State in a bid to put an end to the environmental pollution caused by soot in Port Harcourt, the state capital, and some other parts of the state. Many illegal artisanal refiners have sprung up in the Niger Delta on the back of the industrial scale theft of crude oil. The protection of pipelines must be strengthened. The NNPC and the security agencies must get their act together. The incessant attacks on pipelines could not have been happening without corruption and collusion with security agents and NNPC officials. The government should review the current template of the joint military/police task forces and the performance of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps that has been tasked with pipeline protection. A multi-layered intelligence-led security approach and deploying the latest ICT tools is critical to fighting the menace of pipeline destruction. Better technologies should be deployed to safeguard these strategic assets. Ultimately, the government should sell the pipelines, depots and refineries to private investors that are capable of effectively managing them, while the government restricts itself to regulation and the provision of security. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com