A former Ogun State Governor, Gbenga Daniel, on Sunday, appealed to political leaders and traditional rulers in the South-West geopolitical to consult, consider and streamline the number of presidential aspirants from the region ahead of 2023 general elections. Daniel made the call in an interview with journalists at the Abraham Tabernacle Baptist International Worship Centre in Sagamu, Ogun State, on the sidelines of the 17th annual thanksgiving and 10th remembrance service for his late father, Adebola Daniel. According to him, the call has become imperative because “South West is being strongly considered for the 2023 presidency.” He said, “The western states or what you can call the South-West is being strongly considered to take over the mantle of leadership for the President. “As usual you know how it goes, there are many of our people who are qualified, strong, willing and able. But if we really want to retain that opportunity, it is incumbent on all our leaders and elders to come together and streamline. “If they come together, consider one or two people, the chances are that Nigerians would respond and respect that wish. “That is why I am appealing to all our Obas and leaders not to rest on their oars. Power is never served a la carte. They, therefore, have duties and responsibilities to come together and say we can present a candidate.” When asked if his proposition is realistic considering the different political divides in the region, Daniel responded, “The way it works, power belongs to God, but it is also not served a la carte. It is for people who aspire to get and there is nothing wrong in people aspiring. “But there is everything wrong in everybody now struggling in such a way that at the end of the day nothing is achieved.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com