Former Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, may be named the coach of Ghana’s national team ahead of their Qatar 2022 World Cup qualifying play-offs against Nigeria in March. Rohr was sacked by the Nigeria Football Federation last month, after some unconvincing performances in the World Cup qualifiers, despite steering the three-time African champions to the play-offs. According to reports in Ghana, the Franco-German is leading the race for the position of the Black Stars head coach job following the recent sacking of Milovan Rajevac, after the Black Stars disastrous outing at the ongoing 2032 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon, where the Ghanaians crashed out in the group stage with just one point and recording a shock 3-2 defeat to minnows Comoros. The Ghana Football Association announced Wednesday it had parted ways with Serbian Rajevac after the Black Stars exited the competition without a win, the first time it would happen in their history. A new manager is however expected to be named before their crucial World Cup playoffs against Nigeria in March. And according to ghanaweb.com, a close source of the 68-year-old gaffer revealed that Rohr, is a potential and leading candidate for the Blacks Stars job due to his wealth of experience in Africa. “Gernot (Rohr) is very much open to the Ghana job,” a source close to the coach told ghanaweb.com. “Ghana football has great potential and his experience of the African game will help him steer the team in the right direction. “His knowledge of African football is deep especially with West African teams. Besides Nigeria, he also handled Burkina Faso and Niger. Rohr also had a stint with Gabon in 2017. He has the quality to handle the Black Stars,” the source added. “Gernot achieved FIFA World Cup qualification with Nigeria in 2018 and is keen on guiding Ghana to the 2022 edition. Ghana has big name players like Andre Ayew, Thomas Partey, Daniel Amartey amongst others who are hungry to play at the World Cup and Gernot can help turn that dream into a reality.” Rohr enjoyed a five-year spell with Nigeria, guiding the Eagles to the World Cup in Russia in 2018 and a third-place finish at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt.