Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, has said he will not hesitate to sign the execution warrant of anyone convicted of kidnapping in the state. The governor made his position known on Thursday in a statement issued by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Macham Makut. Lalong regretted that the state is witnessing an increase in cases of kidnapping in the state. He cited the rescue of the Gwom Rwey of Vwang District, Gyang Balak, shortly after he was kidnapped and the arrest of some suspects as good developments that are worth sustaining. He noted that a similar situation had also happened when three students of the Plateau State Polytechnic, Barkin Ladi, were rescued shortly after being kidnapped from the school in Heipang. The governor also recalled the abduction of the wife of the Deputy Chief of Staff and a medical doctor among others, who were also rescued by security forces after being kidnapped. The statement read, “Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, has commended security personnel in the state for rising up to the occasion and thwarting attempts by kidnappers to create fear among citizens. “Governor Lalong, in a message, said he was glad that the swift response of security forces to distress calls of kidnap incidents led to the dislocation of their operations, leading to the rescue of some victims and arrest of suspects. “The governor urged security agencies, which include the Nigeria Police Force, Department of State Services, Operation Safe Haven, Operation Rainbow, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, other paramilitary agencies and vigilante groups, to sustain the heat on the criminals, assuring them that the government will do everything possible to continue to provide support for them to flush out kidnappers and other criminals from the State. “He also assured all that he will not hesitate to sign the death warrant for any convicted kidnapper who is found guilty of the crime as the law against kidnapping signed last year stipulates death penalty which is ready to be implemented. “Lalong also called on citizens of Plateau State to support the security agencies with intelligence that will enable them not only respond, but pre-empt the activities of criminals who are desperate to disrupt the peace of the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com