The police in Rivers State have said the organisers of a music concert in Buguma, Asari-Toru Local Government Area of the state, which was disrupted when top Nigerian artiste, Teniola Akpata, popularly known as Teni, was performing last week did not apply for security cover. The state police command also denied reports that its men fired gunshots that scared the A-list musician and abruptly ended her performance. The ‘Your case’ crooner, who was the star performer, was already thrilling fans with hit tracks when a melee ensued from among the crowd. The skirmish, which was later discovered to be a misunderstanding between two youths, resulted in a fight and pelting of stone and bottles, forcing the organisers to whisk Teni to safety. But the spokesperson for the command, Grace Iringe-Koko, insisted that no police officer fired a gunshot during the event. Iringe-Koko told journalists in Port Harcourt that for a show of such magnitude, the organisers ought to have applied to the Commissioner of Police for security, but said the command never received any application or request. She stated, “No police officer from the Rivers State Police Command fired any gunshot that day. Normally, if they have such an event, they are supposed to write an application to the Commissioner of Police. “The Commissioner of Police will direct the Area Commander covering the Degema area, who will also assign it to the Divisional Police Officer over there at Buguma to cover the event. “But there was no application of such. The DPO did not have any knowledge of it. Perhaps, the DPO might know they have an event and say maybe his men should just stroll around on patrol. But there was no application to cover the event.” Meanwhile, entertainers in Rivers have dismissed claims that the Buguma incident would discourage artistes from visiting the state. The Sole Administrator of the Performing Musicians Association of Nigeria in Rivers State, Ibitoru Green, popularly known as Lady IB, said this to journalists in Port Harcourt. While noting that when there was some level of insecurity in the state, visitors were trooping into the state, much less now that the state was peaceful and safe. She also dismissed insinuations that the incident involving Teni might have been a cult clash. “When there was some shooting in the state, people were still coming to the state; is it now that we no longer have it that they won’t come? People will still come because the state is safe,” Green stated. On what caused the confusion that ended the show abruptly, she said, “What I know is that it was a misunderstanding between some people, because of N200 change. I will not use the word miscreants. “One person said, ‘Give me my change’, and before you know it, there was an exchange of blows, throwing of bottles and it now escalated. “It was not a rival cult thing. So, they (artistes) will come. They are well secured as far as I am concerned. They don’t have a problem. Buguma is a peaceful place. My advice is that security should be made available.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com