The Assistant Financial Secretary of All Progressives Congress in Gombe State, Ibrahim Mangadu, has resigned from his position. According to Mangadu, his resignation is hinged on his relegation by the party from the post of treasurer, which he held since 2014, to the position of Assistant Financial Secretary. He noted that out of all the 17 members of the state working committee of the party, he was the only one that was demoted, hence his decision to quit the office. He said, “I held the position of treasurer until the recent congresses when they changed my office. But I am not comfortable with the new office because I was the only one they demoted. So, I tendered my resignation on January 4th 2021.” While stating that he remains a member of the party, Mangadu, however, said he is loyal to the Senator Danjuma Goje faction in the party. “I remain in APC and I am loyal to the distinguished senator. I am not fighting the state governor but I quit the office because I was among those who nurtured the party in the state only for them to humiliate me now,” he said. In a similar vein, a legal adviser of the ruling All Progressives Congress in Shongom Local Government, Isa Buba, has resigned his position, alleging that he was shortchanged during the recent congresses where he was demoted from the position of Chairman to Legal adviser. He stressed that after accepting the new office, the new chairman who replaced him failed to include him in the scheme of things, adding that his series of complaints to the state working committee was not acted upon, hence the resignation. Reacting to the gale of resignations, State publicity secretary of APC, Moses Kyari, said he has not been briefed officially on the matter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com