No fewer than 7,000 small business owners, petty traders, low-wage employees and artisans have been registered in Ogun State for the COVID-19 cash transfer social intervention programme of the Federal Government. The Coordinator, Ogun State Operations Coordinating Unit, Tunde Adebiyi, disclosed this on Thursday while speaking with newsmen in his office in Abeokuta, Ogun State. He said the beneficiaries would get N5,000 support each for six months to augment their business capital. He said 400,000 beneficiaries in 19 Local Government Areas of the state were being targeted to be captured in the register at the end of the exercise. According to him, the programme, which is tagged ‘Rapid response register,’ is a social intervention by the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. Adebiyi said the register would capture small-scale business owners, petty traders, artisans, poor and vulnerable people living in urban and semi-urban areas in the state and whose businesses where affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. He said Ogun SOCU, an arm of the National Social Safety Nets programme, began the compilation of vulnerable individuals in April 2020 with six LGAs. According to him, the register will cover 19 LGAs, namely Sagamu, Remo North, Ogun Waterside, Odogbolu, Odeda, Obafemi Owode Ipokia, Imeko Afon, Ikenne, Ijebu North, Ewekoro, Egbado North (Yewa North), Egbado South (Yewa South), Abeokuta South, Abeokuta North, Ijebu North East, Ifo, Ado-Odo Ota and Ijebu Ode, consisting of 49 wards and 1,326 communities across the state. Adebiyi said, “We are trying to gather and collate these people and put them up in a register for necessary assistance that will take them out of the pandemic’s effect. “So far, we have been able to capture over 7,000 people on the RRR second register. We are looking at capturing over 400,000 people on RRR register. Our people are responding, but we need more responses. We need people to take advantage of it, especially those of us that are business owners that are affected by COVID-19. “It is true the money might not be enough to start us up again, but it could be a push to reduce the burden on our capital that has already depleted.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com