The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has pledged Nigeria’s support to the Republic of Mali as its transitional leadership works to restore the country to civilian rule. He, however, made it clear that Nigeria’s assistance will not go beyond the limits of the extant sanctions imposed on the country by the Economic Community of West African States. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, disclosed this on Thursday in a statement titled ‘We’ll make as much sacrifice as we can for Mali, within ECOWAS requirements, says President Buhari’. On November 8, 2021, The PUNCH had reported that ECOWAS leaders, at a meeting presided over by Ghanaian President and Chair of the ECOWAS Authority, Nana Akufo-Addo, imposed sanctions with immediate effect against individuals and groups who have been identified with the Mali Coup—including the entire transition authorities and the other transition institutions. The sanctions include a travel ban and the freezing of financial assets of the individuals involved and members of their families. In mid-December 2021, the bloc also threatened to impose more sanctions on the Goita-led junta if it failed to conduct presidential elections by February 27. Months earlier, the ECOWAS had suspended Mali following military coups in August 2020 and May 2021. Speaking at the State House, Abuja, Buhari, who received a Special Envoy from the Transitional President of Mali, Assimi Goita, promised that Nigeria would do her level best for the sister country, within the requirements of ECOWAS. Abdoulaye Maiga, Mali’s Minister of Territorial Administration and Decentralisation led a team that briefed the President on Conclusions from the National Conference on State-Rebuilding held in Bamako December 27-30, 2021. Responding to the comprehensive briefing, the President said nobody could love Mali more than Malians themselves, counselling that everyone should work within the tenets of ECOWAS to restore constitutional order to the West African country at the shortest possible time. “I am pleased you have briefed the ECOWAS Chairman too. Nigeria will work within ECOWAS limitations to assist Mali. Every country has its issues. “We fought our own Civil War before, so we may not know the totality of the internal politics of each country. But we will make as much sacrifice as we can for Mali, within ECOWAS requirements,” he said. The Special Envoy expressed gratitude to Nigeria for support to his country in terms of bilateral relations and the help rendered to the ECOWAS Mediation Team, led by former President Goodluck Jonathan. He said the vision of Goita was a speedy return to democracy, adding that Mali wants to review laws guiding elections “and professionalise the process.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com