The Kwara State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps in the wee wee hours of Monday arrested four robbery suspects while performing an operation with commuters on the Isanlu-Isin/Ijara road. The suspects believed to be of Fulani Bororo stock were alleged to be members of a robbery gang terrorising passengers in Isin and Irepodun Local Government Areas of the State. The names of arrested suspects were given as Abdullahi Audi (30), Lawal Audi, (30), Bature Abdullahi, (25) and Issa Muhammed (28). Confirming the arrest, the Public Relations Officer of the NSCDC, Babawale Afolabi, said that the four suspects were caught while attempting to escape from the robbery scene on the Isanlu-Isin/Ijara Road. According to him, “The Corps, in conjunction with the local vigilante group, responded swiftly to a distress call in the early hours of Monday, 17/01/2022, around 3 am, as armed robbers in their large number ambushed motorists and passengers travelling in a Toyota Sienna space bus along the Isanlu Isin-Ijara Road and dispossessed them of their valuables. “The robbers had disappeared into the nearby bush by the time we arrived at the scene of the robbery incident, but with the help of the vigilante group and the local hunters, we were able to comb the nearby bush and rounded up four Fulani/Bororo men suspected to be members of the robbery gang while a manhunt had commenced to arrest the other members of the gang,” Babawale narrated. He said that the Command had commenced profiling and background checks of the suspects. The CDPRO, however, advised people to avoid night travel as most of those criminal activities used to take place during the night hours. “The Commandant, Makinde Ayinla, would like to appeal to the motorists especially commercial drivers to avoid night travels and report any unusual movement or activities noticed in their neighbourhood to the security agencies,” he concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com