Enugu State Government has summoned an emergency meeting with all the security heads and stakeholders in Eha-Amufu, Isi-Uzo Local Government Area of the state. The meeting will be held today (Saturday) as herdsmen said to be in military and police uniforms attacked traders at Orie Ogbete Mgbuji market on Thursday, killing many people. The PUNCH reported that herdsmen sacked five village farm settlements in Mgbuji Eha-Amufu autonomous community on Tuesday and had since remained in those settlements destroying property and burning houses. The police and other security agencies allegedly refused to come to the rescue of the beleaguered communities. They were said to have asked the local vigilantes to lead the operation against the killer herdsmen. A community leader in Mgbuji, Chief Eric Ebeh, on Friday told our correspondent that three more bodies killed in the Thursday attack had been recovered while many people are missing. Ebeh said “In the afternoon yesterday (Thursday), people in military and police uniforms that numbered over 40 stormed Orie Ogbete Mgbuji market and started shooting traders. Some people were burnt with motorcycles while others were burnt inside their shops. “We have recovered three bodies this morning. We cannot go inside the village to search for more dead bodies and evacuate them because the town has become a red zone.” Ebeh, who lamented the level of destruction perpetrated in the community, noted that more than 100 hectares of rice were destroyed. “My 50 hectares of rice that were ready for harvest this January and cassava farms were completely destroyed by the same suspects,” he lamented. Meanwhile, the state government has invited all the heads of security agencies in Isi-Uzo Local Government, traditional rulers from Eha-Amufu, Isi-Uzo Local Government Chairman, youth leaders, all President Generals, all clergy from Eha-Amufu and all heads of Forest Guards and Neighbourhood Watch groups for an emergency security meeting. This was disclosed in a public service announcement issued on Friday by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Information, Mr Steve Oruruo. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com