There was an attention-grabbing news item that surfaced in the public space last week. In an exclusive report by an online medium, DailyNigerian.com, the story was told of how two soldiers of the Nigerian Army and seven illegal miners died in a clash over precious gold nuggets at Magama, a border village in Jibiya Local Government Area of Katsina State. Although the Nigerian Army later denied the story in a press statement signed by its Public Relations Director, Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu, Daily Nigerian says it stands by its account and has released the names of the miners killed in the skirmish. The event allegedly happened last week Wednesday around 6pm after the discovery of huge gold nuggets in one of the open-pit mines dug by the artisanal miners. Numbering about 40, the illegal miners, who were also armed, paid the soldiers the sum of N500,000 per pit before they were allowed to start the mining. When the soldiers saw the huge nuggets the miners discovered, they insisted that it be shared equally with them. But when the miners insisted that they would not part with the nuggets or pay more — apart from the N2.5 million they paid for the five pits — the soldiers started shooting the air. The scared miners, 27 of whom had guns, also replied the fire, and then an exchange of direct gunfire began. The soldiers lost two men, while the miners lost seven in the clash. The mining ring leaders were able to successfully run away with the nuggets, valued at a conservative estimate of N70million, in their vehicle. In my mind, it does not matter whether the above tale is true or false; there are some salient issues that must be interrogated regarding the scenario painted by such a story. Nigeria has been bedevilled by illegal mining for decades now, and not only does the ugly trend deny the government of its revenue from our abundant natural resources, but it has also dovetailed into terrorism and banditry. It has also become a major environmental health menace. This means that in order to tackle Nigeria’s hydra-headed security concerns and worsening ecological challenges, we come face to face with the Pandora box of artisanal mining. First of all, let us consider the economic side of the matter. According to data from UN Comtrade, it is revealed that between 2012 and 2018, about 97 tonnes of gold worth over $3 billion was illegally smuggled out of Nigeria. This means that there are different channels for funnelling these gold nuggets, which are likely to involve legitimate state actors on their legal duty posts. Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, the Governor of Kaduna State, has once claimed that a single local government area in his state has more gold than South Africa. Therefore, bearing in mind the temptation that comes with material wealth, one must not be in a hurry to wish away the fact that even law enforcement officers could be lured into becoming mules of Nigerian gold, as it makes its way through the smokes of insurgency-ridden communities to the rickety borderlines where compatriots find it difficult to differentiate between patriotism and patrimony. While debunking the soldiers versus miners story, the Nigerian Army spokesperson had said that troops deployed in the North-West were committed and engrossed in the fight against banditry and other criminalities bedevilling the region, adding that “soldiers deployed to fight insurgents were never permitted to participate in any form of mining, whether legitimate or illegitimate”. Secondly, the security side of the issue is quite as troubling. Those who sponsor illegal mining also fund banditry and cattle rustling in mining communities in order to incite violence among cattle breeders and rearers. Such conflicts displace people and create opportunities for illegal miners to operate. We have always heard afro-centric arguments which posit that most conflicts in Africa were instigated and manipulated to achieve financial ends. On the one hand, the instigators sell arms to the warring African enclaves and smile to the bank. On the other hand, these “Lords of War” use the conflict situations as a decoy while they engage in the exploitation of our abundant mineral resources unmolested. The reality is shocking. Fellow Africans are now killing us one by one. Right under our nose, our ungoverned spaces have become havens for illegal miners who swoop in like vultures to devour our God-given minerals without paying a tax for it or accounting for the despicable methods they use for prospecting. This is why the government and the media must start showing the links between insecurity and illegal mining, instead of always pointing towards banditry alone. The mining sector in Nigeria benefits from substantial untapped solid mineral deposits, including gold and iron ore. But, at present, it accounts for less than 1 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product. A major impediment is the predominance of artisanal and small-scale miners, who produce an estimated 80 to 85 per cent of Nigeria’s mining output, depriving the government of a potentially huge source of revenue. The Federal Government introduced the Presidential Gold Mining Development Initiative, which aims to create over 500,000 new mining and formalised jobs and register thousands of artisanal miners in the national identity management system. By July of 2020, about 20,000 miners had already been registered in the pilot states of Kebbi and Osun. The PAGMI allows artisanal miners to sell gold through the National Gold Purchase Program. It is expected that the program will scale up to Kaduna, Zamfara and Niger States. It is also worthy of note that the government had made a move to stop artisanal mining when it declared, a couple of years ago, that there is a strong and glaring nexus between the activities of armed bandits and illicit miners, and then banned artisanal mining in the North-West state of Zamfara. But the ban was largely ineffective and has since been lifted. The Minister of Mine and Steel, Olamilekan Adegbite, at that time, said the ban was to be lifted because of “genuine investors who wanted to come to invest in Zamfara State.” I think the government should further investigate the Magama story instead of sweeping it under the carpet with a wave of the hand. The fracas underlines the whiff of money in the security challenges of the North-West. It also shows that the rise in illegal mining highlights fundamental social, institutional and structural problems in Nigeria’s governance system. It reveals the prevailing socio-economic problems in the region, especially the inadequate responses to poverty and poor service delivery by the state. The youth, in particular, have limited income-generating opportunities and this is where the sponsors of illegal mining recruit their labour force. It has the potential to become another Niger Delta resource curse. Furthermore, the involvement of foreign corporations in illegal mining is another sign of poor regulatory oversight and fiscal governance compliance. Illegal miners often front for politically connected individuals, who collaborate with foreign nationals and corporations, to sell gold. The mineral is routinely smuggled to Dubai through neighbouring Niger and Togo. These supply chains cannot thrive without a long chain of command that works to sustain it right from the very top; therefore, the government must roll up its sleeves, get down on its knees to do the dirty work of unravelling the hidden puppet masters. If not, our gold could send our house crashing down on all of us. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com