The President of the Congenital Heart Disease Foundation of Nigeria, Christianah Oyeleye, has said awareness on congenital heart disease has become necessary to help the nation battle the challenges and burdens that come with the defect. Oyeleye in a statement on Monday said the Foundation would mark the global Congenital Heart Disease awareness week between February 7 and 14. She called on artists to submit works on the heart, saying this would enlighten the public about holes in the heart, its management and prevention. Oyeleye described CHD as the most common congenital defect children were born with in the world, affecting almost every one in every 100 children according to the Centre for Disease Control. “Each year thousands of children born with various types of CHD are not diagnosed until months or years after. Many die undiagnosed due to the poor healthcare system, medical brain drain, and low level of awareness/literacy. “With increased publicity that comes with this awareness week, people will become more informed, understand the importance of early hospital presentation of CHD warriors on the mortality and morbidity rate while addressing misconceptions and myths,” she emphasised. Oyeleye, who is also a Cardiothoracic Nurse, said the CHDF had lined up activities for this year’s awareness through collaborating with other organisations. “We are having a week-long talk on Congenital Heart Disease and we have invited some Cardiac Specialists in the country. There are photo challenges; the organisation is also encouraging artists, students, and children to submit artworks on heart. We’ll be awarding the three best artworks we receive,” she said. Oyeleye added that the Foundation intends to raise funds to provide free accommodation to heart families when they are having surgery around the Babcock University Teaching Hospital environment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com