The remains of the first class chief of the Bajju people, His Royal Highness, Nuhu Bature, was on Friday committed to mother earth in his hometown, Zonkwa, the headquarters of Zangon Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State. Nuhu Bature, the founder of the popular Bookshop, Modern Challenge Bookshop, in Jos, Plateau State, after a protracted illness, died at Salem Hospital, a facility owned by Throneroom Ministry, Kafanchan. The funeral service in honour of the deceased which witnessed a huge crowd, held at the proposed site for the building of the Bajju Chiefdom Palace in Zonkwa. The event was attended by the Kaduna State Deputy Governor, Hadiza Balarebe; former Chief of Defense Staff, General Martins Luther Agwai; the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto, Mathew Hassan Kukah; Vision Pioneer, Throneroom Trust Ministry Apostle Nuhu Kure; Kaduna State Director of DSS, first-class chiefs, senators; house of representative members, among others. Trumpets and drums of boys Brigade, gun shots of hunters and other traditional displays were part of the procession that ushered in the remains of the late Agwam Bajju into the venue. In his sermon, Rev Sarki Madaki Sarki, said that death awaits everyone, adding a good name is better than gold. “Death is inevitable, hence the need for all of us to live a life worthy of emulation,” he said. The Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai who was represented by the Deputy Governor Hadiza Balarebe, described the late Agwam Bajju as a peace loving and detribalised leader whose invaluable counsel will be greatly missed. Former Minister of Information, Prof Jerry Gana, said the deceased was so gracious to him when he was at the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria. Gana said he has great respect for the monarch adding that he served his people with integrity, honesty and diligent, stressing that he was a man full of wisdom. “The Agwam Bajju advices were solid,” Gana added. The former Chief of Defense Staff, Martins Luther Agwai, described the late Agwam Bajju as an icon and hero who lived a life of exemplary leadership. “Late Nuhu Bature was a devoted man of God who always preaches peace,” Agwai said. On their parts, the Bishop, Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, His Lordship, Mathew Hassan Kukah and Visionary leader of Theoneroom Trust Ministry, Apostle Emmanuel Nuhu Kure, said the first class monarch fought for the unity of Southern Kaduna and sustained peace with other tribes noting that he protected other tribes with his life. Kure said he was the most closest priest and adviser to the late Traditional Ruler, adding that it was the reason Agwam Bature trusted his hospital with his life. “If he is sick, our hospital was always his first point of call,” Kure said. A former member of the House of Representatives and an aspirant in the 2023 Kaduna South Senatorial contest, Barr Sunday Marshall Katung, described the late Chief as a leader who was after peace. “Agwam always want peace to prevail and that was why his Chiefdom was peaceful. If you meet him, you can attest to that fact,” Katung said. Also, the Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, said the late Chief was a patriot who lead above board and always giving the Kaduna State Government maximum support on security and development issues. “He sacrificed his life for the peace and development not only in Kajju land but the entire state and beyond,” Aruwan said. The wife of the late Agwam Bajju, Tamar Nuhu Bature and other immediate family members, said the legacies the traditional ruler left behind. The late Agwam Bajju ascended the throne on the 8th of April 1996 as a third class Chief of a Chiefdom created in 1995 by Col Lawal Ja’afaru Isa who was Governor of Kaduna State. Agwam Bajju became a first Class Chief in 2007 and died on the 18th of December, 2021 at the age of 81. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com