The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission has vowed to recover the N32 million constituency project fund allegedly embezzled by a House Representatives member from Katsina State. It said the money was siphoned by the unnamed federal lawmaker  in connivance with the project supervisor. The anti-graft agency also uncovered how a contractor abandoned the construction of a block of classrooms in LEA Primary School, Tsebarawa village, in the Ajingi Local Government Area of Kano State awarded by the Universal Basic Education Commission after he was fully paid. These revelations were contained in a report on the Constituency and Executive Projects Tracking Exercise: Phase III. The exercise was carried out during the fourth quarter of 2021 to curb fraudulent procurement practices in the award of contracts for public-funded projects. In a detailed report of the tracking exercise made available to journalists on Tuesday, the anti-graft agency explained that “the lawmaker and the supervisor will be dealt with as appropriate while the amount is being recovered.” The report noted, “One of the egregious discoveries is the unholy collusion between contractors and some sponsoring legislators on the one hand, and agencies’ projects supervisors on the other, to either not execute the contracts at all or underperform the execution of the contracts while passing it off as having been satisfactorily completed. “In a project awarded by UBEC in December 2020 with a completion period of three weeks, for the construction of a block of classrooms in LEA Primary School, Tsebarawa village, in Ajingi LGA of Kano State, the project was abandoned but the contractor was fully paid.” It further revealed that the contractor was fully paid on the advice and certification of the project supervisor. In another project for the construction and equipping of e-Library in Katsina Central Federal Constituency, the ICPC found that the original design and drawings were changed and substituted with a tiny cubicle without recourse to the executing agency and without approved Change Order. “Nevertheless, the supervisor of the project certified the project as having been satisfactorily completed on the basis of which the entire contract cost of N49,973,052 was paid. “Quantity survey valuation put the cost of the cubicle at N17,916,704.11. This occasioned loss of N32,056,347.89  to the government, an amount siphoned by the sponsoring member in connivance with the project supervisor,” the report added. It also noted that two officers of The Institute for Peace and Conflict Resolution appointed to supervise a project titled: ‘Supply for youth empowerment Start up programme in Nguru Federal Constituency’ “sat down in their respective offices and wrote satisfactory project completion reports on the basis of which the contracts sum were fully paid when the contracts were clearly underperformed.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com