The beginning of each year can bring mixed feelings, for some it is a time for self-reflection and the opportunity to take time out to evaluate and renew expectations in the new year and for others, it is the rollover of all the excitement of Christmas still swinging in the air. For the majority, the new year is an opportunity to have a fresh start for many reasons as well as relinquish past mistakes carried over from the previous years and make necessary changes because time is of the essence. New year resolution is still a much-loved element of every new year celebration which has had a positive impact on the lives of those who diligently follow through while many more may still be struggling to understand the complexities of making a new year resolution. Whether you have a resolution for this year or are still thinking of one, you may not have to think too deeply about a new one this year. If you make time for yourself, you can make self-love your personal resolution in 2022. Shift your perspectives In this extraordinary time, it can be difficult to set goals and accomplish them when there are many uncertainties around and that can be frustrating if you are a go-getter and waiting for the next accomplishment to add to your accolades this year. The truth is that life is full of ups and downs and successes cannot always be guaranteed therefore shifting your perspectives at the beginning may be the key to starting a productive new year. There are many ways to improve your life in a new year and when you focus on self-love from the start, you will identify the infinite potential within you and begin to appreciate you for who you are and not the society’s projection of who you ought to be. Be mindful of negative thoughts It is only when you are kind and good to yourself that you can care for others around you and the world too. You may be struggling to set goals due to past failures and negative feelings which have become bad habits lingering around you and overshadowing every attempt to improve your present situation. Pay attention to your feelings this year and do not attempt to set any goals but take time out to detox your negative emotions by practising the act of mindfulness and begin to manifest what you desire for yourself to be happy and fulfilled. Appreciate the moment Appreciate the present moment and try to look around you for all those things that make life meaningful. It is common to take the little things for granted and pursue the bigger things and lose it all in the process. When you pay attention to what you have and those you have around you, you will start to experience a new kind of love for things you never imagined. Begin to appreciate the times spent with your spouse and loved ones, acknowledge the good work of the nanny who looks after your children, the chauffeur who drives you to work and the gateman who watches over your house when you are out. Learn to live in the moment and find many reasons to appreciate the gems around you and enrich them. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com