…13 players train, Eguavoen intensifies preparations Ahead of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations, a total of 13 Super Eagles players are in their Abuja camp, with FC Porto defender Zaidu Sanusi and Sparta Rotterdam goalkpeer the latest players to arrive on Sunday. The Eagles opened camp last Wednesday for the start of preparations for the 33rd edition of the AFCON tournament, which begins January 9 and ends February 6 in Cameroon. Olisa Ndah, John Noble and Taiwo Awoniyi were the early arrivals in camp. Cyprus-based goalkeeper Francis Uzoho, Chidera Ejuke of CSKA Moscow, Alayanspor’s Chidozie Awaziem, Daniel Akpeyi, who plies his trade for Kaizer Chiefs in South Africa and Almeria’s Sadiq Umar all arrived to camp in Abuja on Saturday to take the total number of players in camp to 10. Henry Onyekuru, Peter Olayinka and Moses Simon joined up with the team on New Year’s day as the number rises. The team continued their preparations under the strict supervision of interim coach, Augustine Eguavoen, at the newly refurbished main bowl pitch of the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja on Sunday. Players based in England are expected to report to camp on January 3. The players are Alex Iwobi, Kelechi Iheanacho, Wilfred Ndidi, William Troost-Ekong, Oluwasemilogo Ajayi and Frank Onyeka and Joe Aribo. Other players still expected in camp are Kenneth Omeruo, Olaoluwa Aina, Jamilu Collins, Tyrone Ebuehi, Kelechi Nwakali, Ahmed Musa, Samuel Chukwueze, Moses Simon and Odion Ighalo. Nigeria are drawn in Group B alongside Egypt, Sudan and Guinea-Bissau and will begin their AFCON campaign against the Pharaohs on January 11 at the Roumde Adjia Stadium in Garoua. The team will depart for Garoua, Cameroon on January 6, six days before their opening group game against seven-time champions Egypt. Copyright PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com