What were you doing before stardom? I’m tickled that you think I’m a star. I’ve been in music and media for years. I worked for Sony music for some time. I worked at a television station before I stumbled into where I am now making gospel music, presenting on TV and running a radio station. What point in your life did you settle for music as a career? Growing up I wanted to be a farmer, then I loved being a marketing executive and music came later. My mother, Sola Olarewaju, wanted me to study business.  I obeyed and did Business Studies at East London University. It was in my final year that I enrolled for a music degree at Westminster University. For how long have you been into music? All members of my family except my father, Kayode Olarewaju, are music inclined. Music has been a thing for me from a young age but I didn’t take it seriously until about 20 years ago. How do you connect with the Nigeria audience from the diaspora? Connecting with the family is easy; we are over the place, everywhere down to Alaska or Siberia, we are there. Social media has helped. I also visit Nigeria about six times a year. Did you ever practice any of the courses you studied? Oh yes! Studying music has kept me grounded as a musician while my knowledge in business helps me with the business side of music and management of my radio station.  In the United Kingdom, I manage a radio station known as the UK Premier Radio. What project brought you into the limelight? People found me at different points, so for the UK it was our first album ‘Restoration’ that spawned the song ‘Our God Is Good.’ For the United States, it was when I was invited to perform in BET TV’s celebration of gospel. How did you feel when you were recently awarded with the OBE? It was surreal even though I’ve had the opportunity to meet her majesty the queen twice before. To be awarded the Order of the British Empire awards is a huge honour. I truly wished my parents were alive to see their son and feel the pride that he brought to our city Gbongan, Osun State. How did you feel the first time you performed before an audience? You know it’s interesting that as a small boy, my parents were insistent on academic achievements, and encouraged me and my brother Bolaji Olarewaju (Big B) to perform for guests that came to our house. This meant by the time I got on bigger stages neither of us were strangers to it. I remember Big B used to perform at school in London and his friends used to love it. So for me by the time I was hitting stages, I was not nervous, rather I felt like a fish in water. Did fame change anything about you? Oh yes! Anyone that says fame doesn’t change them is either lying or refusing to accept reality. If having a dog let alone a child changes one how would one not be changed by fame! Fame is an amplifier of what one already is. If you were a bad person before, it amplifies it and you then get more opportunities to “show.” If you are a good person it amplifies it and you get the opportunity to touch many more lives than you ever dreamt. What is your advice to young up-and-coming stars? In the music industry those who are the core of it know that it takes about 10 years to become an ‘overnight’ success. I’ll tell them to stay true to what they are doing and don’t just do it because they see other artistes in the limelight. If you’re doing music for money you’ll soon run out of steam. Do it because it’s what you were made to do.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com