Three suspected kidnappers, Godstime Rufus (22), Stanley Efeme (21) and Davidson Esiso (35) have been arrested by operatives of Delta State Police Command, following a failed abduction. PUNCH Metro gathered that the suspects were rounded up by the operatives who responded to a distress call in the night of January 22, 2022, by a kidnapped victim (name withheld) of Uvwiana Road, Agbarha. The victim who reported that he was kidnapped along Esiso Street Agbarho had told the police that in the process of transferring him to another vehicle, he escaped from his abductors. Consequently, in the early hours of the following morning, the victim spotted one of the hoodlums and he immediately alerted the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Agbarho Division, CSP Samuel Ogwa, who swiftly mobilised and led operatives to the area where one of the suspects, Godstime Rufus of Esiso Street Agbarho was arrested. Upon further interrogation and investigation, the suspect led operatives to their hideout where the two other suspects, Stanley Efeme of NEPA Line and Davidson Esiso of No. 25 Osah Street, Agbarho, were arrested and they were all identified by the victim. The Police Public Relations Officer for Delta State Command who confirmed the arrests to our correspondent stated that investigation is ongoing in the matter. In another development, the PPRO has disclosed that as an aftermath of March 5, 2021, case of armed robbery which was reported at Oleh Division that one 33-year-old man (name withheld) was shot and his Qlink Motorcycle snatched from him by suspected armed robbers between Olomoro and Ehwne Communities in Isoko South LGA, one of the suspects is presently in police net. According to the police spokesman, investigation was initiated into the incident while the victim was taken to Olomro General Hospital where he was treated and discharged. However, on January 23, 2022, the victim reportedly spotted one of the hoodlums around Sagbama in Bayelsa State and he immediately alerted the Command.while the Commissioner of Police Delta State, CP Ari Muhammed Ali, directed operatives from Oleh Division to proceed to Bayelsa State for a discreet investigation with a view to arresting the suspects. Upon an intelligence led investigation, one George Akporie (25), Prosper Asaeta (29) and Eziekel Stephen (23), all of Igbide Community, Oleh were arrested at Sagbama in Bayelsa State with one locally made gun recovered from the suspects. The PPRO affirmed that they will be charged to court soon upon completion of investigation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com