The people of Ukwa East/West Local Government Area of Abia state have passed a vote of no confidence on the member representing its federal constituency, Uzoma Abonta. Speaking under the umbrella of the Coalition of Ukwa Leadership Accountability, the constituents asked Abonta to resign within 24 hours or face recall from the House of Representatives. COFULA, in a petition to the chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission, Mahmood Yakubu, read by its spokesperson, Ukaegbu Chinenye ,
stated that the fifteen years of Abonta’s representation of the constituency was a colossal waste. They alleged that Abonta failed, neglected and refused to use his office to attract commensurate projects to the constituency in terms of the years and constituency fund made available to him for that purpose. The petition dated January 17, 2022 read in part, “We have the worst roads in Nigeria, no light, water and good hospitals, despite being an oil producing federal constituency. “Throughout the period, Abonta never deemed it fit to call for a constituency meeting. He represented only his interest and pocket. “The self-serving representative gradually blossomed into despot and talked down on us. Instead of protecting and representing the constituency, being his primary responsibility, he makes mockery of us with impunity. “It has just dawned on us that the people of Ukwa has deficient infrastructure as a result of Abonta’s incompetence and lack of capacity to speak for us. “He has not been vociferous in presenting our plight to the government and good people of Nigeria. Rather, he chose to cast aspersions on us to massage his ego and protect himself from blame. “Ukwa people deserve good representation and respect from anyone representing them in the National Assembly. “It is in the light of the foregoing that we have unanimously resolved to communicate our loss of confidence in him to you to enable us recall him from the House of Representatives in accordance with the provision of section 69 of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended . “We crave your indulgence and provision of a conducive environment in this matter of Hon Abonta’s recall, withdrawal and other matters related thereto”. The group also in a three-point communique after it’s meeting on Monday, made available to our correspondent pointed out that the collection of signatures for Abonta’s recall process in-line with the electoral act of Nigeria had already commenced. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com