LAST week’s meeting between Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi and All Progressives Congress leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, was not about presidential ambition as being rumoured in some quarters, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Yinka Oyebode, has said. Oyebode, who said that the issues discussed at the closed-door meeting by the two APC leaders were not disclosed, said, “It was a family meeting of minds. It is ,therefore, disingenuous of spin doctors who were nowhere near the venue of the meeting to begin to second guess discussions at the meeting”. Oyebode, in a statement in Ado Ekiti on Saturday titled, “Tinubu-Fayemi meeting: The spin doctors got it wrong”, said that the meeting where no third party was present, “had nothing to do with the presidential ambition or otherwise of either of the two political leaders”. The governor’s aide dismissed insinuations that the meeting signposted that Fayemi had surrendered his undeclared presidential ambition to Tinubu’s declared one, saying such a speculation was baseless. Oyebode said, “Meeting between the two leaders dated as far back as their days in exile, when they were both involved in the struggle to wrest the country away from military jackboots and has since been a regular occurrence both within and outside the country’s political space. So, there should not be any big deal in seeing them meet, except someone has opted to create a mischief out of it”. The CPS, who said it was impossible for Fayemi to drop “a rumoured, yet undeclared ambition, even when Asiwaju Tinubu said he was still consulting as to whether to run or not,” said, “The story by the spin doctors thus stands logic on the head and stands not only disclaimed but condemned.” He added, “If and when Dr Fayemi chooses to declare his interest in running for the 2023 presidential ticket, he would not be embarking on an ego trip that would warrant going into an unhealthy contest with Asiwaju Tinubu or anyone else. “Fayemi sees Tinubu as his leader in politics and reserves respect for him as a national leader of his party. Neither will he run the race with the intention of using it to negotiate with anyone. Rather, he will run because he is convinced it is desirable for him to do so. “Should Dr Fayemi eventually choose to run in the 2023 presidential race at all, he would not hide his intention to do so, neither will he involve himself in any clandestine meeting to discuss his chances, since he would have been x-rayed and classified among the preferred aspirants based on his credentials, even before he makes such declaration.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com