Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, has assured Nigerians that this Year 2022 would be a year of recovery while urging Nigerians to use the New Year to renew their commitment to nation-building. Omo-Agege in his New Year message, issued by Yomi Odunuga, his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, therefore tasked citizens to shun all forms of vices, even as he emphasised the need for unity and harmony. The senator representing Delta Central Senatorial District at the National Assembly stated that though the outgone year 2021 was challenging, complicated by the surge of COVID-19, he was upbeat that the New Year 2022 would be a year of recovery. He enjoined Nigerians to continue to adhere strictly to COVID-19 safety guidelines, in order to be insulated from the pandemic. Commenting on the Electoral Act Amendment Bill vetoed by the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (rtd.), the Deputy President of the Senate assured Nigerians that lawmakers would use the Christmas/New Year break to consult widely with their constituents before their resumption on January 18. According to him, the legislators would within the first week of their resumption “come up with a workable solution to resolve the impasse.” 10 inmates get amnesty in Ondo Meanwhile, the Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu has granted amnesty to 10 inmates of the Nigerian Correctional Service centres in the state. Four of those pardoned were freed totally while the remaining six, who had earlier been sentenced to death, had their sentence commuted to life imprisonment. It was gathered that the governor’s action was to mark the 2022 New Year celebration. This was contained in a statement issued by the state Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Charles Titiloye on Saturday. The statement partly read, “ The Governor of Ondo State, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN has ordered the immediate release from correctional centres in the state four inmates serving various terms of imprisonment to mark 2022 New year celebration.” Abdulrazaq promises projects to reduces poverty, PDP disagrees In his New Year message, the Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, reassured the people of the state of the administration’s continuous focus on projects and programmes that would boost inclusive growth, reduce poverty, and create a better environment for sustainable job opportunities in 2022. The governor, in his message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye, congratulated the residents of the state for witnessing a new year. According to a statement heralding the year, the Governor said the administration’s ‘Budget of Sustained Reformation for Inclusive Growth’ had been designed to double down on the achievements and reforms in the education sector, health care, workers’ welfare, water supply, ease of doing business, safety net for the poor, access roads within the metropolis and across the state. He also promised to provide improved investments and partnership with the security agencies, civic community, and the traditional institutions to guarantee safety of lives and properties. Expect more developmental projects in 2022, says Abiodun Similarly, Governor Dapo Abiodun, on Saturday said the state would witness completion of projects embarked upon by his administration as well as those left uncompleted by the immediate past administration. Abiodun reiterated that his administration’s commitment towards delivering more infrastructural projects in 2022. The governor stated this in his New Year broadcast on Saturday, said though the last two years had been most challenging for humanity due to the COVID-19 pandemic, he expressed optimism that Ogun would witness a new dawn in 2022. We’ll sustain ongoing reforms in Edo – Obaseki The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, said his government in the New Year would drive sustainable growth and development by placing emphasis on building the state’s rich human capacity, deploying technology, promoting innovation, enhancing growth of the productive sector and leveraging the state’s Diaspora population. The governor in his New Year message, promised to sustain ongoing reforms in the state’s healthcare and education system, civil service, security architecture, agricultural sector, as well as other infrastructural projects, among others, aimed at improving the lives of the people and achieving economic prosperity for the state. Nigeria needs right leaders in 2023 to rise again – Mimiko On his part, a former governor of Ondo State, Dr Olusegun Mimiko, former governor o expressed optimism that Nigeria will be great again in spite of her present numerous challenges. Mimiko, in a New Year message, on Saturday through his Special Assistant on Media and Digital Communications, Mr John Paul Akinduro, said he was optimistic that the country would bounce back if the people choose the right leader in 2023 election. Don’t expect any better from APC, Ayu tells Nigerians Meanwhile, the National Chairman of the People Democratic Party, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, said Nigerians should not expect anything better from the All Progressives’ Congress-led government. Ayu said this in a New Year message he signed on Saturday titled ‘Ayu bombs APC, sends message of hope to Nigerians’. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com