Information obtained from the Nursing and Midwifery Council of the United Kingdom, on Monday, revealed that a total of 3,782 Nigeria-trained nurses were granted licences to operate in England and Scotland according in 2021. The PUNCH reports that the NMC is responsible for regulating nurses and midwives in the United Kingdom and nursing associates in England. According to the information as analysed by our correspondent, while England gave out a total of 3,725 licences in 2021, Scotland gave 57 licences to Nigeria-trained nurses. Nigeria was ranked third in 2021 in the list of countries with the highest export of nurses and midwives to England, coming behind Philippines and India. The country was also ranked fourth in the Wales register coming behind Philippines, India and South Africa. The PUNCH reports that Nigeria has been consistently losing health workers to other countries. The Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria had during a press briefing announced that the country lost over 100 consultants to developed countries. It was also reported that the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, suggested that Nigeria-trained medical and health workers should be made to sign bonds in a bid to curb the rising brain drain in the country. The President, MDCAN, Dr Victor Makanjuola, stated, “The mass exodus of health workers to developed countries has brought disruptions to the healthcare ecosystem in Nigeria. The rejection of bonds by other medical associations such as the Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors is the best. You cannot keep people in a system where they are not satisfied. “Creating a work friendly environment is something that can help in stabilising the sector. We also urge the Federal Ministry of Health and the National Council on Establishments to as a matter of urgency put policies in place to arrest the mass exodus of highly skilled medical practitioners to developed countries. Such policies must domesticate the pull factors, while minimising the push factors that encourage emigration of healthcare professionals.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com