THE All Progressives Congress stakeholders in the Delta Central Senatorial District on Monday passed “a vote of absolute confidence” on the 2015 governorship candidate and founding leader of the party in the state, Chief O’tega Emerhor. The stakeholders under the aegis of Delta Central Emerhor Political Family, Elders and Leaders Council also described as “a fruitless and failed political voyage” the recent defection of some erstwhile party including Chief Cyril Ogodo and other members to the Peoples Democratic Party. These were contained in a communique issued by the stakeholders at the end of a meeting held in Ughelli and signed by over 500 members including Chief Orode M.O, Godwin Ohwoekevwo, Dr Omene Wilson and Dr Isaac Unutame, among others. The group disclosed that Chief Martins Ohwevwo has been elected as the chairman of the EPF elders council and urged the APC faithful in the state to unite and form a strong force ahead of the 2023 general elections to ensure that the ruling PDP is chased out of power. The communiqué affirmed the group’s resolve to have a closer working relationship with the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, saying “this is the desired route to strengthen the APC in Delta State”. It read in part, “The council called on all APC stakeholders to come together and bury their differences to enable APC to achieve the desired goal of bringing good governance to Deltans while ensuring that PDP’s 24 years reign of terror and ineptitude comes to an end. “The council reviewed the matter of its Chairman, Chief Sylvester Kohwo along with a few others who have decided to hobnob with the PDP. The council, thereafter, resolved to remove the chairman and expel him and those few members who are implicated with him from the EPF. “The council, thereafter, proceeded to elect Chief Dr Martins Ohwevwo JP as the new Chairman of the Council effective January 21, 2022. “The council called on all EPF members and all Delta APC members to be steadfast and remain focused towards 2023 general election when PDP will be chased out of the Government House.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com