As the nation awaits the resumption of the National Assembly on Tuesday, a coalition of civil society organisations working for the perfection of the electoral system in Nigeria, have regrouped in Abuja with a call on the legislature and the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to conclude the process of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill by January 31. According to them, the opportunity to test the operability of the new legislation and functionality of the new innovations would be lost if the amendment process was not concluded expeditiously. The CSOs who raised the issues during a press conference in Abuja on Monday also warned that further delay on the conclusion of the Electoral Act amendment process was inimical to the preparations for Ekiti and Osun off-cycle governorship election, the 2023 general election and future elections in Nigeria. The membership of the CSOs comprised Yiaga Africa, International Press Centre, Centre for Citizens with Disability, The Albino Foundation, CLEEN Foundation, Institute for Media and Society and Nigerian Women Trust Fund. Others were Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism, Partners for Electoral Reform, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre, Nigeria Network of Non-Governmental Organizations and Inclusive Friends Association. The CSOs also recommended that the Senate and House of Representatives should, “upon resumption on Tuesday 18 January 2022, take legislative action at its first sitting to conclude the process and re-transmit the Bill to President Buhari by Friday, January 21, 2022.” “The National Assembly should ensure proper scrutiny of the bill to resolve all drafting errors and cross-referencing gaps before re-transmitting the bill for Presidential Assent. The President should upon receipt of the re-transmitted bill provide his assent within a week. “The civil society groups, media, and development partners sustain the effort to safeguard the Electoral Bill from policy capture, manipulation, and subversion of the people’s will,” the coalition suggested. The Executive Director of Yiaga Africa, Samson Itodo, read the text of the press conference attended by Executive Director of NWTF, Hajiya Mufuliat Fijabi, titled: “Civil society statement on the need for the National Assembly to Act with dispatch on the Electoral Bill on resumption from recess on January 17.” He said further delay in the conclusion of the electoral amendment process would be dangerous. Itodo said, “Today, with only 398 days to the 2023 general election, it is crucial for the National Assembly and President to conclude the electoral amendment process by 31 January 2022. “A new legal framework is central to the integrity of 2023 general elections and future elections and the advancement of Nigeria’s democracy. “Against the background of the changing electoral environment and innovations introduced by INEC to enhance electoral integrity, it is inconceivable to conduct the 2023 general election and future elections with the current legal framework, the 2010 Electoral Act as amended. “The Electoral Bill 2021 reflect the wishes of Nigerians and key electoral stakeholders for a legal framework that promotes the use of technology and other innovations to stem electoral manipulation, strengthens INEC’s financial independence, and empowers the commission to reject falsified election results. “Further delay to conclude the Electoral Act amendment process is inimical to the preparations for Ekiti and Osun off-cycle governorship election, the 2023 general election and future elections. The opportunity to test the operability of the new legislation and functionality of the new innovations will be lost if the amendment process is not concluded expeditiously. “The National Assembly should remove the contentious clause of direct primaries, resolve all the identified drafting errors and cross-referencing gaps and re-transmit the Bill to the President for assent within a week of resumption. “As the nation awaits the resumption of the National Assembly on Tuesday 18 January 2022, Nigerians expect that work on the electoral amendment Bill will be the priority issue on the order paper. “The leadership of the National Assembly should therefore conclude this process as any further delay will undermine public confidence in the reform process.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com