The rat race for who becomes President of Nigeria in 2023 has begun. Many people have whispered in my ears that the path to the election year will be bloody and bruising. We always hear that in every election cycle. This election, like many before it, will come and go. I can assure you that nothing unusual that has never happened before will happen this time. A handful of people will win their parties’ primaries, and one person will be elected president. Some people will be killed in the process, and others will live. Some will become billionaires and many will remain entrenched in pauperism. There will be hullabaloo that the election was rigged, and the accusers may be right. But after many frenetic and frantic ‘skelewu’ dance steps challenging the results in many courtrooms across Nigeria, there will be relative calm. This is my personal opinion. Now let’s go to the thrust of my opinion this week. Implanting misfits in befitting positions of power is not new in Nigeria. Enrooting square pegs in round holes has always been in the nation’s history. It is why Nigeria’s many woes are ballooning and not withering. It is the reason why our problems are mounting and not simmering. Little problems that can be resolved have become mountainous just because there are square pegs in round holes across the spectrum. Some of the characters and names jostling to grab presidential control of the destinies of about 200 million people have histories of depravities, corruption, the shedding of innocent blood, violence, and bold-faced looting of the people’s commonwealth. Do not be surprised, my friends, if unfit miscreants, cuddlers of depravity and immorality, and persons whose antecedents are sickening, stymie crawl to positions of power. Square pegs in round holes always rule Nigeria. Who is to blame for Nigeria’s many woes? Moslems in Nigeria daily shout to God in prayers. Christians hourly scream breaking their phalanxes in supplications. Traditional religionists run their incantations and invocations pouring out libations to their gods. All manner of cacophony labelled as faith-calls drench the natural and spiritual realms seeking succour on behalf of the nation. Yet in our midst misery deepens, poverty explodes, and hunger harasses our people exponentially in a fashion immeasurable. In Nigeria, it is who you know, not what you know. It is what cult you belong to, not what cutting-edge idea you have in your head to salvage Nigeria. It is who is your godfather to whom you report and remit monthly flow of cash that belongs to the people, not what is in your heart that can help Nigeria. All because round pegs are implanted in square holes. Anytime I think about China’s record-breaking technological cognisance and engineering advertency; anytime I read about their scientists’ cognitive prowess and their country’s rapid progress, I ask myself: with all of our endowments, why not Nigeria? Whenever I ruminate over the depth of the Chinese knowledge and vastness of their imitable know-how, I ask in a soliloquy if the same God who created these people — who do not acknowledge the existence of God — created the rest of us! Nigeria has one of the fastest-growing economies in the world. It is the 6th largest producer of petroleum in the world; the 8th largest exporter, and the 10th largest proven reserve. After independence in 1960, 15% of Nigerians were considered poor. In 1980, the number shot up to 28%.  In 1985, it rose to 46%. By 1996 the poverty scale was driven up to 66%. Today 120 million people are poor and the country is considered the poverty capital of the world. In spite of the country’s vast oil wealth, 71% of the population live on less than one dollar a day, 92% on less than two dollars a day. About 120 million human beings will go to bed hungry tonight while some live large. According to a report by the international poverty alleviation body, Oxford Committee for Famine Relief, the combined wealth of Nigeria’s five richest men, which totals $30 billion, could end extreme poverty in the nation. Between 1960 and 2019, $35 trillion was stolen by public officeholders. Within the first ten months of a particular year, Nigeria earned N3.27 trillion from the oil and gas sector. The non-oil sector brought home N2.577 trillion. In another year, Nigeria raked in N7 trillion from oil export alone. About 42 million unemployed youths roam the streets of our urban cities and villages. The reason for all of these sorry stories is because there are round pegs in square holes. Misfits occupy top positions while the cerebral are either unemployed or driving Uber and riding Okada to make ends meet. With our hands, Nigerians killed Nigerian banks. We have a system in place that grooms, nurtures, and nourishes nightmarish experiences in all sectors. Because of round pegs in square holes, our system methodically breeds many dream-killers. A group of people killed Skye Bank. They killed Cooperative Bank. They slaughtered Société Générale bank. They took the life out of Intercontinental Bank. Some crooked personalities obtained loans ranging from N10 billion to 100 billion they never had the intention of paying back.  A nation that desires progress and growth must have its leaders do right by God and the people. Failure is not necessarily the result of what you did wrong, but the reward of things you never did to succeed. Nigeria is failing because we as a people refuse to do right by ourselves. Are we as a people ready to find those things, and do them? We must not only look forward; we must also be smart enough to look backwards. Looking forward portends to shine the light on the path into the future. And looking backwards helps you discover what and where things went wrong. If you cannot figure out what was wrong, you cannot make them right. Who can connect the dots looking forward? Nobody. You can only connect them looking backwards. “You have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. You have to trust in something: your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever,” someone once said. Only in a wobbly, jiggly, and joggly inveterate system like ours will you find some determinedly delinquent actors as captains of a titanic like Nigeria. Will we ever grow up? When will we position round pegs in round holes? When will we hire savvy hands and discard misfits?  Where is the requisite vetting process for men who seek to lead? Why do we qualify the unqualified and un-qualifiable just because they are custodians of stolen cash in bails and batches? Why do we hail fools as men of wisdom, and analphabets as men of letters and knowledge? Why do we normalise the abnormal? Why do we celebrate square pegs in round holes? @Folaojotweet Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com