Putting in place a scientific audience measurement system would boost
investments in Nigeria’s broadcast and advertising industries, the Federal Government said on Tuesday. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, according to a statement issued by his Special Assistant (Media), Segun Adeyemi, said this during the inauguration of a 15-member audience measurement task force, which has Tolu Ogunkoya as Chairman. He said, “We are committed to delivering an empirical audience measure system
that will catalyze investment in broadcast and advertising industries,
ensure the success of the DSO project as well as fire the imagination
and boost the morale of creatives. “We are undaunted by the enormity of the challenges we face in this
regard, because we have a bunch of committed, patriotic and
hardworking men and women to tackle the challenges headlong.” Mohammed said the inauguration was the culmination of a series of events that included the setting up of the Task Team on Audience Measurement and the selection of First Media and Entertainment Integrated (Nigeria)
Limited, a marketing research company based in Lagos, to deliver
audience measurement services in Nigeria. The Minister said the absence of a scientific audience measurement
system has resulted in under-development in the broadcast and advertising industries and stunted their growth. “Nigeria’s broadcast advertising market is punching far below its weight, especially when the country’s population is taken into account. Despite having a population more than three times that of South Africa, Nigeria’s television advertising market revenue in 2016 was $309 million, compared to that of South Africa, which was S$1.3 billion. Nigeria’s broadcast advertising market is also third in Africa, behind that of South Africa and Kenya. “The immediate challenge before us, therefore, is to bring the
under-performing Nigeria TV and radio advertising market to what it
should be – which is two or three times what it is now. If we do that,
it could result in additional
$400 million revenue or more in the industry in the next three
years.” The Minister said a scientific audience measurement system was also critical to the success of the DSO. “The existing model will never allow Nigeria’s Creative Industry to
reach its full potential. It stunts the quality of the content that can be created and also limits the capacity of
television platforms to invest in dynamic contents that consumers will
be attracted to,” Mohammed said. He charged the task force to Identify best practice audience
measurement system that will support the sustainable growth of the Nigerian creative and entertainment industry; supervise the established framework for supporting the sustainability of the audience measurement system, independent of the Federal Government; and recommend a payment and disbursement framework among the key stakeholders in the industry, that is Broadcasting Organisations of Nigeria Media Independent Practitioners Association of Nigeria and Advertisers Association of Nigeria. The Minister also challenged the task force to urgently grow the Nigerian television advertisement market to two or three times its current size. In his response, Ogunkoya, promised that his panel would take the charge by the Minister very seriously, adding: “If we get this right, we would have done the industry and the nation
proud.” Other members of the Task Force were Femi Adelusi, Steve
Babaeko, Bunmi Adeniba, Jibe Ologe, Yinka Oduniyi, Guy
Murray Bruce, Ms Kadaria Ahmed, Pauline Ehusani, Ijedi Iyoha,
Garba Bello Kankarofi, Sa’a Ibrahim, Mahmoud Ali-Balogun, Obi Asika and Joe Mutah (Secretary). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com