The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers says it has fully globalised its certification processes as candidates across the world can now write its examinations remotely. The CIS said in a statement that Mountain Top University had commenced Bachelor’s Degree in Securities and Investment Market. The institute, in its 2022 economic review, made workable recommendations to the Federal Government on how the Nigerian economy can withstand the global challenges and bounce back. Addressing stakeholders during a webinar on 2021 Performance Scorecard and Vision for 2022, the President, CIS, Mr Olatunde Amolegbe, announced that the processes of remote examination had been consummated and would henceforth run concurrently with the existing online model. According to him, the institute shall continue to leverage technology for enhanced seamless operations to sustain its global competitiveness. He said, “In line with our resolve to maximally utilise technology to improve our services, the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers has commenced the holding of remote examinations to cater for our students resident in various countries across the world. “This is also to ensure that the required talents are attracted and recruited into our market globally without hindrance. Several students resident in the United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States of America, successfully participated in the CIS’ Professional Stockbroking Examinations.” According to Amolegbe, the notable achievements of the institute in the period under review include the approval by the National University Commission of the Benchmark Minimum Academic Standard for the Curriculum of Securities and Investment Market. He commended the board and management of Mountain Top University for the commencement of Bachelor’s Degree in the professional course. In a paper titled ‘The Nigerian economic review 2021 and outlook for 2022,’ the institute’s Chairman, Research and Technical, Mr Akeem Oyewale, identified the key drivers of the Nigerian capital market in 2021, the factors that would shape the economy this year and recommendations to put the economy on sound footing. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com