A legal practitioner, Mr Chijioke Ifediora, and some others have dragged the Anambra State Governor, Willie Obiano, to court over the management of local government funds and appointments. This is coming barely two months to the end of Obiano’s tenure as governor. Other defendants in the case are the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, the Anambra State Independent Electoral Commission and the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in the state. In the suit with number A/454/2021, the applicants are seeking an interlocutory injunction against the defendants before High Court 5, Awka, and hearing has been scheduled for February 10, 2022. Ifediora and other plaintiffs are seeking, among other things, an order of interlocutory injunction restraining Obiano and the Speaker of the state House of Assembly from appointing/ratifying the transition/caretaker committees in all the 21 local government areas in the state pending the determination of the substantive suit. The suit is also seeking an order of the court to restrain the governor, the SIEC and the speaker from taking any actions whatsoever directly or indirectly either through themselves or their agents, privies or appointed officers or issuing circulars/memos that will interfere/affect the determination of the suit, excluding conduct of local government election as constitutionally guaranteed in the 21 local government areas of the state. The plaintiffs also want the court to restrain the defendants from taking any action on the local government funds allocated by the Federal Government without the direction/order of the court pending the determination of the substantive suit. The plaintiffs argued that the substantive suit raised constitutional issues for determination, adding that “the continued collection of local government allocations by the first, second and third defendants will prejudice this case and make mockery of the judicial proceedings.” They also want the court to determine, considering the provisions of Section 7(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999(as amended) and Section 208 of the Anambra State Local Government Law, 1999 (as amended) whether the first and third defendants’ actions in constituting transition/caretaker committees to oversee the affairs of local government areas are not ultra vires, unconstitutional and illegal. The plaintiffs further sought a declaration that the perpetual renewal of caretaker/transition committees by virtue of Section 208 of the Anambra State Local Government Law, 1999 (as amended), which provides for three months renewal in perpetuity of caretaker/transition committees to oversee the affairs of local government areas and carry out the functions of local government councils, was ultra vires, unconstitutional and illegal. The last local government election in the state was conducted in 2013. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com