Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, on Monday, paid a condolence visit to the family of the late Soun of Ogbomosoland, Oba Oladunni Oyewumi. The monarch died on December 12, 2021 at the age of 95 and was buried the same day. His first daughter, Prof. Taibat Danmole, also died on Sunday at the age of 71. According to a statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Taiwo Adisa, the governor announced during his condolence visit to the family that Oba Oyewumi would be given a befitting funeral by the state government. The governor said the monarch left a good legacy and did well for the town and the state in general. He said, “The purpose of our visit this morning is to officially condole with the family. I want to say that Baba, as old as he was, left a good legacy and did wonderfully well for the development of not only Ogbomoso but Oyo State. “I like Baba because he wouldn’t hide his feelings. He spoke truth to power. So, we will miss Baba for those qualities. “Those who don’t want unity and progress for our state have been saying a lot of negative things since Baba joined his ancestors. Some said I did not come to condole with the family because I don’t like the people of Ogbomosoland. The truth is that all those people making those comments don’t know how close I am to the palace and to Mama (Olori Ibironke). “When Baba Saka Balogun and I spoke, I gave him my word that I would attend the eight-day Fidau prayer since I was not around on the day Baba died. But later, Baba Balogun called me back and said the 8th-day prayer event may not be appropriate for the nature of burial Baba deserves, and that we should take a bit more time and make preparation for the 40th-day prayer and outing.  One thing led to the other, I had to travel and I am here today. “So, those critics are still free to keep running their mouths. Part of the reasons I came is that Baba deserves a state burial and, for me as the Governor of Oyo State, that is exactly what I will give to Baba. So, I am here to discuss with the family personally and whatever we agree on is what I will carry out.” The eldest son of the late monarch, Dr Aderemi Oyewumi, thanked the governor for visiting the family and urged him to expedite action in installing another Soun of Ogbomosoland very soon. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com