The House of Representatives has called for an investigation into the proliferation of illegal refineries in the Niger Delta region, especially the alleged involvement of men of the Nigeria Police Force and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, among others. At the plenary on Tuesday, the House asked the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, and heads of other relevant security agencies to “immediately clamp down on the activities of these illegal refineries in the Niger Delta region of the country and prosecute those found culpable.” The House also asked the ministries of Petroleum Resources and Environment to “urgently develop and implement modalities to clear off the soot currently being experienced in Rivers State and other parts of the Niger Delta region.” The House further mandated its committees on Police Affairs, Navy, Army, Defence and Interior to “investigate the alleged involvement of security agencies in illegal oil refining in the Niger Delta region of the country.” In addition, the House urged the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority to grant licences for the establishment of modular refineries and support their establishment, while asking that the existing licences should be reviewed to enable either their cancellation or renewal, or approval of additional licences. The House also mandated its committees on Host Communities and Downstream to ensure compliance with the last resolution. Both joint panels are to report back to the House within six weeks. The House passed these resolutions based on a motion of urgent public importance moved by the lawmaker representing the Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency in Akwa Ibom State, Unyime Idem, titled, ‘The urgent need to curb the activities of illegal crude oil refineries in the Niger Delta region to end the soot currently experienced in the region’. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com