Hanifa, a five-year-old pupil of Nobel Kids School at Kwanar Dakata in the Nasarawa Local Government Area of Kano State, was recently kidnapped and killed by the proprietor of the school, Abdulmalik Tanko and two others. In this interview with TED ODOGWU, the father of the victim, Abubakar Abdulsalam, narrates the ordeal and trauma the family has been going through What is your name? My name is Abubakar Abdulsalam,  the father of Hanifa,  a pupil of Nobel kids Academy and North West Preparatory School. Can you describe the kind of girl your daughter was? My daughter was very friendly and jovial; a  little baby loved by all people who  associated with her, She was easy going and friendly.  When last did you see her and how did she disappear? I last saw her on  December 4, 2021 in the morning when she was about to go to the Islamic school.  That was the last time I set my eyes on her. Did you ever suspect that she was abducted? When my girl was missing, many different thoughts came into my mind.  I was thinking of abduction, kidnapping when she could not be found. A dozen of different thoughts kept crossing my mind but I could not ascertain exactly what happened to her  on that day. All I knew was that my girl got missing and we tried everything humanly possible to trace, but we could not. Do you know your daughter’s abductor? How close is he to you? I do not him in person but I do know him as the proprietor of the school my daughter attended. When did her abductor contact you? About 10 days ago! What was his demand when he contacted you? He demanded a ransom of N6m. How was he traced and arrested? I was not the person that arrested him as he was arrested by a combination of security operatives, comprising the police and the Department of State Services. Can you describe your feelings seeing your daughter in such circumstances? I was terribly devastated, not only me, but  all well-wishers and whoever that has concern over the tragic incident would feel terribly devastated! What attributes of your daughter would you miss most? I will miss a lot of things from my daughter, particularly her captivating smiles, the love and her caring passion, even the cry, as she is my only child. So, I will forever miss her absence. The vacuum she left behind would be difficult to fill!  Was she the only daughter in the family? She was the first and the only child of the family. My wife and I were fond of her. Her permanent absence has already started to cause us sleepless nights. I am praying the almighty Allah to grant her gentle soul Aljeena. What was your last discussion with her before she got missing? It was in the morning when she was about to go to school and as usual bided me farewell. She said, “Daddy, good luck, I am going to school.” Who usually conveyed her to school? Her mum often conveyed her to school, including the day she mysteriously disappeared. I have yet to recover from the shock of Hanifa’s demise. The trauma is deeply distressing and disturbing. My wife has been  ill and still indescribably upset, over the circumstances that culminated in her only child’s death. Hanifa was the hope and source of joy to the family, as she was always, at such a tender age, only for her life to be snatched by someone, who was supposed to protect her. Hanifa’s death is very devastating to my wife and me. My prayer is for justice to prevail. My wife and I have lost sleep since the incident occurred.  Do you have any plan to institute a legal action against her kidnapper? No, the issue is in the hands of security personnel, so I do not have any right to involve myself in the security aspects, as it is in the hands of security operatives. My only concern is that I want justice to prevail at the close of the day. I am really in sorrow for what has happened. I can only thank God because this can happen to anyone, and it is the bitter truth that everyone, who lives today will die one day. So, I leave everything to God, but till I die, I will never forget this. Those who conspired to murder my five-year-old daughter have neither been fair to me nor have they been fair to the world. God will fight for us. Was it only your daughter, Hanifa that attended the school from your family? Besides her, we have some extended family members, who attend the same school. What is your reaction to the overwhelming comments your daughter’s kidnap and murder are generating in the media space? The only thing I will say is that I am happy and very grateful for the way and manner members of the public got themselves involved in this trending matter and to the press for publicising the unfolding developments on the gruesome murder of my only precious child. The arrested suspects will definitely face the wrath of the law. They are really wicked to the highest order, especially the principal suspect, Abdulmalik Muhammad Tanko, who was the late Hanifa’s teacher for a long time. She had a high regard for him, but he misused it and cheated her. This is somebody that after he knew he had killed my daughter, for many days kept threatening us to pay the ransom or else he would kill my daughter. When he finally collected the money, instead of us to receive our daughter alive, we ended up receiving her rotten corpse. I am happy that the federal and Kano state governments have all expressed sadness over the gruesome murder and pledged to secure justice for the late Hanifa, after diligent prosecution of the gruesome murder.. My five-year-old Hanifa was abducted on December 4, 2021 by her teacher, Abdulmalik Mohammed Tanko, who demanded a ransom of N6m, but went ahead to kill her after receiving the first and the final installment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com