The Chief of Defence Staff, Lucky Irabor, has said the security threats being experienced in the country will soon become history. Irabor, who admitted that the insecurity was a challenge to the country, stated that the challenges were not much compared to the past. Irabor stated this during the National church service to mark this years’ Armed Forces Remembrance Day . He said, “I would like to specially commend members of the armed forces, especially the veterans who laid the foundation on which we are building upon to bring peace and security to every part of the country. “There are challenges but the challenges are not as much as where we started from. That gives hope for everyone that as we go into the year, that there is ample opportunity to escalate the actions that brought the peace that we now enjoy and also to take it to another level where there would be no need for anyone to live in fear in any part of the country.” In his goodwill message, the Chief of Army staff, Lt Gen Faruk Yahaya, noted that the Celebration, is organised annually in recognition of our fallen heroes; gallant men and women, who paid the supreme price in the defence of peace, unity and prosperity of our dear nation, Nigeria and the world at large. He reiterated that many of the fallen heroes laid down their lives during the First and Second World Wars, Nigerian Civil War, Peace Support Operations across the globe and various Internal Security Operations, including ongoing fight against insurgency, terrorism, banditry and secesionism, amongst other threats to national security. He maintained that their sacrifices will never be forgotten and prayed for the repose of their souls, adding that care for the injured and maimed personnel will remain a cardinal focus under his watch. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com