The international Forex broker OctaFX and the musician Buju collaborated in a Christmas charity initiative in Lagos state. They visited an orphanage and treated the children and the staff with holiday gifts and a proper celebration. Most people probably know how the Christmas and New Year’s holiday season is all about giving back to others and sending kind vibes throughout the stratosphere. So what better way to return to the community than by supporting the most vulnerable among us? Children. That is precisely what the musician Buju and the global Forex broker OctaFX set out to do. After some deliberations, they swiftly found the ‘Motherless Babies Home’ in the city of Lekki—an orphanage in Lagos state. The ‘Motherless Babies Home’ is a state institution known for the care and energy that goes to its young inhabitants. The home houses 56 children and has a staff of 33 people.  Gifts didn’t just go to the youth but also the orphanage’s faculty. According to the initiators, the latter’s sincere effort and hard work seemed appropriate to receive praise. Buju visited the orphanage on Christmas Eve, 24 December 2021. He and the ﬁntech company threw a party for everybody in attendance. The Akwa Ibom state native Buju—also known as Daniel Benson—is no stranger to charitable gestures: ‘I have a guiding principle. All dreams at all ages are valid, no matter the circumstances. Starting a life’s journey in an orphanage is challenging for a child, to say the least. A harsher set of cards has been dealt. And Christmas is about expressing love the best way you can. That’s why I levitate towards these special places—to support our youngest who were left without parents’. The regional OctaFX representative was also optimistic: ‘We are pleased with how much joy Buju and us were able to bring to these wonderful children and their brave caretakers. Initiatives like these drive us so much to do even more as a company—sharing and supporting. It’s crucial for local communities and their progress, as well. Children are simply the future. If they thrive, we thrive, too’. The 23-old professional singer and record producer has worked with the likes of Zlatan, Burna Boy, and Darkoo, among others. Buju recently released his debut body of work ‘Sorry I’m Late’ and was nominated in three categories at last year’s ‘Africa Music Awards’ (AFRIMA21), including ‘Best Collaboration’ and ‘Most Promising Artist’. Watch Xmas special with Buju on the OctaFX YouTube channel.  OctaFX is a global Forex broker that provides online trading services worldwide since 2011. It offers a state-of-the-art trading experience to over 7 million trading accounts worldwide. The company is well-known for its social and charity activity, supporting infrastructure and humanitarian projects in many joint ventures. OctaFX has won more than 40 awards since its foundation, including the ‘Best ECN Broker 2020’ award from World Finance and more recently the 2020 ‘Best Forex Broker Nigeria’ award and the 2020 ‘Most Transparent Broker’ award from Global Banking & Finance Review and Forex Awards, respectively.