A Nigeria-based Anaesthesia and Critical Care Consultants, A3C, has partnered with a United Kingdom-based firm, Continulus, an ethical health care video learning platform to bridge medical skills and knowledge gaps in Nigeria. The Chief Executive Officer, A3C, Dr Seyi Oyesola, in a statement on Wednesday reiterated the firm’s commitment to engage with its clients and independent clinicians to provide world-class clinical training and skills development. The expert said this would ultimately save Nigerian lives and help to address the skills deficit in Nigeria. “This engagement between Nigeria’s health care provider, A3C and Continulus, a world-leader in health care education, establishes a relationship in the broader and best interest of the development of the Nigerian health education sector. “Prior to the establishment of A3C in 2015, I was an advanced simulation trainer at Imperial College London and part of our drive at A3C is to train the next generation of Nigerian medics who are in Nigeria to be able to save more lives,” he said. The Chief Executive Officer of Continulus, Mr Eoghan Colgan, in the statement, said by the strategic partnership, those in the critical care clinical arena in Nigeria would henceforth have access to the plethora of world-leading video-based clinical resources offered by the firm. Colgan said, “When blended with the hands-on skills training being provided by A3C, these certificated online courses and lectures will provide a well-rounded, easy to access and robust medical education programme continuing professional education for Nigerians and which will inevitably enhance the clinical skill base in the country.” Both parties, according to the statement agreed to play an influential role in uplifting the health care community in Nigeria through skills enhancement and industry-specific training that would drive clinical excellence.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com