Violence erupted in eight villages in the Imeko-Afon Local Government Area of Ogun State, leaving five persons dead while scores of people were injured in a fresh crisis between farmers and herdsmen. Sunday PUNCH gathered that Fulani herdsmen and some Ohori farmers in the area clashed at Idofa village, leading to loss of lives and properties worth millions of naira. It was learnt that the people of Aworo community in Yewa North Local Government Area had chased the herdsmen from their village to Idofa in Imeko, killing three of them and their cows. It was also gathered that Aworo people had accused the Fulani herdsmen of destroying their farms and water sources through open grazing of cows; a practice the state government had banned. A community leader, who did not want to be mentioned, told our correspondent that after the Aworo people killed the three herdsmen in Idofa, there was a reprisal on Thursday, leading to the death of two Yoruba persons, one of whom was burnt beyond recognition. Houses, four maize barns, motorcycles and other valuables were reportedly set ablaze by the attackers. The community leader, said, “The Aworo people chased the herdsmen from Yewa North to Idofa in Imeko. They killed three of them there and killed their cows. “On Thursday, the Fulani herdsmen returned in the dead of the night to launch an attack. They killed two persons, set houses and other properties on fire. One of those killed was burnt in a house beyond recognition. It took the intervention of the police and the Amotekun corps to calm the situation “As we are talking, many Ohoris are injured; hundreds are now displaced at Imeko town. We need the attention of the federal and state governments to take care of the displaced persons.” As of Friday, our correspondent learnt that many residents of the village had fled their houses for fear of being killed. A source, who is a resident and eyewitness of the incident who pleaded anonymity, said the incident affected Kajola village. He said the violence later spread to Apata, Kajola in the area, as well as Olori Ejo, Kotogiri down to Obolo. He said, “There are many villages in that area, about eight villages were affected. It affected Obolo, Kotogiri, Olori-Ejo, Apata Kajola, among others. It is about six to eight villages. They are also still burning a settlement; I just left there now (Friday).” Contacted, the Commander of Amotekun Corps in the state, David Akinremi, confirmed the incident. He explained that some people said to be Agbekoya from Benin Republic allegedly pursued some herders to Apata Kajola. According to him, they (Agbekoya from Benin Republic) claimed the herders caused mischief on their farmland. He said, “Three of the herders and some of their cows were killed with two of the deceased burnt. The invaders were, however, engaged in a gun duel by our operatives from Imeko Afon as first responders when they arrived at the scene.” Also, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident on Saturday, assuring that those behind the incident would be apprehended. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com