Former agitators have appealed to multinational oil companies that moved out of the Niger Delta as a result of militancy to return, promising that there will be peace and stability. The ex-warlords also implored development and interventionist organisations to work together to sustain the peace and ensure development of the region. They spoke during a regional peace summit held in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, to sensitise people to the need to promote and sustain the peace currently being enjoyed in the Niger Delta. Over 150 youths attended the summit, which is to be organised in other states in the region to create adequate awareness. The ex-agitators also condemned the proliferation of illegal refineries and lamented its adverse effects on development. One of the former agitators, Nature Kieghe, said he and his colleagues believed strongly in the vision of the Interim Administrator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Col Milland Dikio (retd.), and had resolved to work for a new and better region. Kieghe maintained that peace remained a vital tool to attracting investors to the region, which would in turn create business and job opportunities for the people. He said, “Companies that have left the Niger Delta because of insecurity need to return; this is the purpose for the sensitisation. We are blessed with an environment that is supposed to prosper us; we can only enjoy our natural resources if there is a peaceful environment. “We, who once carried guns, are now here to preach the message of peace to our people in the region. Peace is the only way we can have the developed environment that we dream of. Peace is the only way to attract the multinationals and investors, and also be gainfully employed. “It is important to sensitise our people to a peaceful Niger Delta and create a friendly environment that will attract development, multinational oil companies and other foreign investors to the region.” Kieghe pointed out that a major setback to the development of the region was the absence of proper coordination among key stakeholders. According to him, the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, the Niger Delta Development Commission, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Petroleum Resources and the PAP office could accelerate the development of the region with the right synergy. He said beyond hindering the development of the region, illegal refining of petroleum products was dangerous to human health and the ecosystem. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com