Osun State Government on Sunday said some persons had embarked on plot to discredit its achievements and the person of the governor, Adegboyega Oyetola. The government, in a statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, said it was compelled to raise the alarm owing to early warning sign of the schemes by some elements to tarnish Oyetola’s reputation and that of the state government. “The public is hereby advised to ignore such stories whenever they are out, as they are nothing but outright lies aimed at creating confusion and misinforming unsuspecting public,” Omipidan said. Meanwhile, the state Commissioner for Finance during first term of Rauf Aregbesola administration, Dr. Wale Bolorunduro, has said Oyetola, having served as the Chairman of Debt Management Office in Aregbesola’s government, should give details of the loans taken by the administration. Bolorunduro, who was reacting to a statement by a group, the Osun Mastermind, that demanded from him details of the state’s debt portfolio during Aregbesola’s era, insisted that Oyetola was the supervisor of all debts issues and was the government official who sat over all cases of approvals for allocation of funds for projects. He said, “They have posed questions to Governor Oyetola and I have no choice than to let it be ab initio, because he was the Chairman of the Board of Osun Debt Management Office during the tenure of Aregbesola. “He was the coordinating officer, the first and the last gatekeeper and as the most powerful Chief of Staff, who was approving all request memos to Aregbesola for final approval. “When those projects were approved, the memos were endorsed to him for final treatment. So, he is the repertoire of those records and answers that The Osun Mastermind wants. “So, as the sole commissioner for almost three years, he could also answer those long questions of the Osun Mastermind. It is now time for our dear Governor Oyetola to put his money where his mouth is as requested by his citizens in Osun Masterminds group.” But reacting, the Executive Director of The Osun Mastermind, Dr Wasiu Oyedokun-Alli, accused Bolorunduro of dealing with concocted figures and promised to fact-check and present the true state of Osun finances. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com