“There’s no limit to how far we can go, but we must put more effort into making it happen so that our result would be celebrated by the world around us.” Mr Oforbuike is a graduate of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Enugu State. With the scholarship, Mr Oforbuike, who comes from a modest background, will run a fully-funded Ph.D programme at the prestigious Memorial University of Newfoundland. He was one of the students who attended my live workshop session some time ago. That’s the aha moment of his life, he got to know that he can travel as a student within 90 days, without paying a dime to the visa agent to handle his application, even securing a fully funded scholarship and also getting paid well every month for working on-campus. Like many applicants, he wasn’t confident about taking the IELTS exam. I told him that he doesn’t need IELTS if he has the right information about immigration. He then further applied to schools that don’t require IELTS from the list of Do-It-Yourself material that I shared with him. Fortunately, he secured a fully funded scholarship at Memorial University of Newfoundland for his Ph.D program through the information, tips on how to contact supervisor, how to ace interviews and a list of top institutions allotting scholarships to students which was discussed in a training session of the No IELTS To Canada workshop. After providing all the required documents needed for visa application, he submitted his application. Come November 24th, 2021, Oforbuike has successfully gotten both a fully funded study permit and a Canada study visa. He has moved to the province of Newfoundland and Labrador as of early of January 2022 for his student registration and also, has begun his Graduate Teaching Assistant in the department of Chemistry of the institution.  In his words, Oforbuike stated this about his experience with the value-packed Canada immigration on-going workshop. “Your resources are very invaluable to those who want to migrate to Canada and I recommend it to everyone interested. The next thing I have on my mind is getting permanent residence.” In an eloquent remark, Oforbuike challenged anyone having funding issues and nearly giving up on furthering their education, we cannot change the reality of life; however, we can change our narrative by giving life what it takes with our bare minimum. To get to any institution abroad, one needs to show a certificate of proficiency in English and so, applicants are expected to prove that by taking the Toefl or IELTS test. However, this proficiency test can be waived if you have the right knowledge by following the indispensable information that I shared in the insightful training of the No IELTS To Canada workshop. The live workshop will show you most reliable and shortest way To Live, Study for FREE and Work Permanently in Canada without writing IELTS exam or paying huge money to Travel Agent. All your questions and concerns about this reliable pathway will be answered in the live workshop so watch till the end because you’ll get my WhatsApp number. Click on this link to know more == > https://noieltstocanada.com/ This will work for you only if you are between Age 18 to 50 years, you need minimum of WAEC/NECO/ND/NCE/KCSE/Grade 12 or equivalent as minimum requirement, You don’t need WES evaluation or any form of ECA for this Study-Work-Permanent Residence Pathway and you don’t need to know someone in Canada. Join the live workshop training now by Clicking on this link == > https://noieltstocanada.com/ Webtags:  ielts 5.5 accepted in universities in canada,  without ielts study visa countries list 2022, scholarship without ielts requirement, canada immigration without ielts 2022, study in canada without ielts from nigeria, study masters in canada for free, study abroad fully funded scholarships, is ielts compulsory for canada student visa, which university does not require ielts in canada, canada study permit without ielts, how to go canada without ielts. The best time to start your relocation process to Canada is now. The longer you wait, the harder it becomes!!