The Ebonyi State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has accused the state government of using the Ebubeagu security operatives to hunt members of the opposition party. The Ebonyi State PDP Chairman, Tochukwu Okorie, stated this while condemning the alleged abduction of the party’s Publicity Secretary, Mr Chika Nwoba, allegedly by members of the Ebubeagu outfit, adding that the victim was later rescued following a distress call to the police Anti-Kidnapping Squad. Okorie called on the Attorney-General of the Federation, Mr Abubakar Malami; the National Security Adviser, Major General Babagana Monguno (retd.); and the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, to take judicial notice of happenings in the state. He stated, “Around 1pm this afternoon (Monday), the state Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Nwoba Chika Nwoba, was abducted by a gang of criminals along the Abakaliki/Enugu Road and was thrown into the trunk of the Sienna bus that the abductors used. “Mr Nwoba was riding in company with the party’s Deputy Chairman, Ifeanyi Nworie, who courageously resisted the kidnappers from taking away Nwoba in their vehicle. Nworie put a call across to the O/C, Anti-Kidnapping Unit of the Ebonyi State Police Command, who promptly sent a team. “The abductors were intercepted and Nwoba was subsequently rescued from the abductors by the Anti-Kidnapping Unit of the Ebonyi State Police Command. Mr Nwoba has been taken into custody by the police. It is unfortunate that rather than arresting the abductors, who they met on the ground, they took Nwoba into custody and allowed the abductors to go. “We call on the Attorney-General of the Federation, Mr Abubakar Malami, to take judicial notice of what is happening in Ebonyi State; we call on the National Security Adviser, Mr Monguno, to take judicial notice of what is happening in Ebonyi State; and we call on the Inspector-General of Police to take judicial notice of what is happening in the state.” “We want to warn that no individual has the monopoly of violence. We are being pushed to the wall. The PDP in Ebonyi State is a peace loving and democratic organisation, but we are being pushed to the point where we will have to resist the evil that is being perpetrated in the state. Ebonyi State, which we used to know to be lawful and peaceful, has now become a Banana Republic.” However, the Security Consultant to the Ebonyi State Government and the All Progressives Congress Chairman-elect in the state, Chief Stanley Okoro-Emegha, said Nwoba had been on the list of those to answer for spreading fake news. He said, “It is really unfortunate. I don’t like joining issues. The law provides that Ebubeagu can arrest and hand over to the police. They have been seen doing that on more than two occasions. This boy called Chika Nwoba has been on the list of those to come and answer for fake news. “We all know that there’s a law on fake news in the state. Many others are facing similar charges in the state. “Why will somebody say it is abduction? Security operatives operate based on intelligence. And when the information got to them, they said they had seen him. There was an uprising in the location he was. “While a team of Ebubeagu was on patrol, they saw them. Chika Nwoba was there and he was picked up. Knowing that he was a member of an opposition political party, Ebubeagu did their job professionally by arresting him and handing him over to the police. Investigation on the matter continues. “If there was no petition against him, he wouldn’t have been arrested; but there was a petition already against him and that was why he was arrested. “Ebubeagu handed him over to the police. He was not taken to the Government House or any other place. The people they handed over to were members of a police team on patrol and not that they took him to the police station. The law will take its due course. “He will defend himself as to whether he is guilty or not. If there’s enough evidence against him on fake news, he will face the law. This incident happened less than 12 hours ago and people are already adding to the incident. “So, there was nothing like abduction. He was duly arrested and handed over to the police. It didn’t even take up to three minutes. The Ebubeagu operatives were professional in their conduct as they operated within the ambit of the law.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com