The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said the priority of his administration is to build a world-class health system. Sanwo-Olu said this at a health forum organised by the Lagos State Health Service Commission, with the theme, ‘The Art of Building a World-Class Health System.’ The governor who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Folasade Jaji, noted that establishing a robust health system was needed to complement the state’s status of a megacity. He said achieving this goal would involve enhancing the delivery capacity of all health facilities at primary, secondary and tertiary levels in the state. “As a government, we will continue to play the role expected of us to build a world-class health system that will not only curb medical tourism outside the country but also improve the potential of earning foreign exchange from foreigners seeking medical care in our health facilities. “As critical stakeholders in the health sector, I call on health workers to continue to put in their best efforts at all times and in all situations so that together we can build a sustainable, efficient and effective health care system for all Lagosians,” Sanwo-Olu said. The Chairman of the state’s Health Service Commission, Dr Atinuke Onayiga, said that a gap analysis would be conducted by the commission to assist health facilities in the state build momentum for improved services. Onayiga said the forum provided an avenue for the leadership of hospitals and HSC to brainstorm on solutions to the challenges facing the state’s secondary health care system. She added that the platform was also to engender inter-professional collaboration among all cadres of the health care workforce. Also, the Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, said the state was working on developing specialist facilities within the general hospitals. “What we need to do is develop those specialist capabilities in Lagos and make the state a renowned destination of expertise in any discipline of health care,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com