The immediate past Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ekiti State, Bisi Kolawole, on Wednesday, emerged as the candidate of the party for the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti State. Kolawole, who is former Governor Ayo Fayose’s preferred aspirant, garnered 671 votes to trounce his closest rival, former Governor Olusegun Oni, who scored 330 votes and other aspirants. Other aspirants – former Deputy Governor, Prof Kolapo Olusola, scored 93 votes; former House of Representatives member, Wale Aribisala garnered 56 votes; financial expert, Kayode Adaramodu scored 10 votes; former deputy governorship candidate, Deji Ogunsakin, scored six votes and National Assembly member, Biodun Olujimi, who had earlier pulled out of the exercise secured two votes. The Chairman, PDP Primary Election Committee for Ekiti State, and Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, declared Kolawole winner “having certified the conditions and scored the highest votes by scoring 671 votes”. The governor also congratulated other aspirants for sportsmanship and urged them to join hands to win the June 18 election. In his acceptance speech, Kolawole, said, “It is God’s design to make me the winner of this election. I want to willingly accept it. The result has been very clear, the process has been very clear, credible and it makes everybody happy. “I am very sure members of our party, our leaders are very happy because we have promised that once the process is very open and fair to all, we will all accept the result. It has pleased God to make me the winner of the election, I willingly accept to be the flagbearer of our great party.” In his reaction, Oni said, “We are going to fight together to make him (Kolawole) governor. We are satisfied with the process and no one is complaining. You saw it all here.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com