Borno State Governor, Prof Babagana Zulum, has promised more support to security forces and vigilance groups in bringing to an end the over 12-year-old Boko Haram insurgency in the state. The governor, in a New Year message to the people of the state, said, “I am committed to ensuring more support for our security forces and the indefatigable vigilantes that are helping us. He said, “Part of our strategy for strengthening resilience is the bold step that we took in closing down the internally displaced persons’ camps in Borno State as a whole. Although we have explained in details the reasons behind the action, for the sake of clarity, I will summarise as follow: “We closed the IDP camps to clean up the places and give our people dignity as well as purpose. Living in IDP camps is not what we are used to, or what we like as a people. Therefore, we believe that a safe life of dignity is a right for all the citizens of Borno, and indeed Nigeria. “The IDP camps were becoming slums where all kinds of vices were happening, including prostitution, drug peddling and thuggery, in some cases. No responsible leadership will allow people to live an undignified life under its watch. “The idea of the IDP camps was, and remains an interim measure to provide safety, especially during the peak of the insurgency. Consequently, the camps were not meant to continue forever. The question of closure of the camps was not a matter of if, but when.’’ According to him, efficient managers will agree that there is no better time than now to get things done. He added, “The worst option will be to do nothing. We are not prepared to do nothing. Rather we are ready to do whatever it takes to restore the dignity of our people. “Keeping the camps open endlessly is not sustainable. This is because it becomes difficult to plan effectively for a dignified economic and social development of the people.’’ The governor added that his administration would not be distracted by speculations about the 2023 elections, stating that there were those who work for elections and those who work for legacies. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com