Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Wednesday said his administration was committed to partnering with security agencies, particularly the military, to further secure the state and maintain its status as the most peaceful in the country. Oyetola also advocated continued peace, unity and harmony among people and lauded the security agencies, particularly the officers and men of the Nigerian Armed Forces, for sustaining the national sovereignty and preserving the integrity of the nation. Speaking at the launching of the 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Emblem in Osogbo, Oyetola also said nothing must be spared to ensure adequate protection of lives and property of Nigerians. Oyetola in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Ismail Omipidan, also noted that the occasion of Armed Forces Remembrance Day has provided the opportunity to reflect and show gratitude to members of the Armed Forces across the nation for their illustrious contributions to national development. The statement read in parts, “We thank them for their unparalleled patriotism, which continues to set the pace for us to give our best in the service of our beloved nation. Their unflinching and truly inspirational commitment has ensured the protection of our territorial integrity and the restoration of peace in many parts of our nation. They are the true heroes of our nation. “For this reason, I am pleased to launch this year’s emblem and also invite us all to launch this emblem generously. By giving cheerfully, we communicate our unalloyed support and gratitude to our gallant officers, either living or dead and their families. “As an administration, we pledge to continually do all within our abilities to support causes as this. We will continue to partner with you in our collective quest for the protection of lives and property.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com