The reconciliation of various factions of the Peoples Democratic Party in Oyo State is impracticable and temporal, a Chieftain of the party, Ademola Omotoso, has said. Omotoso made the declaration on Wednesday in Ibadan, while speaking with newsmen. He recounted how committees led by former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, visited the state to reconcile the factions, but to no avail. “Reconciliation is not at my level. So many attempts have been made for reconciliation. For whatsoever reasons, some people are no longer interested in reconciliation. “Saraki and Atiku groups have been in Ibadan and we have also been called at the national, but all to no avail. Reconciliation is a mirage and temporal,” the party leader said. Omotoso, a renowned Advertising practitioner and former Chairman of Ibadan North Local Government Area said he has remained a bonafide member of the PDP, adding that he never left the party since he joined in 2000. Commenting on PDP in Oyo State, he said his faction of the party remained authentic contrary to insinuations that they were aggrieved. “We are authentic party members and not aggrieved as some have been saying. We had our parallel congresses at Jogor Centre, they came to attack us. “Then, who is the aggrieved? If we are the aggrieved as they have been claiming, we are supposed to have attacked them,’’ he said. Omotoso recalled how he worked seriously for the enthronement of Governor Seyi Makinde-led administration, saying that the governor couldn’t fault his claim. “When you lay down your life for what you believe, you don’t have to feel that you’ve done something extraordinary. I don’t have regret supporting Makinde. “Makinde was the candidate of the party and I must support the candidate of the party. Along the line, I don’t know what happened,” he said. “Look at late former Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala, he was so magnanimous and not a pretender. He presented himself to the people exactly the way he was when he was on earth. He was a man of all seasons.” The former council chairman said that there was hope for the PDP at all levels to win the 2023 elections, promising to support anyone the party presented. “If we continue to do things the same way, we would continue to get the same result. We need to do things differently as a party to get the desired result. PDP is still the best party,” he said. NAN