Residents of Yakoyo in the Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State have protested alleged assault on them by alleged land grabbers plotting to take over their land. Scores of the residents, who live close to Lagos State, took to the streets and expressed their grievances over the activities of hoodlums they alleged were being backed by the Olojodu of Ojodu, Oba Olusegun Benson. The protesters carried placards with various inscriptions, such as ‘Olojodu, stop intimidating people over their land. No free land for sale in Yakoyo,’ ‘Olojodu stop breaking Land Grabbers’ Law of Ogun State,’ and ‘Olojodu stop inflicting injury on Yakoyo community members because of land’. Speaking with newsmen, the Chairman of Yakoyo Area Community Development Committee, Olanrewaju Ayokunle, said the problems started in 2019 when the new Olojodu emerged. He said, “Ojodu has Lagos side and Ogun State side; likewise Yakoyo has Lagos side and Ogun side. But this is Yakoyo, Ogun State, and we have lived here long enough. “So, when the new Olojodu came, he wanted to establish a market here, and we said this is our land and whatever market is to be established, we must have a say. Of course, they were using debris to fill the land under the bridge, then the Ministry of Environment stopped the land. Because of this, he (Olojodu) had Yakoyo in mind and all he wanted was to annex Yakoyo, which is not going to be possible.” He also alleged the imposition of a new ‘Baale’ on the community, saying, “We must have a say in the emergence of who governs us.” One of the executive members of the CDC, Miss Adefunmi Buraimoh, who was attacked by the hoodlums, alleged collusion between the alleged land grabbers and the police. “Our community is no longer safe. We want to strictly channel our matter to the government because they said they have Dapo Abiodun in their pockets, they have IGP in their pockets and that even if they kill, nothing can happen,” she said. She called on the state government to wade into the matter urgently to avoid a breakdown of law and order. A retiree, Thomas Falade, said he bought his land over 40 years ago, warning that any attempt to take over his land would be fiercely resisted. Speaking with newsmen at his palace, the Olojodu of Ojodu said there was no case of land grabbing in Yakoyo community. He asked the residents of the community to supply any written document or notice on the alleged plans to take over their land. The monarch, however, said trouble started when he, as the consenting authority over the community, installed a new Baale. He said the Yakoyo CDA insisted that they had a right to install the traditional chief. He said “The CDC or CDA organised themselves and wrote me a letter that they have appointed a new Baale after the demise of the former Baale. The letter is here. I called them and asked, “Where do you see a CDC or CDA appointing Baale?” You can even toil with appointing a monarch. “I told them it’s not within their rights to appoint Baale. They are not from Aworiland, they only came, bought land and built houses. I asked them to go and meet the Koseni family, the original landowner, over the Baale appointment, but they refused. It is the Koseni family that brought the new Baale.” When contacted, Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, denied that the police had taken sides in the crisis, saying there was no iota of truth in the allegation. Oyeyemi said a case of assault was reported to the police, some arrests were made, but the suspects were later released on bail “because it’s a bailable offence.” “Releasing somebody on bail does not mean that is the end of the case. In the process, the Kabiyesi, Olojodu, invited all of them, he told the DPO that he is going to settle the matter between the two parties. They were released to go for a peaceful resolution of the matter,” he added. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com