The Interim Administrator, Niger Delta Development Commission, Effiong Akwa, has assured youths and other stakeholders in the region to expect the completion of more abandoned projects within the region in 2022. Akwa in a zoom meeting that had hundreds of stakeholders from the nine states of the Niger Delta and the Diaspora in attendance said the NDDC under the supervision of the Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, would complete and inaugurate abandoned power projects, hostels among others. Akwa, who was represented at the meeting by his Special Adviser on Youths and Sports, Udengs Eradiri, particularly harped on the completion of the transmission substation in Okitipupa area of Ondo State. In a statement in Port Harcourt, he said when completed, the transmission station would provide power to over 2,000 communities across six local government areas of Ondo State. Akwa at the virtual meeting, said efforts would be made to finish another power transmission line in Ikot Abasi area of Akwa Ibom State. He said more hostels would be completed in line with the mandate given to the Commission by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) to finish abandoned people-oriented projects and put them to use. The NDDC boss also said the commission would make efforts to complete the abandoned hostels at the Niger Delta University, Bayelsa State. He said the NDDC would build a replica of Lagos State’s boat terminals in the Niger Delta to facilitate maritime transport and urged the youths to get ready for sports festival and talent hunt in the New Year. He lauded President Buhari and Senator Akpabio for their leadership style, saying 2021 was the first time the NDDC completed and inaugurated three big projects in a single year. “This year, more hostels will be completed because we are looking at projects that directly impact on the lives of the people of the region. We are going to be building boat terminals in the region. “It is difficult for people to go to the waterfront and have somewhere they can go and relax, buy tickets and board their boats in the Niger Delta. But if you go to Lagos, you will see boat terminals in most areas in Lagos. “That kind of terminal is what we will be bringing in. Soon, we should be inaugurating the power project in Ondo State that is meant to power six local government areas. There is another power project in Eket and it will be concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com