Some bandits in separate attacks have invaded three Local Government Areas of Igabi, Chikun, and Zango-Kataf, all in Kaduna State, and killed seven persons. The Kaduna State Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, who disclosed this in a statement on Sunday, said the attacks left many injured. Aruwan said the bandits first invaded Kerawa village in Igabi LG where four people were killed and one injured. He identified those killed during the attack as Lado Shuaibu, Usman Haruna
Ayuba Muntari and Jafar Abdullahi. “One Mallam Mamuda was left injured, as the bandits carted away some motorcycles and supplies from the community,” he said Similarly, the Commissioner said bandits attacked commuters along the Ungwan Rimi-Afana road in Zangon Kataf LGA, killing one person. “One Joshua Kawu sustained gunshot wounds to the chest, and was rushed to hospital, where he was unfortunately confirmed dead,” he added. He said, “Security agencies have reported to the Kaduna State Government that four people were killed, and one injured, during an attack by bandits in Kerawa, Igabi LGA. “According to the report, bandits attacked the village, shooting sporadically, and killed four residents. “In another incident, armed bandits attacked commuters along the Ungwan Rimi-Afana road in Zangon Kataf LGA. One Joshua Kawu sustained gunshot wounds to the chest, and was rushed to hospital, where he was unfortunately confirmed dead.” Meanwhile, the Commissioner in second statement titled, ‘bandits kill two in Igabi and Chikun LGAs,’ said security reports to the state government confirmed bandits killing of two persons in Igabi and Chikun local government areas of the state. Aruwan, according to the report, said bandits invaded Sabon Garin Ungwar Dalha, a village on the outskirts of the Maraban Jos area, Igabi local government area where they killed a housewife. He said, “The bandits attacked the village and broke into some homes, all the while shooting into the air. One Hadiza Mohammed, a housewife, was caught by their gunfire and died instantly. “In the second incident, bandits attacked Ungwan Zallah in Udawa, Chikun LGA, and one Moses Jaja was shot dead.” In all, the Commissioner quoted governor Nasir El-Rufai to have expressed sadness over the latest attacks and conveyed his sincere condolences to the bereaved families in the affected communities. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com