Northern political elite and groups on Saturday met in Kaduna State with a firm resolve to ignore any provocative statement from the South over the 2023 presidency. They also said northerners possess equal rights like their counterparts from the South to aspire for the presidency in 2023. But they noted that competence, integrity and commitment to the rule of law of such candidate(s) either from North or South, must be a yardstick for support. The Southern and Middle Belt Forum, which comprises the Yoruba socio-political group,  Afenifere; the Igbo socio-political group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo; and the Middle Belt Forum, had urged all parties to zone their presidential ticket to the South ahead of the 2023 presidential election, adding that the South and the Middle Belt would not vote for a northern presidential candidate in 2023. But the northern leaders kicked against it, declaring that the fundamental rights of all political parties to field candidates of their choices, and the right of voters to freely exercise choices over who leads them could not be compromised. Besides, the northern leaders called for the postponement of the planned 2022 national census given the high number of displaced Nigerians as well as the proximity to the 2023 general elections. This was just as they urged the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari(retd.) to sign the proposed amendments to the Electoral Act into law to improve the quality of the 2023 elections These were contained in a communiqué issued at the end of a meeting convened by the Northern Elders’ Forum led by Prof Ango Abdullahi, at the Arewa House, Kaduna, on Saturday. They urged the northerners to vote for the best leaders while calling on them to ignore groups in “the South of Nigeria who appear to believe that command democracy in which threats and hate campaigns are their hallmarks or defining elements will work in Nigeria.” They, however, urged key northern groups to engage their counterparts from the South to improve understanding, lower tensions and contribute to the creation of an atmosphere that allows all Nigerians to live in peace with each other. The communiqué signed by the drafting committee chairman, Prof D. Sheni, partly read, “The fundamental rights of all political parties to field candidates of their choices, and the right of voters to freely exercise choices over who leads them cannot be compromised. Northerners have equal rights to aspire to all offices but they must raise competence, evidence of personal integrity and commitments to the rule of law above all other considerations. “While commending the efforts of the nation’s defence and security forces in rolling back sundry threats that have weakened the Nigerian State and made life almost valueless, the meeting advises the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, governors and legislators to revisit and re-prioritize spending on security and addressing the scourge of poverty. But the Northern Elders’ Forum on Saturday said the region would only vote for a competent candidate in the 2023 presidential election regardless of where he comes from in the country. It said it would not repeat the same mistake of voting for just any candidate as was done for the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) based on sentiment in 2015. The NEF’s Director of Publicity and Advocacy, Dr Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, stated this in an interview with journalists on the sideline of the meeting of northern leaders of thought and groups held at the Arewa House, Kaduna on Saturday. Baba-Ahmed, however, noted that no northern presidential candidate should take the region for granted in the 2023 race, pointing out that the region had ended up with what he described as the “Buhari mistake”. He said the North was deceived into voting for Buhari believing that the country would be better, but lamented that the reverse had been the case as the situation in the North and the entire country had been worse than when Buhari took over in 2015. Baba-Ahmed, a former secretary of the Independent National Electoral Commission, said “A northerner and a southerner have equal rights to contest but northerners should be very careful of who they vote for in 2023. No northerner should take us for granted. “That’s how we ended up with President Buhari. We don’t want to repeat the same mistake. It’s not enough to be a northerner; you have to be the best. You have to be the best for the North and you have to be the best for the rest of Nigeria.” When asked further why Buhari was a mistake to the North, the spokesperson for the forum who scored the Buhari regime low in all aspects, said, “Why are you asking me why Buhari is a mistake? The evidence is all around you. How did you get here? I don’t know if you live in Kaduna or not but if you came from somewhere, you must have looked across your shoulders, maybe, more than 20 times because to leave your house and get back home is a miracle these days in this country. We were not like this. “This is not the Nigeria that voted for President Buhari. So, he is a disappointment. And that’s why we are saying to Nigerians and particularly to northerners to be very careful and not repeat the same mistake.” Meanwhile, the spokesperson for the Coalition of Northern Groups, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, has said the North would not let itself be blackmailed into ceding power to any region. Suleiman accused the Obasanjo-led presidency of formulating policies that badly affected the economy of the country as a result of the pressure from the South-West in 1999. He said, “Our position is that the North will never let itself be blackmailed or intimidated into ceding power. We made the same mistake in 1999 by giving in to pressure from the South-West and paid for it. Obasanjo was brought to power by the northern political might, yet he failed to justifiably deal with the nation’s diversities as was expected. “The North certainly has the sagacity to use its population and repeat what it did in 2015 with its permanent voter cards. It is pedestrian for those who call themselves regional leaders to continue to think along having a regional and not Nigerian president.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com