Nigeria’s oldest monarch and Ohworode of Olomu Kingdom in Delta State, Ovie Richard Ogoni-Oghoro 1, has called on the Federal Government and the various state governments to consider giving constitutional roles to traditional rulers in the country. He said this would go a long way in curbing insecurity in the country. He made the call in an interview with The PUNCH in his palace on Wednesday. The monarch, who is also the Chairman, Council of Traditional Rulers in Urhobo nation, noted that traditional rulers are the chief security officers in their respective kingdoms. He added that if they are constitutionally empowered to play their God-given role, most of the atrocities being perpetrated in communities would be nipped in the bud. He said, “Right from time immemorial, that is, before the advent of the white man, we, Nigerians, have a way of ruling ourselves via traditional rulers. And these traditional rulers have a role they played. It is the unholy politics that eroded the powers of the traditional rulers. “Traditional rulers are the chief security officers in their kingdoms. What is happening in every kingdom presently, if traditional rulers are given the latitude to play their role, most of these things will not be there. “The people in the locality know one another. Those performing or perpetrating atrocities will be fished out. So, traditional rulers should be given their due roles to do justice to their people. Government should also endeavour to give traditional rulers security vote to enable them to work more effectively.” Ovie Ogbon Ogoni-Oghoro 1, who was installed as the 12th Ohworode of Olomu Kingdom on March 12, 1988, also urged Nigerians to follow due process and imbibe “politics of love” as arrangements for the 2023 general elections gather momentum. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com