First Bank of Nigeria Limited has announced its ‘Nigerian Economic Outlook Webinar’ aimed at reflecting on national and global economic trends that shaped 2021, and predicting the economic outlook of 2022. According to a statement, the virtual event, themed ‘A rearview look at 2021, lessons learnt – Outlook 2022’, is scheduled to hold on Thursday. It added that the webinar would set the tone for the year by providing an opportunity for participants to learn directly from economic experts. The bank said, “With Nigeria’s economy projected to grow by 2.7 per cent in 2022 as predicted by the International Monetary Fund, based on an expected recovery in crude oil prices and production, Nigeria will see economic activities normalising. “Key economic activities to watch out for in 2022 include the global market trends, removal of subsidies, and floatation of the naira. However, recoveries in the oil sector and maximisation of the e-Naira could help keep the parallel market in check.” According to the statement, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Financial Derivatives Company Limited, Bismarck Rewane, is the keynote speaker while other speakers include the Executive Director, Treasury and International Banking, First Bank of Nigeria, Ini Ebong. The Group Head, Marketing and Corporate Communications of FirstBank, Ms Folake Ani-Mumuney, said, “Being woven into the fabric of the society for over 127 years means that we provide value, support and innovation-driven solutions for our stakeholders regardless of the challenges of the pandemic. “Our commitment to nation-building is anchored partly on our thought leadership role designed to relentlessly drive growth and scale for all through engagements that showcase versatile subject matter experts endowed with expertise, knowledge and valuable insights. “The webinar provides a platform for cross fertilisation of ideas and opportunities to learn and grow.  Nigeria is a country rich in human and natural resources and these have helped in the reforms and resilience reflected in the economy in 2021.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com