Olugboboro community in the Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of Bayelsa State has petitioned the state government over the brewing crisis between the community and the Nigerian Agip Oil Company. The aggrieved host community, in the petition, accused the NAOC of neglect and injustice arising from the oil firm’s operations at the Tebidaba flow station in the area. The people warned that they should not be held responsible for any breach of the peace around the oil facility which they jointly own with the neighbouring Olugbobiri community, adding that “we cannot tell the shape and dimension our action against Agip will take.” The petition, a copy of which was obtained by The PUNCH on Monday was dated January 6, 2022 and titled, “An appeal to urgently intervene in the festering crisis between Agip and Olugboboro community.” It was addressed to the state Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, and signed by the regent of Olugboboro community, Ebilatei Berepigi; chairman of the Community Development Committee, Wisdom Bazighe; Assistant General Secretary, Amos Oweifighe; and a chief, Joseph Ugbe. According to the community, they and Olugbobiri, as landlords, were receiving percentage share of monetary benefits accruing from NAOC operations since 1973 when the land acquisition agreement for the Tebidaba flow station was signed. The community said, “However, things began to change in the late 1990s when Agip decided to sideline Olugboboro community, and has refused to inform Olugboboro community for any compensation, spillage, negotiation and others. “We have complained to Agip to correct the injustice and demanded that payment be made in the presence of representatives of the Olugboboro community, but Agip has bluntly refused. “Over the years, Agip has completely neglected Olugboboro community in the scheme of things in Tebidaba flow station.” They demanded that to avert a showdown, the oil company should employ indigenes of Olugboboro at both senior and junior levels; award service and supply contracts to indigenes; recognise and relate directly with Olugbobiri as host community; the community must be duly informed of payment arising from Tebidaba flow station and any payment meant for the two communities be made to Olugboboro representatives. While calling on the state government to call Agip to order, the petition said, “the community should not be blamed for any breach of security if the boiling anger in Olugboboro results in an eventual breakdown of law and order as the people are fed up with the neglect and injustice Agip has visited on the community.” An official of the NAOC’s Public Affairs Department in Port Harcourt, simply identified as Mr Ifeanyi, declined comment on the matter and insisted that he would provide the contact of another official who would respond. But he had yet to do so as of the time of filing this report.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com