Anifat Sadu is a 19-year-old lady battling three health conditions – Hemiplegia Cerebral Palsy, Scoliosis, and Compulsive Obsessive Disorder. However, despite her daily struggle with the health conditions and their complications, Sadu remained undaunted in her determination to not only get educated but to bag a university degree. LARA ADEJORO reports: For 19-year-old Anifat Sadu life has been an unending struggle since she clocked three. Her world seems to lurch from one crisis to another The Microbiology graduate is the first child in a family of seven. Sadu suffers from hemiplegia cerebral palsy, scoliosis, and compulsive obsessive disorder (OCD) she developed at ages three, nine, and 17, respectively. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise, she said watched her younger ones and friends go to school happily and many a time, felt like dying, noting that she was begging God to remove the pains from her. She narrated that at some point in her life, her parents would carry her everywhere she needed to go. From the threshold of her house, she watches other children play and have fun – something she could not do since she lost balance and posture with the right part of her body. In a country where stigmatisation and shame remain widespread, she has her fair share of social injustice, stigmatisation, mockery, and ridicule. However, aside from the challenge of stigma, lack of resources and access to many things for people with disabilities in the country were also overwhelming obstacles for Sadu. Sadu was born a beautiful and perfect child. She was full of life until she fell ill when she turned three years old and was rushed to a hospital in Lagos where she was diagnosed and treated for malaria. Days after, her parents noticed she could no longer do what every other child her age does. She could not control her right leg, she could not walk anymore and she was bending to the right. The right part of her arm and leg were affected and gradually, she could not maintain balance and posture with the right part of her body. Sadu looks down, sad, as she recalls how she discovered she has Hemiplegia Cerebral Palsy. Her mother, Mrs. Afusat Sadu believed it was a result of the injection she took at the hospital. “My mum said I was okay until I was injected at the hospital,” she said. However, when she was seven years old, her physiotherapist noted that it could not have been the injection “but could have been something else like Hemiplegia Cerebral Palsy,” she added. Hemiplegia in infants and children is a type of Cerebral Palsy that results from damage to the part (hemisphere) of the brain that controls muscle movements. This damage may occur before, during, or shortly after birth. The term hemiplegia means that the paralysis is on one vertical half of the body. “This prompted them to ask my mother if I cried immediately I was born and she said it took some minutes before I cried. She also said I was kept in an incubator for three days. “Then, the physiotherapist said the signs of what I have are Hemiplegia CP and could not have been the injection. “So, when people ask me the name of the condition, I just tell them that I have HCP. Personally, I believe it is hemiplegia cerebral palsy, I don’t bother telling them the injection story,” she said With the help of her supportive parents and physiotherapist, she gradually began to walk as she grew older, but unsteadily and with difficulty and pains. According to the Children’s Hemiplegia and Stroke Association, the symptoms of spastic hemiplegic cerebral palsy may differ from child to child and over time. Symptoms may include stiffness and weakness in muscles on one side of the body, only using one hand during play or favouring one hand before the age of three years, keeping one hand in a fist, difficulty with walking and balance, difficulty with fine motor tasks like writing or using scissors, delay in reaching expected developmental milestones such as rolling over, sitting up, crawling, or smiling. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com