The Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources has delivered on all the mandates given to it by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, has declared. Sylva made the declaration at a town hall meeting he had with the management and staff of the ministry, according to a statement on Friday by the Director, Information, FMPR, Enefaa Bob-Manuel. “The Ministry of Petroleum Resources has declared that it has delivered on all the priority project areas assigned to the ministry by President Muhammadu Buhari,” the statement said. “Today, what we are doing is working out additional mandates, and I can assure you that in the next one and half years available to us we will be able to deliver on the additional mandates we have devised for ourselves,” Sylva was quoted as saying at the meeting. He said the ministry had ensured the commencement of renovation works on the refineries through the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited and supported in starting the Train 7 project of the Nigeria LNG Limited. He said the ministry was also driving the gas revolution agenda of government and ensured the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill before it was signed into the Petroleum Industry Act by the President. Sylva said the upstream commission and the midstream/downstream regulatory authority were institutions established by the PIA. The minister told his staff that the year 2022 would be very eventful because there would be a lot of work for the ministry. He hinted that it was not a year to embark on new projects, adding that it was the beginning of a winding-down period. Sylva said the main concern this year was to complete all the programmes that had been initiated, adding that the implementation of the PIA had commenced and was fully on course. “We have 12 months to complete our work and the process of implementation will wind down around September 2022,” he said. On the deployment of autogas, Sylva said the programme had commenced and would be brought to completion this year. “He added that the rehabilitation of refineries had commenced and some aspects of the rehabilitation would be brought to completion this year,” the ministry said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com