The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi Ojaja II has extolled the virtues of the late Oba Saliu Adetunji, the Olubadan of Ibadanland, who joined his ancestors at age 93 on Sunday. Ogunwusi, in a statement by his Director of Media and Public Affairs, Moses Olafare, on Sunday in Ile-Ife, described the late Oba Saliu as a great traditional ruler. The Ooni said that the reign of the late Olubadan would forever be remembered for the tremendous development he brought to Ibadanland, in particular, and Nigeria at large. “Kabiyesi Olubadan did not let the features of old age hold him back during his lifetime as he was active to projects, programmes, plans, and other activities towards making life better for his subjects. “That is why his return home would be missed greatly by all. “Though it is a tough way to start the year, we must submit to the will of the Almighty Olodumare for the life of Oba Adetunji, which was well spent serving humanity. “Our thoughts and prayers in the House of Oduduwa are with natives as well as residents of THEM, ancient city of Ibadan, and the entire Oduduwa race globally at this material time.” the traditional ruler said. Also, the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, condoled with family members of the late Olubadan of Ibadanland and the entire people of Ibadan over the death of the traditional ruler. In a statement by the Alaafin issued by his media aide, Oladotun Oladele, the monarch said, “On behalf of myself, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III, Alaafin of Oyo, the Permanent Chairman, Oyo State Council of Obasa and Chiefs, the Ayabas, the princes, princesses, the Oyomesi and the good people of Oyo most heartily condole with the family of the late Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Saliu Adetunji Akanmu, on the sudden departure of this amiable monarch as he joins his ancestors. “I join all well-meaning Nigerians, home and abroad, to pray that God will grant the entire family and the people of Ibadan the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss at this auspicious time when the wealth of his experience and wisdom of years can be harnessed for the good of Nigeria and Oyo State in general. “May Eledumare receive him in his bosom and may he continue to rest in peace.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com