The Federal Capital Territory Administration has said civil servants without proof of vaccination and negative coronavirus test results done within 72 hours will not be allowed to enter their offices as from next Monday. This is coming after the Federal Government, through the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency, asked state governors to enact and enforce vaccination mandates for local and state government workers. In a statement on Tuesday, the Senior Special Assistant to the FCT Minister on Media and Strategic Communication, Abubakar Sani, said a circular by the FCTA Permanent Secretary, Olusade Adesola, had been sent to relevant agencies for enforcement. He said the move was part of measures to curtail the spread of the deadly virus in the FCT. The statement was titled, ‘FCTA to bar unvaccinated staff, visitors from offices’. It read, “As part of efforts aimed at curtailing the spread of COVID-19 in the FCT, all members of staff are required to show evidence of COVID-19 vaccination or present a negative COVID-19 PCR test result done within 72 hours, failure of which such members of staff will not be allowed into the office premises commencing from Monday, January 17, 2022. “In view of the fact that the FCTA premises are public buildings, all visitors and clients coming to do business are required to comply with this directive. “A circular signed by the FCTA Permanent Secretary has been sent to the Executive Secretary of the Federal Capital Development Authority and all mandate secretaries, the Coordinator of the Abuja Metropolitan Management Council and the Coordinator of the Satellite Towns Development Department, heads of all departments and FCTA agencies to officially inform them.” He warned that persistent non-compliance or refusal by staff to be vaccinated would be treated in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Public Service Rules. Sani, however, disclosed that to ensure strict compliance with the directive, the Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement and the Director of Security Services had been mandated to mount surveillance at all entry points. The NPHDA, on Tuesday, via its official Facebook page, said Lagos, Ondo, Bayelsa and Edo states “have joined other states to move at least eight steps backward since the start of the mass vaccination campaign in the country.” The agency also stated that the South-East, North-East and the South-South zones had contributed the least to the mass vaccination campaign. The information came to the fore as our correspondent observed that Nigeria had continued to witness an increase in the death toll with a total of 15 deaths reported between January 7, 2022 and January 10, 2022. The PUNCH reports that the Federal Government, through the NPHCDA, had introduced mass vaccination campaigns in states in a bid to speed up the process in states. Some of the proposed mass vaccination sites listed included schools, markets and places of worship, among others. Since the commencement of the mass vaccination, the NPHCDA has kept track of the progress of each state. As of January 11, 2022, the NPHCDA stated that governors of Nasarawa, Jigawa, Ogun, Oyo and Zamfara states were top performing as regards the issue of mass vaccination. It, however, noted in its highlights, “Lagos, Ondo, Bayelsa and Edo have joined other states to move at least eight steps backward since the start of the vaccination campaign. “The South-East zone, North-East zone, South-South zone have contributed the lowest to the mass vaccination campaign at 2.7 per cent, 7.9 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively.” The PUNCH reports that as of January 10, 2022, Nigeria had yet to vaccinate 10 per cent of the eligible population with the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine. This is as the percentage of fully vaccinated individuals remains below five per cent. Experts have continued to advocate herd immunity amidst discoveries of new variants of COVID-19. The nation is currently in the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control continues to predict more waves if the citizens continue to ignore public health measures and shun vaccination. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com