The Kano State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, on Tuesday, applauded the efforts of security agencies for their swift response in investigating and arresting the kidnappers and killer of Kano school girl, Hanifa Abubakar. Also, the party acknowledged the successful operation that led to the arrest of the suspected culprit Abdulmalik Tanko and his accomplices through strategic intelligence gathering and tactical security operation. This was contained in a statement by the Chairman, PDP Kano State chapter, Shehu Sagagi, on Tuesday. “As members of the opposition in Kano,  we wish to join other well meaning Nigerians to also commend the prompt prosecution/ arraignment of the suspects before a Senior Magistrate court in the state to pursue justice for the late Halifa without any delay. “On reforming private education, the PDP  advised Kano State government under the leadership of Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje to comply with due process, in accordance with the law establishing the Kano State Private School Board, which regulates the activities of all non-public schools in the state.’’ “We learnt that Governor Ganduje has withdrawn the operating licence of all private schools in the state, With all sense of humility and patriotism, we will like to caution the state government, not to use this opportunity to extort money from the proprietors of private schools in the state” According to the statement, the party noted that there has been a standard operating procedure provided by the law establishing the private school board, developed by the previous administration of Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso. “Despite the importance of reforming the private education sub-sector, which has been long overdue, the Kano state government should not see it as a window of opportunity to extort money from the schools proprietors. “The party is hereby extending its heartfelt condolences to the family of the late Hanifa and the good people of Kano over the unfortunate incident that has aroused deep sorrow and sympathy among members of the public.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com