Glasgow Rangers defender Leon Balogun is gutted to have missed the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations tournament in Cameroon due to injury, PUNCH Sports Extra report. Balogun said he had recovered from the injury that kept him out since November. The 33-year-old hasn’t played since he limped off during the Scottish Sports Cup semi-final defeat to Hibernian, despite returning to training on the sidelines with the Gers. “If you look at how the team plays they are doing fine without me but I appreciate the positive messages I have been receiving,” Balogun told PUNCH Sports Extra during a live chat with journalists in Cameroon via Instagram. “I’m gutted missing this tournament. I’m not going to lie. It is hard to watch it knowing that I was supposed to be there and now I’m just sitting on the sidelines watching. “Because it was a close call, I tried everything to be available but it didn’t work out in time. If I had another week, probably I would have made it. But after a lengthy conversation with coach Austin Eguavoen, he asked if I could still come and I told him, ‘I don’t think that it would be fair’ because he had used up that space for me to come. “But I’m on my way to recovery now. I’m pretty much recovered now training on the sidelines but certainly, it hurts not being there.” He added that the Eagles had not been tested yet at the ongoing tournament. “I don’t want to downplay our performance. We have been disciplined, particularly against Egypt, it was a very good performance. But I feel we have not been challenged yet and this could be like some sort of danger lurking around. That’s why I say that the team must be focused on every game because this is the only way we could be caught out. “We really need to be focused and look at the big picture.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com