Chairman of the Nsukara Offot village, host community of the University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, Tony Ukpe, on Friday revealed that the 1,050-bed space hostel built and donated to the University by the Niger Delta Development Commission was abandoned for more than 14-years after the community ceded the land to the University. This is as he commended the NDDC for constructing the project which he noted would ease accommodation challenges faced by students of the institution. Ukpe, who stated this while speaking with our correspondent in Uyo after the virtual inauguration of the project on Thursday by the President, Major Gen Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), expressed joy that the project had finally been completed. According to him, “I am very happy that in all the states this kind of project is, Akwa Ibom is the only state that has been brought to completion. “We thank God that this project is commissioned during the time of president Buhari and our son, Senator Godswill Akpabio. That is to show that they have the interest of our people at heart.” The chairman also commended the youths of the area for their cooperation with the contractors which ensured speedy completion of the project. “I thank the youths of my community for cooperating with the contractors. Had it been they exhibited restiveness or did not listen to the advice of the paramount ruler and be calm, this project would not have been completed by now,” he added. On the existing issue of land encroachment into the University by the community, Ukpe urged the government to play down on perceived personal interest and ensure amicable resolution of the issue for the sustenance of the coexisting relationship. “My advice is that the system plays down on personal interest or self-aggrandisement and ensure that the issue is resolved so that we continue benefitting from coexisting relationship and peace that we were enjoying before now,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com