The All Progressives Congress in Kaduna State on Monday, tackled the immediate past Senator representing the Kaduna Central Senatorial District, Senator Shehu Sani, who said he would contest the governorship seat in the state come 2023 in order to clear the rot by the APC in the state. The APC told the former lawmaker that governance was a serious business that required serious minds like that of the incumbent Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, and not for “idle bloggers”. The PUNCH reported that Sani had on Sunday, said on a radio interview that he would be the next governor of the state after El-Rufai in 2023 with or without money. However, on Monday, Salisu Wusono, the Publicity Secretary-elect, APC Kaduna State, lambasted Sani. Wusono stated in that statement titled, ‘Kaduna people will not allow nonentities to set them back’. The APC spokesman added that governing the state which recorded serious development over the years under governor El-Rufai was “not for idle bloggers that think that decades of scavenging off the woes of people qualify them for leadership.” According to him, the APC has changed the democratic game in the state, making politics and governance an arena for “the serious and the accomplished.” He added that considering the development strides of the APC government in the state, “2023 will further confirm that Kaduna State is not an arena for those who have never run anything, who do not have any understanding of development or any appreciation of governance as a serious undertaking.” The statement read in part, “The APC has observed that with the next general elections approaching, all sorts of characters are trying to disrespect the people of Kaduna State by treating the contest for the next governorship of the state as if it is a grand comedy. “Our party knows that the people of Kaduna State have seen consistent good governance since 2015 and they will not allow nonentities to ruin it for them. The APC has changed the democratic game in Kaduna State, making politics and governance an arena for the serious and the accomplished. 2023 will further confirm that Kaduna State is not an arena for those who have never run anything, who do not have any understanding of development or any appreciation of governance as a serious undertaking.” He said the APC-led government had delivered progressive results for the people of Kaduna State on all counts including the urban renewal programme which has changed the face of Kaduna city and is changing Kafanchan and Zaria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com