Operatives of Delta State Police Command have arrested 20 suspected cultists and armed robbers at Ogarafe, Oghara in Ethiope West Local Government Area of the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that their arrest was effected in the wee hours of Wednesday during a raid of black spots in the community carried out by operatives attached to the Command Raiders unit. Exhibits recovered from the suspects, according to the police public relations officer for the State Command, DSP Bright Edzfe include, are a fabricated wooden gun, 648 wraps of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp, one used female pant, various charms, one knife, 16 bottles of codeine, 10 packs of razors, one grinder used in grinding weeds and a sum of N69,000. The PPRO told our correspondent that investigation is ongoing on the matter. Also, on the night of the same Wednesday, at about 2100 hours, the Divisional Police Officer, Otu-Jeremi Division, in Ughelli South LGA, received a distress call that a man was stabbed to death in the community. Consequently, the DPO mobilised and led police patrol teams to the scene where the lifeless body of the man was seen in a pool of his own blood while the house was deserted. Police investigations revealed that there was an altercation between the deceased named Twere Shipiode (29) and one Paul Ogilo (26). It was further gathered that the suspect was trailed by the police to an uncompleted building in the community where he was seen with a kitchen knife suspected to have been used in committing the crime, and he was immediately arrested. Upon interrogation, the suspect reportedly admitted committing the dastardly act stating that a fight ensued between him and the deceased after the deceased found him in his house and accused him of attempting to defile his daughter. The suspect affirmed that during the fight, he used the kitchen knife to stab the deceased in the neck. The PPRO affirmed that the suspect is presently in custody while investigation is ongoing. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police for Delta State Command, CP Ari Muhammed Ali, has mandated all Area Commanders, DPOs, Tactical Commanders to sustain this tempo and ensure that continuous raids of black spots are carried out within their area of responsibilities. The CP also urged parents and guardians to caution their wards to desist from buying, selling or taking hard drugs, declaring that whoever is caught will be arrested and prosecuted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com