Akwa Ibom State chapter of the Civil Liberties Organisation on Thursday described the state government’s ban on the activities of scrap metal scavengers in the state as reactive. The chairman of CLO, Franklyn Isong, who addressed the press on the issue along with the Secretary, Christopher Ekpo, said the state government was not proactive enough in taking such a decision. He said such a thing should have come by way of law where they would be provisions from the regulatory body to regulate the activities of scrap metal scavengers in the state. Governor Emmanuel had in a statement on Tuesday signed by the Secretary to the state government, Emmanuel Ekuwem, banned the activities of scrap metal scavengers in the state after a clash between the Hausa and the some Akwa Ibom residents which resulted to the death of three persons on Sunday. Speaking at the briefing which held at the CLO Secretariat along Aka road, Uyo, Isong recalled that a Bill on metal scavengers was sponsored by Aniekan Uko, representing Ibesikpo Asutan state constituency in the State House of Assembly. Isong who hinted that the Bill had passed first and second reading and even subjected to public hearing, lamented nothing is being heard of such a Bill again, adding that if such a Bill was passed into law such ugly incident would not have occurred in the state. He said, “What we are saying is that the present ban on metal scrap scavenging is reactive of the state government. This sort of thing should come by way of law, where there would be provisions from a regulatory body which will regulate the activities of scrap metal scavenger. “Luckily, the 7th House of Assembly had done so through a bill sponsored by member representing Ibesikpo AsutanState constituency, Aniekan Uko, in 2019. That bill has passed first and second reading and was subjected to public hearing but at a point, no body heard about that bill again.” He called on the state House of Assembly to revisit Bill and ensure that the Bill is passed into law in the state. Reacting to the incident, the leader of the Hausa community in the state, Hassan Saudauki, described it as unfortunate. “It’s very unfortunate that that kind of thing happened. May be they must have been under the influence of drugs. In my area, there is a proverb that no matter how strong you are, you can’t withstand the crowd. How many are we to start fighting? “Before now, I’ve always been telling leaders not to allow their boys to be going out on Sundays. Certainly, majority of them go out on Sunday to steal so we advised them not to go out again. “We are trying to reach out to the main people the thing affect to know how they will come up with modalities of genuinely doing their bussiness.” He advised the state government to consider the ban as temporary measures to enable them sit up. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com