Members of the Olubadan-in-Council are expected to hold a meeting on Tuesday (today) where they will ratify the Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland, Senator Lekan Balogun, as the new Olubadan. The Otun Olubadan confirmed this to our correspondent on the telephone on Monday but he said he could not say if he would be in attendance. He said the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs might be in attendance, adding that the outcome would be communicated to the governor through the commissioner. He said, “Kingmakers will meet tomorrow. I am not sure the governor will be there. The Commissioner for Chieftaincy Affairs maybe in attendance. “I cannot say if I will attend or not. But I should be able to say that tomorrow morning.” Ten members of the Olubadan-in-Council had last Wednesday unanimously agreed that Balogun is the next Olubadan. The Otun-Balogun of Ibadanland, Oba Tajudeen Ajibola, had said on Sunday that the Tuesday meeting will ratify the choice of Balogun as the new Olubadan. Senator Rashidi, Ladoja, who is a former Oyo State governor, could not be reached on the telephone when our correspondent called to find out if he would attend Tuesday’s meeting. He has not replied the text message sent to him by of our correspondent on the same matter as of the time of filling this report. A former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Oyo State, Michael Lana, had written to Governor Seyi Makinde, asking him to withhold approval for Balogun’s appointment as the next Olubadan. He argued that since Balogun and other High Chiefs had been elevated to Obas, it would be an aberration to still promote any of them as the new Olubadan. Meanwhile, the  Jagunmolu Agbekoya of Yorubaland,  Kunle Adelakun- Eruobodo, has written to Ladoja on the need for stakeholders to sustain the age long crisis-free tradition of ascendancy to the throne of Olubadan. He said this should be done to avert crisis which tampering with the laid down tradition could cause. The Agbekoya leader gave the advice in a letter dated January 7, 2022 and titled, ‘Re – Olubadan stool,’ a copy of which was made available to our correspondent in Ibadan on Monday. The letter read, “The pillar of Ibadan chieftaincy foundation must not be tampered with by whosoever, whether the rich or the most powerful. “You have done well by challenging Senator Abiola Ajimobi’s untraditional manner. History would not forget you on this. Things that make Ibadan unique are the Olubadan hierarchical structure; the way of resolving problems without external intervention; and the sense that ‘Ibadan mesi ogo’ conveys. “In 1983 before the general election Ibadan, the people were brought together under one roof and unanimously passed a resolution to fight a common enemy. The action paved the way for an Ibadan indigene to become governor in the history of our political culture. Our fathers displayed competence and bravery. We are warriors and we must be united in any situation. “Every genuine Ibadan indigene must desist from allowing lawyers to cause distortion that could damage the solid foundation of a revered Olubadan chieftaincy hierarchy. “We should restrain from listening to greedy attorneys whose aim is to enrich their pockets or interests.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com