A civil servant in Benue State, Mr Ikwuyatu Odeh, recently lost three of his four children to a night fire that razed his house to the ground. He speaks to JOHN CHARLES about the traumatic experience What is your name? I am Mr Ikwuyatu Ochoche Odeh. I work with the Benue State Teaching Service Board as Director of Education serving at Jesus College Otukpo, Benue State and lived in the quarters there. My wife’s name is Mrs Peace Ikwuyatu Odeh. I have four children and a housemaid. You lost your children in a recent tragic fire incident. How did it happen? The fire incident happened on Friday, December 17, 2021 at about 9pm after our night devotion. I told my eldest daughter, Naomi, to carry her younger ones to bed. The last child, Grace, was already asleep. My wife was sleeping in the living room. I also directed our housemaid to go and check on the chickens before going to bird. We had about 1,000 broilers that we were raising. About 10 minutes after the housemaid returned to their room to sleep, she started shouting, “Mummy, Mummy, fire, fire,” and my wife went out immediately before I could get down. The next thing I saw was a heavy flame. It was just like an explosion and the fire was in the room where they (children) were sleeping. What did you do then? I went close to the fire, I shouted the children’s names but there was no response, no screaming and no voice, no cry and no shout from the centre of the fire. I made an attempt to enter the flame of the fire. On my first two attempts, I couldn’t do it, but when I tried the third time, the fire covered my face and head. All attempts to rescue the children were in vain because the speed of the fire was intense. Everything in the house –  my children, chickens, clothes, car, foodstuffs and my documents –  all got burnt to ashes; not even a broom could be taken out of the house. How many children did you lose to the fire? Out of my four children, three of them got burnt in the fire. The eldest is Naomi. She was 17 years old and had just registered for WASSCE and NECO in December at her new school, Verma School, and was supposed to sit SSCE by March 2022. The one following her was a boy, Lawson. He was nine years old and was in SS2 at the Federal Science and Technical College, Otukpo. We also lost our last child, Grace, who turned five on December 2, 2021. Our only surviving child is the third born, Godson, who is seven years old. What was the cause of the fire? It is still a mystery to me because my wife has phobia for gas and so we don’t keep gas cooker or cylinder at home. My wife makes use of butterfly stove. There is nothing in the house that could have caused such a fire incident. It was a mysterious fire. It was as if “someone sent something to somebody”. I believe it was a mysterious fire because the housemaid told us that she saw a candle and matches on top of the bed. The question we were asking ourselves is: Who brought the candle and matches? And this is what we don’t know. I don’t know when last we used a candle in our house. My wife also has a phobia for candle. So, we don’t welcome gas cooker and candlelight in my house, most especially when we had children. My maid, who was inside the room with the children, told us that she saw the fire on the bed and she tried to put out the fire but couldn’t. That was when she ran out to meet us in our room. Will you rule out the possibility of an electrical fault triggering the fire? We have never had any electrical fault since we packed into the quarters. The main reason why I said it was a mysterious fire is that even when my wife put something on fire and it was burning, the odour would come towards us in the room and we would quickly go and attend to it. Again, if anything was happening to my children at night, either my wife or myself would usually get signs and we would quickly go to their room and check on them and if possible, pray with them. But in this case, there was nothing like that. That’s why I said that the fire incident was a mystery and God allowed it to happen.  If God says it shouldn’t happen, my first daughter, a 17-year-old, could have rushed out even if we had to struggle to rescue her younger ones.  But there was nothing like that. How will you describe your children? Everyone can testify that those children were very disciplined. My wife and I come from families of educated people and it is the discipline they gave us that we inculcated in our children. We ensured to enroll all of them in schools where discipline is a core value. Their daily routine was go to school and return home; they didn’t know anywhere. Whenever schools were on break, the children were always indoors. They didn’t play around. In my room, there were no electrical appliances; there was no socket in the room that they could play with. If they wanted to play, they did that in the living room and once they wanted to sleep they went straight to the bedroom. How exactly do you feel losing three children in one fell swoop? What happened to us is unbelievable; I am shocked and it seemed to me that I am still dreaming. It was agonising helplessly watching my three lovely children being burnt by fire and I couldn’t do anything till the fire completely consumed them. I wanted to enter into the fire with them so that we would all be burnt by the inferno but people did not allow me. I think I will be in sorrow forever. It is very painful anytime I think of them, especially when l remember the time our last daughter usually ran from their room early in the morning to my room to sleep in between her mom and I. But I give honour and glory to God and honour the departed souls because the love we gave them as parents was undiluted. Everybody talked about our lovely children. They were too fond of me, particularly the last child. Even when I was in the toilet, she would come looking for me, asking and shouting, “Daddy, where are you?” I give glory to God. The fire was mysterious to us but God understands. By describing the fire as mysterious, are you suggesting that someone was behind it or do you have issues with anyone? I don’t have any misunderstanding with anyone that I can say would warrant this kind of calamity in my family. So many people hate other people unjustly but the love you give to people is measured by God. A lot people who are weak to earn a living usually hate those who are able to. I engage in farming by the side, and a week before this incident, two of the children and I went to the farm to harvest beans and they were happy and excited to participate in the harvest. As a family we have not hurt or offended anybody. I am in the school there; I supervise as a director, coordinate the affairs of the school and assess the teachers. Everybody there is answerable to me. In fact, I am not supposed to be here again; I should now be in either the College of Education, Oju or Katsina-Ala, having spent 34 years in service. But the funny thing is, whether you like it or not people must hate you. There was a time I was on Level 15; my file was hidden for five to 10 years at the Teaching Service Board in order to deny me my deserved promotion. Did you have any premonition that such an ugly incident was lurking in the corner? No, not at all; but  the very day that this ugly incident happened, the children, especially the last one, was telling me that God was his friend and he was going to meet God; then the second born echoed it and I became cold. So, as we were talking, Godson asked: “Daddy where is God?” He said he wanted to know God. It was after the incident happened that I understood the language they were speaking. Apart from your children, what other valuables did you lose to the fire? Apart from the three children that we lost to the fire, my documents that got burnt can’t be quantified, not to talk of my wife’s documents. We lost vehicles and other valuables, too numerous to itemise. We had no opportunity to pick any of our things from the house. What has this incident taught you? This incident has taught me that people should draw closer to God and we should not begrudge anybody because the crowd of sympathisers that I received even when I was in the hospital and when I came home lying helplessly was overwhelming. The encouragement, advice from reverend fathers, pastors and everybody that fought for the lives of these children have gone a long way to strengthen me. I express appreciation to Archbishop Oliver who stood by us and prayed for us. He also brought a roll of wrapper which was used to bury the remains of my children. What kind of help do you need now? I humbly call on government and public-spirited individuals to come to our aid. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com