The Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN, has been commended by the workers in the state for his commitment to their welfare, security and the development of the state. The workers, who described the Governor as a sincere leader, declared their trust and confidence in his administration’s assurance that all salary arrears will be cleared before he leaves office. Speaking on behalf of the workers, the state Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Sunday Adeleye-Oluwole, described Akeredolu as different from the typical Nigerian politician. He said this at a prayer meeting with the Governor held at the Governor’s office premises, Alagabaka, Akure on Tuesday. “I thank Mr Governor for being a sincere man. I don’t have much trust in politicians, but I trust Mr Governor. You have said it all. You said you will clear all salaries before you leave. I trust you. When you came on board, you cleared six months you inherited and I don’t see why you will leave with unpaid salaries,” Adeleye said. The labour leader saluted the Governor for the improved security in the state, adding that the state security network, codenamed Amotekun Corps, has performed well. He said, “I thank the Governor for a good job. I thank the commandant of Amotekun for a good job. Mr Governor, don’t be distracted. Continue to promote workers as and when due. Don’t be distracted from prioritising the welfare of the workers. “We also appreciate the Head of Service and the Commissioner for Finance. The Commissioner has been laying every kobo on the table for us to see. I want to thank the Internal Revenue Service for a job well done too. “I thank Mr Governor for remembering the downtrodden by paying the WAEC fees of the children. Thank you for the autonomy granted to the judiciary and legislature. We appreciate you Mr Governor.“ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com