We could say of COVID-19 that it has the reverse of the Midas touch: It dims the luster of every event it touches. As with the Summer Olympics in Tokyo and every other sporting event since then so it is now with the Africa Cup of Nations. The continent’s premier football tournament that begins today has been beleaguered with COVID-related problems. First, it is being staged amidst the surge of Omicron, a newly isolated and more infectious variant of COVID. Not surprisingly, despite preventive efforts, some teams have had issues with infections. Just days before the tournament begins, for example, Super Eagles striker Victor Osimhen had to withdraw because of a positive COVID test. About the same time, two of Tunisia’s players tested positive. And one of them happens to be Seifeddine Jaziri, the overall top scorer in the just concluded Arab Cup tournament. Gambia, which qualified for AFCON for the first time, is struggling to field a team. Coach Tom Saintfiet told the press on Tuesday that 16 of his 28-man squad were unavailable. And the Confederation of African Football was refusing to let him add to the squad as registered. CAF says it has already made COVID accommodations by increasing squad numbers from 23 to 28. In any case, coronavirus is not the only reason Gambia’s team is depleted. It has also been hampered by injuries and travel restrictions. Talking of travel restrictions, AFCON’s problems were compounded by the threat of some European clubs to keep their African players from the tournament for fear that they would contract the virus. Meanwhile, those clubs are playing games in virus-plagued Europe. It is all a reminder of how subordinate Africa remains to Europe. Africa’s top footballers play there because the professional grass is so much greener. So, European clubs decide whether they may play for their home countries. Understandably, some African critics deem this an affront. But then there is the saying about who pays the piper. For good reason, European clubs are highly protective of their players. Refusing to release them for one reason or another is nothing new. However, it takes a different hue when such withholding threatens to undermine a continent-wide tournament. Mercifully for AFCON, the Europeans clubs generally didn’t follow through on their threats. For the next month or so, they will have to make do without their African stars. Liverpool might be hardest hit, having to make it without Egypt’s Mohamed Salah, Senegal’s Sadio Mané and Guinea’s Naby Keïta. Talking of Salah and Egypt, the Super Eagles have the unenviable task of taking on the Pharaohs in their first match. It is a task that Eagles defenders must be approaching with unease, for Salah has a way of making the ball disappear only to bounce off the net. The other two teams in Group D—Guinea Bissau and Sudan—shouldn’t be too much of a problem. While Nigeria ended 2021 ranked 36th by FIFA, they are ranked 106th and 125th, respectively. Still, the Eagles dare not take them for granted, or they will not make it out of group play. By the way, fans of Bafana Bafana will miss South Africa’s absence from the 24-team tournament. They probably will rattle their vuvuzela in support of neighbour Zimbabwe. In any case, this year’s edition of AFCON promises to be another thrilling tournament. The usually tough North African teams (Egypt, Morocco, Algeria, and Tunisia) are again deemed the favourites. But who dares to overlook the usually sturdy West African entries: Ghana, Ivory Coast, Senegal, Mali and, of course, Nigeria and host Cameroon? It might all depend on the X-factor of this tournament: COVID infections. CAF has a rigid regimen of regulations to contain that. Only a fraction of stadium capacity will be allowed. Players are regularly tested. And fans must present evidence of a negative COVID test obtained no earlier than 72 hours before the event they wish to attend. The experience of club play in Europe and North America shows that such preventive efforts are not foolproof. In the US, several collegiate and professional basketball and American football games have been cancelled or rescheduled because of positive tests. In the case of AFCON, it could conceivably result in the crowning of a champion by default. That is, to the last team standing. Conceivable but improbable. The last COVID? And that leads to further reflections on Omicron. There are learned conjectures that it could be the variant that puts an end to COVID-19 as we have known it. The conjecture derives from a paradox: because the variant is so infectious, it will infect a high percentage of people around the world, thus creating extensive immunity against it. And that will be its doom. That conjecture could only make sense because of another characteristic of Omicron: It is not nearly as serious or deadly as the original COVID-19 or the hitherto prevalent Delta variant. Most people who contract Omicron have mild symptoms or none at all. And it rarely results in hospitalisation or death, especially among the vaccinated. Evidence of these characteristics first emerged in South Africa, where the variant was first identified. Omicron surged there rapidly in November, accounting for up to 90 per cent of cases. Then just as rapidly cases plummeted by early December. “It was a short wave,” Marta Nunes, an epidemiological researcher at the University of Witwatersrand, told The Associated Press, “and the good news is that it was not very severe in terms of hospitalisations and deaths.” The lessened morbidity observed in South Africa has been confirmed by data gathered elsewhere, including by the UK. Health Security Agency. The significance has been underscored by Dr Anthony Fauci, the director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. “As you get further on and the infections become less severe, it is much more relevant to focus on the hospitalisations as opposed to the total number of cases,” the New York Times quoted him as saying. In other words, Omicron is signaling the probability that COVID-19 is heading in the direction of the common cold or at least the common flu. It will still be a nuisance, but one that results in relatively few deaths. That time is not yet here, however. So, Fauci and other virologists still stress the importance of getting vaccinated and boosted and staying masked. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com