The Restoration Agenda Group of the All Progressives Congress in Delta State on Tuesday called for urgent reconciliation with the aggrieved party members in the state. It urged the national body of the party to prevail on the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, who is the APC leader in Delta, “to shift ground by accommodating major stakeholders who feel marginalised and fenced out during the last congresses”. Making the call at a press conference in Warri, the group headed by Prof David Ejenobo of the Delta State University, Abraka, noted that “by so doing, genuine reconciliation will not only take place but the party will be more united”. The group traced the APC crisis in Delta State that climaxed in last Saturday’s defection of some party members to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, to ‘’the party’s lopsided congresses held last year”. Ejenobo said, “Since last week Saturday, many concerned members of the party have been putting their heads together to figure out how to save the soul of the party. This press conference is the result of such discussions. It is the considered opinion of this group that urgent steps need to be taken immediately to stop the APC from going into oblivion in Delta State.” “If APC is to make an impact in the 2023 elections, then this is the only path available to achieving that goal,” he added. While reiterating the need for urgent reconciliation of aggrieved party men, the Restoration Agenda Group maintained that “the APC in Delta State is still very much alive and kicking in spite of the recent ugly developments”. The group stated, “We, therefore, affirm our commitment to the ideals of APC and our neutrality in trying to fashion solutions to the prevailing circumstances. We call on all our teeming APC members to remain steadfast and united in achieving the aims and objectives of the party in Delta State.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com