On Monday, January 17, Americans observed a national holiday in honour of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., one of the highest civic and honourable leaders in the United States’ history. In March 1957, King, Jr., and his wife, Coretta Scott King, left the highly racialised America and travelled to West Africa to attend Ghana’s independence ceremony with a focus on freeing the people from the British colonial domination. A visit that inspired MLK to campaign more against the oppressive system in the US. Today in Nigeria, like we have not seen before in naked terms, the society is at its boiling point of entrenched fear, persecution, repression, oppression, bigotry, and severe rights violations. I believe the MLK Day is an excellent opportunity for the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), who is a faithful Muslim to reflect upon Islam’s support for fair play, equality, and justice. Here is a notable statement with which President Buhari began his presidency on May 29, 2015: “I belong to everybody and I belong to nobody” As one with interest in religious psychology, I once observed in the Quran, in one of its chapters, saying, “O mankind, we have created you … into nations and tribes that you may come to know one another [and not deny one another]” (49:13). Indeed, the Almighty says that mankind is not only destined to exist as diverse peoples, but that we as humans should also welcome this and keenly try to understand people who are different from ourselves. This message of diversity within Islam bears a remarkable resemblance to the themes of Martin Luther King, Jnr’s “I Have a Dream” speech. MLK, in many ways, reminds us that if we truly want harmony in our time, we must act with justice. We must value impartiality and fairness. We must take up the rights of others with the same passion and determination that we pursue our own rights. We should widen our horizons and look at what is right for the world, rather than what is only right for us. These are the elements for justice in our times. Prophet Muhammad (peace and blessings be upon him) stated, “All of you are equal. All men, whatever nation, or tribe they belong to, and whatever station in life they may hold, are equal…an Arab possesses no superiority over the non-Arab, nor does a non-Arab over an Arab.” The Holy Qur’an also states, “And among His signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the diversity of your tongues and colors” (30:23). In the Christian traditions, we are reminded of the following: “But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors” (James 2:9). King once said, “A dream of equality of opportunity, of privilege and property widely distributed; a dream of a land where men will not take necessities from the many to give luxuries to the few.” Buhari is certainly not the first Nigerian leader to show inclinations towards entrenched partiality, systemic tribalism, and cyclical nepotism but by all accounts, he has turned the psychology of equality and opportunity upside down, and he is doing this publicly, boldly, and brazenly. It is apparent that in the past, southern presidents and heads of states had engaged in nepotistic and tribalistic appointments. I agree to an extent that the North has been somewhat neglected resulting in the North’s economic and intellectual backwardness, and Buhari could be right in trying to make up for lost time. But he is overdoing it. The President’s apparent embrace of tribalism, ethnocentrism, localism, nepotism, narrow-mindedness, favouritism, religious bigotry, and anti-intellectualism is resulting into self-sabotage, and everyone is paying for it in terms of experiencing increasing helplessness, uprising, unrest, violence, and insecurity. These fatalistic thought patterns are in fact resulting in national insecurity as those who feel victimised, and paranoid are making the nation somewhat difficult for his regime. What Buhari needs to realise is that reactive or non-reactive violence is not always about the use of guns, knives, or bombs. Coretta Scott King, wife of MLK, once said, “I must remind you that starving a child is violence. Neglecting schoolchildren is violence. Punishing a mother and her family is violence. Discrimination against a working man is violence. Ghetto housing is violence. Ignoring medical need is violence. Contempt for poverty is violence.”  So, I will say this to Buhari, today’s forms of tribalism, ethnocentrism, nepotism, narrow-mindedness, favouritism, and religious bigotry are different forms of violence, and these elements combine to make Nigeria insecure and almost unmanageable. Aside from that, his apparent spirit of domination and extraordinary power now encourages some of his ethnic and religious people to feel somehow exempt from mainstream norms of behaviour, as such we see thuggishness and violence of the Fulani herdsmen towards others. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo once said in 2019 for reasons best known to him that Buhari appointments of Fulani/Hausa Muslim allies and indigenes especially into top positions were to reward them for their huge contribution to the President’s victory in 2015. In other words, the appointments are not essentially based on merit. As Buhari has said, “I appointed those I could trust”.  Now, even liberal northern Muslims are asking the President to embrace fairness wholeheartedly. International, national, and local reports show that Buhari has deeply baked tribalism, religionism and regionalism into key sensitive institutions and strategic ministries. They are too many to count, but I will mention a few like the police, prisons/correctional centre, immigration, national security, civil defence, communications, information, customs, aviation, intelligence, judiciary, fire service, national park service, and National Youth Service Corps. In his own way, Buhari has for the most assigned non-national security and academic-like positions to non-Muslim northerners as in education, health, and labour. I smiled when the President recently said we need prayers in addition to guns to reduce the raging national insecurity complications. What he is not understanding are the infuriating psychological thorns like feelings of geographic rejection, emotions of regional marginalisation, pains of ethnic fragility, and markers of leadership imbalance. These irritants culminate into emotional weapons and defensive pains, and certainly, and they are not helpful ways to get national devotedness and public faith. In Buhari’s reign, ethnic, tribal, and religious lines of hierarchy have undercut highly revered values like equality and justice, and that is not how to push for national security and unity. We know Buhari takes joy in sending good wishes to person and nations in celebratory moods, well, in his messages of good wishes to Americans, as they celebrate the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. But he needs to know that this unique American celebration is mixed with joy and sorrows, as it is a continuance regarding the struggle for justice, equality, and equity. I hope Buhari is shaken up by these thoughts and practices regarding fair play. I hope all these lessons make him more of a bridge-builder. With 17 months to leave office, I hope he starts to treat others, the easterners especially with —gentleness and fairness. Long live President Buhari. Continue to rest in peace and power, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Prof. Oshodi, an American-based forensic psychologist wrote in via transeuniversity@gmail.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com