In its bid to reduce heart-related ailments, Golden Terra Soya Oil, has stressed the importance of using healthy vegetable oils to cook. The firm, in a statement on Tuesday, said the type of fat in diets had an impact on growth and development of the heart and body functions as well as the brain functions. The statement reads, “Scientifically, all edible oils are 100 per cent fatty acids – This is true for all types of oils! However, what makes them different is the type of fats they contain. The fatty acids of all edible oils belong to one of the following – Saturated Fatty acids, Mono-unsaturated Fatty Acids or Poly-Unsaturated Fatty acids, depending upon the saturation of the chemical bonds inside them. All edible oils essentially contain a different proportion of the above three fatty acids and these fatty acids aren’t built alike! There scientific literature available to understand these Fatty acids and their impact on the human body. “The World Health Organisation estimates that every year trans-fat intake leads to more than 500,000 deaths of people from cardiovascular disease. Trans fats increase levels of LDL-cholesterol, a well-accepted biomarker for cardiovascular disease risk, and decrease levels of HDL-cholesterol, which carries away cholesterol from arteries and transport it to the liver, that secretes it into the bile. “A healthy body is needed to drive all of life aspirations; healthy oil consumption habit starts with a step in the right direction. For us, we advocate the use of our soya oil for cooking. It is pure Soya oil, totally sourced and manufactured in Nigeria and should be adopted by every Nigerian for a healthy life.” The statement added that replacing saturated fats with unsaturated fats in the diet reduces risk of cardiovascular diseases and other ailments. “Many careful studies have found that replacing saturated fats with unsaturated fats in the diet reduces risk of cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, or strokes. These studies prompted many medical organisations and public health departments, including the World Health Organisation to officially issue that advice. “The unsaturated fats help protect the heart by maintaining levels of ‘good’ HDL cholesterol while reducing levels of ‘bad’ LDL cholesterol in the blood. PUFA are mainly of two types – Omega 3 or Omega 6; the benefits of which are well documented. The more unsaturated fats an oil has the better for consumption,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com