Families of the murdered chieftains of the Enugu State chapter of the All Progressives Congress on Sunday called on security agencies to fish out the killers of their sons, alleging political assassination. The party’s Youth Leader, Kelvin Ezeoha; and a member of the party, Chidera Agaba, were last Tuesday assassinated during a meeting of the party at Obeagu Awkunanaw Ward 3, Enugu South Local Government Area of the state by masked gunmen. Speaking to journalists on Sunday, during a condolence visit to the deceased families by members of the state APC led by a former Chairman of the party, Dr. Ben Nwoye, at their country home in Amechi, widow of the late Ezeoha, Chidimma, said she was convinced that the killing of her husband was politically-motivated. She narrated how a man kept calling her husband repeatedly on the telephone asking him to come to the meeting venue that day. The pregnant 38-year-old widow and mother of three said her late husband was preparing to attend a family meeting that morning when the man came to their house with two other persons after putting numerous calls across to his phone, adding that the deceased took them to the sitting room where they engaged him in a lengthy discussion before they left. She called on the police and the Enugu State Government to do everything within their powers to ensure that killers of her husband were brought to justice. “I have handed over the matter to God, at the same time calling on the government of Enugu state, police and other security agencies to make sure that the perpetrators do not go unpunished,” she said. Also speaking, the head of the family, Wilson Ogbe, said going by the manner their late brother was lured to the meeting, they do not need a prophet to tell them that his killing was planned. Nwoye however assured the two bereaved families that the party would not rest on its oars until killers of the two men were apprehended and brought to justice. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com