A Lagos-based man, Livinus Idoor, tells RAPHAEL EDE that his 33-year-old businessman younger brother, Chinedu, was stabbed to death on December 30, 2021 during a church bazaar at his village in Enugu Can you tell us what happened on December 30, 2021 in your community that led to the death of your brother at a church? Well, I was not around when the incident happened. The incident happened in our village in Enugu while I was in Lagos on that day. My brother, Chinedu Idoor, travelled from Lagos, his base, to Enugu on December 28, 2021. He travelled by night on December 28 and arrived in Enugu in the morning of December 29.  On Thursday, December 30, he went for the Harvest Thanksgiving and Bazaar of the Corpus Christi Catholic Church, Ezza Nkwubor Nike. I was in Lagos, so, I didn’t witness what happened. But around 10pm on that fateful day, my in-law called me that my younger brother was stabbed to death in the church. It was as if I was struck by a thunderbolt when he told me that. When I asked him who stabbed by brother, he said a group of boys stabbed him while they were fighting with him over a chair that he was sitting on at the church. According to him, the boys stabbed him with knives and pieces of broken bottles. Were the boys identified and arrested? I was told that the boys are from the same community. I was told that their identities were not immediately known because, according to what I was told, there was power outage as of when the incident happened and the people who were around ran away immediately my brother was stabbed. So, when the community leaders arrived at the scene, they found nobody who could explain what happened. Nobody spoke until the following morning when the people that witnessed the incident started giving names of those who killed my brother. They mentioned names of four persons involved in the murder. Have they been arrested? No, no one has been arrested yet. The matter was first reported at the Enugu Metro Police Area Command before it was transferred to Homicide Department of the State Criminal Investigation Department. But the police have not yet arrested the culprits. The police said since those involved had run away they would start to look for them. Did your brother die on the spot or was he rushed to a hospital? I was told that the President General of the community with other leaders of the community first took him to about two hospitals. He was eventually confirmed dead by doctors. So, they deposited his body in a morgue. I was told that after the news spread that my brother had died the boys who killed him ran away. Did you travel to Enugu after you were told about the incident? Yes, I had to travel to Enugu after being told. What kind of a person was your brother? My brother was a cheerful and generous giver. He was loved by people around him because of his goodwill. He was hard-working and believed in himself. What was his occupation? He was a businessman but when he had some setbacks in his business in 2019 he bought a bus and went into commercial transportation. How old was he? He was 33 years old. Was he married? Yes, he was married and had a two- year-old daughter. How are the wife and child now? He and his wife were not even living together before the incident. They had a misunderstanding and the wife left him. Actually, it was his marriage issue that made him come to Enugu from Lagos, to see how he could reconcile with his wife and take her back to Lagos this January. After the misunderstanding and his wife left and returned to Nsukka, because that’s where she is from, the wife’s family had been calling him to come to Nsukka and settle with his wife, so that she could return to him and take care of their kid. But unfortunately, he was murdered by criminals. You said you were told your brother was killed over a seat in the church. Did you verify this story? That was the story I was told. I was told that those boys were dragging a chair with him. I was told my brother was sitting on a chair at the church during the bazaar and he stepped out to answer a call and before he came back one of the boy had already taken over his chair and sat it. When my brother asked him to vacate the seat, he refused. He boy was said to have told him: “Who are you that I would get up for you to sit?” It was at that point that they began to struggle over the seat. Then the boy invited his group members and they pounced on my brother with the knives and broken bottle pieces in their hands. What about your parents? Both of them are dead. They gave birth to seven of us. Chinedu that was murdered is the second to the last child in the family. His absence has already created a vacuum in our family because the daughter is now being taken care of by my immediate younger sister. What are your demands over your brother’s killing? I want justice for my brother. I want all those involved in his murder to be brought to justice.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com