Last week I mentioned that I once saw Dr Abosede Olowofoyeku, a phytotherapist, researcher in Phyto-chemistry and the Chief Executive Officer of The Useful Herbs Naturopathy Limited gather a large amount of pineapple leaves for a client who wanted to go for IVF. She chose the leaves because it has a strong anti- inflammatory effect and does not interfere with the drugs used during IVF. She also said it is for improving egg quality which is usually damaged by the high levels of inflammation the procedure (IVF) itself produces. This week I will be discussing pineapple leaves and peels. I will not be doing justice to this discussion if I do not let you know what Bromelain is. Pineapple, botanically called Ananas comosus, contains an enzyme called Bromelain which is derived from the stems, although it exists in all parts of the fresh fruit. The medicinal qualities of pineapples are attributed to bromelain. It (Bromelain) is a protein-digesting enzyme. People use it topically to remove dead skin from burns and orally to reduce inflammation and swelling — particularly of the nasal passages. It is used in cosmetics and it is also used as a meat tenderiser. Its potential health benefits have been studied extensively in multiple areas. These include: Osteoarthritis, cardiovascular diabetes, asthma, chronic sinusitis colitis, burns and cancer. In fact, several studies showed that bromelain can inhibit cell growth and induce cell apoptosis (cell death) in different cancers. Now that we know what bromelain is, let us talk about pineapple leaves. It produces a white silky fiber that some cultures use to weave cloth. The extracts are rich in phenols which are compounds that according to animal studies may have potent health benefits. Other compounds of medicinal interest found in pineapple leaves include p-coumaric acid (CA), flavonoids, tannins, bromelain, glycosides, proteins and ascorbic acid. Wood is used as the major raw material in paper production around the world and this has resulted in severe deforestation. This has led to the need of finding alternative raw materials for paper production, pineapple leaves come to the rescue here. Let us see some more benefits of the leaves: Improved blood sugar control: Certain chemical extracts from pineapple leaves are rich in phenols and may exert hypoglycemic or blood sugar lowering activity. In two studies in mice with diabetes, these phenols reduced blood sugar levels by reducing insulin resistance. Insulin resistance is when your body’s cells are less responsive to the effect of the blood sugar-lowering hormone called insulin. Lowered blood cholesterol: The liver is one of the main organs responsible for regulating cholesterol levels in one’s body. Promisingly, phenols extracted from pineapple leaves have shown potential for reducing blood cholesterol and hindering the development of NAFLD (non-alcoholic fatty liver disease) in mice. They have also been shown to prevent the increase of triglycerides in mice after a meal.  By working like statin drugs, phenolic compounds from pineapple leaves could potentially help reduce blood cholesterol. Anti-inflammatory benefits: Inflammation is one’s body’s natural response to infection or stress. Over time, it can compromise the integrity of one’s immune system and increase the risk of certain diseases, including cancer. In one mouse study, phenols, tannins, flavonoids, glycosides, bromelain, and other compounds extracted from pineapple leaves demonstrated anti-inflammatory properties. Specifically, they stopped the action of inflammatory substances in the body produced by white blood cells, like macrophages. Antioxidant properties: Pineapple fruit and leaves are rich in antioxidants called phenols, flavonoids, tannins, and ascorbic acid which can improve conditions associated with oxidative stress and inflammation. Improved digestion: The digestive enzyme bromelain is found in the fruit and leaves of pineapple. Used widely as a meat tenderiser, it is an enzyme that breaks down proteins and it may aid digestion too. I always use the peels to sweeten my Zobo drink. It can be used for animal feed (pellets and animal feed block), production of paper and fertilisers because of the high-fiber and cellulose content. Composting transforms it into nutrient-rich material that can be used in the garden to improve soil texture and fertilise plants. Let us see some of its benefits Scientific studies In a study titled, “Evaluation of acute anti-inflammatory effect of Ananas comosus leaf extracts in rats,’’ by Mondal et al, the study assessed the chloroform and methanol extracts of A. comosus leaf for their acute anti-inflammatory potential by carrageenan induced paw oedema in Wistar albino rats. All of the test extracts exhibited significant anti-inflammatory activity. The methanol extract was found to be the most potent followed by the chloroform extract. In a study titled, “Pineapple peel wastes (PPW) as a potential source of antioxidant compounds by Saraswaty et al, the results showed PPW contained phenolic compound, ferulic acid, vitamin A and C as antioxidants. Both dried and fresh PPW were extracted using mixtures of ethanol and water with various concentrations and the highest antioxidant activity was in the water extract. In a study titled, “Ameliorating hyperglycemia by Ananas comosus leaves extract,’’ by Atiq Ur Rahman, study was carried out on 20 male rats. Rats were provided with A. comosus leaves extract for 35 days. Serum samples were collected to check the level of serum glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, AST, ALP, ALT, uric acid, urea and creatinine. Results indicated that A. comosus leaves have anti-diabetic properties and do not possess any harmful effect on kidney and liver. To make pineapple peel tea, put the peels in a pot. You can also add cloves, ginger and cinnamon sticks. Add some water and allow it to brew for some 15 minutes on low flame. Turn it off and let it steep for another 15 minutes. Your peel tea is ready. Another way is to boil the peels, let it cool down. Blend it, sieve and drink. To make pineapple leaf tea, just boil it and then drink the water. If you are able to get a large amount of pineapple leaves, spread somewhere in the house, it will dry on its own. Then, you can take it to boil from time to time. Make sure you wash your pineapples well before peeling. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com