The House of Representatives has called for the establishment of more industries in Nigeria to reduce the unemployment and crime rates. At the plenary on Wednesday, the House urged the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment to “urgently develop a comprehensive template for the establishment of industries across the Federation”. The call was based on a motion moved by a member, Chinedu Martins, titled ‘Urgent need to combat unemployment and social vices through the establishment of industries across the federation.’ According to him, the unprecedented rate of unemployment is the root of the social vices currently experienced in the country. He said the 33.3 per cent unemployment and the 28 per cent youth unemployment rates, amounting to over 11 million unemployed youths, “verify the lack of cottage industries in the country, which should have played a critical role in engaging youthful energy positively in the production of raw materials as well as semi–finished products, thus distract young people from taking up social vices as the only alternative for survival and social mobility.” The lawmaker stressed the need for a comprehensive industrial revolution and intervention “at this point in the history of our nation, given the recent developments in the political, social and economic spheres of the country, which emphasise the fact that youths are important stakeholders in the Nigerian project”. Martins noted that the predominance of industrial clusters in southeastern Asian countries had motivated industrial growth in the form of Gross Domestic Product and massive decline in unemployment, “making way for stability in the economy, political leadership and lower crime rates as a result of their remarkable success in industrialisation”. He said a similar strategy of building cottage industries had worked “agreeably” in some African countries like Rwanda, Mozambique, Ghana and South Africa, describing this as “an indication that grassroots industrialisation produces an array of positive economic and social impacts”.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com