Gunmen suspected to be hired assassins, on New Year’s Day, shot dead a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Akwa Ibom State, Mr Otu Inyang. Inyang, who hailed from Ikot Udoma village in the Eket Local Government Area of the state, was shot dead while returning home with his wife after the crossover service at the Qua Iboe Church in the community. PUNCH Metro gathered that the deceased was ambushed by his assailants, who fired several bullets in his head a few metres away from his residence. A source said other worshippers, who were returning home after the service, did not suspect that the noise they heard was gunfire, as the sound of knockouts thrown by excited youths to herald the New Year rent the air. The President of the Ekid Peoples Union and former governorship candidate of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party, Dr Samuel Udonsek, described the deceased as a formidable politician and community leader. He said, “I received this news with great discomfort and sadness. I must say that this model of conflict resolution is uncommon in Ekid land. “I knew Otu Inyang very well back from our days in the ANPP between 2000 and 2003, when he helped us build a formidable opposition party. “When we attended his thanksgiving service after his retirement, I got to know firsthand how devoted he was to his native Ikot Udoma and the Qua Iboe Church and also how his people regarded and respected him. “For me, and indeed the generality of the remnants of our old ANPP structure, a great friend and loyalist has departed.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Odiko Macdon, who confirmed the incident, said the Commissioner of Police, Andrew Amiengheme, had ordered his deputy to conduct a discreet investigation into the incident and ensure that the culprits were brought to justice. “The command has received such a report and it is unfortunate. The CP has ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police in the command to conduct a discreet investigation into the incident and ensure that the culprits are brought to justice. So, we are on top of the situation and I want to give an assurance that they will not escape,” Macdon stated. Copyright PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com