GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, has flayed the bandits’ attacks in Sokoto State and other parts of the country. He commiserated with the Sokoto State Government and the Sultan over the unwarranted killing of innocent citizens by bandits, describing it as barbaric. Wike stated this when he and the Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, paid a courtesy call on the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji  Sa’ad Abubakar, in his palace in Sokoto on Saturday. This was contained in a statement issued by the Special Assistant to the Rivers State Governor on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, in Port Harcourt. The governor reportedly stated, “We have had a long standing relationship and so the people of Rivers State have told me to commiserate with you and people of Sokoto State. “I’m sorry for what happened and we believe God will give the families that have lost their loved ones the courage, give them the strength to bear this unnecessary loss of lives.” The governor, who was accompanied by a delegation of Rivers’ elders, also thanked the Sultan for the role he has been playing to ensure stability in the country “You’ve been trying to stabilize all the religious groups, all the ethnic groups, to understand we have no other country than our country called Nigeria. “You have always spoken out irrespective of whether it touches on Muslims, whether it touches on Christians, on whether it touches on those who don’t have religion. “You’ve always spoken out and you have admonished governments where necessary in terms of insecurity, in terms of other crises, in terms of poverty. You have always spoken out and advised the government on the best way to try and see that things get better for the citizens of the country,” he added. The Sultan of Sokoto, thanked Wike and the delegation for the brotherly visit. He blamed lack of love for the killings, confusion and acrimonious relationship among Nigerians. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com