Goals from Rabiu Ali and Kokoete Udo were enough to hand Kano Pillars their first win of the season against former champions Enyimba on Sunday at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium in Kaduna, while Enugu Rangers thrashed Niger Tornadoes 4-0 at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium to record the biggest win of match-day four. Ali scored Pillars’ first goal of the season from the penalty spot in the 45th minute, while midfielder Udo ensured the maximum points with his 56th minute strike. It was a second consecutive loss for the People’s Elephants, managed by ex-international Finidi George, who were beaten at home by Rivers United 1-0 last week. In Enugu, the Flying Antelopes scored all four goals in the second half, with Kenechukwu Agu grabbing a brace in the 58 and 70th minutes, while Shedrack Asiegbu and Christian Nnaji also found the back of the net in the 73rd and 89th minutes respectively. Remo Stars consolidated their position on top of the league table with a 1-1 draw at Dakkada FC at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium in Uyo, while Rivers United failed to dethrone Remo at the top after they were held goalless by Sunshine Stars at the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium, Port Harcourt. Plateau United pummeled Heartland 3-0 in Jos while MFM FC suffered their third loss of the season, a 3-0 defeat to Wikki Tourists. At the Lafia Township Stadium, Nasarawa United proved too hot for champions, Akwa United, who went down 2-0, their first loss of the season. Tochukwu Udeh and last season’s joint top scorer, Silas Nwankwo, were Nasarawa’s goal scorers. Abia Warriors will face Kwara United on Monday (today), while Gombe United welcome Lobi Stars, as Shooting Stars hope to record their first win of the season when they welcome Katsina United to the Lekan Salami Stadium, Ibadan. Copyright PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com