Activists under the aegis of the Revolutionary Socialist Movement have condemned the alleged deactivation of the leader of Revolution Now, Omoyele Sowore’s passport, voter card, national identity card, and driver’s licence. Omoyele Sowore, also an activist, had claimed the Federal Government deactivated all his means of identification. Reacting, the activists in a statement titled, ‘End continue attacks on Omoyele Sowore! Free Sowore now!’ said the deactivation is a violation of Sowore’s rights. In the statement by their Publicity Secretary, Salako Kayode, the activists said, “We are shocked by the recent bizarre attack on him by the Buhari regime: Mr Omoyele Sowore’s passport, voter card, national identity card, and driver’s license were deactivated on the country’s electronic biometrical system! “Sowore can no longer use any of these cards for any transactions within or outside the country. This is an outrageous attack and a gross violation of most basic human and democratic rights. “This attack is another one out of many that have been carried against him since his arrest in August, 2019. These attacks include: restricting him to Abuja for over two years now; sponsoring thugs to attack him at court premises on different occasions; even firing shots at him as was the case in May last year when a police officer shot at Sowore during a protest at Unity Fountain; the list is endless. Now they’ve essentially ‘de-citizenised’ Sowore. “It appears that the Buhari regime and its cohorts have forgotten they’re elected and must be answerable to opposition voices. What is becoming clear is that they are determined to try to crash every opposition voice, every activist who raises their voice against the regime, for human and democratic rights, and in the interests of the laboring masses, the youth, and the poor.” They subsequently called for an official and independent investigation into “attacks” on Sowore. The activists said, “This attack affects all progressive forces in the country. Pressure must be mounted to force the regime back. It is a matter of defending everybody’s democratic rights, everyone’s right to criticise and fight against the policies that serve the rich and the corrupt elite against the interests of the people. “The attacks against Mr Sowore are an additional manifestation of a failed state and a jittery regime that is terrified of opposition voices, particularly amongst the youth. “This is an attempt to terrorize people who want to fight against the regime to scare people away from fighting against Buhari’s tyranny. RSM calls on all progressive forces to act now. We must end the filibuster in the political space and attacks on activists during protests. We must work towards a better Nigeria that’s free from corruption, abuse of office, and poverty; where peace, justice, and equality shall reign.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com