The family of the former Head of the Interim National Government, Chief Ernest Shonekan, on Wednesday formally informed the Alake and paramount ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, in Abeokuta, Ogun State, of the demise of the Egba high chief. Shonekan, who died in Lagos on Tuesday at the age of 85, held the title of Abese of Egbaland. The family, led by the first son of the deceased, Adeboye, met with the monarch as tradition demands and told him of the passing away of the family head. Speaking with journalists at the palace of the monarch, Adeboye said the family could not unilaterally announce burial date for Shonekan without input from the government and the traditional institution, where he was a key stakeholder. Adeboye was accompanied by some traditional chiefs from his father’s Itoko clan in the Abeokuta South Local Government of the state to inform the Alake-in-council of the former ING leader’s demise. Adeboye said the family had begun consultations with relevant authorities on the burial arrangements and dates. He said, “My father passed away early yesterday (Tuesday); we are now going to go for consultation and we will carry his royal highness (Alake) along; once the picture is clear, we shall make further announcements. “He (Shonekan) was my mentor; he was a man of integrity; he was a decent man and he exemplified everything they call a thorough Christian; all I can do is just to aspire to be like him. “I will miss him for all those things I said; he was my mentor, someone I look up to everyday; he just led by example; everything I do, I used to consult him but he is not there anymore.” In his remarks, Oba Gbadebo recalled how he used to play squash with the deceased in 1984 and 1985 in Abeokuta. He described Shonekan as a proud son of Egbaland, who brought peace and unity to Nigeria during his short stint in government. The Alake said, “We join the global community in mourning a great Nigerian, who for 82 days was used by God to maintain the unity of this country. “We are with you (the family); you are not alone in all this and God will console you; we pray that God will replace E. O. Shonekan for Egba; another Egba son will do better in the mighty name of Jesus; we pray that you (Adeboye) will surpass his achievements. Once again please accept our condolences. “I remember those days I used to play squash with him; I used to beat him and he used to beat me too; he had a squash court in his house and so it was convenient to play with him; that was in the year 1984- 1985.” Meanwhile, Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has described Shonekan, as a seasoned administrator who did his best for the country. Sanwo-Olu said this on Wednesday in a condolence message issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile. He said, “On behalf of the Government and people of Lagos State, I want to express my sincere and heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and associates of Chief Ernest Shonekan. “He was a renowned technocrat, seasoned administrator and passionate leader who served his country meritoriously as a public servant during his short tenure as number one citizen in Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com