The Coordinator of Tinubu Support Organisations in Oyo State, Abiodun Ambali, on Tuesday said a national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, was way ahead of others seeking to contest the Presidency in 2023. He said the former Lagos State Governor’s has a national spread in terms of support. Ambali spoke in an interview with journalists in Ibadan on Tuesday at the inauguration of the executives of the TSO in Oyo State. He said, “Petitions were written against him to the EFCC, the man was investigated and he was cleared of all allegations. All others eyeing Aso Rock have skeletons in their cupboards. “Tinubu’s wealth of experience can move this country forward in terms of economic development, security, industrialisation and youth empowerment.” The Director-General of TSO, Aminu Suleiman, said he has started assembling lawyers to sue Tinubu to compel him to contest the 2023 presidential election. Suleiman insisted that Tinubu must contest because he could not turn his back at Nigerians especially at this time. He said the group was not mobilising support for Tinubu because of his wealth, saying the former Lagos State Governor does not need to spend any money to emerge the President. Suleiman said the project would be cheap to run because of the credibility of Tinubu and the massive support he already had from Nigerians from all over the country. He said, “I already have lawyers to drag him to court to contest. Asiwaju must contest. “He must come out to show that he is capable of turning things around in the country. Somebody that ruled Lagos State for eight years and performed wonderfully well has the capacity to rule Nigeria very well.” The Coordinator of the TSO in the South-West, Ayodele Fatusi, in her address said the group had covered 89 per cent of the country in their efforts to mobilise support for Tinubu. She said, “We are very strong in the North. The support for Asiwaju in the North is very strong and I want us to have a strong support in the South also. “ If Asiwaju is enjoying such a tremendous support in the North, I believe he should enjoy more here especially in the Siuth-West.” The Director of Mobilisation of TSO in Oyo State, Semiu Alebiosu, said Tinubu had the knowledge and experience to turn around the situation in the country. He said they would plead with him to contest to liberate the country from its numerous worse. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com