A group, Coalition of Northern Activists for Peace, leading some protesters hit Kaduna streets on Monday, declaring that the region was not “bleeding” but in a healing process. Acknowledging there was a spate of insecurity across the North over the years, the group insisted that the killings, maiming, kidnapping were all politically motivated by enemies of the region. They said the killings were a result of over twelve years of challenges which the current regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), is frantically working towards addressing. In what they described as a peaceful rally in support of President Buhari and the security agents’ efforts to address the security challenges across the region, the protesters with the hashtag: “#Northishealing”, carried banners inscriptions such as
“No to patriot in the day and terrorists at night,” “Stop sponsoring terrorists in Bauchi, Sokoto, Kaduna and Zamfara states,” “Stop sponsoring evil against those you elected to protect,” “We proclaim and support healing in Northern Nigeria,” “Let killing ends with 2021,” “We are crossing over with healing in Northern Nigeria,” and, “We say no to people who are clerics in the day, bandits and politicians at night,” among others. The Kaduna State Convener of the CNAP, Prince Zubairu Mukhtar while addressing newsmen, said the rally was organized in appreciation of the substantial efforts of the Buhari regime and the security agencies in addressing the challenges that have bedevilled Northern Nigeria. He argued that they are not unaware of the thousands of lives that had been lost to insecurity in the region, “we can see frantic efforts of the security agencies in curtailing the activities of bandits, terrorist and cyber propagandas that have been terrorizing most northern parts of the country.” Mukhtar said, “The North has over time been in the spotlight with issues of insecurity specifically banditry, terrorism and cyber propaganda. We all know for certain that the issues at stake require a multi-stakeholder approach, which is necessary considering the dynamics of the issues that have affected the socio-economic well-being of the peaceful and loving people of Kaduna State and indeed Northern Nigeria. “It is a known fact that the past twelve years have been challenging, especially with the havoc caused by the activities of the Boko Haram insurgent group and other militant organisations in States like Borno, Yobe, Katsina, Bauchi, Plateau and our dear Kaduna State. It is indeed a statement of fact that the actions of these criminal elements brought sorrow, tears and blood in a most barbaric and condemnable manner. “As concerned stakeholders in Northern Nigeria and Kaduna State, we cannot feign ignorance to the issues affecting our state and the region, which by all indications are politically motivated. This is incognizant that successive Governments attempted to address the issues. However, their best wasn’t good enough, so much so that we feared that Armageddon had come. “However, the present administration’s actions towards addressing the issues in Northern Nigeria have been noteworthy despite the array of conspiracies against it. We knew that it was equally a daunting task, for it would not be business as usual. We knew that the promoters of bloodshed in Kaduna and indeed Northern Nigeria would fight back vigorously. And they did, but to no avail, because we have a president who has displayed an unalloyed Leadership, commitment to leaving Nigeria better than he met it. “Today, my comrades, we are all witnesses to the notable efforts of our security agencies in curtailing the activities of bandits, terrorists and cyber propaganda that have been terrorising most northern parts of the country including Kaduna State. “Their operational strategies have indeed yielded positives, and we are all witnesses to the heavy casualties suffered by these non-state actors due to the proactive approach developed and employed by the heads of the security agencies in Nigeria. “We also encourage other critical stakeholders in Northern Nigeria to it as a challenge that the peace building process in Northern Nigeria is sustained towards achieving the overall objective of peace and tranquillity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com