Nigerian Actress and On Air Personality, Toke Makinwa, has sounded a note of warning to news sites peddling rumours of her involvement with oil magnate, Aliyu Abubakar. According to certain news sites (not The PUNCH) Makinwa had dragged Aliyu Abubakar to court after he refused to fulfill promises made to her as a romantic partner. The actress took to Twitter on Wednesday to post a letter signed by her lawyer, Adeyinka Olumide-Fusika SAN, addressed to Funmi Falana, Abubakar’s lawyer, which stated that the actress had never heard Abubakar’s name or “of his existence as a human being” before a call was put to her about the rumour. The letter, titled ‘Re: Toke Makinwa Allegedly Drags Sugar Daddy to court over Unfulfilled Promises,’ also advised that the client’s (Abubakar) demands, which where not stated in the letter, should be addressed to “mischievous characters (that is, online publishers) who, hiding under the anonymity of the Internet and obviously aiming to exploit my client’s name and attract traffic to their worthless website, authored and published the fictional association of your client with her.” In a long Twitter thread, the actress also said she would no longer turn a blind eye to false narratives published by bloggers to damage her reputation. She tweeted, “I really hate to give life to drama but at some point some things really just have to be addressed once and for all. Bloggers really need to do better this year. You may not like me, that’s ok, but what you won’t continue to do is disrespect me. It’s enough. “Many a times, false narratives have been created over the years. Most times I have looked away thinking you’ll get bored and the truth will always speak for itself but the obsession with my vagina and where it’s been or who it is servicing is completely crazy. “I really don’t want to start my year like this but I won’t let all I have built over the years be reduced to false stories that go on for so long, especially when I’m in the middle of important things going on with me. I get it, agenda must agend (sic) but let’s be guided.” The Gulder Ultimate Search anchor further noted that these blogs would not pay attention to her achievements but would rather focus on her sexual life. “I could launch businesses, empower my community, find the cure to cancer and they won’t care to promote it, but stories about who I’m sleeping with, you see that one, they’ll hawk it like gala on the street and this year I’m not looking away again,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com