Writing of mock examination is henceforth compulsory for prospective candidates of National Examination Council and West African Senior School Examination. At a meeting of the management of the Ministry of Education and proprietors of private schools in Lokoja, the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Wemi Jones , reiterated the State Education Law 2020. The Commissioner who was represented at the meeting by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mr Emmanuel Idenyi, said schools should register and present details of their candidates for Common Entrance and Mock examinations to the Ministry according to provisions of the the State Education Law 2020 or be sanctioned. According to him, “Mock, which is designed to help students prepare for NECO and WASSCE had to be centralised like the external examinations it mimicked; this should be coordinated by the Ministry”. The Commissioner explained that the guidelines of Kogi Education Law 2020 as approved is not punitive but designed to aid school owners to operate effectively and the Ministry to project and prepare schools in the state to best standards. He encouraged owners of private schools who had hitherto failed to register with the Ministry to do so immediately as unapproved schools would not be allowed to write external examinations. He further appealed to private school owners to register with the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools for ease of administration. While announcing that four students in the state qualified for the 2022 Olympia National Maths  Quiz Competition and would be sponsored to the next stage in Jos by the Ministry, the Commissioner noted that the State Education Ministry had addressed shortcomings of the past and better results were being recorded.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com