The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, on Monday ordered prisons officers to shoot dead anybody who attempts to attack any correctional centre in the country. The minister gave this order while inspecting the Agodi Custodial Centre, Ibadan, Oyo State capital. He commended the officers and men of the custodial centre for what he described as high level hygiene and cleanliness of the place but stressed that attackers must not be allowed to live to tell the story. He said the officers must make it impossible for anyone to penetrate the facility because it is a red zone and that must be clearly displayed at the entrance of the facility. Aregbesola, who lamented frequent attacks of custodial centres in the country, described any attack on any correctional centre as an attack on the state and such must never be allowed again. He said, “The most important thing is the security impregnability of this facility. Make this facility impregnable. This is a red zone, dangerous zone. Whoever attempts to breach the security here is already dead. He must not live to tell the story. Other people will tell his or her story. “Any effort to breach our facility is not acceptable. Don’t shoot to injure, shoot to kill. Don’t shoot to disable, shoot to kill. This is a total embodiment of the state to guarantee the security of the people. “We will do our best regarding your welfare to ensure effective service. “I must commend your work for not recording any case of COVID-19 in your facility. But most importantly, you must be effective in preventing the penetration of this facility. You must have the capacity to repel viciously any attempt to penetrate this facility.” Speaking with journalists at the Maximum Security Custodial Centre, Olomi area of Ibadan, the minister lamented that custodial centres in the country were holding inmates much more than their designed capacities. He said the Federal Government was working on some measures to  ensure that the facilities are decongested very soon. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com