AHEAD of the national convention of the All Progressives ConAgress slated for February 26 in Abuja, the South-South EmergiAng Leaders’ Forum has warned party leaders to avoid electing former governors and individuals who have been indicted for financial crimes by the anti-graft agencies. The National Coordinator of SELF, Preye Wilson, disclosed this in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday. Wilson warned that the APC does not need a national chairman who would be dragged in and out of the anti-corruption agencies’ offices to explain his past dealings. He added that past experiences should no longer be the prime criteria for electing party leaders. Citing a Punch report titled ‘APC faces integrity test, five chairmanship aspirants on EFCC radar,’ the forum warned that if any of the allegedly indicted chairmanship aspirants is elected the national chairman, the party could be blackmailed by the opposition parties and critics. SELF urged party delegates and leaders at all levels to consider Mohammed Musa’s integrity, track records, firmness, and simplicity among those parading themselves as chairmanship aspirants. Wilson stated, “For us in the South-South Emerging Leaders’ Forum, we believe that the best way the ruling party can continue to discourage corruption as clearly stated in the agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari is to elect a new national chairman that’s free of EFCC or ICPC cases. “We also note that since the successful merger process that produced the ruling APC, former governors have had enough time. From our father, former governor of Osun State, Bisi Akande, who was succeeded by another former governor of Edo State, John Oyegun and later to another former governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole, we feel it is time to try a senator and a competent hand at that.” “We, therefore, appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President and Speaker, former and serving governors, and all the APC leaders at all levels to support the aspiration of Senator Mohammed Musa from Niger state to emerge the next national chairman of APC,” Wilson said. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com