The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria and the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria, on Friday, said the country’s refineries and pipelines must first be fixed before the government could remove subsidy on Premium Motor Spirit, popularly called petrol. Reacting to the latest position of the government on moves to stop the subsidy regime, the National Public Relations Officer, IPMAN, Chief Chinedu Ukadike, stated that marketers had always made their views about the issue known to the government. Ukadike said, “We have said on several occasions that subsidy can be removed, but our refineries should be fixed and the construction of modular refineries should be encouraged here and there. This will ensure that we have optimum production. “Nigeria consumes a lot of petroleum products and once we have functional refineries, it will reduce the huge amount of dollars we spend on the importation of petrol and others. “Another thing is that when you are talking about subsidy, you should look at the distribution channels. These channels should be efficiently managed and the old worn-out pipes be replaced with new ones.” The IPMAN spokesperson stated that functional pipelines would significantly reduce the cost of petrol across the country. He said, “It will cut down the cost of transportation of petroleum products because when transporting through pipelines, the cost might be around N2 per litre. “But when you are transporting products with trucks, the transportation cost will be in the range of N40 to N50 per litre. Who bears this cost? Of course, we the citizens bear it.” On his part, the General Secretary, PENGASSAN, Lumumba Okugbawa, stated that the position of the association on petrol subsidy removal had not changed. When asked if PENGASSAN had altered its stance on subsidy following the recent announcement of the government on the issue, Okugbawa replied, “No new stance. It is the same position as before.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com