The Chamba people in the Bisaula community of Kurmi Local Government Area of Taraba State on Wednesday called on the state government to set up a commission of inquiry into the crisis between the Ichen and the Chamba people in Bisaula. The Mai-Angwa, Chamba-Bisaula, Bala Kukwa, made the call in a press statement he personally signed and made available to journalists in Jalingo. According to him, such a commission would unravel both the remote and immediate causes of the unrest in order to pave way for the restoration of peace in the area. He also urged the Federal, state and local governments to intervene immediately by deploying more security personnel in troubled areas such as Gateri, Bisaula, Agabi and Sunkuru. Kukwa noted that such measure, when immediately followed by a visit of the council chairman to the affected families with relief materials to the displaced persons, would help in no small measure in calming the situation. He said, “We, the Chamba community in Bisaula, hereby call on the state government to set up a commission of inquiry to unravel the remote and immediate causes of the crisis, and as well recommend measures to avert reoccurrence. “We also appeal for the deployment of more security personnel to the troubled communities to save lives and properties of our people. “The security operatives should release unconditionally, all our youths unjustly arrested and detained in the wake of the unfortunate attacks by the Ichen people.” Kukwa expressed concern over the recent press conference on the matter addressed by the President, Ichen Cultural and Development Association, Dr Ahmed Bibinu, where he alleged that Dakka-Chamba people were only settlers in Bisaula. “According to Bibinu, Chamba migrated to Bisaula ‘in 1930 or thereabout’. If it is so, then what about the Ichen people that migrated to Bisaula only after the 1961 plebiscite? “The ICADA President will do well to provide proofs of his claims and assertions,” it stated. Our correspondent reported that the crisis which broke out in Bisaula on Dec 31, 2021, between the Ichen and the Dakka-Chamba people claimed eights lives on both sides and left thousands of people displaced with property worth millions of naira destroyed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com