The Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, has charged the corps members serving in the state, especially at the various government ministries, departments and agencies, to be productive and engage themselves in ventures that will add value to themselves and the state. The governor noted that one of the motives of their service year was to train them, allow them to keep in touch with the reality of life in order to prepare them ahead of life after the service year. He spoke through the state Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Wale Akinlosotu, during an interactive session with the corps members, posted to the ministry. According to him, there are various budding talents and skills inherent in each of the corps members and he asked them to form a team with concepts that can be showcased to the world. He promised to give them the needed support, urging them to work with their departmental directors and let their creative ideas translate to reality, by starting with an in-house performance by March, this year. He said, “You need to have to be disciplined to succeed. When you provide value, you will be successful. Success is abstract but when you add value to something, then, you’re successful. “Dedication to duty is also very important, we are inspecting you now so that we can get the right positive output that we are expecting from you. “Think outside the box, go to the junkyard, do whatever you need to do, to make it happen. If you need to sit down all day and paint some stones, to create what you need to create, do it. “You need to be creative to get things done. And with what I have heard today, I think you have the talents to make this happen.” In her remarks, the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Boladale Akinyanmi, advised the corps members to make use of the opportunity provided by the ministry to serve their fatherland, adding that they did not necessarily have to go through the rope of the civil service before they can make impactful contributions to the society. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com