The member representing Lafia/Obi federal constituency at the National Assembly, Abubakar Sarki-Dahiru, has offered free medical services to no fewer than 650 people in his constituency in Nasarawa state. Speaking at the closing ceremony of the 3-day free medical outreach on Sunday in Obi Local Government Area, Sarki-Dahiru, explained that the programme was aimed at ensuring that his constituents were healthy in order for them to continue to enjoy the dividends of democracy. Sarki-Dahiru who was represented by one of his aides, Abdullahi Ahmed-Dahiru, stated that the event was also to encourage residents of the area to know their HIV/AIDS status and on how to prevent transmission of the virus. He said, “The desire to organize this programme is because I was informed that most of my constituents have various health challenges and can not afford treatment in hospitals. A programme like this was held in Lafia LGA a few days ago and now we are in Obi LGA in a bid to touch the lives of our people. “We came here with medical doctors and drugs were given to people diagnosed with hypertension, malaria, typhoid fever, diabetes, HIV/AIDS and people who had issues with their eyes. Cases that required surgery were transferred to hospitals in Lafia, the state capital. “We hope to continue with this intervention whenever the resources are available.” In his speech, the Chief Executive Officer and Director of the firm who is also the leader of the medical team, Joshua Adetunji, commended the lawmaker for organising the free medical outreach for his constituents. He said, “The lawmaker has really done well for his people. Members of my team were able to attend to as many people as possible and I am happy that most of them are already recovering from their ailments”. Paul Ofega, who spoke for other beneficiaries of the free medical outreach programme, expressed gratitude to the lawmaker and prayed for God’s guidance and protection in his future endeavours. Our correspondent reports that representatives of the Federal Medical Centre, Keffi, were on the ground to ensure that all medical rules concerning outreaches were observed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com