The Chairman, National Population Commission, Nasir Kwarra, says a total of 772 local government areas across the 36 states of the federation and Abuja have been ‘demarcated’ for the conduct of the planned census in 2022. According to him, the first-ever digital population census is also realistic in May 2022. Kwarra spoke during a courtesy visit to the Kaduna State Governor,  Nasir El-Rufai, at the Sir Kashim Ibrahim Government House, in the state capital on Monday. The NPC boss maintained that the commission was more than set for the conduct of the first-ever digital population census in the country. According to him, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari, (retd) will be willing to make a proclamation for the census. Kwarra told the governor that the purpose of the visit was to create public awareness about the forthcoming headcounts and solicit the support of the government and the good people of the state. He further told the governor that the commission had conducted an Enumeration Area Demarcation exercise in 99 per cent  of the listed areas across the federation He said, “A total of 772 LGAs have been successfully demarcated across the 36 states and FCT. “The demarcation of the last two LGAs will be completed in the next one month. In Kaduna State, only Birnin-Gwari LGA is remaining because of insecurity.  We are ready to give the country a first-ever digital census by May 2022. “We have the map data in our system, androids which, unlike the analogue era will make it very easy for a reliable and credible census.” In his remarks, El-Rufai said the state was in dire need of an update of the headcounts of its citizens for proper planning. The governor noted that as the third most populated state in the country,  the state would work with the commission to ensure the successful conduct of the census. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com