The National Coordinator of the Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, Emmanuel Onwubiko, talks to ALEXANDER OKERE about his experience as a family man What does fatherhood mean to you? A father is someone who understands his role as a caregiver and someone who brings happiness to his home and is always ready to inspire his children to achieve their self-actualisation. He helps his children to understand their obligations towards God and humanity and helps them to concentrate on their educational tasks. A father safeguards his home, encourages and motivates his children. What role does age play in responsible fatherhood? Age does not mean emotional and psychological maturity. The reason why emphasis is placed on age before marriage is so that the person can accumulate a body of experiences and personal wealth. One cannot get married and start procreating when you do not have any futuristic plan for children. The role of a father is not only to provide food for his children but also to think about the future of his children and their education. Most men become mature emotionally and psychologically when they turn 25, 30 or 35 and that is the appropriate time to begin to think about how to build a home. Some men are not lucky to have kids immediately after marriage. I spent about nine years, so it is good to start early. My dad was just 22 when he married my mum and my mum was also very young, and they had kids at a young age. The joy in having a young man as a father is that the children would have the opportunity to grow with him. When the age difference is too much, the child may begin to look at you as a grandfather or an ancestor. However, it is not easy to get married in Nigeria. Marriage in Nigeria is not a tea party. Did you get married early? No. When I was in secondary school in the mid-80s, some of my classmates were married with children. I was among the youngest pupils in my class. When you get married at the age of 36, 37 or 40, you cannot say you got married early. It is always better to get married on time, especially when you have something to do. Was having your first child after nine years deliberate? No; how can it be? Anyway, in western society, we see women who decided to defer childbearing. Some ladies preserve their eggs until they have built a career for themselves. The essence of marriage for them is companionship, having a friend to co-habit with. But a lot of Nigerians who get married don’t wish to wait for many years before having children because the question would be: Why did they get married? It doesn’t make sense to choose to wait for years after marriage before having children. What were the major things you considered before deciding to get married? As an African, Nigerian and Igbo man who likes culture and tradition, if you are lucky and have the means at 25, you have to decide to settle down. In Africa, if a man attends a serious event and he is not married, when he speaks about family, many would look at him as if he doesn’t know what he is saying. In fact, some would ask him to get married before talking about family. In our culture, one must get married at a certain age. In the olden days, men preferred to have many children that would help them in their farm work or inherit their landed assets. What has fatherhood changed about you? Fatherhood has changed a lot about me. If a man is married but does not have a child, he is not yet a father. When a man begins to have a child and added responsibilities, he begins to understand that he does not have to spend all the money he has attending parties because he knows he has a child to take care of. When I was growing up, school fees were not a major problem. Some of us even attended free schools. What could be called a nursery school in the olden days were the ones we attended with our slates on our heads. Now, there are pre-nurseries and babies have their own schools called crèches. Some parents pay as much as N300,000 to put their children in a crèche, while some pay as much as N500,000 or N1m to enrol their kids in a nursery school. With this added responsibility, a man cannot go to a beer parlour and order the entire drinks because he would remember that he has a child and would pay school fees. When you have children, you would quicken your ambition to have a house you can call your own instead of renting houses and moving from one place to another. The moment you get married, you undergo a transformation. What specifically did fatherhood stop you from doing? Fatherhood kept my social life in check. A bachelor may not be used to going to church with a big Bible because he is used to going to a nightclub; he may decide to stay away from his home for two weeks; but marriage stops all that. When one is married, there would be less time to attend parties for bachelors unless one is comfortable attending the party with one’s wife and children. What are the other challenges fatherhood brings? A man gets married to a woman who has her uniqueness and sometimes if there are incompatible qualities, there could be a conflict of interest but how one resolves it is what matters most in marriage. Also, the policies of the government affect marriages a lot. If a government makes the economy very challenging such that a man can no longer afford to take care of his family, it is a problem. In an atmosphere where the government cannot implement policies that would be useful to the citizens, it would be difficult for the man to maintain his savings. If one had N3m in their savings account three years ago, that money would have lost value by now. Poverty is also a big challenge. Some people think those living in Abuja are all rich but sometimes, you would see children roaming the streets naked, perhaps, because they have not eaten or cannot go to school. As a trained journalist and civil society activist, I work very hard to ensure I don’t go to bed without food. But many people cannot afford to eat. It is a social problem because it could increase the rate of crime in society. When a man has a lot of hungry people around him, they could attack him one day. That is why Nigerian families must never accept to sell their votes and bring in rogues as governors, local government chairmen or presidents because what affects the family affects the country. How can newly married men live within their means? If a man gets married and wants to impress his in-laws, I think that man is not true to himself. It is better to live a true life and live within one’s means to avoid crashing. A man must have an economic blueprint for the children he wants to bring to the world. The implication of not having a plan for children brought to the world is there would be a lot of almajirai all over the place. It is a threat to national security in the country. How do you discipline your child? That is a dicey question. When I was growing up, my parents used punitive measures to discipline us. Sometimes, it is not always best to use a cane. One can also talk to the children. Using mild physical force may not be completely bad because in the Bible if you spare the rod, you would spoil the child. However, we live in a period where human rights are very important. There are certain things one could do to their child that could constitute a violation of a child’s right. Does that mean you are constrained by the rights of your child when you are moved to use a whip? Yes. I engage in dialogue. Sometimes, the child could be denied a thing they want and told why they cannot have that thing. One could also tell the child to go to bed at playtime. These are some ways to discipline a child. Flogging is not essentially the best way to correct a child. How do you reward your child? Children love gifts and love to be taken out to eat ice cream or get clothes. It is important to tell them why they get gifts, especially when they perform well in school. What is your opinion about choosing a career path for your kids? Children should be guided. They shouldn’t be left to freely choose. Where do you draw the line between choosing for your kids and guiding them? You also have to look at their area of interest. I read the story of a two-year-old boy from the South-West who was said to have produced artworks that earned him money and he had an art exhibition. When I had my first child, I prayed in my heart for him to become a professional footballer, and because of that, I bought more than 12 footballs and kept them in the house. But the child started growing up and would just look at the balls and pass. He started showing interest in cars. He knows the names of many cars I don’t know. I would have loved him to love football so that I could send him to a football academy in Nigeria or abroad if I have the wherewithal. But if a parent imposes a career path on a child and that child is not keen on that path, they cannot be forced. What values do you teach your children? The kind of friends they kept could also shape their lifestyle when they leave home. My father taught me the importance of hard work. My father taught me many values I could not afford to keep but I try my best to adopt some and use them to build my children. My parents ensured that we woke up early for school and church. They made sure that we appeared smart and had clothes to wear. I try to do that and my wife has been making sure that my children look smart. You spoke about wanting your child to become a professional footballer. Why not an activist like you? Not in Nigeria. But I don’t think any of them will grow up to meet the kind of totalitarian government we have. The civil rights movement in Nigeria is riskier than being a journalist, except one is sent to cover a war. For one not to be in a constant state of poverty or want, one needs to have a skill. I think we need to educate young people looking forward to becoming civil rights activists. Civil rights activism is not supposed to be a profession; it is a passion or vocation, so one needs to have money-making skills to pay bills. The government has started taxing civil societies. They ask non-governmental organisations whether they have filed their tax returns. If one is not among the privileged class that attracts international funds, one could go extinct. That is not the kind of career any good parent would want their child to choose. If a journalist is owed salaries for 12 months, it would be crazy for that journalist to want their children to become journalists because it means they don’t want the growth of their children. Primarily, I am a journalist but I have not had the misfortune of working in a media house where I was owed a salary for a month. No; no matter how small, I was paid. There are very few media houses that pay as and when due; rather there are many media houses in Nigeria that keep their journalists unpaid for months. I am just trying to use this as an analogy. If a man starts having children, I think his prayer would be for none of his children to aspire to be a journalist in Nigeria. The same thing applies to the civil rights movement in Nigeria because one is fighting for a lot of people who don’t even understand that they have human rights to protect. Politicians have a way of deceiving Nigerians using ethnicity and religion. When one criticises the bad policies of the government, some people would say one is talking because he is not from that ethnic group. There is a lot of illiteracy in Nigeria and this makes civil rights activism life-threatening. I have been in it for 15 years. It is a very difficult terrain and if one is not lucky with the kind of government in place, one could be poisoned to death. A lot of civil rights activists have died in unexplained circumstances. The government is intolerable of criticism. Who would want his child to step into his shoes in this kind of terrain we have in Nigeria? That would be the worst nightmare of any parent. Some men are sceptical about marriage or fatherhood because of the challenges and uncertainty in Nigeria. What would you tell such men? A man is a man because he can take care of himself and no amount of hardship in the country can make him unable to take care of himself; there must be a way. During the Civil War, people still survived. So, no matter what the situation is, let no man be afraid of settling down with his family. He needs to plan the kind of family he needs to have to manage. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com