83-year-old former traditional healer from Ndi-Obasi, Abia State, Mrs Ezinee Daniel-Nze, tells GODFREY GEORGE about her childhood, marriage and her life lessons Where are you from and in what kind of setting did you grow up? My name is Mrs Comfort Daniel-Nze. I am 83 years old. I’d be 84 years in September this year. I am from Ndi-Obasi, Okagwe-Ohafia, Abia State. My village is well-known for buying and selling. It was a very nice place. It didn’t have hills like some other places in the East. It had very lush greenery and I had a lot of friends. One thing I would always remember about my childhood was that we always went to the stream to swim. I was a very good swimmer. No one could compete with me then. Once I entered the water, I disappeared like a fish. Even now in my old age, my love for swimming remains as I am now training my daughter, Vivian Nze, how to swim. We had a lot of streams in Ohafia. We, girls, would go to the stream to swim and the boys would come to join us, and we would rush and cover ourselves up. In the end, we would still swim together with the boys. I was also good at sprint. I didn’t go to school but people who were in school would come to beg me to represent their school in a race. I always won. When I look back now, it gives me so much joy. How will you describe your family while growing up? We were four children. I am the first daughter of my parents. My father was very wealthy. He had a lot of farmlands and houses in Ogbo Hill in Aba and some of them that he bequeathed to his children still exist till date. People knew him down to my mother’s place. They would always come around him to ask him to either give or lend them money. He was also very free-handed. Why didn’t you go to school despite the fact that your father was wealthy? During our time, they said there was no need to send a female child to school because they would soon be married off and start producing children. They saw it as a waste of time and resources. That was why I told myself that no matter what it takes, I would make sure I train my female children; and I am glad I did that before my old age. What were some of the responsibilities that being a first child imposed on you while growing up in the family? As an ‘ada’ (first daughter), it was my duty to go to the kitchen and cook the family’s meal and it had to be tasty enough for my parents to eat as well. We had some cousins staying with us, so it was a large family and I had to cook with a large pot in order for the meal to go round. I started cooking at the age of seven. I was very young but my mom made sure I started on time. My other siblings were males, so you would not expect them to go into the kitchen and cook for the family. After cooking, I would move to sweeping the entire compound. I would also fetch water and make sure I provided chewing sticks for the family to use to clean their teeth. I was a very hardworking child and it made me a good businesswoman in my prime. What are some of the most striking differences between the way of life in your days as a young woman and now? In my time, we used to cook with firewood only, but now we have so many ways to cook. I still like using firewood. This one they call gas makes me scared. It is my daughter who is trying to teach me how to turn it on now. It is too sudden, and it makes my heart ‘fly’. The foods taste almost the same, but I love the taste of meals cooked with firewood. The smoke from the firewood adds to the aroma of the food. Being the firstborn, did you learn anything from your father? My father was a disciplinarian but I cannot remember him canning me. If you report to him that some boys or girls beat you up in the streets, he would scold you to stop crying and go and fight them back. He taught us to always stand tall and fight for our rights. He hated to interfere in the fights between two children. He would tell you to go and fight the person yourself and leave him out of it. And if the scenario played out a second time, he would cane you for crying home. My father was a traditional healer and businessman. He didn’t like the idea of working for someone. He used herbs to heal people’s diseases. A lot of people came from all over the state and around the country to see him. He was a well-known healer. So, it was from him you learnt the craft of healing with herbs? I was very close to him so he taught me how to fetch the leaves and the roots. I learnt how to combine and cook the leaves. I would also squeeze out the juice and take it to the patient if they were on admission with us. So, I became very knowledgeable in those things. There was no illness that we both could not handle. If the sickness defied orthodox medicine, people would bring them to us and we would handle the case. Some people, who could not pay my father’s bill, would go behind my dad and approach me, and I would do it for them for a lesser fee. I used the money to take care of my children before orthodox medicine became rampant and some of the leaves were also getting extinct. Till date, I still feel that those traditional herbs are better than most orthodox medicines, in some cases. At what age did you meet your husband? I can’t quite remember, but I know I married very early. I was not up to 16 years of age when I got married. He was from Enugu State. Where did you meet him? My husband saw me in Aba and traced me down to my village in Ohafia. He was a well-known man in the village so it was not so difficult when he told my people that he had eyes for me. What were some of the features you saw in him that endeared you to him? I had other men who were coming to marry me, but I liked that he didn’t look much at other women. I like that he didn’t have a pot belly. I had never liked men who had potbelly, anyway. He was a very calm and loving man. It was when we got married that we were joined in the church, The Apostolic Church, Abia State. I didn’t look at whether or not he was rich; I just loved him. This is why I advise youths to stop looking at the pocket of their prospective spouses. Let your relationship be based only on love. If you go into the marriage with love, I promise you that money will come. Look more at the person’s prospects and where both of you are going and all the great things the two of you can achieve together. What is the best part of marrying Mr Daniel Nze? The best part would be the fact that most people did not even know if people lived in that house because they would never hear our voices. People who saw us used to ask if we were siblings. We were in peace. We never for one day called anyone to come and settle our issues. It gave us a lot of respect. It didn’t mean we didn’t have issues. There came a time in our relationship when it was really difficult. At one time, my husband wasn’t so supportive even though he made so much from his furniture business, but it didn’t deter me from going the extra mile to provide for my six children and to make up for the awkward situation with my husband. I was into goat herding at that time, and God was so gracious that my goats gave birth to up to three or four kids at a time. I was able to take care of my children with the proceeds. This is why I don’t understand the fact that some wives these days expect their husbands to do everything for them. As a woman, your husband’s financial situation should not warrant a separation/divorce. Instead, you should be up and doing and cover up for your husband until his situation changes as it won’t be for a long time. One thing I want people to know is that marriage is about endurance. But I know that there are some times it would become too much for you to endure, especially when your life is at stake; in that kind of circumstance, my advice would be “Don’t die in the marriage!” I am still trying to understand how a man would raise his hands and hit his wife. If there is any man who does that, he should desist and become kind. When my husband died in April 2002, after a brief illness, I cried for days knowing that my own helper had died, and I decided to stay on my own. I was already old, so what was the need of getting married again even though people were coming to marry me? I am still mourning my husband. What are some of the most important lessons you have learnt in your over eight decades of existence? For someone to have stayed in this world for that long, of course, there are a lot of challenges and lessons I have learnt which I tell the younger generation who would want to live as long as I have done. I am one that loves and serves God with my whole heart, and that has helped me a lot. The word of God is what I use as a mirror to view my life. The Bible says we should love our neighbour the way we love ourselves. When you do this, you would not want to do evil to another human. We should all live as one. There is no need for this infighting and strife. We are all siblings of one parent. If we view life this way, we would not have any issue with life and we would live long. In fact, I remember that during the Biafran war, I had just given birth to a boy. One beautiful thing that happened then was that the soldiers when they saw my son liked him – they nicknamed him Ojukwu because of his ‘beauty’ – and always gave him part of their own meals. That is why I tell the youths who are drumming the beats of war to pursue peace. If the Nigeria of then was even better than what we have now and we still suffered, then imagine how it would be if we experience that again. Do you still go out to vote during elections? Ah! Why not? I am a responsible citizen of Nigeria and voting is my right. As I speak to you now, I have my Permanent Voter Card and if God keeps me alive till 2023, I will stand in line and cast my vote for the person I feel would lead Nigeria better. If there must be a change in the country, then I think we should take voting seriously so that we can stop complaining about bad governance. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com