SENATE President Ahmad Lawan, on Saturday commended Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State for his developmental strides and pleaded with him to join the ruling All Progressives Congress.  He said though Emmanuel belonged to a different political platform, the Peoples Democratic party, the APC was not ashamed to ask  him to join the party because “he is a champion.” The Senate President stated this on Saturday while speaking at Senator Bassey Albert’s thanksgiving service and inauguration of a sports facility in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. “Even though we are not on the same political platform, we are waiting for you to come and work with us. You are a champion, we are not ashamed to say come and work with us,” he said. He lauded Albert, who is representing Uyo Senatorial District at the National Assembly for always thinking about his people, adding that the Senator is a true Nigerian who cases about the development of his country. He said, “We are here to thank God for Sen. Albert for what he has done today; this multipurpose facility which is not only for sports but also an educational facility. “This facility shows that the members of the National Assembly take care of their constituents first because they voted him and we are proud of the three Senators from this state. “Albert has done something that remains indelible in my mind. He never cared about political parties but he cares about the development of the country.  Earlier in his remarks, Gov. Emmanuel said he was proud of the performance of Albert, adding that God has used him to do many things for his people, especially the building of the multipurpose facility.  The facility boasts of a 1,500-capacity event hall, medical centre, a standard football pitch, lawn tennis and basketball courts, skills acquisition centre, ICT centre as well as children playground.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com