PayedIn Technology, a fintech company empowering the offline to online transitioning for organisations, businesses, and entrepreneurs, said it had launched a simple-to-use payment solution in Nigeria. The company said in a statement that in support of digitalisation of the economy, all organisations, businesses, and entrepreneurs should have access to a secure and easy-to-use electronic payment solution. It said the current payment solutions available in the country were complex and often required complicated hardware, payment intermediaries or complex systems integration. According to the statement, only the top 20 per cent of organisations, businesses and entrepreneurs with the requisite skills, capabilities, and resources are enjoying cashless payments. Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, PayedIn, Debo Shopade, said, “We have developed a payment platform that is easy-to-use and secure without the need for hardware, intermediaries or systems integration. To get started, recipients only need to go through a simple sign-up process.” Co-Founder and CTO, PayedIn, Aditya Padhi, said, “PayedIn is secure by design with state-of-the-art security features including email and phone number verification, two-factor authentication and biometric security to keep transactions secure. “Our payment solutions are available for all major sectors of the economy including utility, services, transportation, education, e-commerce, charity, and religious sectors.” According to the statement, features for payment recipients include payment links for remote payments, integrated transaction reporting dashboard, scan to pay, crowdfunding and instant payment notifications. It added that features for those making payments include scan (QR code) to pay, pay by link, location triggered payments, recurring payments, push notifications, transaction receipts and transaction reports.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com