Gunmen have ambushed military troops between Asari-Toru and the Emohua local government areas of Rivers State, killing one soldier and injuring two others. PUNCH Metro gathered that the attack happened in the early hours of Sunday. Our correspondent learnt that the gunmen ambushed the soldiers close to Ahiankwo Market. The Chairman of Akuku-Toru LGA, Rowland Sekibo, who visited the scene, confirmed the incident. Sekibo, who spoke to our correspondent on the telephone, noted that the two soldiers injured were in a critical condition. The Chairman of Asari-Toru LGA, George Onengiyeofori, said the incident happened around 5.30am, adding that the soldiers were on their way to their duty post when they were attacked. Onengiyeofori, who also spoke on the telephone, said calm had returned on the busy Emohua-Kalabari Road, where the incident happened. He said, “The soldiers were on the way to their duty post. Between Emohua and Asari-Toru, there is a river demarcation; the criminals ambushed them on the bridge. “They came on a speedboat. I was not there, but this was according to their (soldiers) story. They (gunmen) ambushed them and exchanged gunfire with them. One soldier died, while two others were wounded. “As I talk to you now, I am on the said road with my team. The place is calm. Normal activities have resumed. “Security will never be enough in any situation. We don’t control the police or the military; they are under the Federal Government. We wish that they will hear our yearnings and help us more.” A source, who visited the military hospital on Aba Road, Port Harcourt, confirmed that the two survivors were brought to the emergency unit of the hospital and were receiving treatment. However, as of the time of filing this report, the spokesman for the 6 Division of the Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt, Lt. Col. Charles Ekeocha, could not confirm the report, as calls and a text message to his phone were not responded to. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Grace Iringe-Koko, said she had got the report, but the details were sketchy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com