The Chairman, Oshodi-Tapa Chieftaincy Family, Maroof-deen Oshodi, has said no one has been endorsed to become the Oba of Oshodi in Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that insinuations emerged that a joint body of all the ruling houses in Oshodi had settled for the state Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, Musiliu Akinsanya, aka MC Olumo, to ascend the throne, which had been vacant for a while. However, Maroof-deen, alongside the head of the royal family, Surakat Oshodi, and other stakeholders, including one Gboyega Oshodi, while addressing journalists on Wednesday, said the family was not aware of the claims to the throne. Maroof-deen noted that Akinsanya had no right to the throne because he was not a member of the family. He said, “Oshodi-Tapa Chieftaincy Family is the owner and controller of Oshodi town in the Oshodi Isolo Local Government Area. We have not endorsed anybody and have not even called for candidature. “As far as we are concerned, we call it a rumour because Musiliu Akinsanya, aka MC Olumo, who is being rumoured to want to be Oba of Oshodi, is not a member of the Oshodi-Tapa Chieftaincy Family and has no right to the stool of Oshodi town.” Maroof-deen stated that the family had instituted a case in court, published an advertorial, and written to the government regarding attempts to usurp its authority to the stool. An executive member of the family leadership, Dada Ashafa, said if “the social media rumour concerning MC Olumo, flies unchallenged, it becomes authentic and that explains why this family is reacting.” Contacted, Jimoh Buari, the spokesperson for Akinsanya, said the NURTW chairman had not made any official announcement to become a traditional ruler. “He will make his intentions known at the right time, but there is a possibility that consultations are ongoing and from the consultations, there could be a rumour,” Buari added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com