THE leader of the technical committee, Atiku  Abubakar presidential campaign, Chief Raymond Dokpesi, has solicited support for a one-term presidency for the former Vice President. He said if elected, Atiku would rule for a single term of four years, which would pave way for the South-East to produce the president in 2027. Dokpesi, who spoke in Umuahia, Abia State, on Monday, maintained that Atiku, who hails from the North-East geo-political zone is the right person to wrestle power from the All Progressives Congress. The media mogul was at the state secretariat of the Peoples Democratic Party for consultations with the party leaders in the state. Dokpesi revealed that the PDP zoning arrangement was not honoured during the 2015 presidential elections, and consequently, the party went into the election with a divided house and lost. He assured all that the PDP had to give the North another chance to complete its fours years in the presidency to wrestle power from the APC in 2023. He assured that the PDP would zone the presidency to the South-East and ensure that the zone produces the President in 2027. He said, “Our party believes in rotation of the office of president between the North and South for two-term of eight years, according to the Nigerian constitution. “That was why former President Olusegun Obasanjo handed over to Late Umaru Ya’Adua, but after his death, former President Goodluck Jonathan took over and completed his first term. “Jonathan also asked for another four years which was given to him, but when he started asking for another term in 2015, the North felt it was against the zoning agreement of the party. “So we went for into the election with a divided house and we lost. That is why we have reasoned that for us to wrestle power from APC we need a strong presidential candidate from the North “Since it’s believed that North-East and South-East are the two geo-political zones that have not produced the president, we felt that Atiku, coming from the North-East is a strong candidate for the job”. The state PDP chairman, Chief Alwell Asiforo, assured the team that the party was open to listening to all those with aspirations who visited the state for consultations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com