A pressure group, the Ekiti Political Intervention Coalition, has called on the leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party to make bold decisions against a former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, for being “a meddlesome interloper and political wheeler-dealer.” In a statement signed by the group’s Public Relations Officer, Banji Dada, EPIC noted the PDP needed to make some adjustments within the party before it could claim to be able to rebuild the country. The statement reads in part, “For the PDP to rescue and rebuild Nigeria, the process must begin from within, and the National Chairman must be bold in leading the NWC and the party to make decisions that will salvage the party in Ekiti State. “Is it not a big shame that the PDP is being tossed around by Fayose, denying his aspirant a voice and using every trick in the book to corner a ticket that he wants to sell later to another interest to undo the PDP? “We want Mr Chairman, His Excellency, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, to know that a party that wants to rescue and rebuild Nigeria will not be indulging a man who attempted to truncate the last National Convention of the PDP through his cronies but failed.” The group urged the party to read Fayose the riot act, stating that his antics could jeopardise the chances of the PDP in the Ekiti and Osun governorship elections and the 2023 general elections. Meanwhile, EPIC called on the PDP to adopt the automatic delegate process in its upcoming governorship primary assuage all concerns. The group suggested that using the automatic delegate method, as used in Anambra, would help the party salvage the political process in Ekiti. “PDP Governors should not gather in vain while a man they have repeatedly indulged and tolerated is throwing an invasive spanner in the wheel of progress of the party ahead of future elections. “The best option left for the PDP now is to use the automatic delegates list only for the party primary election on January 26, 2022, as the inclusion of delegates from the botched ad-hoc congress and the litigation encumbered party executives will be deleterious to the spirit of fairness and integrity which the process should exemplify. “We urge the party to set up a discreet investigation to unravel what the people in Ekiti can see, but it has yet to know about the activities of Fayose because it will spell doom for 2023,” the group stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com