RENEWED violence by marauding herdsmen, kidnappers and armed robbers in the South-West has foregrounded the exigency of adopting a vigorous security response to safeguard lives and property in the region. In Ondo, Ogun, Osun, Ekiti and Oyo states, killer herders flagrantly engage in bloodletting, and destruction of property as they forcibly graze their cattle on farms. Compellingly, the region’s governors must do everything possible to repel the murderous horde and prevent the region from sliding into the lawless condition prevalent in parts of the North-West and North-Central states. Undeterred by anti-grazing laws, armed Fulani herdsmen have been unleashing terror on inhabitants of the South-West. A band recently invaded Molege community in the Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State and killed three people. The attack followed the villagers’ refusal to allow herders to graze on their farms. During the midnight assault, the herdsmen vandalised structures and set houses ablaze. The state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, should fulfil his pledge to halt the herdsmen’s depredation. He must also enforce at all costs the order he gave last year that all illegal herders should vacate forest reserves in the state. Everywhere, the security of lives and property is the first duty of any government at any level – national, sub-national or community level. South-West governors must fulfil this mandate. In Ogun State, residents of eight villages in the Imeko-Afon LGA recently suffered attacks from the murderous herders. Resistance provoked a violent exchange between the herdsmen and some Ohori farmers at Idofa village that left five persons dead, and property worth millions of naira destroyed. Earlier, residents of Aworo community in the Yewa North LGA of the state had chased the herdsmen away from their village to Idofa in Imeko after killing three of them and their cows. South-West governors need to stop the rampage before the region descends into full-scale anarchy. Infiltration by murderous bandits began with such sporadic violence in the North. Emboldened by careless governors and by indulgent federal security forces, the killer herders have unleashed and sustained a reign of terror throughout the North-Central states, disrupting farming, travel, commerce and social activities. In Benue, the Armed Conflict Location & Event Data Project tallied at least 303 attacks by Fulani militants/herders from 2005 to August 2021 in which 2,539 people were killed. Hundreds have also been killed in Plateau, Nasarawa, Taraba, Niger, and Kaduna states. In the four months to June 2021, 40 indigenes of Bassa and Jos North LGAs were slaughtered, 20 houses destroyed, and about 500 farms valued at about N1 billion destroyed, according to the Irigwe Development Association. Intelligence reports have confirmed close collaboration among the killer herdsmen, the bandit-terrorists ravaging the North-West and North-Central states, Boko Haram/ISWAP, and other terrorist spin-offs. Nigerian government security sources finally confirmed in 2020 that Boko Haram/ISWAP were training the “bandits” and had forged links with the rapacious Fulani militants. Danger looms. Emerging reality in Plateau, Kaduna, Niger and Nasarawa indicate the infiltration of Islamist terrorists in these states. Once embedded, evicting the ever-adaptable Salafist terrorists is extremely hard. Undoubtedly, other criminals, including home-grown felons, engage in kidnapping, robbery, ritual murders and cultism. There should therefore be determined state-based and regional strategies to flush out the criminals. Commanders of the regional security organisation, Amotekun, should share intelligence and initiate joint patrols of forests, highways, and settlements. Terrorists fleeing aerial bombardment in the North-West should not be allowed to infest the South-West forests. Security is a 24-hour duty backed with effective surveillance and deterrence. The counter-measures must be intelligence-led, supported with the deployment of technology tools, especially drones, tracking and electronic listening devices. Amotekun, local security and vigilance groups, and hunters should be provided with logistical support, funding, training, and incentives. In Ogun, Governor Dapo Abiodun, should shake off his lethargy and stamp out the lawlessness sweeping the state. Villagers in some communities in the state have been killed by herders, forcing some to take refuge in neighbouring Republic of Benin.  Amid all this, the governor persists in denials, claiming that the state is safe. He should wake up. Ogun, like other states in the South-West, is not safe. Kidnappers, armed robbers, cultists, and criminal gangs are active in the region and operating on the major highways. Abiodun and his Lagos State counterpart, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, appear to be pandering to political interests by their apathy towards enforcing the anti-open grazing laws. While Abiodun belatedly inaugurated Amotekun, Sanwo-Olu wrongly asserts that the state neighbourhood watch is sufficient. It is not. The evolving nature of criminality also demands a region-wide response. Politics should be separated from the imperative of protecting the citizens. Evidence shows that the killer herders draw from a vast pool of their ethnic brethren from all over West and Central Africa once they encounter weakness or appeasement. The reality is that insecurity is crippling socioeconomic activities in the region, as highways crisscrossing it are no longer safe. Marauders had in the past kidnapped many for ransom on bad portions of the roads and killed some victims. Night travel has become hazardous. Gani Adams, who holds the traditional title of ‘Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland’, claimed last year that the South-West lost over N3 billion in four years through ransoms paid by victims to kidnappers ravaging the region. The people should not leave it to government alone. Undoubtedly, public outcry, accompanied by protests, petitions and activism by NGOs, regional and self-determination groups, put pressure on the state governors to establish Amotekun. The people should adopt all lawful means to demand protection and security from their governors. Without further delay, South-West governors should take their rejection of the current anomalous single policing system beyond rhetoric and strengthen, fund and arm Amotekun and state security agencies. Urgently, they should mobilise all stakeholders and engage with other geo-political zonal leaders to push for the invocation of the ‘doctrine of necessity’ to immediately amend the 1999 Constitution to place policing on the concurrent legislative list. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com