The traditional ruler of Ogwaniocha community in the Ogbaru Local Government Area of Anambra State, Igwe Oliver Nnaji, was recently abducted by some gunmen who stormed his palace. A son of the traditional ruler, Oliver, speaks to IKENNA OBIANERI about efforts to rescue him and the rumour of his death When was your father abducted? My father, Igwe Oliver Nnaji, was abducted on November 15, 2021. On that night, the abductors stormed the palace, picked my father, burnt down the building and the four cars parked in the compound. I was not at home that night but I heard that the boys that came were members of a group called ‘Lion Squad’. They ransacked everywhere in search of our mother, but luckily, they did not see her where she hid. Since then we have not heard from our father. How did you get the information about his abduction and what action did you take? I was informed immediately after they left that night, but it was late for me to start coming. So, the following day, my siblings and I, together with some elders of the community, went to Atani Police Station to lodge a formal complaint. The policemen, after a series of meetings among themselves, decided to move into the community at about 1pm. We had already got the information about the location where those boys first kept the Igwe in the community. So, we moved in with the policemen, including the Divisional Police Officer at Atani Police Station, Mrs Joy Elomoko, and the Area Commander. I told the area commander that we should move in immediately to search the place and he said okay. But we kept waiting and after three hours, he said he was still waiting for directive from above. I don’t know what directive he was waiting for. So, after another round of delay, they decided to move to the location but while we were going, we saw members of the Lion Squad in large numbers. I expected the policemen to swing into action by immediately arresting them but to my surprise, the area commander began pleading with them to release the Igwe. In fact, he even took permission from the boys to go and search the place. He asked them, “We heard that you people are keeping the Igwe somewhere; can we go and search?” The boys, knowing full well that they had removed the Igwe from where they first kept him, said, “Yes, you can go and search.” So, we went there but we did not see the Igwe. What shocked me most was that when we were leaving, those boys bought drink and shared with the policemen and they were all drinking. Have the abductors contacted your family to make any demands? We have not got any tangible message either from them or anywhere else. In fact, the only message we got was two weeks ago when one of the daughters of the kidnap kingpin was arrested. After her arrest, the kingpin’s younger brother started calling us and asking that we should make peace, that they were ready for negotiation.  The state CID later called and told us that the girl had been released; that she had been granted bail and ever since she was released they stopped calling us. They are not talking about ransom because the abductors are not strangers; they are members of the community. We know them but the challenge we have now is that they have all disappeared from the community. They only sneak in at night  to burn down houses and kill people. The police who are supposed to take action seem helpless. The police keep complaining that those boys are hiding in a thick forest surrounded by a river, that they have to cross the river and they don’t have the equipment to carry out operations against the abductors. This group has come about three times to attack the community, the last time they came, they killed four people and took their corpses away and burnt down many houses. It is quite unfortunate that up till now, there has never been any tangible effort, either by the police or the state government as regards the abduction of the Igwe. How will you describe the effect of the Igwe’s abduction on the family and to the community in general? The effect has been devastating. In fact, as I speak with you now, we don’t have a place to sleep as the whole palace was burnt down. Right now, if there are still buildings in my community, they will not be up to 10. The boys came into the community and burnt houses; they even killed some people and went away with their corpses. As it is now, the community is in a big mess, nobody sleeps there anymore, people have fled to take shelter in the border communities, such as  Ihiala, Uguta, Umunakwo. While every other community celebrated the festive season, my community was in disarray. My father is a big fan of Governor Willie Obiano and it pains me that the government has abandoned the community. This community made Anambra State to acquire the status of an oil-producing state and is generating revenue for the state and up until now, they have not visited the area to ascertain the level of damage as a result of the atrocities of this evil group. That Anambra State is recognised as an oil-producing state is because of my community, but the government has turned its eyes away from our calamity. Are you suspecting any compromise in the effort to rescue the Igwe? The thing is that whatever happens to my father today, the DPO of Atani Police Station is aware of it. I wouldn’t blame the area commander because he was newly transferred to the area in November and he may not understand the terrain yet. The incident happened barely two weeks after he resumed. But from the look of things, it has become obvious that the DPO may have forced the area commander to compromise the investigation, otherwise, I cannot understand why they failed to swiftly act when it was necessary to do so. But last Friday, December 31, the Special Force of the Onitsha Naval Command, based on intelligence gathering, stormed the Ochan forest hideouts of these kidnappers and made some arrests. What is your reaction to that? Yes, the efforts of the naval officers are quite commendable and it is a huge progress in this case. If this kind of efforts were made earlier, perhaps, the Igwe would not have been taken away; he might have been long rescued. We have been expecting this kind of action from the police for the past seven weeks since they abducted the Igwe; if it had come, the subsequent killings and burning of houses would have been averted. One of the arrested suspects confessed that he is a member of the Lion Squad. He also confessed that it was likely the Igwe had been beheaded. The thing is that we have been hearing the rumour, but it has not been confirmed. Until we see the corpse of the Igwe, we will take the news as just a rumour. How will you feel if it turns out to be true? Well, if it is confirmed that they killed the Igwe, it is a huge sacrilege because in our community, it is a taboo for a member of the community to kill the Igwe; there is a huge price to pay for it. Some of these boys are even related members of the community, so, all we will say is that let the law take its full course. For me, I cannot say we will take any particular action but let the law take its full course. I believe there are stipulated laws for those who commit such a crime; government should make sure that these evil perpetrators are brought to book. The Igwe is a peaceful and down-to-earth person; it will be most unfortunate if the rumour is actually true that he has been killed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com