The Osun State Chairman-elect of the All Progressives Congress, Prince Gboyega Famoodun, has presented the nomination form bought for the state Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, by political associates. Speaking at the event, where the form was presented to the governor in Osogbo, the Chairman, Osun APC Elders Caucus, Sola Akinwumi, commended Oyetola over the regular payment of workers’ salaries. He said if salary payment had not been regular, APC members and leaders would not be free to move in their respective communities. He said, “We have suffered a lot in the State of Osun. All of us who are in the progressives fold will understand what I am saying. And if somebody comes, first we must give credit to him for the regular and timely payment of workers salary. “That is why the party chairman can move freely on the streets. If the salary had not been paid regularly, all of us would not be free in our various communities. We thank you for that; we know it takes a lot of sacrifices to do that. “I am thanking the party chairman too, Prince Gboyega Famoodun. They made life difficult for him as they did to Mr Governor. They want to get at him to get at Mr Governor. Their various plans were scuttled by the mere intimidating size of the chairman.” Presenting the form, Famodun urged Oyetola to see the good intention behind the purchase of the forms as a rare honour for him to continue his good works. Responding, Oyetola commended those that purchased the forms, saying the gesture was an indication of the unity within the party. He said, “When you are talking of the party, I don’t see any other than we that are here. So to have gone this far, it is an inspiration for me to do more. It is an inspiration for me not to be distracted. It is an inspiration for me to be of service to our people for the next four years, I accept without any reservation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com