Notiki Bello is the Chief Executive Officer of Prackage. He tells TOFARATI IGE about his job and love for public relations What are your educational qualifications? I bagged an Ordinary National Diploma in Mass Communication from Kwara State Polytechnic. I then moved to the University of Ilorin, where I also studied Mass Communication. Before going to UNILORIN, I had already known that I had an interest in the media and most of the other forms associated with it. I recall that as a secondary school student in science class, I usually documented the news on TV and read it out to my classmates on Monday mornings. Despite all these, I always ‘fought’ against seeking a career in the media. I thought it came too easily for me and I wanted to do something else that would challenge me. So, by 2009 when I had the opportunity to apply for the JAMB exam of that year, I chose business administration instead. But it didn’t work out. On my second trial, I still chose business administration but they gave me mass communication, I think that was when I started to realise that maybe I can’t run away from the media anyway. Since then, aside from graduating with a degree in mass communication, I have taken several courses in advertising and communications and these decisions have contributed to my growth since the start of my career. Do you have any corporate work experience? Over the last four years, I have worked in journalism, content creation and advertising. In 2019, I worked at an advertising agency called The Hook Creative Agency in Lagos. In the middle of 2020, I joined a South African advertising agency called Oliver. My experience at these agencies inspired me to found Prackage because of their unique business models. Particularly, the Oliver model is something I really believe in and I am glad to have been a part of it. When and how did you venture into the field of public relations? That was in 2017. I was just fresh out of university and somebody who ran a small agency phoned me and asked if I could support his team. My first task was to write a statement announcing the release of their client’s product. I tried as much as possible to make it neutral. I thought if it wasn’t neutral, journalists would reject it. But, that wasn’t the case, because the media had changed from what old editions of public relations textbooks described. I think that was the reality check for me. I started to realise that, to some extent, one has control over what the media writes about one, if one knows what one is doing. What motivated you to start your business? I was checking for information about some of my favourite footballers. I found that it was easier to know about a low-tier international footballer than Nigerian stars. That was because those international footballers are well-reported and well-documented for reasons not limited to the fact that the players have their own media teams who control and shape how they’re reported out there. That wasn’t the case with Nigerian stars. I decided to speak with a couple of footballers playing in the Nigeria Professional Football League, and some of them bought into the idea of giving them publicity. I ran that as a business called Whistl. But, it was not registered. I stopped for a while to pursue a career in advertising. While learning and growing in advertising, I realised that people often came to me to help them do small personal branding tasks. But, the main eye-opener was how the Internet kept minting newly famous people ‘overnight’. Because many people get jobs based on their reputation on the Internet these days, it’s important to be there for people who don’t have an understanding of online reputation management and personal brand building. In what ways does your company add value to clients? I always give the scenario of a high-performing manager at a fast-growing company, whose friends and family know what they can do and respect them for their genius. But, within their industry and outside, not many people know about them. The way life is, one is judged based on what people see, read and hear about one. Making sure they see one in the right way can be a tedious endeavour. We take away this worry and make sure their name commands the respect it deserves using talent, data and technology. How much was your initial capital, and how did you raise it? It is a self-funded business for now. We depend on whatever comes from selling our packages to sort out operating costs. But at the start, we had to raise some money from friends and ex-bosses who were really supportive. I got a grant of around $1,400 from one and another one bore the registration fees, software fees and others. Other capital came from my savings. Is there any difference between you and others in your line of business? What sets us apart is our business model and the platform we run. We operate a system that relies on a decentralised talent pool — workers who belong to everybody, yet belong to no one in particular — and on-demand technology. What major challenges have you faced in this business? Building the technology that would coordinate the processes between people who buy packages on our platform and the talents that execute the tasks are the major challenges. With software products, there is hardly final finishing. There would always be bugs. Now that we’re entering a growth phase, it is important to prepare the platform for the influx of users so that it does not keep failing. This challenge is what we would also be solving in the next few months. There is also the part of managing our partners, their talents and relationships with the people they execute personal branding projects for. We have put up a conflict resolution process that will make sure that at least issues get properly managed before they degenerate. How do you find customers? I am a firm believer in advertising, so it is a key part of our user acquisition strategy. We also do some content marketing style where me and my team talk about our services and the platform itself. So far, it has worked. We also get quite a number of referrals. Have you ever thought of quitting and starting something else? I would be able to properly answer this question in the next one year. We have only just started and I reckon that there would be a lot of challenges along the way. I am confident in the ability of my team and the quality of counselling and support we get from our advisory board, mentors and people who wish us well. What future do you envisage for the business? I believe that the keys to a profitable future are in our hands. That is why we would be investing a lot of resources to build a more stable platform as well as educate our users in order to achieve product-market fit. Once we get there, I believe we would be unstoppable. The future holds a lot of promises for us and our partners, and we would fulfil them. What kind of support did you get from your family and friends when you started the company? My friends ‘made’ the company at the start. They designed, wrote, offered tips and supported me with capital. They talked about us to relevant people on social media and beyond. I am really happy to have them in my corner. What would you say to young people who want to go into your line of business? Finish learning the work before you start anything. You can’t ‘vibe’ your way to success. Learn the work and always have a more experienced person in your corner. How do you handle difficult customers? We have created a conflict resolution framework in collaboration with some academic and professional experts in the area. But since we haven’t had any significant conflict yet, we haven’t used it in practice. However, that means we are better prepared to deal with it whenever the need arises. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com