ABIODUN NEJO writes that the governorship aspirants of the All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State appear set for the January 22, 2022 primary to determine the flagbearer of the party ahead of the June 18 general election Ahead of the Ekiti State All Progressives Congress governorship primary elections, aspirants of the political party appear to be battle ready for the exercise billed for January 22, 2022. But there are indications that the battle for the APC ticket will not be a crowded race as obtainable in 2018. In that year, then with APC as opposition party, 33 aspirants from across the three senatorial districts jostled for the ticket via the primaries which produced  the current governor, Kayode Fayemi, as the flagbearer. From the Southern district of the state, in 2018, were Femi Bamisile, Bamidele Faparusi, Wole Oluyede, Debo Ajayi, Diran Adesua, Kola Alabi, Makanjuola Owolabi, Sunday Adebomi, Dele Okeya, Gbenga Aluko (now late), Muyiwa Olumilua, Bisi Aloba, Adekunle Esan, Sesan Fatoba and Ajayi Olowo. They all tried to no avail to be the governorship candidate of the APC. The Central district was not left out as Opeyemi Bamidele, Victor Kolade, Dipo Ogunkoyode, Oluwole Oluleye, Tosin Olofinluyi, Kayode Ojo, Adebayo Orire, Bodunde Adeyanju, Charles Dahunsi, Taye Matesun and Senator Babafemi Ojudu, who withdrew on the eve of the primaries battled for the political party’s sole governorship ticket. While from the North, the aspirants were Senator Ayo Arise, Bimbo Daramola, Muyiwa Coker, Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, Yinka Akerele, Segun Oni and Fayemi. But many of the 2018 aspirants are not in the 2022 race while there are some new entrants into the contest which has just started gathering momentum as against the 2018 situation where the atmosphere had been charged by numerous aspirants about one and half years before the primaries. An APC chieftain and former deputy governor of the state, Chief Abiodun Aluko, who gave insight into why the aspirants delayed in indicating interest in the race until now, had said, “It would have been unfair for APC members to start heating up the polity when it was not yet time for the governorship election. What happened was because we wanted our government to be focused and deliver on its promises to the majority of the people.” But now, with barely four weeks to the primaries, APC members interested in the governorship race have started strategising to win the delegates and indeed party members in order to be comfortable whichever mode of primary the party would adopt – whether direct or indirect. Despite the agitation for zoning, the aspirants jostling for the party ticket cut across the three senatorial districts of the state. Leading aspirants from the South are perceived to be House of Representatives member, Femi Bamisile; Fayemi’s former Commissioner for Public Utilities, Bamidele Faparusi; former deputy governor, Chief Abiodun Aluko; and former minister of Works, Senator Adedayo Adeyeye. Those from the Central include a sitting senator, Opeyemi Bamidele; former Secretary to Ekiti State Government, Biodun Oyebanji; former presidential aspirant, Reuben Famuyibo; an industrialist, Kayode Ojo while aviation expert, Demola Popoola is from the Northern Senatorial District. The APC State Chairman, Paul Omotoso, urged the aspirants to maintain decorum and avoid violence, saying, “Any aspirant that attacks another will be disqualified.” I’ll ensure I win APC ticket, gov election – Bamisile Femi Bamisile, the Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Federal Roads Maintenance Agency and former Speaker, Ekiti State House of Assembly, who hails from Omuo Ekiti in the Ekiti South Senatorial District, is ever persuaded that the district should produce the governor in 2022. Bamisile, who said his ambition was neither shaken nor he perturbed by the rumoured ambition of any “unpopular candidate” of the governor or any power that be, said, “Someone like me can’t be troubled by any imposition or endorsement. I am a veteran in politics and one of the most experienced grassroots politicians in Ekiti politics. I know what politics entails.” The lawmaker further said, “I am in the race and will ensure that I win the APC governorship ticket during the APC primary of January 22 and as well the governorship election to give the people of Ekiti South their deserved reckoning in Ekiti politics and as well a new lease of life for Ekiti people”. My agenda is for Ekiti people, says Faparusi Bamidele Faparusi, who resigned his appointment as Ekiti State Commissioner for Public Utilities to contest the governorship primary is a former member, House of Representatives, from Ode Ekiti in the Southern Senatorial District. He is ever persuaded that it would be a mistake for the party not to pick its governorship candidate from the district. Faparusi, who contested for the APC governorship ticket in 2018, had while declaring his interest in the 2022 race, said, “My agenda is that of Ekiti people. My agenda is that the APC must win a free and fair election and not struggling to win the coming election because of error of picking a wrong candidate.” Faparusi stated that his governorship ambition and the need for the APC to win the 2022 election were reasons for his resignation from the Fayemi cabinet, adding that he had consolidated his “cognate experience, broaden my perspective and built capacities in the service to the people, which is the basis of my decision to vie for the governorship seat following extensive consultations with the people and critical stakeholders”. Adeyeye says SWAGA’ll produce Fayemi’s successor Meanwhile, Senator Adedayo Adeyeye, a former minister and chieftain of Ekiti APC Stakeholders’ Forum, from Ise Ekiti in Ekiti North Senatorial District, is also an advocate of Southern governorship. Adeyeye, the National Coordinator of South West Agenda for Asiwaju Tinubu’s 2023 presidential bid and a governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party in 2018, had said, “The current APC government of Governor Kayode Fayemi has disappointed the people. SWAGA is the only saving grace for the party. It is SWAGA that will produce Fayemi’s successor come 2022.” Femi Adeleye, the Secretary of Ekiti APC Stakeholders’ Forum, in a statement titled, ‘Ekiti 2022 – Senator Dayo Adeyeye chosen to run for Ekiti State Governor’, had said the endorsement followed “a number of critical considerations which include the state of Ekiti State and the situation of the APC in the state.” He stated, “We chose Adeyeye, who reflects the yearning of the generality of members of the Ekiti State APC and the corporate aspiration of Ekiti people as our preferred candidate based on the need to put a formidable candidate forward to face the PDP”. I’ve all it takes to run Ekiti effectively – Aluko Chief Abiodun Aluko, a surveyor, and former deputy governor of the state, who hails from Ikere Ekiti in the Southern Senatorial District, says he has what is required to govern the state and make life meaningful for the people. Aluko said, “I have all it takes in terms of competence, experience, track records of achievements, innovativeness, creativity and relationship with the people to run Ekiti State efficiently, effectively and take it out of the woods into the comity of the states that are doing well. “I want to complement the efforts of Kayode Fayemi and take the state to greater heights. I believe in the Ekiti South Agenda, but I believe that with or without zoning, I have all it takes to win the party ticket and the governorship election,” the former deputy governor said. I’m best qualified to succeed Fayemi, Bamidele insists A National Assembly member, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, from Iyin Ekiti in the Central Senatorial District, is not new to the governorship race as he is a former Labour Party candidate for the same position years back. Bamidele, a lawyer, former member, House of Representatives and a former commissioner in Lagos State, said he was the best qualified candidate to succeed Fayemi far ahead of any candidate in the race for Ekiti State governorship in 2022. He said, “I am not contesting this election because I feel I am the only one who can add value in Ekiti State, but I am in this race because I am convinced that more than anyone else, I know Ekiti like no one does among those of us who have indicated an interest in being governor of Ekiti State. “I know the workings of government in the three arms like no one does among those of us that are aspiring. Having traversed the three arms of government, I want to say with due respect and with every sense of modesty, that I have what it takes to lead a state like Ekiti at a time like this when everyone who has a scientific understanding of what is wrong and what needs to be done, needs to come forward and present himself,” Bamidele said. If elected, I’ll be first homeboy to govern Ekiti – Oyebanji On his part, Biodun Oyebanji, the immediate past Secretary to Ekiti State Government, who hails from Ikogosi Ekiti in the Ekiti Central Senatorial District, said his candidacy would provide emergence of the first home-grown governor in the state since the advent of democracy in 1999. Oyebanji, who said he was the most competent to succeed Fayemi, having got “solid tutelage from Otunba Niyi Adebayo for four years and seven years under Governor Kayode Fayemi”, added, “Out of the 25 years of the creation of this state, I have received 11 years experience as a public servant. He said, “If I get the governorship ticket and win the election in June, I will be the first homeboy to be Ekiti State governor. I schooled here in Ekiti State from primary, secondary and up to the university level. My governorship will ensure continuity with the laudable vision and programmes of the Fayemi administration. Our government will expand prosperity for Ekiti people. Every man, every woman and child will prosper under our government.” Oyebanji is believed to be the annointed candidate of Gov Fayemi. I have designed Ekiti development blueprint, says Famuyibo Chief Reuben Famuyibo, a lawyer and former presidential aspirant, from Ado Ekiti in the Ekiti Central Senatorial District, said he had designed a blueprint that would bring development to Ekiti State in the areas of industrialisation, job creation, social security, free education and healthcare policies as well as other pivotal sectors of the economy. The former governorship aspirant, while promising that he would emerge victorious in the APC primaries, said, “In 2022, Ekiti people are going to vote for personality. I can tell you that I have gone far and wide; in fact, I have visited the wards across the 16 council areas more than three times and the reception was impressive because of our contributions in the time past. What the people are craving are personalities that can add value to the state.” He lamented that “unfortunately, we have been having governors who don’t have manifesto, that don’t even know what they want to do for the people. Instead of all these unnecessarily big projects, I don’t see why a serious government cannot do ordinary cottage industries, at least one per local government, first to create employment and secondly to generate revenue.” Famuyibo said he would be more committed than anyone else in the development of the state being a member of the team that worked relentlessly for the creation of Ekiti on October 1, 1996, during Gen. Sani Abacha’s military regime. My mission is to unlock Ekiti potentials, says Ojo Kayode Ojo, a Lagos-based businessman and governorship aspirant in 2018, from Ikoro Ekiti in the Central Senatorial District, says his goal in the Ekiti 2022 governorship race is to clinch the political party’s ticket cum win the election in a bid to unlock the state potentials. Ojo, who said infrastructure development would be his priority in government, added that his government would ensure paradigm shift and aspire for the continuity of good governance, which foundation was laid by the incumbent governor. “This is not a personal mission. It is a mission for the people. It is a mission to emancipate and unlock the abundant economic potentials of Ekiti State. That is what this campaign and the government we want to put in place is all about; unlocking the abundance in Ekiti for the benefit of all Ekiti people. “Ekiti State has vast potentials in industries, agriculture, mining and education in addition to human capital,” he said, adding that the cargo airport being constructed by the Fayemi administration, when completed, would be the catalyst for the state’s economic development,” Ojo said. I want to lift Ekiti people out of poverty – Popoola Demola Popoola, an aviation expert, from Oye Ekiti in the Northern Senatorial District, said his interest in the governorship race was borne out of his desire to industrialise Ekiti and lift the people out of poverty through deliberate job creation efforts. Popoola, who said he came into the governorship race with a 15-year-blueprint/roadmap for Ekiti Development, said part of his immediate social intervention scheme was to institute a N50m empowerment scheme for select beneficiaries across the 19 local government areas of the state targeted at no fewer than 100 beneficiaries per council. He said, “I want to touch the lives of the people and I am not interested in deceiving the people. I can assure you that support for me is support for Ekiti development. There is a lot of natural resources in this state yet untapped. We have to develop our skills and create jobs through vocational training for our youths. “We will also establish cottage industries that will give jobs to our graduate youths to transform the state. I am not happy that a lot of our youths are riding okada.” Battle field However, the battle line is drawn and the aspirants are on the field, while members of the political party, either through direct or indirect mode primaries, will decide their fate on January 22, 2022. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com