Nigerian movie producer and director, Kemi Adetiba, on Saturday clocked 42 and celebrities have taken to Instagram to celebrate the iconic filmmaker. Announcing her age on Instagram, Adetiba wrote, “My 42nd year… Filled with grace, gratitude, advancement, achievement; surrounded by love, friendship, and trust. I’m still called a ‘baby geh’.” Actor and singer, Bankole Wellington, popularly known as Banky W celebrated the filmmaker saying, “Happy birthday to one of the greatest African storytellers of all time, the incomparable @kemiadetiba. I love you and I’m honored to have worked with you, and be forever in your corner.” Actress Omoni Oboli said, “Happy birthday baby girl, Kemi Adetiba. Here’s to more grace, accomplishments, love, and peace.” Sola Sobowale, who was the lead actress in Kemi Adetiba’s blockbuster, ‘King of Boys’ celebrated the filmmaker as she showered the celebrant with prayers. The veteran actress wrote, “My darling Kemi, on this day you were born. I don’t know how to describe your person – the word that comes to my mind now is spectacular. “A woman of vision and immense passion for the arts. The Lord filled you with so much and I believe we’ve not even seen up to half of it. “From this day, every hinderance in your life is removed. May you always see the goodness of this Lord in this land and everywhere you reside. “As you will to do, God will bless you with capacity, resources and surround you with His hedge of protection in the mighty name of Jesus. “Kemi mi, I love you and like I always say, I bless the day I met you. The yin to my yang, Happy birthday.” Veteran actor, Richard Mofe-Damijo, wrote, “Happy birthday to the real king of boys. 42 never looked better.” Sharing a picture of the filmmaker, rapper and actor Ill Bliss wrote, “Happy Birthday darling @kemiadetiba. May God keep blessing you , protecting and providing for you. I wish you much more greatness, wisdom, wealth x happiness. Love Always.Illy Chaps! Aka Odogwu Malay.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com