The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board on Monday announced that the registration processes for the 2022 Unified Tertiary and Matriculation Examination alongside the Direct Entry examinations will commence on February 12, 2022. This is as the examination regulatory board added that it planned to refund the N4,000 deposit of 2021 candidates who could not complete the registration process. The board made this known in its weekly bulletin made available to The PUNCH by the head of media and protocol, Dr Fabian Benjamin in Abuja. In the timeline of events attached to the bulletin, the board announced that the “UTME/DE registration starts 12th February 2022 and ends 19th March 2022. Mock examination holds on 20th April 2022. UTME holds from 20th to 30th April 2022”. “This is to notify all 2021 candidates who had deposited a draft of four thousand naira  for late registration for the 2021 UTME and Direct Entry (DE) but were unable to complete the registration process owing to no fault of the Board, even after the Board had extended the registration period twice, to visit the Board’s Website and complete a form for the refund of the value of the draft they submitted to the Board.” Meanwhile, JAMBsaid it had rejected the National Business and Technical Examinations Board advanced level as an entry requirement for Direct Entry into tertiary institutions. The Board said the directive became necessary following the discovery that relevant government policies on A/ Level programmes do not permit NABTEB from conducting Advanced Level examinations. The Board, in a statement signed by the Director of Admissions, Mohammed Ahmed and which was made available to Vice-Chancellors and other Heads of tertiary institutions in the country, said that JAMB would not process the admission of any candidate with NABTEB A/L Certificate. In another development, JAMB on Monday said it had rejected the apology of a “repentant” candidate who wrote to intimate the board of examination malpractices which he committed 21 years ago. This is as the examination regulatory board added that the only way it would accept the apology was for the former candidate to forfeit all the certificates he had acquired with the result of his Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. This was disclosed in the weekly bulletin published by the board and made available to The PUNCH in Abuja by the Director of protocols and public relations of the board, Dr. Fabian Benjamin. Mr Timipade Kemepade plea was contained in a letter addressed to JAMB titled: Restitution on my JAMB Result 21 years ago. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com