Governor Abdullahi Sule and other stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress in Nasarawa State have endorsed former Governor and Senator representing Nasarawa South Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Umaru Al-Makura, for the position of National Chairman of the party. Speaking during the party’s stakeholders meeting in Lafia on Tuesday, Governor Abdullahi Sule said the endorsement was aimed at ensuring that Al-Makura gets the needed support from Nasarawa as a step for him to emerge victorious in the forthcoming National Convention of the party slated for February 26, 2022. He said, “I am so happy today because I actually started this campaign for Nasarawa State because I believe that we deserve the position of National Chairman of the APC. “All the political parties that came together to form the APC have produced a National Chairman of the party except the Congress for Progressive Change and Tanko Al-Makura was the only Governor in the party at that time. “So far, nobody else in the state has come out publicly to say he or she wants to be the National Chairman of the APC except Al-Makura and we will give him all the necessary support to emerge victoriously.” The Governor appealed to leaders of the All Progressives Congress at the national level and across the 36 states of the country to support Al-Makura to become the National Chairman of the party to ensure the steady growth and progress of the party. Earlier, Chairman of the APC in the state, John Mamman, expressed confidence in Al-Makura to lead the party to greater heights if elected as the National Chairman while appealing to Governor Abdullahi Sule to ensure that he takes the campaign across the length and breathe of the country to convince other stakeholders of the party on the need to support his candidacy. “Tanko Al-Makura has indicated interest to contest for the office of National Chairman of our great party, the APC. So, I am appealing to you, our amiable Governor, to do your best and convince other party leaders on the need to support Al-Makura to lead our party to greater heights”, Mamman said. Our correspondent reports that party leaders and stalwarts ranging from representatives of the State Working Committee, Local Government Working Committees, Ward Officials from across the state, serving and former officeholders and elder statesmen graced the occasion. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com