Regarded as the cornerstone of upward social mobility, urban centres are increasingly shrinking to the pressure of overpopulation as people continue to relocate to city centres on a daily basis in search of greener pastures. Despite a population bursting at the seams, infrastructure awkwardly moves at a snail’s pace, creating a huge developmental vacuum and related problems. One notable prevailing challenge in metropolitan areas such as Lagos, Kano and Port Harcourt (Rivers State) is perennial road traffic congestion especially during rush hours. The resultant loss of man hour, stress-related health crisis and air pollution are daily puzzles residents are forced to contend with. In this regard, railbuses – lightweight bus-like passenger railcars – were developed as a major green transportation means to help decongest traffic jams in the cities on one hand and address environmental pollution on the other. In a research published by ScienceDirect, Han-ru Li of Research Institute of Highway Ministry of Transport, Beijing, China, observed that with the acceleration of urbanisation process, urban traffic congestion was becoming increasingly rigorous. He equally noted that the contradiction among population, resources and environment was also becoming increasingly prominent and recommended a green transportation system as the way-out. Li stated, “Green transportation is a low-carbon and environmental travelling mode. The active promotion of green transportation is not only good for intensive use of road resources, the ease of traffic congestion, the decrease of energy consumption and the improvement of air quality, but also, as a return to healthy and leisure lifestyles, good for the improvement of citizen health. “From the perspective of means of transportation, a green transportation system includes walking, bicycles, regular public transport and rail transport. From the perspective of vehicles of transportation, green transportation vehicles include various low-pollution vehicles, such as dual-energy vehicles, natural gas vehicles, electric vehicles, hydrogen, power vehicles and solar energy vehicles.” He further maintained that green transportation includes different kinds of electrified transportation vehicles such as trolley bus, tram car, light rail and subway, describing it as a new concept and convenient, safe, efficient, low-pollution, humanised and diversified urban transportation system. Li added, “It adapts to the habitat environment development trends, is led by public transport, and coordinates with ecological environment and urban development. Green transportation advocates the decreased use of private motor cars, the increased use of walking, bicycle and public transport, and the use of clean energies and vehicles. It is a low-cost, pollution-free, land resource and space saving transportation system suitable for all kinds of travellers.” As an essential element of green transportation, railbus was developed by a team of ambitious visionary entrepreneurs, industrial designers and transportation specialists. A step forward ultra light rail system, railbus is aimed at tackling an age-old problem facing millions of people in many cities with lack of infrastructure. “Railbus is more than a solution for the transportation problems; it creates and supports sustainable development in any country,” the Dubai-based manufacturing firm, RAILBUS Inc, stated on its website. Railbus operation is similar to the bus rapid transit system operated in Lagos but with more comfortable commuting and environmental-friendly features. According to RAILBUS Co-founder, Mark MacLaurin, pollution caused by railbuses is dramatically reduced as it runs on hybrid-electric solar power. He said, “RAILBUS represents the future of sustainable mass transportation and will revolutionise the way millions of people live, work and travel. RAILBUS is a leap in transportation and will provide mobility, opening up economic opportunities for all. “Buses are widely used but are extremely overcrowded and cause major traffic congestion. Traffic jams also result in considerable loss of time and productivity. Railbus is an elevated system which provides an alternative transportation solution which relieves congestion off the roads and provides a safe and comfortable way to travel.” The National Executive Director, the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport, Mr Paul Ndibe, explained that railbuses were good and could be adopted in populated cities in Nigeria, but with limitations in terms of passenger capacity. He noted that diesel multiple unit trains comprising two or more coaches were more suitable for the intra-city rail system in the country as it would be able to take a number of passengers at a time. The transport expert however said that if there were enough railbuses that could run at a regular interval like DMUs, the former would contribute immensely to decongesting traffic jams. Ndibe stated, “DMUs have two or three coaches at a stretch and can run in a timetable. So every 10 or 15 minutes, you see one at a designated bus stop. It picks passengers and moves on whether it is full or not.  It is like a chain. There may be 10 in that pull and it is designed in such a way that at any specific point you are, there is a train coming to pick one. “DMUs are used in heavy traffic areas and they are usually seen around airports. They are good for intra-city commuting but the government has to lay the tracks first. That means they have to acquire the land for laying the tracks. “However, if you have a rail track where railbuses as a chain can continue moving in one direction, it can work to decongest traffic but one needs to lay the track first.” A Professor of Transport Management Technology at the Federal University of Technology, Owerri, Imo State, Chukwudi Ibe, equally agreed that railbuses were viable transportation means integral to easing off traffic gridlock and enhancing productivity. He said, “Railbuses are essential means of transportation in highly populated cities and have the capacity to solve the problem of traffic. All that needs to be done is to create a right of way for them and encourage people to use them. Once the people are aware, they will embrace them.” Sharing his view on the issue, a Transport Geography Professor at the Lagos State University, Samuel Odewumi, said a city like Lagos could consider the railbus system upon the completion of its ongoing rail metro lines – red and blue lines – to further address the growing traffic congestion in the state. He noted that railbuses would also be apt in major cities such as Port Harcourt, Kano and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Odewumi added, “As for Lagos, another thing to focus on after blue and red lines is yellow line, which is Marina to Epe where Lekki Deep Sea port and Lekki Free Trade Zone are. The traffic within that axis in the next one year, if the Dangote refinery is ready, will be such that the road won’t be able to contain it. “Port Harcourt tried to do something like that (railbus) but when you don’t finish transport infrastructure, it is a problem. It is better you don’t start at all than to start and stop half-way. From my experience, the cities where I think the railbus system is reasonable are Lagos, Port Harcourt, Abuja and Kano. Also any project you want to do, you must do cost-benefit analysis. Can there be something small you can do that will serve the same purpose? At the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference in Glasgow, United Kingdom, known popularly as COP 26, countries were asked to scale up efforts to phase out coal, curtail deforestation, speed up the switch to electric vehicles and encourage investment in renewables. As countries take measures to meet the Net Zero target by 2050 as agreed at the conference, experts say embracing more eco-friendly technologies in the form of railbuses is one step in the right direction to reduce carbon emission.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com