THE escalating violence in the Bogoro and Tafawa Balewa local government areas of Bauchi State must be quickly quashed by security agents, traditional rulers, and clerics before it balloons into full-blown inter-ethnic and inter-religious crisis. Predictably, fresh violence marred the 21st memorial anniversary and book launch organised in honour of the late leader and champion of the cause of the Sayawa people, Peter Gonto, on December 31. It was totally preventable, but the state governor, Bala Mohammed, and the Nigeria Police ignored strident intelligence and security alerts, including one sounded by the immediate past Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, who represents the constituency in the Ninth National Assembly. Weeks before the event organised in honour of Gonto, said to be the first Christian convert and evangelist in Sayawaland, there was a sharp division among the Sayawa people who are predominantly Muslims. Scores of youths had protested that the event should not hold. Dogara, who represents the Dass/Tafawa Balewa/Bogoro Constituency in the federal lower chamber, had written the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, informing him of security threats if the memorial of his wife’s grandfather was allowed to hold.Curiously, the Bauchi State Commissioner of Police, Umar Sanda, shunned the warning and gave the nod for the event to hold. Consequently, protesters, including angry youths, later besieged the venue of the memorial at the Government Secondary School, Mwari, and set it ablaze. Houses were later confirmed by the police to have been burnt during the violence, while vehicles were smashed by the youths. Palpable tension has since engulfed the two LGAs with the aggrieved parties slamming lawsuits on one another. The go-ahead given for the event by the state government was unwarranted, out of tune with the reality of potential violence on the ground. This pointed to interference and politicisation of the botched event. That Mohammed, who should have acted as the impartial Chief Security Officer of the state and forestalled the mayhem by heeding Dogara’s warning, turned round to institute a lawsuit against the lawmaker for alleged breach of public peace is outright confusing. Rather than douse tension, it appears to be stoking it. As a matter of urgency, security agents must be deployed in Bogoro and Tafawa Balewa LGAs to contain the residue of the crisis. The IG, the state police commissioner and the state governor should learn from the Bogoro crisis and act on verified intelligence when provided one. In an era of tinderbox violence across the land, the pragmatic course of action would have been to exercise caution since a resounding warning had been given by some prominent stakeholders. Injustice and violence have frequently boiled over in the state. Major religious violence that claimed scores of lives and property had occurred in Bauchi in 1991, 2001 and 2011. In a long-running saga that began in 2012, Rifkatu Danna, who was then the only minority member of the state House of Assembly, was suspended after a plenary. Her ordeal started after she challenged an executive bill from then Governor Isa Yuguda on the relocation of the headquarters of the Bogoro LGA from the Christian-dominated Tafawa Balewa to the Muslim-dominated Bununu town. Her colleagues dealt her a hard, vicious blow for this. Bizarrely, they accused Danna of “derogating the parliament.” Although she was cleared by the court, she was not reinstated till the legislative tenure ended in 2015. This was unfair and provocative. It is part of the reason violence flared up in Bogoro again. A perspective governor would have taken the undercurrents of discord into account before approving the anniversary celebrations that later turned sour. In many parts of the North like Kaduna, Taraba, and Plateau, ethno-religious crisis is self-inflicted. In Gombe State, students once did the sacrilegious by murdering their teacher, Oluwatoyin Olusesi, in 2007. Falsely, they accused her of desecrating the Koran, when in fact she was trying to stop them from cheating during examination. The murderers were not brought to justice as the state government pandered to religious interests. Yuguda had compounded the mess in 2011 in the election violence in Bauchi in which about 50 people, including National Youth Service Corps members, were slaughtered. Provocatively, Yuguda callously attributed this to the “destiny” of the slain youths before recanting in the face of public outrage. Traditional rulers should be seen as dexterous managers of diversities. They should stop dancing to the tune of the governor and rise above partisan sentiments. Their duty is to maintain peaceful co-existence among their subjects regardless of their choice of faith. The northern elite should stop playing games with religion. The Federal Government should mobilise its security apparatus now to contain the situation. It should not fold its arms till the crisis escalates and spreads to other LGAs in the state. Proactive steps should be taken in the light of Bauchi’s proximity to Plateau State where an age-long inter-religious crisis rages. The Bogoro crisis must be quickly stamped out so that it does not spill over into adjoining states. The Year 2022 is already filled with anticipated security challenges on the political scene; avoidable communal crisis should not be added to the list. The IG, the Bauchi State Government, traditional rulers, and other leaders of faith must act quickly. Political office holders at both federal and state levels should initiate moves to mediate between the warring factions to avoid further disturbance of public peace.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com