The Bayelsa State Commissioner for Power, Ebitei Tonyon, says the public power outage being experienced by residents in some parts of Yenagoa, the state capital, may last three months. He attributed the blackout in the affected areas, which started about two weeks ago, to alleged vandalism of two electric towers around Tombia-Amassoma Road. Tonyon, who spoke during an interview on Rhythm FM in Yenagoa, said the vandals pulled down the towers after loosening their bolts at the base. The areas thrown into darkness as a result of the vandalism include Igbogene, Edepie, Akenfa, Okutukutu, Opolo-Epie, Biogbolo-Epie, Obogoro, Amarata and Swali among others. He said the vandalised infrastructure carried two power feeders that supply electricity to the affected areas from the state’s transmission centre. Tonyon said, “Why we are experiencing this blackout this recent time is that I got a call last Monday that two towers have been pulled down in Tombia-Amassoma Road (now called Airport Road). So, I immediately went for an inspection with my team and Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company staff members. “We discovered that two heavy towers have been pulled down; they (the vandals) loosed the bolts gradually, not only one day, until the towers fell down. “Now, the two towers that fell are the ones that transmit light from Ahoada to our transmission station. So feeder one and feeder two are totally down on the ground. “So, the whole of Imiringi Road, Tombia-Amassoma Road down to Igbogene; from Edepie down to Igbogene and parts of Etegwe-Edepie roundabout to Isaac Boro Expressway, down to Swali and Obogoro, and some areas like Amarata, Biogbolo-Epie are not going to have electricity until the two towers are replaced.” The commissioner, however, said his ministry was coordinating meetings with PHED officials and other stakeholders to resolve the problem. When asked how long the residents would wait before the destroyed towers could be fixed, Tonyon said “it might take three months.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com