The first of a three-part report of the State Capture Commission, inaugurated about four years ago was received on Tuesday, January 4, 2022 by the South African President, Cyril Ramaphosa. The 874-page Part 1 of the report is in three sections. Receiving the report, President Ramaphosa promised to post the report on his website, in a matter of hours after receipt. The commission, according to the president, has been open and transparent. Ray Zondo, the Chief Justice of South Africa, promised that the recommendations of the report would be binding. However, the president has the prerogative to either implement or not implement the recommendations of the report. But he has the moral obligation to give legal backing should he choose not to implement any parts of the recommendations. The other two parts of the reports shall all be submitted by the State Capture Commission to the president by the end of February, this year. The report covers the massive corruption, associated with the demise of some state-owned enterprises such as South Africa Airways, and the report on South Africa Revenue Services. The onus is upon the president to wait for the other two parts of the report to be submitted before implementation. This singular act of the African National Congress-led government of President Ramaphosa in setting up the commission and not attempting in any way to interfere with the inquiries of the report is highly commendable and unprecedented in Africa. Now, it is very clear that President Ramaphosa’s decision on the extent to which his government would use and implement the recommendations of the commission places him under the scrutiny and assessment of both the international community and the people of South Africa. History beckons on President Ramaphosa on how he wishes to go down in the annals of the country’s history of the fight against pervasive corruption and state capture. The president also commended and thanked the whistleblowers in the country for their patriotic act of bringing corruption cases to the fore, at the risk of their jobs and sometimes at the risk of their livelihood. Those, who have followed the long years of the corporate and political career of President Ramaphosa, believe that he would tow the right part of implementing the recommendations in line with the legal framework. The constitution of the State Capture Commission, the patriotic zeal of the whistleblowers, who volunteered information on corruption practices in several government departments, the men and women who worked tirelessly for nearly four years, and President Cyril Ramaphosa — for his steadfastness, must all be applauded and commended for this bold and unprecedented investigation of corruption on the African continent to thoroughly investigate an immediate past government of the same political party. South Africa, by this unique action,  has again gone down in history for setting the bar on intolerance of corruption, abuse of office and state capture, irrespective of whose horse is gored. Clearly, this has set a precedent and an agenda for all the 54-member countries that constitute the African Union. All South Africans, should remain calm, and come together to support whatever decisions that the government comes up with at the end of the submission of the three reports. Africa is indeed, truly rising. Long live President Cyril Ramaphosa; Long live the Republic of South Africa; Long Live Africa! Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com