The Nigeria Police Force has invited candidates who successfully completed their online recruitment registration in the ongoing 2021 recruitment exercise into the Force for physical and credential screening. The screening exercise which is being conducted by the Force in conjunction with the Police Service Commission is scheduled to hold at designated venues in states across the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory from February 1 to 20 from 8am daily. Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, made this known in a statement on Thursday titled, ‘Ongoing 2021 Recruitment Of Police Constables: Physical And Credential Screening Holds February 1 – 20, 2022’. The statement read in part, “Consequently, all applicants are to proceed to their respective State of Origin and appear at the various screening centres in their clean white T-shirts and shorts with the following mandatory basic screening requirements, neatly arranged in two white flat files with recent passport photographs attached: “National Identity Number; Original and duplicate copies of credentials – O’ Level Result(s), Certificate of Origin and Birth Certificate/Declaration of Age; Printout of application submission confirmation/profile page; and duly completed Guarantor’s form. “Any candidate who fails to present above, will not be considered for screening.
Applicants are equally advised to pay attention to detailed and specific guidelines on the screening exercise for each State, particularly, the location of screening and dates of screening per LGA, which will be announced by the Police Public Relations Officers in the 36 states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory. Also, the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, assured the applicants that the statutory entry requirements into the Force as clearly stated in the Police Act and Regulations, would be followed. The IGP further noted that a total of 135,027 valid applications were received in the online registration exercise. He commended the satisfactory increase in the number and geographic spread of the applications, particularly in the South-East and South-South region of the country following the extension of the registration exercise. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com