Oil marketers have commenced the establishment of autogas conversion centres in their filling stations following moves by the Federal Government to begin the use of autogas in vehicles in 12 pilot states this year. Operators in the downstream oil sector under the aegis of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria stated that the use of autogas in vehicles would reduce the demand pressure on Premium Motor Spirit, popularly called petrol. They told our correspondent on Wednesday that this was another reason why many marketers decided to start creating conversion centres in their respective filling stations and to further boost the autogas consumption drive of the Federal Government. Sunday PUNCH had exclusively reported that the Federal Government had selected 12 states for the pilot phase of the conversation of vehicles using petrol and diesel to enable them to run on Liquefied Petroleum Gas, also known as autogas. The Programme Manager, National Liquefied Petroleum Gas Expansion Implementation Plan, Dayo Adeshina, had explained that the LPG component in the autogas initiative would be implemented in the 12 states. Adeshina had told our correspondent that the 12 states were Lagos, Ogun, Bauchi, Gombe, FCT, Niger, Katsina, Sokoto, Ebonyi, Enugu, Delta and Bayelsa. The National LPG Expansion Implementation Plan is domiciled in the Office of the Vice President and has been making moves to ensure the usage of gas both for cooking, in automobiles and for other purposes. Reacting to the moves by government, the National Public Relations Officer, IPMAN, Chief Ukadike Chinedu, stated that the programme was in the right direction and was achievable because industry operators were ready to run with it. He said, “The entire world is almost moving towards the use of gas because it is more environmentally friendly than petrol or diesel. So it is pertinent that Nigeria should key in because in the western world, gas-powered vehicles are more on the streets. “So the Federal Government should put up an enabling environment that would ensure that Nigerians will adopt the use of LPG and Compressed Natural Gas in vehicles. \ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com