The Federal Road Safety Corps has said no fewer than 445 people died in several road crashes in Niger State and the Federal Capital Territory in 2021. Also, about 3,032 sustained various degrees of injuries in last year. Addressing journalists on Friday, the Zonal Commander, FCT, and Niger, Jonas Agwu, said the two states had a total of 1,263 road crashes in 2021. Agwu, however, attributed the cause of the crashes to speeding and wrong overtaking by drivers in the states. “Last year, we recorded 445 deaths in both FCT and Niger state. A total of 3,032 sustained various degrees of injuries. In total, we had 1,263 road crashes. The crashes were caused by speeding and wrongful overtaking. The crash trends show that speed remains a concern to the corps. “Our enforcement of speed limiters led to the arrests of 5,006 motorists for violating road traffic rules. Also, 1,092 were cautioned on speeding,” he said. Also speaking, the Sector Commander, FCT Command, Oga Ochi, said that the command recorded 964 crashes in 2021 while 189 people were killed in accidents in FCT. Ochi said that 4,897 people were involved in road traffic accidents with 1,914 injured, adding that the FCT command recorded 144 fatal cases and 194 minor cases in 2021. Buhari expresses sadness as 19 die in Kano-Zaria road crash Meanwhile, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) has expressed sadness over the death of 19 passengers who met their tragic fate on Thursday in a road accident that occurred on the Kano-Zaria Road. Buhari’s message is contained in a statement signed on Friday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, titled ‘President Buhari expresses sadness over the death of 19 passengers in Kano road accident”. Reacting to the incident, the President said, “I’m devastated and saddened by this unfortunate tragedy that claimed the lives of passengers who happily left their homes without any idea that it was going to be their last day on earth.” One dies in Anambra road crash In a related development, a fatal road traffic crash has occurred at the Ufuma junction by Ekwulobia-Ufuma Road, Anambra State late on Friday evening. The crash which caused the death of one person involved two vehicles, a custom Mercedes 911 with Registration Number: XF814AWK and a yellow tricycle with Registration Number: NNK313QL. According to an eyewitness, the probable cause of the crash was attributed to excessive speed. The Road Safety Sector Commander, Anambra State, Mr Adeoye Irelewuyi, commiserated with the family of the dead victim, and wished the injured victims quick recovery. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com