A police inspector, Eze Akpoelu, has allegedly attacked and injured a lady, Jane Amos, after she reportedly turned down his request for a relationship. The cop was said to have thrown a burning stove at Amos, which made her sustain burns in different parts of her body. The incident happened at Rumuokwuta, in the Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State. Amos, who spoke to PUNCH Metro from her hospital bed, said the inspector, who resided in the same compound with her, attacked her on Wednesday. She said, “This morning (Wednesday), I went to the bathroom to bathe my niece for school and Inspector Eze Akpoelu was in the bathroom, bathing. So, I went to bathe her outside. “He came out and said I was challenging him. He said he had warned that nobody should pour water outside. I did not make any comment. I took my niece into the bathroom. He said I was stupid and I did not have respect. “Because he had asked me out for friendship and I refused, since then he had been hostile and I kept avoiding him. “After I finished bathing my niece and went inside, he started saying that I was talking to him and that he would make me bleed. I said if he made me bleed, God in heaven would also make him bleed. “Later, I came out to put my pot down from the stove because the food I was cooking was almost done. When I opened my door, I saw him by my door. He seized me and held me tight by my neck. He poured what I was cooking away, carried the burning stove and poured it on me.” A rights group, Centre for Basic Rights Protection and Accountability Campaign, called for a thorough investigation into the incident. A statement by the group’s lawyer, Mr Festus Bonwin, said justice must be done in the matter. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Grace Iringe-Koko, said the suspect had been arrested and detained. She said, “He (Akpoelu) has been arrested. We have commenced investigation and if he is found culpable, he will be punished.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com