The Executive Director, Association for Training on Trauma and Attachment in Children, Mary McGowan, said, “no apology is owed for protecting the safety of elementary students.”  This is a true statement. If you own a school or probably administer one, or you are a teacher in an educational institution, you should know that safety rules are essential in every school and should be implemented. Safety used to be considered as the responsibility of organisations engaged in ‘hazardous’ activities such as road transportation, oil exploration and extraction, mining and construction. But it has expanded to an expression that safety is the responsibility of all. We live in an age where there are increasing cases of safety and security threats to schools. Reports of robbery, kidnapping, rape, sexual harassment, fire, diseases and building collapses bring the issue to the front burner. So, the safety of everyone in any school is vital. Teachers, students and administrators of schools all have roles to play in ensuring that schools are safe for all. A safety expert, Ugochi Obidiegwu, said 2021 showed the importance of child safety. She said, “A lot is happening to our children and many times we are unable to be with them 24/7 to guarantee their safety.” She added that beyond equipping children, one needs to direct them on the right path. She said, “As a teacher, you are a major influence in a child’s life. Use your influence positively. Do not be a part of the problem with abusive words, aggressive character and ‘funny’ undertones. Don’t be nonchalant when you observe anything that compromises a child’s safety.  You might be their last hope of getting a “safe” adult’s attention. “For school administrators and owners, you have to consider some key points. What is the overall culture in your school? Children’s development is not just about academics. Are they physically and emotionally safe? How do you ensure that? Do you have a proactive and reactive method of addressing safety concerns? No child deserves to die or get injured because they came to school. One must be seen to give a fair judgement regardless of socioeconomic status.” Below are some safety measures for school owners: Inspect school routes Most of the mishaps occur when pupils commute to schools. It is due to the negligence in safety of school routes. Many footpaths are in adverse conditions that force students to take roads to walk and get into trouble. Lack of speed breakers and proper signboards, etc., are a couple of key factors adding to these mishaps. A route safety audit can be conducted regularly by the local government and school management to mark out the obstacles and difficulties faced by the children. Inspect school infrastructure Another significant concern is the school infrastructure. Numerous students have faced fatal accidents because of weak foundations in schools. It’s not advisable to start the development or maintenance of rooftops until they break down and create problems. Additionally, the arrangement for safe drinking water is essential for students, not an enhancement. School authorities need to be sharp about analysing the school infrastructure and facilities to make a superior and safe learning environment. Inspect school location Deep analysis of school ambience is essential. Sometimes a stray animal may attack pupils or tree branches may fall off when they are playing outside. It may result in some severe casualties. School authorities should make sure that the environment is safe and secure for students. There must be some volunteers ready for rescue if any trouble occurs. Inspect school bus One of the most crucial times is when pupils travel to and from school on a bus. School authorities should do a regular audit of inside and out of the buses. They must check if the tyres are in proper condition and if the brakes are working fine. Along with it, they should check the engine’s working condition and coolant level, so that it reduces the risk of catching fire. Awareness of road safety Carelessness in passing on necessary road safety education to pupils can put their life at risk. It is the responsibility of school authorities to make pupils aware of the traffic safety rules. Display emergency numbers There should be emergency numbers evident on the school buses so that other travellers could see it in case any mishap occurs. The contact numbers should include those of the local police station, ambulance service, Parent-Teacher Authority and school principal, etc. Also, for more safety, identity cards can be issued to the pupils with the emergency contact of their parents/guardians. First aid, inter-school clinic service It will be a significant step if schools equip emergency clinics inside the premises. Also, the authorities should keep first aid kits with all the necessary ointments and medicines ready. Injuries can happen at any time, and delay in proper aid can result in some severe after-effects. Deploying police Another best approach to increasing the safety of the students is posting police personnel on the school premises. It will ensure the safety of children while they are crossing roads and will inspire them to follow the proper traffic rules. Check for unattended safety issues The parents and the school authorities may not be aware most of the time, but there are times when children are abused, bullied, and discriminated against on the school premises. Small children often don’t share the incidents with anyone. It’s the responsibility of school authorities to take the necessary steps to ensure that no one misbehaves with the pupils. Additionally, teachers must make them aware of the difference between a right touch and a bad touch, so that they know when to report the actions. Take personal hygiene seriously Ensure that pupils and staff wash their hands often; it is advised that the teachers supervise younger children. Be sure that an alcohol-based sanitiser is made available at all entrances to the school. Pupils and teachers should wear face masks and cover their mouths and noses when coughing or sneezing. Ensure that any used tissue is thrown away into a closed bin and hand-washing practised often and to always sneeze into flexed (bent) elbow. A demonstration should also be done on how pupils should sneeze into their elbows. Pupils or teachers who feel unwell should stay at home and should not attend school or any educational or public setting. Sources: noblehall.com, educeleb.com, fleetroot.com