The Kano State Government has partnered the private sector to inaugurate the Education Strategic Investment and Development Initiative, a five-year $500m project, aimed at systematic development of the education sector in the state. The project, which focuses on graduates at secondary vocational and tertiary levels, will see the state government providing 30 per cent of the funding, while the remaining 70 per cent is to be sourced from donor agencies and grants from international agencies. In his remarks at in the inauguration of the project, the Chief Organising Officer of the initiative, Abdullahi Yabo, explained that among other core objectives, the project was aimed at boosting school enrollment, retention and completion rates among Kano children. He noted that the project would focus on teacher competence, learner achievements and quality education through curriculum upgrades and other soft/hard inputs. According to Yabo, the project is in line with the Kano State government’s focus which has made education one of the pillars of social and economic revolution in the state. He said, “This Education Strategic Investment and Development Initiative provides the framework for the systematic development of the education sector in the state over the next five years (2021-2026), as a decisive step towards this commitment.’’ “The ESIDI is concerned and will be implemented on the authority and sponsorship of the Kano State Ministry of Education. The ministry will act as the project supervision entity, while project management functions will be performed by Cynox Development Engineering Limited.’’ The Kano State Commissioner for Education, Muhammad Kiru, who was represented  by a Director in the ministry, said the  vision of the state government is to provide high quality and functional education for life-long learning and self-reliance.” “We shall work partnership to ensure to ensure effective coordination, efficient mobilisation and judicious utilisation of resources for the provision of high quality and functional education in Kano State.’’  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com