The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has extended heartfelt condolences to a former deputy governor of Osun State, Senator Iyiola Omisore, and the entire Omisore family on the passing of their father and Olu of Ayepe-Olode, Oba David Omisore. He said the late monarch would be remembered for his lifelong dedication to the development of his people. Buhari’s condolence message was contained in a statement on Monday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, titled, ‘President Buhari mourns Oba Omisore, father of ex-Osun Deputy Gov’. The statement read in part, “The President joins the people of Ife in mourning the well-respected traditional ruler, who will be remembered for his lifelong dedication to the development of his people, providing leadership with dignity, love and respect when it mattered most.” Buhari said he was sure that the Omisore family, friends and associates would continue to honour the departed patriarch’s avowed commitment to peaceful settlement of disputes and promoting harmony among different ethnic groups. He prayed for the peaceful repose of the departed and comfort for those mourning him. Similarly, a former Vice-President, Atiku Abubakar, has condoled with the people and government of Osun State on the death of Oba Omisore. Atiku, in a statement by his media office in Abuja on Monday, said the passage of the traditional ruler at the ripe age of 91 meant that “his elderly counsels would be dearly missed.” He commiserated with the Omisore family on the demise of its patriarch, saying, “Losing an aged parent can be emotionally challenging, but ultimately it is a grace from God, which should be appreciated.” Atiku prayed for the Ayepe-Olodo community, the Omisore family and the Osun State Government to find the fortitude to bear the loss and asked God to grant the soul of the departed a gentle repose. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com