The Ogun State Police Command has arrested the fleeing suspect who reportedly masterminded the killing of his girlfriend, Soliu Majekodunmi. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, in an update on the killing of a girl identified as Rofia by four teenagers in Abeokuta, said the leader of the gang has been arrested. Oyeyemi had confirmed that four teenagers had slaughtered and burnt the skull of Rofia after her boyfriend, Soliu, lured her to his house in Oke-Aregna. The PUNCH had earlier reported that there was confusion in Oke Aregba community in Abeokuta, Ogun State capital, on Saturday, when some teenage boys were caught burning the skull of a girl, said to be in a relationship with one of them, for alleged money rituals. The community security guard, one Segun Adewusi was said to have observed that some boys were burning something suspicious in a local pot. The security guard immediately alerted the police at Adatan station, who went to the scene and arrested three of the boys arrested while Soliu, the leader of the gang had fled before police arrived. The slain girl was a resident of Idi-Ape Abeokuta and was a girlfriend to Soliu, who is now in the police net. Explaining how Soliu was arrested, the PPRO said the DPO was given an order to get him arrested. He said, “Following the order given to the DPO Adatan by the Commissioner of Police to ensure the arrest of the deceased boyfriend, the DPO, and his men arrested the fleeing suspect Soliu Majekodumi in his hideout. He is 18 years old.” Soliu was said to have lured the girl to his room, where he held her down and asked one of his friends to slaughter her with a knife. Other suspects earlier arrested were identified as 17-year-old Wariz Oladeinde from Kugba, 19-year-old Abdulgafar Lukman from Kugba, and Mustakeem Balogun from Bode Olude, all in Abeokuta. The Police had said, “They killed Rofiat, cut her head, packed the headless body in a sack and started burning the head in a pot. They told the police in the presence of a mammoth crowd that they wanted to use it for money ritual.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com