The Office of the National Security Adviser is indebted to foreign partners offering critical security services and strategic support to Nigeria to the tune of N30bn ($73m). Saturday PUNCH also gathered that the NSA’s office has not been ‘funded’ since the Muhammadu Buhari regime took over power in 2015, despite its avowed promise to tackle insecurity in the country. The NSA, General Babagana Monguno (retd.), made the allegations when he appeared before the Senate Ad hoc Committee on Security Challenges set up to proffer solutions to the security crisis facing the nation. This was contained in the committee report dated March 17, 2020, signed by the Chairman, Yahaya Abdullahi, 20 senators and the Clerk, Vivian Njemanze. The report was obtained exclusively by our correspondent on Thursday. Monguno appeared before the committee in March 2020 where he narrated the challenges facing his office. This newspaper could not confirm if the financial status of ONSA has improved as Monguno and his media aides could not be reached for comment. The committee was set up to restructure, review and reorganise the current security architecture of the country. The 74-page report has since been submitted to the National Assembly leadership and the FG but nothing has been heard about the implementation of its recommendations. Apart from Monguno, other security chiefs who appeared before the committee include the then Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Abayomi Olonisakin; Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Air Staff, Chief of Naval Staff and heads of other strategic institutions. The committee, chaired by the Senate Majority Leader, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi, also invited six ministers and 12 states but only Lagos and Zamfara honoured the invitation. The NSA, who manages national security on behalf of the President and serves as his chief advisor on all matters vital to the survival of the state, gave the committee members an insight into the lack of optimal performance by the security agencies. He attributed their inability to combat the ongoing insurgency in the North-East and the banditry and kidnapping in the North-Central to the structure of the security institutions; the law that created the agencies and the need to revisit the Acts; the need for the judiciary to work in unison with the executive and the legislature ‘’as they are not currently working harmoniously on issues of national security.’’ The NSA also noted that there existed no consequences for bad behaviour to serve as deterrence to intended lawlessness and criminals. Monguno, who is a statutory member of the Presidency, National Security Council and Federal Executive Council, said there was little central coordination of the security architecture, stressing that this required a complete review of the national security strategy. The report stated, ‘’The NSA bemoaned the duplication of facilities/equipment purchases by security agencies and recommended a central purchasing point for the needs of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, which he said was previously done by the Ministry of Defence through the Security Council, who were faceless as against the current individual agencies’ purchases of equipment with a monetary expectation attached.’’ The committee added, ‘’The NSA informed the Ad hoc Committee that his office is indebted to the tune of $73m being Service Level Agreement in a bilateral commitment. He further informed the committee that the NSA’s office has not been funded from 2015 till date (2020).’’ The NSA’s office could not be reached for an update on its funding challenges as the spokesman, Zakari Usman, did not respond to calls and text messages sent to him on Thursday and Friday. In the text message sent to Usman, our correspondent asked if the NSA had cleared its $73m debt but the spokesman did not respond to calls and he had yet to reply to the SMS as of the time of filing this report. When contacted on Monguno’s allegation that his office was not funded, the media aide to the Minister of Finance, Yunusa Abdullahi, stated, “Security funding has been the priority of this government and credit must be given to President Muhammadu Buhari for all the security and military approvals and the honourable Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning for the quickness in all the releases done so far.’’ In his presentation before the senate committee, Olonisakin said the involvement of youths in drug abuse was denying the army quality manpower, adding that in the last recruitment exercise, “out of 800 applicants that passed the exams, only 200 passed the medical test because of the problem of drug abuse.” The committee in his findings said the alleged non-funding of the NSA’s office since 2015 had undermined the effective performance of its coordinating function in the security architecture and “has led many agencies to question its authority and relevance in various fora, thereby adversely affecting  inter-service cooperation and intelligence sharing.’ The committee said the army must urgently acquire sophisticated Unmanned Aerial Vehicles commonly known as drones, “which the insurgents have yet to get,” stating that this would provide instant intelligence and surveillance for attack and ambush strategy. “With the insurgents using cheap commercial drones to survey our troop positions for attack planning, it’s only a matter of time before they use their ISIS (Islamic State terrorist group) connections to weaponise them with explosive payloads similar to what ISIS is using with devastating efficiency in Syria, Iraq and Kurdistan. “It is, therefore, imperative that the Army be equipped with drone detection and incapacitating technology in the form of anti-drone systems which can jam radio frequencies used to control drones causing them to fall out of the sky uncontrollably or even utilise laser beams to burn aerial drones causing internal failure,’’ the committee submitted. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com