A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party in Edo State, Barr. Kenneth Imasuangbon, has backed former Vice President of Nigeria, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to pick the party ticket for next year’s general election. Some chieftains of the PDP had recently called on Atiku to support younger aspirants from the Southern part of the country. However, Imasuangbon on Thursday said Atiku remained the best candidate of the PDP to defeat the ruling All Progressives Congress if the party is desirous of winning the election. Imasuangbon, who spoke in a statement made available to journalists in Benin, urged PDP members to market their aspirants instead of presenting Atiku in a bad light. The former Edo governorship aspirant said Atiku had the prerequisite experience, contacts across the country and had impacted many lives through his many philanthropic works. He cautioned PDP Governors and other party chieftains to call their supporters to order and refrained them from casting aspersion on Atiku. He said, “What I want PDP members to understand and focus on is winning the election. We cannot field candidates Nigerians do not know and trust. “How on earth can someone argue that Atiku should not be given our party’s ticket on account of his age? Age is not a curse but a blessing. “If we are talking about fairness, equity and justice, power should remain in the North. He is the most qualified in the North and don’t forget that the North East has not produced the President. Even if you leave the presidency open he is the most qualified and his presidency will usher in prosperity for the country. “From 1999, the South had done 14 years while the North will have 11 years by the time Buhari completes his tenure next year. There is a 4 years deficit for the North to balance up. “[The] PDP where I belong, the North has not finished its tenure. Obasanjo did 8 years, Yar’ Adua did 2 years and Jonathan did 6 years. In fairness, they should take it to the North. “Atiku is well known across the country. He is the best option to defeat the APC. I want to appeal to PDP governors and other members to support Atiku,” the statement read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com