The Federal Government on Tuesday vowed that it would not allow bandits, terrorists and other rogue elements to destroy the infrastructural projects being put in place in the North-East. It said the country’s security enterprise would provide 100 per cent support to the North-East Development Commission, stressing that the NEDC had recorded a lot of progress in rebuilding the crisis hit region. The National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, disclosed this in Abuja at the consultative meeting with federal Ministries, Departments and Agencies on the North-East Stabilisation and Development Masterplan Project. “I can tell you from where I’m operating in the Office of the National Security Adviser, despite the enormous challenges, I can see that a lot of progress has been made by those implementing this project and I just want to congratulate them,” he stated. Monguno added, “I’ve had a lot of discussions with my colleagues in the security, defence as well as the intelligence community and they are so motivated by the work that has been done so far. The next step is the stabilisation and the inclusion of this strategic master plan. “I want to reassure you of the determination of the Executive in making sure that whatever achievements have been made, they will not be scuttled by rogue elements such as criminals, terrorists, bandits or any activity willfully embarked upon in the destruction of infrastructure, killing of people just in order to ensure that the confidence in what you are doing is lost. “Whatever their motives are, you can rest assured that the security agencies are up to the task, given the challenges. Of course, we have a lot of challenges confronting us. But I want to reassure you that you deserve nothing less than the 100 per cent support of the security enterprise of this country.” The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Farouq, said the functions of the NEDC as contained in its Act was develop a master plan based on the needs assessment of the zone. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com