FCMB Group Plc has said it is partnering with the Ogun State Government to provide affordable mortgage loans to subscribers of low-cost schemes. A statement on Thursday said FCMB, the retail and commercial banking subsidiary of the group, would disburse the loans to residents of Ogun State desiring to own their homes. The statement said this was disclosed during a visit by the management of FCMB Group, led by the Group Chief Executive, Mr Ladi Balogun, to Ogun State Governor, Dr Dapo Abiodun, in Abeokuta on Wednesday. Balogun expressed the commitment of FCMB Group and its subsidiaries to supporting initiatives that would ensure sustainable development and welfare of people, businesses and government. He said, “We are ready to support the state government’s development agenda to ensure improved quality of life for the people by helping them to own homes. “FCMB will always be there to fulfil its promise of helping customers achieve their aspirations.” While appreciating the state’s infrastructure developmental strides, Balogun said FCMB would collaborate with Ogun State to improve the quality of life of its people and businesses. The statement said Abiodun called for a more robust relationship between the state and the FCMB Group. He restated his administration’s commitment to elevating the quality of life of the people of Ogun State. He was quoted as saying, “In the last 30 months, we built over 1,000 homes with more required to help the state fulfil its housing goals. “People are buying them faster than we are building them. They are either paid in full or paid in part, and those are areas that you could work with us. Ogun State Government is for progressive public-private partnership in the areas of financing, management and concession.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com