Ebonyi state chapter of All Progressives Congress, on Wednesday, said Governor David Umah’s performance within his six years in office will earn him victory in his bid to govern the country in 2023. The Chairman of the party in the state, Chief Stanley Okoro-Emegha, stated this in Abakaliki, the state capital, while briefing journalists on the governor’s decision to contest the 2023 presidential election. He applauded the Governor for his intention to contest the election. Emegha described Umahi’s intention to run for the exalted position in the country as a bold step and expressed confidence that the governor’s presidency would bring massive infrastructural development and economic prosperity to the Nigerian nation and her citizenry considering his monumental achievements as a governor. He said, “Let me inform Nigerians both at home and in the diaspora that Governor Umahi’s decision to join the presidential race is the best thing that has happened to the entire country Nigeria considering his precedent and genealogy. “Just like what he said on Channels TV, where he promised to replicate his progressive efforts in Ebonyi at the national level, my Governor is not contesting with anybody but with himself in total obedience to the party’s decision.” “Those who knew Ebonyi State before the coming of Engr David Umahi can be the judge. Under Umahi, Ebonyi has been transformed and now competes with developed countries. “Aside from the road network kiss crossing the nooks and crannies of the state, there has been constant street light since he took over the mantle of leadership. The APC Chairman, who also doubles as the Special Security Consultant to the State Government, said apart from the massive infrastructural development, the administration of Governor Umahi has also brought an appreciable level of peace to the people, thereby making life more meaningful and satisfying. “I, therefore, call on all Nigerians irrespective of ethnicity, belief and other attachments to please key into this dream of making the country greater by supporting Umahi to become the next president,” Emegha stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com