Eight people lost their lives and 17 others were injured on Monday in fatal road accidents in Ogun and Akwa Ibom states. In Ogun State, no fewer than six persons, including two children, lost their lives in an auto crash on Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, Keke/Lala village, in the Ewekoro Local Government Area of Ogun State. The accident, which occurred on Monday around 2.10pm, involved 38 persons. The Public Education Officer of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Ogun State, Florence Okpe, confirmed the incident in a statement on Monday. Okpe said three vehicles, a Mitsubishi Cabstar with the number plate, XS595JJJ;  a Mazda bus E2000 marked,  LSR266YD; and a Mazda E2000 with the number plate, LND01YE, were affected in the accident. According to her, the suspected causes of the crash were speed, dangerous driving and loss of control. She said the Mitsubishi Cabstar tried to negotiate a turning without observing the road, adding that the Mazda lost control and crashed into it. Okpe said, “The injured victims were rescued to the state hospital, Abeokuta, for medical attention, and the corpses were deposited in the hospital’s morgue. “A total of 38 persons were involved, which comprised 20 male adults, 13 female adults, three male children and two female children. “Twelve persons were injured — eight male adults, three female adults and one female child. “A total of six deaths were recorded from the crash – four male adults, one male child and one female child.” The Public Relations Officer of the Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Babatunde Akinbiyi, also confirmed the incident. He said, “There has been a reported fatal auto crash involving a commercial bus and a car inbound Abeokuta, Kere village, along the Old Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, with over five people confirmed dead as a result of the auto crash.” In Akwa Ibom State, two minors were confirmed dead and five others injured in an auto crash along the Uyo-Ikot Ekpene Expressway. PUNCH Metro gathered that the accident occurred around Ibiakpan Junction in the Ikot Ekpene LGA of the state around 8.30am. The FRSC Sector Commander in the state, Mr Matthew Olonisaye, who confirmed the accident in a statement in Uyo, the state capital, described it as unfortunate. Olonisaye, who attributed the accident to wrongful overtaking involving a tipper truck and a motorcycle, urged road users to always obey traffic regulations. “Drivers should stop abusing the usage of the road by obeying traffic rules and regulations. It is unfortunate that this happened at the beginning of the New Year. We commiserate with the families of the dead children,” he added. The FRSC boss said seven people were involved in the accident, adding that one male and one female children died. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com