The Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and Associated Institution (SSAUTHRIAI) at the Projects Development Institute (PRODA), Enugu, on Wednesday, protested against the removal of the Director-General of the institute, Dr Fabian Okonkwo, by the governing board. Our correspondent, who visited the Emene complex of PRODA, observed that the atmosphere was charged. It was learnt that trouble started on Tuesday, when a heavily guarded director of the institute, Dr Arit Etukudor, was driven into the office environment amid heavily armed security operatives of the Department of State Services and the police to take over as the new acting DG. But workers, who said they were confused by the development, told our correspondent that upon inquiry, they were told that the Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, had suspended the overseeing DG following a recommendation from the governing board of PRODA, led by its chairman, Emma Eneukwu, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Enugu. Eneukwu, a long time loyalist of the minister, was said to have asked Etukudor to oversee affairs of the institute. The protesting workers, who sang labour solidarity songs, called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to intervene and ensure that the right thing was done. They stated that Okonkwo was removed to cover up what they described as a monumental fraud committed in the institute by the previous DGs. The Chairman of SSAUTHRIAI, Gabriel Ohiemi, while addressing journalists on behalf of the workers, described the process as the “grandest height of Illegality”. He said, “How can a board that has not sat for a meeting since its inaugural meeting on 24th October 2021 recommend the suspension for an overseeing director-general, who is the statutory secretary of the board?” Ohiemi described Okonkwo as a committed leader who had changed the ugly narrative in PRODA for good. The board chairman, Eneukwu, when contacted on the telephone, said the board passed a vote of no confidence in Okonkwo when he was bent on frustrating and impeding the work of the board. He said, “There are guidelines and statutes that are laid down for the administration of the institute. Since we were inaugurated in October 2021, the man has refused to call for a meeting and immediately we came in, there were a series of petitions from the staff, contractors, and from all quarters. “He first lied to us that he was going for a meeting in South America which we found out later that he didn’t go anywhere, yet he collected the money for the trip. When we discovered it, I called him and asked him to call a meeting of the board even to sit once so that we can start discussing the petitions and other issues on how to improve the institute, but he refused. After several letters and communications to him and the ministry, he refused. That was why we passed a vote of no confidence in him and communicated it to the ministry.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com