The Federal Government has released the official gazette in which it declared bandits as terrorists in Nigeria. The release was issued on Wednesday by Dr. Umar Gwandu, the Special Assistant (Media and Public Relations) to the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN). The government’s position was contained in Gazette No. 212, Vol. 108 issued from Lagos and dated November 29, 2021. and titled “Government Notice No. 169.” The document was titled “Order declaring the activities of Yan Bindiga Group, Yan Ta’adda Group and other similar groups in any part of Nigeria as terrorism and illegal. Proscribing their existence and restraining any person or group of persons from participating in any manner whatsoever in any form in the activities of any of the groups.” The gazette reads, “Notice is hereby given that by the order of the Federal High Court Abuja, in suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/1370/2021 dated November 25, 2021 as per the schedule to this notice, the activities of Yan Bindiga Group, Yan Ta’adda Group and other similar groups in Nigeria are declared to be terrorism and illegal in any part of Nigeria, especially in the North West and North-Central regions of Nigeria and are proscribed, pursuant to Sections 1 and 2 of the Terrorism (Prevention) Act, 2011. “Consequently, the general public is hereby warned that any person or group of persons participating in any manner whatsoever in any form of activities involving or concerning the prosecution of the collective intentions or otherwise of the groups referred to in paragraph 1 of this notice will be violating the provisions of the Terrorism (Prevention) Act, 2011 and liable to prosecution. “This notice shall be cited as the Terrorism (Prevention) Proscription Order Notice, 2021.” The PUNCH reported that Justice Taiwo Taiwo of a Federal High Court in Abuja had in November outlawed the activities of some groups linked to banditry and declared their activities as acts of terrorism. Delivering his ruling, the judge had declared the activities of the “Yan Bindiga Group” and the “Yan Ta’adda Group” and other similar groups in any part of the country, especially in the North West and North Central geo-political zones, as “acts of terrorism and illegality.” Justice Taiwo gave the orders in a ruling after listening to Aminu Alilu, from the Federal Ministry of Justice, who argued the motion ex-parte filed by the Federal Government to that effect. The court also proscribed the Yan Bindiga Group and the Yan Ta’adda Group as well as other similar groups in any part of Nigeria, especially in the North West and North Central geo-political zones, “either in groups or as individuals by whatever names they are called.” The Court had also restrained “any person or group of persons from participating in any manner whatsoever, in any form of activities involving or concerning the prosecution of the collective intention or otherwise of the Yan Bindiga Group and the Yan Ta’adda Group under any other name or platform however called or described.” The court ordered the Federal Government to publish the prosecution order in the Official Gazette and two national dailies. Justice Taiwo said he was convinced that such orders were necessary in view of the nefarious activities of bandits and their effects on the people and the nation’s economy. The judge also proscribed all other groups in the country, irrespective of their names, but whose activities and objectives are similar to those of Yan Bindiga Group and the Yan Ta’adda Group. Justice Taiwo listed terror activities to “include, but not limited to banditry, kidnappings for ransom, kidnapping for marriage, mass abductions of school children and other citizens, cattle rustling, enslavement, imprisonment, severe deprivation of physical liberty, torture, rape, sexual slavery, enforced prostitution, forced pregnancy, other forms of sexual violence, attacks and killings in communities and commuters and wanton destruction of lives and properties in Nigeria.” The Director of Public Prosecution at the Federal Ministry of Justice, Mohammed Abubakar, who filed the motion ex-parte, said the President, Major Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), gave approval for his action, which objective was the proscription of Yan Bindiga and Yan Ta’adda groups and other terrorist groups in the country. The Federal Government, in a supporting affidavit to ex-parte motion, explained its decision to approach the court for the orders. The government stated that security reports have confirmed that the bandit groups were responsible for the killings, abductions, rapes, kidnappings and related crimes in the North East, North Central and other parts of the country.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com