A Ghanaian lawmaker, Patrick Boamah, told the Ghanaian parliament that the Black Stars can not beat the Super Eagles of Nigeria in their forthcoming 2022 World Cup qualifying encounter. Boamah, who represents Okaikwei Central district, made the comment when the parliament discussed the performance of the Black Stars at the ongoing 2022 African Nations Cup, Goal reports. He urged the nation to forfeit their match with the Eagles because of their poor performance at the ongoing 2022 African Nations Cup, on the floor of the parliament. While speaking on the performance of the team in parliament, he said, “If need be, dissolve our national team, and prepare our national team for the next five years, so that we don’t waste our time in playing Nigeria in the next World Cup qualifier. Because look at the team Nigeria has even though they’re out of the tournament. But I don’t think with the current setup, we can stand the Nigerians,” Boamah stated. The lawmaker also lamented godfatherism, lack of discipline, and other factors resulted in the failure of the Ghanaian team at the Nations Cup. “Now you must have a godfather to be invited into the national team, no matter how talented you are. That is why we need an inquiry into the selection process for the national team. “Mr. Speaker, there’s a problem with player selection, and that ought to be investigated by the managers of our football. Ghana wants to be seen as a country that is into football, but now we are not. Because we go to the tournament and earn one point, with all the support from the government. One point; abysmal. We must take a second look at our national team and find out why some of these players are refusing to join our national team. “Mr. Speaker, there’s also an issue of player discipline. You can’t build a national team where certain players feel they’re superior, they can break camp rules and you expect to get better results. You won’t get it. All over the world, you must respect the coach and camp rules. People go camping and do anything anyhow and they expect to win. You cannot. Football has changed. Mr. Speaker football has changed. It has become very technical. And you have to be disciplined,” Boamah asserted. Black Stars came bottom of Group C after losing their first game to Morocco, coming up short with a draw in their next game with Gabon, and losing in their final group fixture against Comoros. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com