It’s another Valentine around the corner, and even here in Nigeria, the idea of sending fresh flowers to a lady or loved one has come a long way from what it used to be, as we now see various Instagram posts depicting both celebrities as well as classy ladies showing off the fresh flowers and gifts they received not just for their birthdays, anniversaries or as Valentine gifts, but also as general romantic displays of affection, especially when coupled with a box of chocolate, champagne, perfume, teddy and others. To this end, we spoke with the two top gift and fresh flower shops in Nigeria, Regalflowers.com.ng as well as Floralhub.com.ng, who have a good track record of delivering fresh flowers as well as other gifts such as chocolates, cakes and cupcakes, champagne, teddies and perfumes across Lagos, Nigeria and Abuja, Nigeria. They also have a significant presence not just online, but also have various walk-in branches in highbrow areas of Ikoyi and Victoria Island, Lagos and Wuse 2, Abuja. Below are some of their recommendations for fresh flowers, and especially roses, that cut across various occasions, and all the options presented come in different sizes according to a client’s budget: 1. VIP IMPERIAL by Regal arrangement by Regalflowers.com.ng  This tiered arrangement of red or mixed roses starts from the 3 Tier up to 10 tiers, and is designed to make a statement. It is usually sent by the gentleman that wants to splurge on a lady. The prices, we must say, reflect that too, as the taller tiered sizes can go as high as $10,000! 2. DUNE Bouquet by Floralhub.com.ng  When you want something that looks sizable yet affordable, the DUNE by Floralhub.com.ng is often a great choice. It contains mixed colours of Chrysanthemums, Roses and Million stars, and is one of their bestselling arrangements. 3. VIP ADMIRAL by Regalflowers.com.ng  Regal Flowers’s Admiral is a lavish swirl of exquisite roses forming a globe above luxury black box and is available in various sizes. 4. EUPHORIA by Floralhub.com.ng  When you want Roses, with a dash of colour, this dazzling bouquet of mixed colours of roses with million stars is a great choice. While the choice of colours is often left to the florist, it can also be chosen by the client. 5. FERRERO AND ROSES by Regalflowers.com.ng  This Bouquet of roses, Million Stars and real Ferrero Rocher chocolates is made to show off on Instagram…just before the recipient and her friends pluck off the Ferrero Rocher chocolates within it. A great picturesque choice. 6. ARABIATI by Floralhub.com.ng  Exquisite bouquet of red, white, pink, yellow or purples roses with million stars or statice, often a great choice for a classy lady, and a quintessential choice that also comes in various sizes Aisdes both company’s websites and store locations, Regalflowers.com.ng can also be reached via +234 7010006665 (Phone/WhatsApp) and Floralhub.com.ng can also both be reached via +234 9077777994 (Phone/WhatsApp)