Nigerians consume alcoholic beverages of all sorts largely because the nation’s markets are littered with different kinds of alcoholic drinks. This situation has not been helped by the availability of assorted alcoholic drinks in sachets and small bottles in recent years. This, experts say, is already fuelling a surge in alcohol-related deaths, warning that Nigeria could have an explosion of health complications linked to alcohol abuse in coming years. Curbing uncontrolled alcohol intake, especially among youth has, however, been difficult due to government’s failure to design a national policy to guide alcohol production and consumption. ALFRED OLUFEMI reports: Hardly would anyone walk through a downtown area in southern Nigeria without the sight of a stall where alcoholic beverages branded in sachets and small bottles are displayed for sale. These pocket-friendly drinks are most common and preferred among low-income and young drinkers for their affordability. A market survey by PUNCH Healthwise revealed that some alcoholic drinks in sachets can be purchased for as low as N100 while the bottled ones may cost N200. The indiscriminate sale and consumption of these drinks pose a grave public health problem, according to experts. It could be recalled that even the nation’s drug and food regulator has raised the alarm on the danger these alcoholic drinks pose to human health. Recall that in 2020, the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control alerted the general public on the health risk of reckless intake of alcoholic beverages in sachets and small volume glass and Poly-Ethylene Terephthalate (PET) PET bottles. NAFDAC’s Director-General, Christianah Adeyeye, had warned about their toxic and psychoactive composition, saying they can be detrimental to consumers. “Uncontrolled access and availability of high concentration alcohol in sachets, and small volume PET or glass bottles has been put forward as a factor contributing to substance and alcohol abuse in Nigeria with its negative impact on the society,” she said. Adeyeye also announced that the agency was putting some measures in place to address the challenge. “To this end, several interventions jointly agreed upon by major stakeholders are being undertaken and as a first step, no new products in sachet and small volume PET or glass bottles above 30% ABV will be registered by NAFDAC.” “Furthermore, to reduce availability and curb abuse, effective January 31st, 2020, producers of alcohol in sachets and small volume PET and glass bottles are to reduce production by 50 per cent of capacity prior to January 2020.” Adeyeye disclosed a long-term plan to eventually ban their production. “We all agreed that we are going to carry out the ban in phases,” she said. However, a visit to most of the markets in Lagos by our correspondent revealed that those trading in these drinks have continued to operate as they have always done. Efforts to get NAFDAC’s spokesman, Abubakar Jimoh, to provide an update on the implementation of the agency’s control measures over one year after it was announced, was however not successful as he did respond to calls and text messages sent to him. Experts, however, said NAFDAC’s aspirations to curb reckless alcohol consumption would have been long addressed if Nigeria had a written national alcohol policy. Some of the experts who spoke with PUNCH Healthwise said Nigeria does not have a policy document that will determine the quantity and quality of alcoholic beverages for sale and consumption, noting that the formulation and implementation of such a policy are long overdue for a country of over 200m people. The secretary of Distillers and Blenders Association of Nigeria (DIBAN), John Ichue, said although some members of his association are producing alcohol in sachets with the approval of NAFDAC there are many other illicit products in the Nigerian market. “Whatever alcohol you find in sachets from our members has NAFDAC approval. However, there are some illicit products not registered by NAFDAC that are competing with the regulated. We are working to ensure that some of the people working in the illicit segment are brought on board to be part and parcel of the regulated market.” Ichue, also the managing director of a Lagos-based alcohol-beverage producing company, noted that until recently the membership of the group of distillers was 12 but added that it has now increased to 24 with the accommodation of the repentant illicit producers. “Those producing without regulations have joined. What that means is that whatever products they are producing are in line with the best manufacturing practises,” he said. Speaking on the development of a national policy, Ichue said it is supposed to be a document to ensure that there is regulation and to also ensure that the production, marketing, and sales of alcohol are properly monitored. “That document requires input from different regulatory agencies like NAFDAC, the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission… Stakeholders like Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, Standard Organisation of Nigeria, and Non-Governmental organisations because it is an all-embracing document.” Troubling statistics Harmful alcohol consumption contributes to three million deaths each year globally, according to a 2018 global report from the World Health Organisation. According to the WHO, at least 62,172 alcohol-related deaths were recorded in 2016 in Nigeria. The WHO report captured liver cirrhosis, road traffic injuries, and cancer as major causes of these alcohol-related deaths. Based on the WHO data, Nigeria was ranked the seventh African nation with a high death rate attributable to alcohol, coming closely behind Equatorial Guinea, Côte d’ Ivoire, Cameroon, Sierra Leone, Burundi, and Burkina Faso. The alarming death rate also corroborates a statement from the Federal Road Safety Commission, attributing 90 per cent of road accidents in the country to alcoholic drinks and hard drugs. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com