Popular Nigerian actor, Femi Adebayo, surprised members of his staff recently when he gave one of them, Yemi Akinlosotu, a Toyota Corolla car. This was even as the actor gave his mum a Toyota Venza car on her birthday some days ago. In a video posted on his Instagram page, Adebayo could be seen presenting a brown envelope that contained the documents of the car to Akinlosotu, who works as a production manager with his J15 School of Performing Arts. Upon collecting the envelope, the lucky staff prostrated himself on the ground, thanking his boss. According to the actor, he gave the worker the gift as a reward for his hard work and commitment to him. He told The PUNCH, “Yemi, the employee I gave a car, graduated from J15 School about six years ago. He was the best student of his set and I employed him immediately. “Since then, he has been very hardworking, loyal and committed to the job. I found out that his major need for now is a car. “I wanted to appreciate his loyalty and hard work, and that is why I gave him the gift. “I am still on the lookout for more of them and I pray the Almighty gives me the wherewithal to do more for other people that are loyal to Femi Adebayo as a brand and my company.” In an Instagram post to show his appreciation for the gift, Akinlosotu wrote, “With joy in my heart, I want to say a big thank you to my boss, my father, my mentor, my everything, Femi Adebayo. “I really don’t know what I have done to deserve this gift, sir. I have lost count (of) how many times I have wronged you, sir; ranging from lots of disappointment, destruction of properties and lots more. “Yet, you still find it in your heart to bless me with this beautiful car. May you and your family never know sorrow for the rest of your life, sir. God bless you.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com