Overcoming drug addiction is never an easy challenge. Many addicts have tried to kick the habit and have failed spectacularly. 35-year-old Ilimezekhe Salvage, now an advocate, shares the story of his 14-year battle to quit substance abuse. He narrated how he had to steal as well as sell his properties to satisfy his cravings for drugs AMARACHI OKEH reports For 35-year-old Ilimezekhe Salvage, deciding to quit drug use and addiction after 14 years was not an easy decision he made but overcoming addiction itself was a battle he fought three times before he achieved sobriety. He says he is happy to have been off substance abuse for years now, noting that he has been sober for four years. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise, Salvage says while he has adopted strict rules to guard his life, he will continue to see himself as a recovering addict till the day he dies. Now four years sober, Salvage’s 14-year journey in the labyrinth of drug abuse and addiction has inspired him to devote his life to helping people overcome addiction through his foundation, Salvage Foundation. He, however, stressed that the best way to beat a drug addiction is never to start. According to the 2018 National Drug Use Survey reported by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, there are 14.3 million drug users in Nigeria. Out of that figure, 3 million suffer from drug disorders. Drug addiction is a form of drug disorder, according to experts. Sharing his experience with PUNCH HealthWise, Salvage recalled that he started experimenting on cigarettes after watching his father who then was a smoker. “I grew up in a dysfunctional family, my mom was not around and I used to watch my dad smoke. So, I started experimenting with the butt of cigarettes. By 14 years of age, I was already smoking,” he said. Salvage disclosed further that by the time he was in SS3, he was already fully puffing cigarettes and added to that, he was drinking alcohol and smoking marijuana. As with how drug use interferes with one’s life, Salvage recounts that it affected his academics as he was unable to secure admission to the University of Ilorin. “Due to the type of friends I kept and the drugs, I couldn’t focus on my studies anymore. I failed my pre-degree but lied to my dad and still collected school fees from him,” he said. As his addiction to substance abuse increased, he began to have p problem with his family as he was sent out of his home twice by his father. His father eventually sent him to a private university with the hope that it would help curb his drug addiction, but this did not help. Salvage gained admission into Bells University but contrary to the hopes of his family, this was where his gradual descent into the abyss of drug addiction began. “In the university, I was quite popular. I was doing alcohol and marijuana in a school where everybody was doing codeine and Rohypnol.” He however noted that while in school, his father stopped sending him money as a punishment but that was no reason to turn a new leaf. “Knowing that the only way I could be punished by my family was being deprived of money, I told myself that I must never be in a position to beg people for money again,” he said. To achieve this, Salvage began selling weed and drugs. “I wasn’t going to classes. I was only in school to distribute drugs. A lot of people were into it in school. It was a lucrative business.” After seeing how much a friend of his who was a crack dealer made, he decided to start selling cocaine as well. He said it was a lucrative business, noting that he used the proceeds of the business to take care of himself and live in the academic community. Salvage said that he moved into a hotel in his second year, adding that after living in the hotel for a while, he rented and tastefully furnished a 3-bedroom apartment. As an only child who lacked companionship growing up, Salvage said his desire to feel wanted led him to make his apartment a go-to place for fun off-campus. “This made me feel wanted and made me feel good.” “I gradually introduced crack cocaine to my friends free of charge at first, eventually I started selling to them. I was making so much money. In a day I could make about 150k selling crack cocaine.” Became dependent on drug Salvage said when he started dealing in crack cocaine, he was not smoking it, but noted that the situation changed when he had an infection that wouldn’t go away. He said that to ease the pain, his friend encouraged him to ‘take the heat of crack.’ He did and the pain went away momentarily. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com