The Department Of Urban And Regional Planning  Alumni Association, University of Lagos, has promised to assist the department by providing better education and conducive environment for learners. The newly appointed president of the association, Mr Tolulope Adeusi, during the inauguration of the alumni association added that the association aimed to bridge the gap between the institution, professionals and the workplace through some initiatives, such as career preparation support, internships, and training apprenticeships. Adeusi said, “This occasion presents an opportunity for all members to enjoy the experience and network of one another. I personally witnessed the highly ambitious and committed faculty whose courage, hard work, and dedication have helped in producing bright students who have reached pinnacles of success and established themselves in the industry. Our collective goal as an association is to make the education offered by this great department and the university even better. Our focus will be to provide a fostering environment for fresh graduates, young professionals, and the university community, so that collectively, we can have a better society, student experience, and learning institute.” The seven-man executive committee comprises of the Human Settlement Officer UN-Habitat (Kenya) as Vice-President, Dr Rosemary Omoayena Odunbaku; Dr Folayele  Akindeju, as Secretary General; Ms Damilola Odekunle, as Assistant Secretary General; Co-Founder and Chief Operating Officer of Top Rank Images Limited Mr Olubola Oluwole,  as Media and Publicity Secretary; Mr Richard Unuigboje, as Assistant Media and Publicity Secretary; and Ms. Damilola Oluwo, as Financial Secretary. The Vice-President, Odunbaku who joined virtually from Kenya, said, “I want to congratulate the executive committee and the Head of Department, Dr. Wale Alade, for this remarkable milestone, trusting that we will keep at it and show forth the strength and value of this great department. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com