Bridge Academy has said education will assist humans to withstand and overcome the rigours of life challenges. A statement by the organisation said they had resolved to keep providing quality education to Nigerian learners through the 46 nursery and primary schools established across Lagos and Osun State. “Quality education helps individuals transcend their limitations. Opportunities that they never imagined before would now become possible. It is through education that one can withstand the rigour of facing the challenges of life. As a result of the accelerated learning at Bridge, these children can now aspire to become doctors, engineers, scientists etc and look beyond their socio economic limitations. And this is only possible because of the life changing education at Bridge. “Bridge provides all round support to the 46 Bridge nursery and primary schools located across Lagos and Osun state through a full-fledged support office team. Examples of the support range from the curriculum development and instructional design through learning innovation and interventions by the Academics team, to the oversight management of all the Bridge academies by the School team to drive learning outcomes while the Learning and Development team provides coaching support and continuous training for teachers to develop new skills to aid effective teaching and learning. The statement also narrated the story of a Bridge pupil, Sebastian Pwaakadi, who joined Bridge Rahimi Oyo Academy in Morogbo Badagry, after relocating to Lagos from Borno, in the north east part of the country. According to the parent, “Sebastian Pwaakadi cannot communicate effectively in English before she came to Lagos, even though she understands it. Now, her numeracy and literacy skills have really improved, she reads all by herself and does her homework herself. All thanks to Bridge teaching techniques.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com