A move by the Lagos State Government to compel vehicles to undergo mandatory inspection and tests has run into a storm of protests. Though laudable and in line with global best practices, the move to sanitise the process of issuing roadworthiness certificates to vehicle owners is being railroaded through in a manner that could impose unnecessary hardship on citizens. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his Transportation Commissioner, Frederic Oladeinde, should reconsider the take-off date and make compliance stress-free for vehicle owners. The ‘No Inspection, No Certificate of Roadworthiness’ policy is ordinarily a welcome development and is an existing, but loosely enforced regulation. It is the global standard to promote road safety and entrenched by governments to ensure that vehicles plying the roads are in good condition and less prone to accidents. With 1.3 million persons dying each year and 20 million to 50 million others sustaining injuries from road traffic crashes worldwide, according to the World Health Organisation, this is part of measures to reduce the toll. Some 101 persons died and 625 were injured in RTCs in Lagos January-August 2021, said the Federal Road Safety Corps. The United Nations identifies unsafe, non-roadworthy vehicles as one of eight major risk factors in road accidents. However, given the existing institutional capacity, it is one policy that should not be hurriedly implemented without emplacing adequate facilities to handle the resultant volume of vehicles seeking certification. Oladeinde had announced that effective January, all vehicles registered in Lagos State must be taken for physical inspection at any of the 27 Lagos Computerised Vehicle Inspection Service centres before a certificate of roadworthiness can be issued. This replaces the prevailing arrangement whereby vehicle owners were merely issued referral notes to visit any of the centres for inspection within 30 days after paying for and receiving the certificate. The system was thoroughly abused by most vehicle owners who failed to show up despite the provision of online aids, leading to a preponderance of non-roadworthy vehicles plying the roads. Many erroneously thought that paying for and having a certificate was sufficient, ignoring the crucial target of safety. Oladeinde rightly argued that the policy would help to reduce the road accident rate, lessen gridlock often caused by poorly maintained vehicles, and improve safety on the roads. This is incontrovertible; vehicle owners in other well-structured jurisdictions must present their vehicles for testing and certification. The difference however is in implementation and enforcement. Having upgraded to global standards in regulation, the LASG should also upgrade to acceptable standards in service delivery. The goal of safe vehicles should be matched by making compliance as stress-free, easy-to-access and painless as possible. For Sanwo-Olu and Oladeinde, this should be the next task. There should be adequate preparation. The current rush could unleash undue hardship on a population already under immense stress. Implementation should be suspended to allow for more test centres to avert rowdiness and corruption. It would also dispel the already voiced (and denied) suspicion that it is a revenue generation drive. In Ghana, auto service companies were licensed for the exercise, and vehicle owners simply drive in without prior appointment for the inspection. Australia’s six state governments and 10 territories make obtaining the Road Worthiness Certificate easy by providing seamless online pre-payment and booking for the test at many Authorised Inspection Stations. Lagos’ high vehicular population demands adopting similar models. The National Bureau of Statistics reported in 2018 that there were 11.8 million vehicles in Nigeria; five million of these were in Lagos. Subjecting five million vehicles to only 27 LACVIS centres is potentially stress-prone. Granted, the RWCs of all the vehicles will not expire same day, but theoretically, with five million vehicles, thousands of vehicles would be due for renewal daily and hundreds would potentially have to be tested in each of the 27 centres daily. The inevitable rush could foster corruption. And with the COVID-19 pandemic in its fourth wave, nothing should be done to facilitate super-spreader situations. There are creative options available to the government. The 27 centres should be complemented with effective private sector participation. Like it did at the start of the MOT certificate scheme, the government should quickly set standards and minimum requirements for competent, well-equipped garages, auto workshops and vehicle dealerships to serve as additional testing centres. The government should call for expressions of interest from competent private entities, inspect their facilities and engage the qualified ones for the testing, with an agreed revenue sharing plan. Some private companies, including representatives of major global vehicle brands operating in the state, have the requisite equipment, skills, and capacity for such tasks. There should be effective regulation, oversight and monitoring to ensure strict compliance with standards. Similarly, the relevant agency could liaise with others like the FRSC to use their premises for testing. Apart from licensing many AIS’, the Australian state of New South Wales designates specific centres for four vehicle types – light vehicles, unregistered vehicles, heavy-duty vehicles, and motorised heavy equipment like cranes, construction, and mechanised agricultural vehicles. The Northwest Territory adds a mobile testing scheme and has different AIS’ catering to eight categories of vehicles. This is the way to go. As many processes as possible should be digitised, in addition to existing online transactions, to reduce physical interface to the barest minimum. Since an appreciable number of vehicles in other states were bought and registered in Lagos, the state should collaborate with other states’ VIS agencies to undertake testing and certification on its behalf and share the accruing fees under the auspices of the Joint Tax Board. Full enforcement should be postponed while existing measures are upgraded, and some new ones put in place, especially additional testing centres. Lack of diligent, persistent law enforcement encouraged many vehicle owners to shun mandatory testing in the past. Therefore, when re-launched, strict enforcement should follow, devoid of the extortion, bribery and favouritism that distorts law enforcement in Nigeria and weakens such well-intentioned policies. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com