AN election observation group, Yiaga Africa, has asked the Independent National Electoral Commission to audit the nation’s voter register. It said the audit would enhance the confidence of stakeholders in the voter register and, by extension, the elections. The groups’ Executive Director, Samson Itodo, made the call in an interview with The PUNCH in Abuja on Friday. He was reacting to a concern raised by INEC on its inability to remove names of dead persons from the voter register in an exclusive report published by Saturday PUNCH on January 1. He said, “On the credibility of the voter register, I would say yes, there are dead persons on the register of voters. However, there is a convoluted process of removing dead persons from the voter register and why this is a challenge is because we don’t have an accurate death register. “Although the National Population Commission does have a death register, it is not updated because, in this country, we don’t have a culture of keeping data or record-keeping. So, even when people die, I’m not sure the National Population Commission can capture that data because that is the data INEC would have relied on. So you’ve got that challenge. “And I think when we talk about the credibility of the voter register, we must also note the limitations that exist in this ecosystem of voter registration or identity management. So, this would impact the credibility of the 2023 poll. “Yes, the credibility of the voter register or the credibility of an election is hinged on the voter register. But the key question that you want to ask is how significant are these dead persons and the voter register? “So, you need an audit of the voter register because that audit will increase and enhance the confidence of stakeholders in the voter register and by extension also the elections.” Copyright PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com