The University College Hospital, Ibadan has narrated that the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, died at the Intensive Care Unit of the hospital at 01.15 am. The hospital in a statement by its Deputy Director of Information and Public Relations Officer, Toye Akinrinola, said the monarch was referred to UCH from a private hospital in Ibadan about 9.30 pm on Saturday. According to Akinrinola, the Chief Medical Director CMD, Prof. Jesse Abiodun Otegbayo, immediately directed a high-powered medical team to provide medical treatment to the late monarch. The CMD was said to write the Governor, Seyi Makinde, to inform him of Olubadan’s death.  Also, the Vice-Chancellor, University of Ibadan, Prof. Kayode Adebowale, commiserated with the immediate family, good and progressive people of Ibadanland, Oyo State, and Nigeria on the death of Adetunji. He described Oba Adetunji as a pillar of support to the University, who indeed, never missed an opportunity to offer wise counsel and words of support for the progress of the institution. The VC noted that Oba Adetunji was an enthusiastic investor and consummate people manager who contributed immensely to the success of many Nigerians. Adebowale said, “My last engagement with Oba Adetunji was on 16 November, 2021, when he received our Chancellor and Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar, on a courtesy call, in his Popoyemoja Palace. Kabiyesi demonstrated that he was UI’s father and Chief Landlord. UI was, indeed, honoured and celebrated on that memorable visit.” “I must say, Kabiyesi Adetunji lived humbly; served humbly; came loving; lived loving; and served loving. “Oba Adetunji knew how to serve God; how to serve humanity; how to lead humanity: how to serve others; how to lead others; how to assist others; how to develop others and how to mentor others. He had the true formula of how to lead the community and society. He was a leader of leaders. For Prof. Adebowale, “Our consolation lies in the great deeds of the late Olubadan which are engraved unforgettably in the hearts of women and men. Such deeds, which knew no ethnic or religious boundaries, bear clear testimony to the late Olubadan’s triumph over death. “On behalf of the governing council, management, staff, and students of the University of Ibadan, we sincerely commiserate with the Governor of Oyo State, Engr. Seyi Makinde, the immediate family of the late Olubadan, Olubadan-in-Council, Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII), and all Ibadan indigenes and residents.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com