Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, has appealed to Nigerians, particularly residents of the state, to provide requisite information towards tackling myriads of insecurity challenges plaguing its survival. The Governor noted that the security issues the country was bedeviled with was worsening, adding that only collaborative efforts would help in solving the challenges. Yahaya who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Manassah Jatau, at Pantami township stadium, where top government functionaries including heads of security agencies laid wreath in commemoration of Armed Forces Remembrance Day, urged all hands to be on deck. According to him, “The people of Gombe State and indeed all Nigerians remain resolute in supporting activities of the legion. We also repose much on them especially in these days of insecurity that is getting nearer and nearer to us by the way. “At the rate it is worsening, only our coming together as one body can see us through. I appeal for relevant and timely information sharing to relevant agencies for the solution of our issues to be tackled.” While harping the contributions of war veterans, Yahaya called for adequate support for families of both living and dead officers. The Government had on Friday donated N5 million with the Deputy Governor promising an additional N1.1m for the launch of 2021/2022 emblem. Speaking on that, the Governor said, “This is a formal sign of respect towards a particular tribute to our fallen heroes, many who remain unknown to us. Yet we are today enjoying the sacrifices they made for us to be free from insecurity, fear, unhappiness and other forms of miserable lives. “I appeal to all of us here not to see this ceremony as a mere formality. We must always remember these fallen heroes and appreciate them by way of respecting and helping those that are left behind, knowing too well that a time will come that we will also leave our families behind.” Also speaking, Chairman Gombe State chapter of Nigeria Legion, Adamu Dogo, lauded the support accorded them by the Government and residents. Dogo stressed that more donations were required to sustain the families of dead heroes in the state. He said, “We have been to war, some came back and others did not but it is left for Gombe people to appreciate what we have done for them. Whatever funds that they will donate will used to help these poor women and their children.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com