Some leaders of the All Progressives Congress in Ogun State on Tuesday said failure to separate governance from the party was the major cause of the crisis rocking the party in the state. The party leaders spoke at a training and empowerment programme for 200 women in Ogun West Senatorial district. The APC chiefs who spoke at the event included a former secretary of the party’s Caretaker Committee in the state, Ayo Olubori; a former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Chief Jide Ojuko; and the Senator representing Ogun West, Tolu Odebiyi. Olubori said the APC might continue experiencing crisis if the party is not made independent of the government. He said there was the need to respect the party and allow it to function independently. He said, “Let them separate governance from the party. The party is a vehicle through which we get to the government. “The solution to the crisis is that everybody should stay on his lane. If you are a special adviser, stay there. Let the party’s welfare officer do the job as a welfare officer. “Let the chairman of the party function as chairman. It is not the responsibility of anyone calling himself Chief of Staff, who is an appointee of governor, to usurp the function of the party.” Odebiyi, speaking after he handed over 100 sewing machine and100 grinding machine to 200 women in the senatorial district, said despite the crisis, the party is still firmly rooted in the state. He said, “I  think it is obvious that the APC is grounded in Ogun State, it is a party that is rooted in the upliftment of the grassroot. “The reason the APC is different from other parties is that the APC is a party that is firmly rooted in uplifting people, especially in the grassroot.” Ojuko urged the aggrieved members to allow peace in the party. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com