Mastercard Economics Institute has said 88 per cent of countries across 32 markets saw a surge in ecommerce subscription services in 2021. The company disclosed this in a report, titled “2022 Economic Outlook Defined by Digital Resilience and a Return to the ‘Experience Economy’”. It said, “Digital: 20 per cent of the digital shift in retail stays put – reshaping how and what consumers buy. “E-commerce subscriptions gained traction in 2021 as nearly 88 per cent of countries across 32 markets saw a surge in subscription services compared to the previous year. “Notably, car companies, virtual workout partners, bike rentals and pet services are among a slew of businesses benefitting from this model.” It said consumer spending of built-up savings could contribute an additional three per cent to global GDP, adding that household saving rates almost doubled in 2021. The Chief Economist and Head, Mastercard Economics Institute, Bricklin Dwyer, said, “The past year was not the return to normal that many yearned for, but collectively, we have made tremendous progress. “Globally, economic growth, vaccine advances, and digital transformations that have made businesses large and small more resilient, continue to shape the future. It is against this backdrop that we anticipate consumer demand — and spending power — to grow and the experience economy to reemerge next year.” The company said the pandemic sparked spending growth on goods from 39 per cent to around 47 per cent at its peak, roiling the services economy while burdening supply chains. It added that this would balance to normalise in 2022 as borders open and services become more accessible and desirable again. The report said, “Leisure travel recovery continues as international travel opens up, with medium and long-haul flights to gain ground in 2022. “The return to travel in 2021 was on full display on our roadways and in airports, but continued growth hinges on containing virus variants that drive travel bans. We saw a swift rebound in domestic and short-haul international travel (under 1,000 km), medium-haul travel (under 2,900 km) lifted by fewer restrictions, while long-haul travel trails behind.” It said new COVID variants like Omicron, surge in oil prices, fiscal cliffs in advanced economies, and international tariff wars posed an immediate risk to the global economy.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com