A petrol tanker laden with the Premium Motor Spirit has exploded and destroyed buildings, markets and vehicles in Onitsha. The incident occurred at the bad portions of the Upper Iweka junction of the Onitsha-Owerri Road on Friday. The fire, which started at about 7.30am was said to have occurred when a 40-foot petrol tanker coming from the River Niger bridge head got stuck at the bad portions of the Onitsha-Owerri Road and dangerously slanted to a corner. It was gathered that the driver of the vehicle, on noticing that the vehicle could not move again as a result of the rear tyres that had been trapped in the ditch, alighted for a few minutes to check what he could do. After the inspection, the driver entered the vehicle again, started it and tried to force out the vehicle from the ditch, but immediately, the tanker fell and ignited fire. The driver fled, it was gathered, fled the scene as soon as the vehicle fell. The early morning harmattan helped the fire to spread to other buildings, market, motor park and vehicles clustered around the area, thereby causing more damages as they were also burnt by the inferno. An eyewitness, who simply identified himself as Ifeanyi, blamed the incident on the nefarious activities of illegal revenue collectors on the Upper Iweka Road, saying they pursued the driver of the vehicle who, in an attempt to escape giving them money, ran into the ditch and got stuck. Ifeanyi said, “These revenue agents that are always pursuing vehicles and carrying people’s wares should be held responsible for this incident because they started pursuing the driver of the tanker from a distance to collect illegal levy from him. “It was as they were pursuing him that he plunged into the ditch at the Obodoukwu junction, it was when they saw the damages they had done that they ran away. The incoming government has a lot of work to do towards eradicating these criminals on the road and rescue the road users from their menace.” The police spokesman in the state, Ikenga Tochukwu, who confirmed the incident, said the cause of the fire was as a result of a fallen tanker carrying fuel as a result of the bad portions of the Onitsha-Owerri Road.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com