The Senate has urged the Armed Forces and other security agencies in Nigeria to closely monitor and block the escape routes being used by fleeing terrorists to prevent their relocation to safe havens in other parts of Niger State and the country. This was just as the Senate urged the National Emergency Management Agency to provide food and relief materials to affected villages and internally displaced persons in the Mariga, Mashegu, Kontagora, and Borgu local government areas of Niger State. These were the prayers of a motion moved by the Deputy Whip of the Senate, Senator Aliyu Sabi-Abdullahi, at the plenary on Wednesday, which the lawmakers unanimously adopted. The motion was titled, ‘Renewed kidnappings and banditry attacks on communities in Mariga, Mashegu, Kontagora and Borgu local government areas of Niger North Senatorial District’. Abdullahi decried the unending kidnapping and banditry in the affected local government areas. The lawmaker said, “Following the massive onslaught against criminal elements and bandits operating in the eastern parts of Sokoto and Zamfara states, there was massive movement of the escaping bandits and their criminal elements into Niger State and specifically into the Mariga Local Government Area of Niger State. “The Senate is concerned that these bandits continuously attack communities in the Mariga LGA, leading to massive internal displacement of many communities. Currently, villagers have moved out of Maundu, Alabani and Sappaji in the Berri Ward; over 20 villages are now empty in the Galma/Wamba Ward and scanty residents in Ukuru, Igoma, Maruba and Ruka villages in the Bobbi Ward. “The communities that border Kaduna, Zamfara and Kebbi states located in the Mariga LGA, namely Galma, Makici, Makogi Na Maforo, Nassarawa and Kwanan Duci are constantly being attacked by bandits and over 15 persons killed in the Bobbi ward of the Mariga LGA. “The Senate is disturbed that some notorious bandits in their numbers operated for hours in five villages on Friday, January 14, 2022, where several cattle were rustled as villagers fled their homes. “The bandits first attacked Tungan-Ruá village in the morning, later moved to Tungan Maje and also rustled cattle. The same day, they attacked Kawo Mashegu, where two persons were killed; four persons were abducted and the bandits proceeded to attack Tungan Magaji village, where several cattle were also taken away. “After several operations, 17 persons were abducted, including two persons delivering ransom. The same day, Farin Shinge village, a few kilometres away from Kontagora town, was also attacked and two persons were kidnapped.” Abdullahi decried that the bandits were in the habit of burning down villages and farms with agricultural produce not yet harvested and stealing the stored foods from the villages they attack, with those who brave the odds to go to their farms for harvest being killed or kidnapped. “Many villagers are now IDPs in places like Bangi, Mangoro and other safer locations with no food or amenities for their livelihoods,” he added. The Senate resolved to observe a one-minute silence in honour of those who lost their lives. It urged the Armed Forces and other security agencies involved in the ordered operations to closely monitor and block the escape paths/routes used by the bandits and fleeing terrorists to forestall their relocation to safe havens in other parts of Niger State. The chamber also urged NEMA to provide food and other livelihood support to the affected villages and those in IDP camps in the Mariga, Mashegu, Kontagora and Borgu local government areas of the state. At the House of Representatives, lawmakers adopted a similar motion moved by a member from Zamfara State, Suleiman Gumi, on the need to curb the frequency of attacks by terrorists in and around the state. Gumi expressed concerns over the gruesome and confident ways in which the bandits were attacking and extorting ransoms from citizens in the northern states despite the presence of security personnel. The lawmaker pointed out that the forest in the region and the porous Nigerian border with the Republic of Niger had become a refuge for fleeing bandits. He called on the relevant security agencies to ensure that sanity returned to the region by flushing out all miscreants. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com