Former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, has urged the Federal Government to revisit recommendations of the various security summits and harmonise them in order to quickly end the security crisis across the country. Saraki also commended the courage and patriotism of the members of the security agencies fighting against enemies of the country and sought improved welfare for ex-servicemen and their families as the nation marked the 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance Day on Saturday. The former Kwara State governor in a statement on Saturday by his spokesperson, Yusuf Olaniyonu, said the next government must revisit all the security reports, noting that the implementation of the recommendations required strong political will and transparency to ensure success. He said, “Throughout Nigeria today, we commemorate the courage and sacrifice of our veterans — men and women from all across the country who have sacrificed their lives, their time, and blood and sweat for the nation. As we remember our armed forces (personnel) who have and continue to sacrifice, we must also remember to pay our respects to the families of our veterans and servicemen and thank them assiduously for their service. “We already have enough recommendations from the various summits, dialogues, and special sessions on security organised by the executive, legislature, non-governmental organisations, and development partners. All a new government should do is harness the recommendations and demonstrate the strong will, determination, and urgency in translating them into operation.” Saraki equally demanded transparency and accountability in the application of funds devoted to security across the board, noting that new strategies that will put technology at the forefront of security arrangement must be prioritised. He added, “We must be able to adopt modern-day strategies that will help in intelligence gathering; plugging the financial loopholes that these terrorists and bandits exploit, and stop playing lip service to the issue of security. “Moving forward, as we prioritise the security of Nigerian lives as a whole, we must also emphasise the morale and wellbeing of our veterans and our current servicemen and women. The Nigerian government must show those who wish to serve and defend its sovereignty, that it is also willing to make their lives better during and after active duty.” Saraki further prayed for protection of all officers and men of security agencies on the front lines. Conta Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com