*says Nigeria needs competent, skilful president to revamp economy A group, Arewa Youth Assembly, has asked the private sector players to join the 2023 presidential race to effect a positive change in the nation’s ailing economy. The group said the 2023 presidency should not be an all-comers affair as doing so will further endanger the socio-economic wellbeing of Nigerians. According to the group, private sector players of the economy known for their competence and entrepreneurial skills should step into the race to salvage the nation’s ailing economy, come 2023 and beyond. It also urged Nigerians to guard against mortgaging the future by selling out votes in the 2023 general elections. It wondered why a country with great and intelligent minds like Ngozi Okonjo Iweala, Tunde Folawiyo, Atedo Peterside, Aliko Dangote, Femi Otedola, Mike Adenuga, Akinwumi Adesina, among others, who are boardroom czars with a vast wealth of knowledge on entrepreneurship, must allow others that lacked such knowledge to run Nigeria. This was according to a statement jointly signed by the Speaker of Assembly, Mohammed Salihu Danlami, and the Clerk, Desmond Minakaro, issued to journalists in Kaduna. The group which comprises youths drawn from the 19 Northern states and Abuja, said, “We are calling and pleading with the successful private sector players to join the 2023 presidential race. They need to stand up and be counted. “Nigeria has given you much. We ask now that you come and be the stewards of our nation and not just businesses. Come and rescue Nigeria from the shackle of poor leadership. “An entrepreneur that can grow wealth, bear risk in such conditions found in Nigeria surely is suited to better the fortunes too of the nation. “Nigeria will flourish under such a person, our economy will grow as he or she, is already an employer of labour, and will create employment on a level playing ground for businesses to grow.” They also admonished eligible voters to shun any form of “stomach infrastructures” in the forthcoming 2023 general elections, saying that “this time around let it not be about rice, spaghetti, detergents, wrapper, or mere N1000 and N2000 handed out to you.” “The right person will make it possible for you to earn more than enough to buy these things, and much more, but also the sense of pride and dignity for being able to stand on your own and provide for yourself and family,” the group added Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com