The Nasarawa State government has earmarked the sum of N5 billlion for the construction of some urban and rural roads and the electrification of some rural communities across the 13 local government areas of the state. The State Commissioner for Finance, Budget and Planning, Daniel Agyeno, made the disclosure during the 2022 budget breakdown in Lafia on Friday. He explained that the amount set aside for the roads construction and the rural electrification was captured in the state’s 2022 budget of N110.8 billion which was recently signed into law by Governor Abdullahi Sule. He said, “The state government will embark on the construction of some Urban roads in Obi Local Government Area, Karu LGA, Keana LGA, Toto LGA, Keffi LGA, Akwanga LGA, Wamba LGA, Doma LGA and Garaku town in Kokona LGA. “We are also going to construct and rehabilitate some rural roads across the 13 LGAs of the state. The construction of the urban roads would gulp the sum of N700 million while that of the rural roads would gulp the sum of N2.1 billion and these monies were captured in the 2022 budget of N110.8 billion tagged Budget of Sustainable Transformation.” He explained that despite the economic challenges facing the state, the administration of Governor Abdullahi Sule would continue to embark on developmental projects towards meeting the needs of the people of the state including those in rural communities. He said, “Inspite of the economic challenges, we are going to continue with our ongoing projects. I also want to inform you that we have earmarked the sum of N2.23billion for the electrification of some rural communities in the state so that all residents can enjoy the dividends of democracy.” The Commissioner further called on accounting officers of ministries, departments and agencies in the state to be guided by the appropriation law and ensure that all revenue due to the state government are properly collected and accounted for as his ministry would embark on strict monitoring of their activities. “This year’s budget is targeted at sustaining the pace of development in our dear state in order to exceed all expectations so my ministry will monitor closely, the implementation of all programmes and policies enunciated in the budget”, he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com