Solpia Nigeria Limited, the manufacturer of the X-Pression brand of hair products, says it has launched an app to check the counterfeiting of its products. According to a statement by the company, the new innovation will help the company to ensure a total elimination of fake X-Pression braids in the market. The company said that having noticed forged replicas of its product in the market, it decided to develop a software capable of detecting the original X-Pression brand of hair extension from the counterfeit. It said, “We, manufacturers of original X-Pression braids brand, have not rested on our oars.  We have combated this menace through various means, including designing special hologram sticker to help intending buyers distinguish between the original and fake X-Pression braids, but these did not bring a permanent solution. “So today, we are here to inform you about our new innovation to help our product consumers authenticate made in Nigeria X-Pression Rich and Ultra Braid through the Hidden Tag application. This new innovation is a surefire way of identifying original X-Pression product, and it will help the company to ensure a total elimination of fake X-Pression braids in the market.” The company advised customers to download the app from Play Store on their mobile devices, scan the hidden tag sticker, view the product authentication, register the product IQR number and report any product that fails  he authentication exercise. According to the statement, in a bid to stop braiders and stylists from selling used labels with hidden tag stickers to fakers, the company is currently running a promo titled ‘Return Label Promo,’ which gives every stylist one pack of its product for every 10 pieces of labels returned to the company. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com