A faction of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ogun State on Wednesday endorsed a former spokesman of the Abubakar Atiku 2019 Presidential Campaign, Segun Sowunmi, as the party’s governorship candidate in the state ahead of the 2023 election. The faction however rejected the governorship candidacy of a former member of the House of Representatives, Ladi Adebutu, accusing him of stifling the growth of the party in the state. Sowunmi was endorsed as the party’s candidate in the state at an Ogun Central Senatorial District stakeholders’ meeting held in Abeokuta, the state capital. The meeting, which was attended by some members of the South West Executive, including zonal treasurer, Samson Ogunse, zonal ex-officio, Gbenga Idowu; and zonal legal adviser,  Mosuru Olakupoyi  passed a vote of confidence on the national chairman of the party, Iyorchia Ayu and others . The group also adopted former Vice President Atiku Abubakar as the presidential candidate of the party. Addressing members at the meeting, the chairman of the faction, Semiu Sobayo, blamed a former national chairman of the party, Uche Secondus, for the crisis bedevilling the party in the South West. Sobayo said, “Sowunmi is the only person that we can adopt to become the governor of Ogun State. He is the only person that rescues Ogun State from the maladministration of the All Progressives Congress. “We can no longer tolerate a situation whereLadi Adebutu has pocketed the party. “We don’t want a situation where one person is in total control of the party. He has put the party in his pocket and he has been controlling the affairs of the party from his father’s room. “He (Adebutu) singlehandedly picked the executive members of the party in the state. He has not allowed this party to develop.” Sowunmi, in his remarks, declared his ambition to contest the 2023 governorship election in the state. He charged the people of the state and Nigerians to vote out the ruling APC in  2023. He said, “The call that I should contest for the seat of the governor is very loud, I have been hearing it from a lot of people in this country and even abroad. “I am capable, more than capable, more than determined, more than able, more than knowledgeable, more than resourceful and more than ideological to rule this state. “If it is the wish of God and the desire of the people of Ogun State, I will never disappoint you.” Attempts to get reaction from Adebutu’s faction failed as the chairman of the faction, Sikirulahi Ogundele; and publicity secretary, Sunday Solarin, could not be reached. While Ogundele’s telephone line did not connect, Solarin did not take his calls as his phone rangout.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com