There was an uneasy calm in Eha-Amufu, Isi-Uzo Local Government Area of Enugu State on Thursday as security agencies abandoned Mgbuji autonomous community as herdsmen sacked five farm settlements. The PUNCH had reported that residents of Mgbuji farm settlements were attacked by suspected herdsmen who killed five persons, including children and pregnant women. Speaking with our correspondent on Thursday, leaders of the community said that the country’s security agencies have abandoned them to their fate. A community leader, Chief Eric Ebeh, told our correspondent that the policemen led by the Ikem Divisional Officer came to the community on Wednesday with three patrol vans and refused to go to the settlements where the suspects had sacked residents. Lamenting, Ebeh said “Since Tuesday that the herdsmen invaded our farm settlements, security agencies have abandoned us. “The chairman of Isi-Uzo local government called the Ikem Divisional Police Officer, who came with three patrol vehicles but refused to go to the scene. “He said that our local vigilantes should lead the operation. “When the leader of our Neighbourhood Watch accepted and asked the police team to take him in their car, they refused and went back to their station.” Ebeh also regretted that soldiers that were sent to the community also did not come, adding that when they got to the local government headquarters at Ikem on Wednesday, they claimed that they had an information from their superiors to turn back and go to Uzo-Uwani for an emergency operation. “This happened on Wednesday and till this Thursday evening, we have not seen the soldiers. Now the police, Army, Department of Security Services and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps have all abandoned us to our fate.” The Chairman of Isi-Uzo Local Government Area, Jacob Abonyi, when contacted on the telephone, confirmed the development. He said, “As we speak, I have not seen the soldiers and I don’t know the reason the police have refused to go to the scene of the crime. I received a report that gunshots are still being heard in those settlements up till today (Thursday). “Our governor is trying to stabilise the situation. We just finished a meeting with all the security chiefs in the state on how stop to stop the incessant attacks in the community.” Efforts to get the reaction of the police failed as the state Police Public Relations Officer, Daniel Ndukwe, did not take his calls. As of the time of filing this report, he had yet to respond to a text message sent to him. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com