The Chief Executive Officer, Reftop Homes Limited, Mr Oluwafemi Asogba, has lamented the impact of COVID-19 and insecurity on the real estate industry in 2021. Asogba said this in a statement on Saturday. He said, “In 2021, COVID-19 affected everybody and all businesses around the world. We have kept our dream alive and no matter the challenges we are going through, we promised ourselves that we must deliver. Though it has not been easy, God keeps us moving to deliver affordable homes to Nigerians. “On insecurity, you need to be alive to be known and addressed as a real estate developer. Insecurity has made developers go low to save their respective lives. COVID-19 is not even helping matters. The economic downturn is a reflection of poor governance. If every area of the economy had been handled proficiently, the economy would not have witnessed such a downturn.” Asogba urged the government to prioritise the provision of low income housing for Nigerians. “The institutions responsible for the provision of funds for private real estate developers are lagging behind in the discharge of their statutory duties especially in low-income housing delivery. I will appeal to the Lagos State Government to do more because most of the land under acquisition today can be released to the real estate sector and the private business owners that are running real estate,” he said. Lamenting the rising cost of building materials and its implications for the housing industry, Asogba said the prices of building materials and other items would continue to rise as long as the naira depreciates against the dollar. “Once we stop paying dollars to import petroleum products into the country, the pressure on Naira will reduce or disappear. Most of the building materials are not produced in Nigeria. They are imported. What I will advise the government is to look inward, work on our tax and importation duty. We should build our own building materials instead of being a consumer. We can be a producer of those things,” he added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com