Following the deadly clash in the Idumota area of Lagos Island, Lagos State, the National Union of Road Transport Workers says its operations may be suspended in Lagos State. This is coming barely 24 hours after the arrest of two of its leaders in Lagos State, Kunle Poly and Sego in connection with the chaos at Idumota. The PUNCH had reported that two persons were feared killed during a clash between two factional members of a transport union in the Idumota area of Lagos . The two factions – Eyo boys, reportedly loyal to a union leader known as Kunle Poly, and Kosoko boys – have been at loggerheads over control of territory in the bustling commercial centre. It was gathered that Eyo boys expected Kosoko boys collecting levies from commercial bus drivers on Idumota Bridge to make returns but the latter declined. The growing tension reportedly erupted in a clash around 12pm on Thursday as hoodlums fired gunshots and brandished cutlasses. One person was said to have been shot dead while another bled to death from machete cuts inflicted on him. The violence forced traders in markets around the area to abruptly shut down their shops and run for dear life. Videos of the clash went viral on Friday, with one of the clips showing a bloodied youth being carried away in a wheelbarrow as people ran helter-skelter. On Monday, the Lagos State Rapid Response Squad arrested Kunle Poly and Sego. The police said Kunle Poly and Sego are principal suspects in the recurring clashes in Idumota and its environs. RRS said Kunle Poly and Sego have been transferred to Zone II, Onikan, Lagos. Reacting,  President of NURTW, Tajudeen Baruwa, condemned the killings and attacks among members of the union, and the unrest that lead to the death of people yet to be identified at Idumota axis of Lagos last week. He said, “The NURTW has followed this incident that brought Lagos island to a chaotic situation, posing danger to life and properties and grounding business activities in the area. We hereby assure Lagosians, as the national body of NURTW, that something will be done to end such conduct. We cannot continue this way, putting a bad image on the entirety of the Union, this is unacceptable. “We are using this medium to pass a strong message to the union’s members in Lagos at large, that state’s council executives and NURTW operations in the state entirely may be suspended indefinitely to allow investigation on the incident to be carried out diligently. “However, consultations are ongoing with the state government, security agencies, and other stakeholders so as to reach an arrangement on next line of actions which would be determined by the outcome of the reached agreement.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com