The Omu of Anioma, HRM Obi Martha Dunkwu, has established girl-child foundation and a centre for Omuship and women development initiative. Obi Dumkwu disclosed this while speaking to journalists in her Palace after the celebration of her 20th years coronation anniversary as Omu of Okpanam kingdom. The monarch said the foundation was to give scholarship to indigent Anioma girl child who will be engaged in academic studies, skills acquisition, entrepreneurship development and micro investment. She said, “This foundation has been set up to give scholarship to our Anioma girl children in academics, skills acquisition, entrepreneurship development and micro investment. “To this end, a building in my Palace has been dedicated in perpetuity to a Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) for effective operation. This foundation will continue to carter for this need even after my reigned. “Also, I have set up a Centre for Omuship and Women Development Initiative to provide a centre dedicated to the the study of Omuship in Anioma Nation and training our our women. “Being an Omu was not what I dreamt of, but the letter part of my life made me believe that providence has all along prepared me the seat. “As a result of my activities, being a media practitioner of close to forty years, the Omu institution has gained local and international recognition” The monarch said being an Omu for the past 20 years, has been an eye opener, painstaking and sweet memoirs for her, urging women not wrestle power with men as God from the origin never meant it to be. “Women should not rob shoulder with the men in anything, there is nothing like gender equality going by how God Himself patterned life around men from the creation” she added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com