Former Super Eagles goalkeeper and trainer, Ike Shorunmu, speaks with ALEXANDER OKERE about his family and how his childhood shaped his career You were born in Oshodi, Lagos, over 50 years ago. What comes to your mind when you reminisce about your childhood? My childhood was challenging. I came from a polygamous home. I attended a primary school in Oshodi and later moved to Mushin. I later returned to Oshodi and attended a secondary school there. It was in Oshodi that I started playing street football. Being the youngest, my elder brother used to tell me to be the goalkeeper and I couldn’t challenge him. I had more than 27 siblings. My father had six or seven wives. He’s an Imam. What was it like for you growing up in such a large family? Was there competition among your siblings to get the attention of your father? Of course! My father helped his wives to establish something they could use to take care of their children. He took care of some of the needs of his children and his wives took care of the rest. My mother was a trader. She sold soft drinks and biscuits. What values did your parents instil in you and your siblings? My father taught me how to respect elders and how to work hard in whatever I do in life. He told me to always believe in God. My father was not discriminatory. He relates with Christians and Muslims. The values played a lot of role in what I have become today. They helped me a lot while growing up and still do. People should be humble, no matter the position they find themselves in. You started your senior football career in 1990 at Stationery Stores at 23. What was your motivation as of that time? As a child, I watched the like of Segun Odegbami and Emmanuel Okala playing on TV and wanted to be like them. But I had to learn how to play professional football. It was not about the money but the fame and being known in your area. Footballers, during my time, didn’t think about money. They wanted to be famous. Your call-up to the national team came courtesy of a former national team coach, Clemens Westerhof, in 1992. How did that happen? When I was a goalkeeper with a club in Lagos, he (Westerhof) monitored my activities. When we played the FA Cup finals against Rangers in Lagos, he picked some of us from the two clubs. When we resumed camping, he showed that he believed in us and I still appreciate him for that till today. I worked hard so he could see that his belief in me was not in vain. You reportedly said “unforeseen forces” denied you the opportunity to play at the World Cup in 1994 and 1998. What exactly did you mean? I never said that. What I told the writer was that in 1994, I was told that I was the youngest goalkeeper when we were in camp in Holland (the Netherlands). Truly, I was one of the youngest because we had the like of Peter Rufai, Alloy Agu and the late Wilfred Agbonavbare. Also, that was our first-ever participation at the World Cup and there was a lot of pressure on Westerhof. He had promised that he would take me to the World Cup, being the youngest goalkeeper in camp. But they gave me some reasons (why I would not be taken). They said it was our first appearance at the World Cup and they needed experience. That was how I was dropped from the 1994 team. But in 1998, I got injured at the club level, not the national team, so it was probably not my time to play at the World Cup. But thank God that in 2002, I made it (to the World Cup). Did you have any regrets about missing out in 1994 and 1998? No regrets. I thank God I am still alive today. I am very healthy and doing what God wants me to do in life. That is the most important thing. You played football at the senior level for 12 years. At what point did you decide to get married and start a family? I had my first child when I was in secondary school. As of that time, my wife was my girlfriend. But I settled down in 1990 with my wife and we had our second child in 1991. Was settling down a tough decision for you to make, considering that it was in the same year you were called to the national team? No. I just made up my mind to settle down. I didn’t want anything to compromise my football career. I wanted to have a stable mind with a stable woman. I believed she would take care of my home when I am not at home and she did that. How many kids do you have now? I have four now. Some people say they don’t want to get married or have children. Some just want to have partners. But for me, I have a father and wanted to be a father. Any time I see my children, I am always happy. How close were you to your wife and kids in your heyday as a footballer? We were very close. Did you have to move your family each time you signed up for a new club or had a national assignment? When I got my first international contract in Switzerland, I moved with my family to give them that exposure. But when I moved to Turkey, my family remained in Switzerland. I later moved them back to Nigeria. Shortly before I ended my career as a footballer, I moved two of my children to the United Kingdom to study. Did some of your colleagues think you focused too much on your family? No. I did not show it in public. I tried to create a balance. Family determines the decisions some players make in club football and transfers. Was that the same for you? No. The professional lifespan of a footballer is not that long. Some people think it is but it’s not. Whatever a footballer gains from the profession, they have to make good use of it and make sacrifices. Did fatherhood change you in any way? Yes. There are certain things a man should not do as a father. When your children are there, a man should not misbehave. If a man wants to be respected, he has to do that which would earn him respect from people. A father should not do silly things. When I think about my children, there are certain things I can’t do because I want my children to be proud of me. Did family and friends advise you to get more wives since your father had more than four wives? (Laughs) Yes. But it all depended on me and what I wanted in life. I came from a polygamous home but I don’t want to have one. Why? I just don’t like it (polygamy). As a father, was it your desire to have one or two of your children play professional football? I don’t think for my children. They have their life to live. What I give to them is education. But if they feel like becoming footballers, I wish them well. When I graduated from secondary school, I told my father I was done with formal education. He asked me what I wanted to do and I told him not to bother. Not long after, he started hearing my name in the media when I was in Abeouka playing. I won the Ramat Cup in 1987. Later, my dad gave me support and prayed for me. How would you describe the attitude of the current generation of footballers to marriage and fatherhood in comparison with your era? Do young players see these things as a priority? I would not like to compare. But what I notice is that life is changing. Many argue that the Super Eagles have not had it good in the area of hiring a national coach in recent years. Do you think it’s just bad luck, corruption, or the lack of the will to get a coach that can deliver good results? My dear brother, I cannot comment on that. Let us leave that for the Nigeria Football Federation. The Super Eagles currently consist of young players doing well in their various clubs in Europe and other parts of the world. What’s your advice for them at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations? They should remain focused and pray. Every national team from different countries in Cameroon is there to win. So, we need to be focused. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com