THE former senator representing Rivers South-East Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Sen Magnus Abe, said he has not resolved to contest in the 2023 governorship elections in Rivers State. This was as Rivers State students pleaded with him to show interest in the governorship contest in the state. But Abe said at the moment he was still consulting with relevant stakeholders in the party and the state to know if he should take part in the election. He made this disclosure in Port Harcourt on Monday at the official inauguration of the Progressive Students Network, a pressure group for students in the state, and the unveiling of Operations 10,000 students for Sen. Magnus Abe. Abe, who is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, commended the group for the call, adding that the visit which was part of his consultations would add in shaping his decision. Abe said: “We have met with all sorts of groups here and we see that this is one of the best hands we have had together. The future belongs to you and if you sit down when the future is decided you do not need to stand up to say it is not going your way. “I have always said, no matter who you are, you are entitled to your voice to decide the fate of the state. I have not decided to run for the governor of the state.” “This visit is part of the consultation. Consulting with you is one of the important aspects. Your appeal, I will take it into consideration as we continue in our consultations.” The Coordinator of PSN, Endwell Otonnah, said the structure is made up of students of Rivers State origin, adding that it has a presence in all the universities in the state.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com