JOHNNY EDWARD rates the Super Eagles after their 1-0 defeat in the last 16 of the ongoing AFCON Maduka Okoye Rarely tested in the first half, Okoye failed to parry Youssef Msakni’s shot from outside the box in the 47th minute, as the North Africans took the lead. The keeper however pulled off a stunning save in the 74th minute to deny the Tunisians a second goal. RATING: 3 Ola Aina Aina had an impressive performance in the first half but was culpable for the Tunisian goal after he failed to properly mark out goal scorer Msakni. Aina had a good attacking run in the second half but his pass to Samuel Chukwueze was hit over the bar. RATING: 4 Zaidu Sanusi The left-back had a good attacking run in the first half but his energy waned in the second half. He could not properly link up with winger Moses Simon during the entire duration of the game. His part of the defence was not penetrated throughout the game. RATING: 4 Moses Simon Nigeria dangerman, Moses Simon, was not given any space by the Tunisians to operate from the wings as he played against two defenders throughout the game. Moses could have equalised for the Eagles but his shot was saved by the onrushing Tunisian goalkeeper. RATING: 5 Samuel Chukwueze A performance to forget for the Villarreal man as he once again failed to fulfill his potential from the flanks. He had a shot in the second go agonisingly off target. He was replaced by Sadiq Umar in the 75th minute. RATING: 3 Taiwo Awoniyi He rarely threatened the Tunisian defence during his 60 minutes on the pitch and was taken off for Peter Olayinka. RATING 3 Sadiq Umar Umar, despite playing just 15 minutes, had opportunities to level for Nigeria but the lanky striker just couldn’t get his legs around the ball to get his shot on target. But he caused problems for the North Africans with his daring runs in the few minutes he featured. RATING: 4 Alex Iwobi Iwobi came on for Iheanacho in the 59th but was sent off in the 66th minute after being adjudged to have fouled a Tunisian player. The referee gave the Nigerian a yellow card, but the decision was upturned after consulting with the Video Assistant referee. Wilfred Ndidi Ndidi was Nigeria’s best player on the pitch by miles. He controlled the game and made timely tackles but he could do nothing about the 47th minute goal. He had a shot go agonisingly wide and was lucky not to receive a yellow card when he confronted the referee after his pass hit the match official, who failed to halt the game for a restart. RATING: 7 Joe Aribo Not the best performance from the Glasgow Rangers midfielder but he had some brilliant flashes in the first half when the Eagles controlled the pace of the game. His job was made more difficult when Alex Iwobi was shown a straight red card. He however failed to keep the pace when the team went one man down. RATING: 5 William Troost-Ekong Troost-Ekong had a commanding performance in defence but he could do nothing about Msakni’s goal-bound shot despite trying to defend in vain. After the goal, he ensured that the goalkeeper was tested as little as possible RATING: 5 Kenneth Omeruo Omeruo failed to hold Tunisian goal scorer Youssef Msakni after the forward had gone past his first marker Aina. Aside from the gaffe, he was solid in defence and won most of the aerial duels. RATING: 5 Kelechi Iheanacho A frustrating performance from the Leicester City forward, who failed to instill his presence during the entire duration of the game.  He had an opportunity to equalise for Nigeria but the Tunisian defenders were timely in their marking. RANKING: 4 Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com