Mrs Dola Bamgboye, the wife of a former MTN Events and Sponsorship Manager, late Okundola Bamgboye, has urged Nigerian youth to learn to create value irrespective of where they found themselves. Bamgboye explained that it was the only way they could be given a seat at the table of national discourse and nation-building. The member, Board of Trustees of the Bola Bamgboye Foundation, made this call on Thursday at the formal opening of the foundation’s logo and youth summit tagged ‘Youth Power 2022’. She also highlighted that in the foundation’s intergenerational dialogue, which entailed a panel discussion of members of three generations, it was discovered that there was a disconnect between the dialogue across generations, and that was what the DBF hoped to bridge. “In October 2021, we had an intergenerational dialogue where we had 50 young people who have gone on to connect to another set of young people. The reason why we did that is that we realised that young people want to have a voice. We saw that in the #EndSARS movement. “One of the things we discussed is to highlight the reasons behind why the movement did not achieve what it was originally meant to achieve, which was to contribute to national development. We recognised that there was a disconnect between the dialogue across generations. “We agreed that the way to do that is to do so in a non-confrontational way. We must start within our community and have a say in what is happening within that community. Youths must find out how they can create value no matter how small that value,” she said. Speaking on the plans of the foundation for the year, she noted, “One of the programmes we are trying to launch this year is tagged ‘Food is Power’. It focuses on how food plays a role in knowing where power lies. ‘‘Whoever can feed himself or herself comfortably has got power. Whoever feeds one has control over one. If we begin to look at food at the most basic self-sufficient tool, we would use that experience and knowledge to begin to look at other sources of self-sufficiency and self-direction.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com