South-West states on Thursday said they had put the regional security outfit, Amotekun, on the alert following renewed attacks by killer herdsmen and terrorists in Ondo State. Amotekun officials of Osun, Oyo, Ondo and Ekiti states, who spoke separately with our correspondents, said they had got credible intelligence that terrorists fleeing military operations in the North-West would seek refuge in the forests of the southern states. Amotekun personnel, therefore said they had started combing forests in the region for the fleeing terrorists from the North-West. As South-West states beefed up security, groups including the  Arewa Consultative Forum; the pan-Yoruba group, Afenifere and Ohanaeze Ndigbo, in separate interviews with The PUNCH, lamented recent killings in the country,  particularly in Zamfara, where 200 people were killed, as well as  Plateau, Ondo and Enugu states. The group said recent statements on insecurity by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), showed that he was not in touch with reality. Berating the President,  the ACF  said insecurity had worsened in the country since he assumed office in 2015 despite his military credentials. The ACF noted with sadness that the President was elected partly because Nigerians believed he had all it took to crush any form of security challenges but the reverse remained the case. The forum through its National Publicity Secretary, Emmanuel Yawe, stated these in reaction to the sustained killings in Zamfara, Niger and bandits attacks in Ondo, Enugu, Benue and Plateau, and other parts of the country. The ACF’s spokesman told The PUNCH in Kaduna with the look of things, it seemed the President was not in tune with the reality on ground. He said, “The President was elected partly because he had the credentials that fitted the job at hand. Sadly, the security situation has aggravated since he came into office. “We only hope he has a rethink. Some of the things he said during the interview (with Channels Television) portray him as a man who is out of day.” During the interview a few weeks ago, Buhari was asked what he thought could bring a lasting solution to farmers, herders’ clashes and banditry. The President, among others, said the way out was for the grazing areas and waterfronts to be secured. On its part, Afenifere expressed dismay at the disposition of the President. The group, which said Nigerians had all along thought that Buhari’s image-makers were not representing him very well busy, said the interview aired recently (by Channels Television) showed the true position of things. The National Publicity Secretary of the Afenifere,  Jare Ajayi, said, “The disposition (of the President) is that the insecurity situation is not as critical as Nigerians are painting it. Before hearing him, the thinking was that those who have been speaking for him have not been correctly representing him. His recent television interviews have clearly shown that he had all along been correctly represented. “Now that we know the President’s position, it is certainly not out of place to express regret that our President is not in touch with the reality of the present security situation in Nigeria. “Just today, Thursday, reports have it everywhere that Borno State Governor Zulum openly declared in Maiduguri that terrorists are effectively in control of two local government areas in his state. He added that the terrorists have assembled 300 motorbikes to attack more communities. “Same day, news have it of 18 people that were murdered in Plateau State also by terrorists. Similar disheartening incidents mentioned above are also occurring in several other states particularly in the north and in the South-East.” On its part, the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation Ohanaeze Ndigbo appealed to President to listen and support restructuring of Nigeria to a true Federalism and save the country from bloodletting going on in the country. Ohanaeze spokesman Chief Alex Ogbonnia, who spoke to one of our correspondents on telephone said that the killings going on in the country showed that federal police could nnot secure Nigeria again. “Nigeria is not the first country to practise federalism, we have other Federal States across the world where Federalism has succeeded. I cannot remember any federalism where we have one layer of security architecture. “When we talk about State Police, you talk about Ebubeagu and the rest is just to complement federal police. It doesn’t mean federal police should stop. It doesn’t stop other layer levels of security architecture. You see when you heard that 200 persons were killed in Zamfara, this number killed in Jos or Ondo, it is only in a third world country like Nigeria you can still hear something like that – so many people killed, massacred. Why because the federal police have failed to protect the people. So the president should think twice and listen to ideas from people like Ohanaeze and others on the need to support state police to complement federal police.” As the socio-political groups took a swipe at the President, the  Corps Commandant of Amotekun in  Osun State, Brig. Gen. Bashir Adewinbi, (retd.), said the state before now had intelligence that fleeing bandits might attempt to occupy forests in the South-West. Adewinbi however said Amotekun in the state would not allow criminals to occupy its territory. Although the Amotekun boss refrained from mentioning in details the strategies, he said steps being taken to prevent invasion by criminals involved collaboration with security agents in neighbouring states, especially Kogi and Kwara states. He said, “We have received credible intelligence about that before. We have met and we are still meeting to effectively forestall this. “We won’t allow criminals to use our forest as an alternative. If you can recall, recently, there was an attack on a village in Ondo State. The whole village was burnt down. “We have always had those feelings that they may likely want to use South-West forest, but we will not allow that. Before now, we have always been working to prevent that.” In Ekiti State, the Corps Commander of Amotekun Corps, Brig. Gen. Joe Komolafe (retd.), said that the agency was maintaining surveillance to prevent bandits from accessing or occupying the forests in Ekiti. Komolafe said that Ekiti Amotekun was also in collaboration with Amotekun in neighbouring states for border patrol to keep the areas safe. He said, “We maintain surveillance. Then we collaborate with local hunters, farmers and forestry guards so that they intimate us when they see strange faces or movements in the bush. “Again, we have informants who volunteer information and we speak to traditional rulers fo alert us whenever they see suspicious faces or individuals. We do not wait until bandits or criminals come in or strike”. Amotekun in Oyo State said it had intensified its intelligence gathering and patrol in some border communities as bandits and other criminals started fleeing from the North due to military onslaught. The Commandant of Amotekun in the state, Col. Olayinka Olayanju ( retd.), said  his men had been on the lookout for strange faces who might want to occupy forests in the state to start to cause havoc. Olayanju said, “ We are aware that some of the bandits who escaped the military onslaught may want to migrate down South to start causing problem and we have started patrolling to prevent them from coming here. “The patrol was intensified since about six months ago and it is still on till now. We are on the lookout for strange faces because of our proximity to Niger State which is another theatre of bandit operations. “We started patrolling from Kishi to Igboho and the constant patrol is still ongoing. Also, our men patrol from Iwajowa Local Government Area of the state to the four local government areas in Ibarapa axis and Oyo State boarder with Benin Republic as well as  Oyo State border with Ogun State at Olomo Meji Isale and Oyan River.” The Ondo State  Amotekun declared that the state would not tolerate acts of banditry in any part of the state. The state Commander of the corps, Akogun Adetunji Adeleye who spoke to one of our correspondents, said the corps would not give room for the influx of terrorists from any part of the country. Concerning the recent attack in the Molege and Arimogija communities in Ose Local Government Area of the state, the commander, who did not state the cause of the attacks, said the men of the command were still on the trail of the attackers, adding that the terrorists would be prevented from entering into the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com