The Senator representing Adamawa Central Senatorial District, Senator Aishatu Ahmed (Binani), has denied allegations of embezzlement levelled against her over the execution of a multi-million naira Solar street panel contract awarded through the office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, Princess Adejoke Orelope Adefulire. A report which surfaced online (Not The PUNCH), claimed that Senator Ahmed, as Chairman of the Senate Committee on SDGs, used imaginary and fictitious solar streetlights projects awarded through the office OSSAP-SDGs, for her constituents to divert huge sums from the multi-millionaire solar street lighting project. Senator Binani, who described the news as disinformation aimed at tarnishing her hard-earned reputation coming from her detractors, maintained the All in One Solar Street Lights were installed in five out of the seven Local Government Areas, that comprised her senatorial district, by OSSAP-SDGs as stated in the terms of the contract. She said, “The five local government areas are: Fufore, Yola North, Yola South, Song and Hong with each having 320 in number, of All in One Solar Street Lights to the credit of the Senior Special Assistant to Mr President on SDGs and her officials. “The installation of these lights was perfectly executed and evenly distributed across the Wards, Districts, and special areas of need in consultation with some stakeholders and traditional rulers from the various Local Government Areas.” She challenged anyone in doubt to visit the 56 wards across Yola South, Yola North, Fufore, Song, and Hong LGAs to confirm if what she claimed is the truth. She also noted that the projects were in tune with the Sustainable Development Goals 7 and 11. The Senator, therefore, condemned the attempt to impugn the integrity of the OSSAP-SDGs and the Senior Special Assistant to the President on SDGs, Princess Adejoke Orelope Adefulire, through the fake news report. She advised authors of the disinformation about the solar streetlight project to go back to the field and carry out a proper investigation of the contract. She also condemned the attempt to disrupt the work of the SDGs Office with fake news as she noted that Princess Orelope-Adefulire has been in one state or the other in recent months commissioning projects that cater for the benefit of common Nigerians in line with the determination of the Buhari’s administration to advance the 2030 Agenda in Nigeria. “In the light of this, I wish to highly commend the hard work, dedication, patriotism, quality leadership, accountability and transparent leadership style of the Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Sustainable Development Goals, Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com