A not-for-profit organisation, Project Evolve, has trained no fewer than 200 women and youths in information technology, Microsoft proficiency and other computer-based skills. The convener of the training, Mr Martin Ilesanmi, in a statement on Tuesday said the four-week boot camp tagged ‘Nigeria Social Impact’ was targeted at women in information technology to improve their employability and impact lives. He said, “According to a youth survey report issued by the National Bureau of Statistics, in Nigeria, young men are almost twice as likely to have a career in computer science and technology-related fields as women. “The NBS statistics noted that women make up an average of just 22 per cent of the total number of Engineering and Technology university graduates each year. This means men are shaping the technology field, while women are largely passive users. “Research has also shown that better and more useful tools are created when the developers fully represent the diversity of the societies we live in. “In addition, 90 per cent of the jobs in the next 10 years will require technology skills and knowledge. If women are under-represented as technology developers and sophisticated users, we will be left behind in tomorrows’ world.” The IT personnel added that 51 candidates who participated in the training were given a platform to secure jobs into Microsoft freelance projects with the help of Nuri Lopez, Principal Programme Manager, Microsoft; Ifeoluwa Amao, Consumer Operation lead; and other freelance engineers that volunteered to train the participants. One of the beneficiaries, Walpeace Onyechi, said, “The training was impactful, and has broadened my IT knowledge. Prior to this time I never had knowledge on how to troubleshoot computers.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com