Armed robbers have attacked two commercial buses on Oro-Ago/Omu-Aran road in Ifelodun and Irepodun local government areas of Kwara State, inflicting machete cuts on two drivers. The Public Relations Officer of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Babawale Afolabi, confirmed that the incident occurred in the early hours of Friday. Afolabi in a statement on Friday said the injured drivers were from Oro-Ago Motor Park, adding that the robbers dispossessed passengers of their property and escaped into the bush before the arrival of security agents at the scene. He said, “There was a pandemonium on Friday as unknown armed men suspected to be highway robbers attacked motorists plying Oro-Ago/Omu-Aran road in ifelodun local government area of Kwara State, robbing innocent passengers of their money and other valuables and also left two commercial bus drivers with various degrees of machete cut. “About 7am, our officers on a routine patrol along Oro Ago-Omu Aran axis were alerted that there was an ongoing armed robbery at a remote location along the road. The NSCDC operatives together with other sister agencies and vigilantes rushed down to the scene of the incident but the robbers had fled. “Two drivers from the Oro Ago motor park were attacked by the armed robbers and the two seriously injured drivers are receiving medical attention at a hospital in Oro Ago.” Babawale said the NSCDC and other security agencies in the area were working together with vigilantes and hunters to track down the suspects.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com