A woman, her child and one other person have been confirmed dead in a fatal accident on the Old Lagos-Asaba Road, Boji-Boji Owa, in the Ika North-East Local Government Area of Delta State. PUNCH Metro gathered that tragedy struck when a fuel-laden tanker had a brake failure and rammed into several vehicles and pedestrians along the road. The three victims were reportedly dismembered in the fatal accident. An eyewitness told our correspondent that the accident occurred around 5pm on Monday, January 24, 2022, opposite Okoh Junction. “The deceased lady was riding on her motorcycle, heading towards the traffic light Junction with her three children she carried from school when the truck rammed into them. “The lady, her child and one other person died on the spot. Some others, which included the deceased’s eldest child, were said to have been left with varying degrees of injury and were rushed to the Central Hospital, Agbor, for medical attention,” the witness added. A joint team of the Nigerian Army, the Federal Road Safety Corps and the police from Owa-Oyibu and the Agbor divisions were mobilised to the scene by the Chairman of Ika NorthEast LGA, Victor Ebonka. The council boss, who was on ground till a crane was brought to pull off the tanker, stopped angry youths from setting the fuel-laden tanker ablaze. He sympathised with the victims’ families, describing the accident as pathetic and unfortunate, as he urged the youth not to take the law into their hands. “The trailer is fully loaded with petroleum and if you try to ignite it, then you are practically igniting yourselves because the flame from the fuel will definitely consume you that ignited it. “We have been able to save one of the children and handed her to her father, while others in the vehicles that were crushed along the line were taken to a nearby hospital. I have been informed that they are responding to treatment,” Ebonka added. As of the time of filing this report, the whereabouts of the tanker driver was unknown. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com