Popular skit maker, actress and content creator, Bukunmi Adeaga-Ilori, aka Kiekie, is a woman of many parts. Within a short period, she has stamped her presence as one of the prominent skit makers in the country. However, many don’t know that she is actually married. In an interview with Saturday Beats, she stated that she intentionally does not flaunt her family on social media. She said, “I respect the privacy of my family and marriage, and I do my best to show them to the barest minimum. (I) just (do) the basic things when it’s necessary; maybe birthdays and anniversaries. (I believe that) the little one shares, the better.” Kiekie also stated that her marriage was not affecting her career because her husband understands the sanctity of marriage. She said, “The beautiful thing is that I married a man who understands the concept of marriage, and we have been able to create a balance. When there is something to be done at home, it is not a function of whose job it is, but a function of who is available to do it. When there is something that needs to be done, I just get on it and do it as soon as possible. So, none is affecting the other. I think the baseline here is just to be responsible.” Reliving her most challenging skit, she said, “The most challenging skit I’ve featured in was the one where I had to go inside the water, because I am afraid of water. It was with MC Lively and I had to go inside the water. It was pretty scary for me. More so, there isn’t a set time for skits. Some could take the whole day and some could take two hours. It actually depends on the script.” Asked how she handles negative comments on social media, the social media comedian said, “I believe there is no point trying to force someone to accept any opinion expressed through the artistry in my contents. Everyone is entitled to their opinions. I simply don’t answer negative comments. If I get one million positive comments, I would reply as many as I can. And, if I receive one negative comment, I restrict or block (them). I just don’t respond.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com