Nollywood actress, Shaffy Bello, has described her divorce from her husband as a huge sacrifice. Bello said this in a recent interview with Chude Jideonwo, which was published on Friday. She said, “I left my husband because he allowed me. We divorced 5 years ago when I was 45 and that was a huge sacrifice. “He is a good man and father to the children. The distance affected us; long distance relationship was difficult but I knew I wanted this. If I go back, it will be too much of a sacrifice. “I wouldn’t be myself and at some point, I would resent him so I had to focus on what I wanted. I don’t regret the decision I took.” Going down memory lane, the actress noted that she had earlier left her children to come to Nigeria in search of ‘greener pastures.’ She said “I came back to Nigeria to spread my wings. I felt like I was pregnant and couldn’t have a child; like my wings were sort of closed in, like I was boxed in. “I needed more; my soul needed more. I was yearning for more. I didn’t know the price that would come with it but I had to make the sacrifice. “I paid the price of not having a connection with my children then. My daughter was 13, my son was 11. I was a hands -on mother before I left them. “At one point, I even quit my job to raise my kids. I sacrificed a lot for them to be nurtured only to now leave them in their early teenage years with their father and then again, their dad is out there making a living and I am here in Nigeria making a living so they missed the joint parental touch but that is about that.” Revealing that she could give love a second chance, Bello said, “Yes, I will. I love marriage and marriage at this age for me is gonna be sweet, no babies to nurture, just enjoyment.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com