The Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege; Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa; and the Speaker of Delta State House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori, have all felicitated with Nigeria’s oldest monarch and Owhorode of Olomu Kingdom in Delta, His Majesty Ovie Richard Layeguen Ogbon, Ogoni-Oghoro 1 on the occasion of his 105th birthday. The felicitations were contained in separate congratulatory messages sent to the traditional ruler on Thursday, copies of which were made available to journalists in Warri. Born on January 20, 1917, the traditional ruler was installed on March 12, 1988 as the 12th Ohworode of Olomu Kingdom. Omo-Agege in his congratulatory message to the revered monarch, issued by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Yomi Odunuga, applauded him for his consistency in counselling leaders for peace, recommending the rule of law and encouraging his kinsmen to always work for the larger goal of building one great nation. Describing him as a quintessential traditional ruler, Senator Omo-Agege who is the Delta Central lawmaker prayed that the legacy of peace, harmony, prosperity and steadfast progress that the Olomu Kingdom has witnessed since the monarch’s reign would continue perpetually. Okowa, in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Olisa Ifeajika, in Asaba, remarked that the monarch had since ascending the throne, provided purposeful leadership for his people and Urhobo nation. Okowa pointed out that the monarch’s reign had been very beneficial to his kingdom in particular and Urhobo people in general. According to the governor, the Olomu monarch has in the past 34 years on the throne of his ancestors contributed immensely to the growth and development of his kingdom and the Urhobo people, and therefore, deserves to be celebrated on this special occasion of his birth anniversary. Also, the Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori joined family, friends and the entire people of Olomu Kingdom to celebrate with the Owhorode, whom he said that his contributions to the development of Olomu Kingdom in particular and the Urhobo nation, in general, will continue to stand out. Hon Oborevwori who is also the National Deputy Chairman, Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria, in a press statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Dennis Otu, affirmed that at the monarch’s age, he could still read without reading glasses, walk around unaided and still retain his sharp intellect saying it can only be attributed to God Almighty. He added that it was a pleasure to celebrate the Owhorode’s exemplary life and his living legacy of service to God and humanity. The Speaker noted that the revered royal father has consistently projected the well-being of his subjects and kingdom, working very hard to ensure there is peace and development in his domain. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com