A Lagos-based real estate firm, Lucent Homes and Properties, on Saturday unveiled its board of advisors in a ceremony held to mark the company’s first anniversary. Speaking at the event, the Managing Director of Lucent Homes and Properties, Ohis Asein, said members of the advisory board were selected on the merits of their vast wealth of experience across the public and private sectors in Nigeria. He said, “I am particularly delighted that this ceremony is also an occasion to unveil the distinguished members of our advisory board. These are Nigerians that have served as leaders in different capacities in both public and private sectors in Nigeria. We feel highly privileged to have them on our advisory council at Lucent Homes and Properties as we will benefit greatly from their wealth of experience.” Members of the advisory council include Surveyor Abiodun Awofeko, CEO, Quest Consolidated Limited; Nigeria, Mr Owoeye Philips, former MD, Pacific Bank; and Bode Olohuntoba, a chartered broker, banker, and administrator. Others are Peter Onyeri, an engineer, and  former GM, FAAN; Greg Esangbedo, barrister, and former company secretary, and Imaobong Etuk, chartered accountant and banker. Restating the firm’s commitment towards erecting smart estates to meet the needs of an increasingly dynamic society and the “work from home” culture that has largely been inspired by Covid-19, Asein said much innovation was being deployed in the company’s projects to meet global best practices in the industry. “Our vision is to create a smart estate for our clients thus enabling them to do virtually everything from the comfort of their homes. As we are all aware, the COVID-19 pandemic has changed a lot of things about the way things are done around the world. There is now so much conversation around the New Normal,” he added. The real estate expert also announced that as part of the company’s efforts to appreciate its clients, about 75 per cent discount would be offered on some of its lands until February 14. “To mark our first anniversary, I am happy to announce that we have slashed the price of some of our lands from N7m to N4m. However, this will be on first come, first serve basis as we have limited number of plots for this purpose. Our clients are our kings. We cherish them and we know that we have been able to go this far because of their patronage and trust in us.” Also speaking, Olohuntoba, who is a member of the newly formed advisory board, said, “The business model is that of eco-friendly homes. Don’t forget that climate change is a major challenge globally. Therefore, any contribution from any industry that will reduce the impact of gas emission will assist in reducing global warming that we are experiencing. So the business model of Lucent with smart homes is an indication that they are conscious of the fact that the way to go, globally, irrespective of the industry you’re operating is to go green.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com