A Federal High Court, Abuja, on Monday issued a warrant of arrest against a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Alison-Madueke, who is said to be residing in the United Kingdom. Justice Bolaji Olajuwon granted the request following an oral application by counsel to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Farouk Abdullah. The court had fixed November 3, 2021 for the EFCC to give a report on its efforts at extraditing Alison-Madueke to the country to stand trial ovee money laundering charges filed against her. But on the adjourned date, the case was stalled as neither Abdullah nor Alison-Madueke was in sight. Justice Olajuwon then fixed a new date of January 24. Although Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu was initially handling the matter, the case was reassigned to Justice Olajuwon following Ojukwu’s transfer to the Calabar Division of the Federal High Court. Ojukwu had, on October 28, 2020, rejected the EFCC’s prayer to issue a warrant of arrest against Alison-Madueke, citing the commission’s failure to enforce the earlier criminal summons, which the court issued on the former minister since July 24, 2020, saying court orders are not made in vain. The commission had, in requesting for the criminal summons in July 2020, claimed that it was required to facilitate the ex-minister’s extradition to Nigeria. Faced with the failure of the ex-minister to honour the summons, the EFCC, through its lawyer, Abdullah, urged Justice Ojukwu to issue a warrant of arrest against her, saying that the extradition process failed as a result of the absence of the warrant of arrest. The judge, who turned down the request, directed the lawyer to file an affidavit to that effect supported by evidence from the Office of the Attorney General of the Federation and adjourned for report and possible arraignment of the defendant (Alison-Madueke). However, when the matter was called on Monday, Abdullah told the court that all efforts by the agency to get the ex-minister extradited when the matter was before Ojukwu were unsuccessful. Abdullah, who made an oral application for an arrest warrant, said the application was part of the requirements by the office of the AGF for the extradition. He said the arrest warrant was needed to further give the International Police the impetus to bring the defendant to Nigeria to answer to charges against her. Justice Olajuwon then granted the application and adjourned the matter sine die pending when the defendant (Alison-Madueke) is arrested and produced in court. The EFCC had accused the former minister of fleeing the country for the UK in order to escape justice, among others. The lawyer, in a document filed along with the motion ex-parte, said it sought to question Alison-Madueke, without success, in relation to many allegations against her Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com