Rainoil Limited, an integrated company operating in the downstream sector, has said winners have emerged in its ‘Fuel and win’ promo. It said in a statement that the raffle draws, which were conducted at over 100 retail stations recently, saw winners go home with various prizes, including generators, deep freezers, gas cookers, and microwaves. The Head of Brand and Corporate Communications, Rainoil, Foluso Adeyemi, said the promo was designed, not only to appreciate loyal customers across the country, but also to draw attention to the quality service the company had delivered to Nigerians over the years. “Through this campaign, our customers have restated their commitment to the high-quality products and efficient service that we offer them. We are proud of the success of the campaign as it has offered us an opportunity to reward our growing number of customers; hopefully, we will sustain this campaign in the coming years,” she said, According to the statement, the star winners included Fatai Abiodun (Abuja station), Benga Peters (Minna station), Salihu Zakari (Keffi station), Eze Malachi (New Nyanya station), Steve Ola-King (Ipaja station), and Alhassan Ibrahim (Ilorin station). Abiodun was quoted as saying, “Rainoil Limited has made me happy this season. I am very excited and I don’t know what to say. I saw the advert and I decided to participate.” Another star prize winner Ola-King said that he was thrilled by the experience of the promo. “I am encouraged by the gesture of the Rainoil management in putting this together. For this, I have signed my loyalty in buying fuel in their stations,” he added. Rainoil said it had grown its asset base to include ultra-modern petroleum product storage depots, with 50 million litre capacity each, in Delta, Cross River and Lagos states; over 100 retail outlets across the country; and a fleet of over 150 tank trucks for efficient delivery of products. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com