Tansian University, Umunya in Anambra State, in partnership with the Chartered Institute of Educational Practitioners, United Kingdom, has concluded plans to offer free training to 5,000 repentant commercial sex workers and vulnerable persons in Nigeria. The National President, CIEPUK, Marcel Ezenwoye, disclosed this in Abuja on Tuesday. Ezenwoye said the beneficiaries were drawn from the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory . He said, “Tansian University, Umunya in Anambra State has awarded full scholarships to 5,000 repented commercial sex workers and vulnerable women from each of the 36 states of the federation and the FCT. “The beneficiaries, who were profiled and sent by their respective state governments, shall undergo three months intensive training on different crafts and skills after which they will be equipped with relevant resources. “Beneficiaries shall attend the course in any of the two centres for the northern and southern parts of the nation in batches from February 26. “The three-month entrepreneurship and skill programme involves vocational training in shoe making, soap making, cream making, script writing, video editing, agric business and farm managements. “Others are; acting, online and social media studies, cinematography, furniture making, electrical works, cottage industry, tie and dye, laundry, spice production, barbing and event management.” According to him, the beneficiaries will be provided with free tuition, hostel accommodation, medical cover, insurance and security. Ezenwoye stressed that the positive social impact from the programme would reduce crime and criminalities as well as promote dignity of the girl child and vulnerable groups in the country. He further said the university, with its technical partner, CIEPUK, would continue to bring all round development to the country irrespective of tribe, creed and gender in line with its community development agenda. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com