The Lekki Estates Residents and Stakeholders Association comprising over 150 estates and communities between 1004 Estate and Epe has commended the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for commissioning the construction of Ojota-Opebi Link Bridge to ease traffic gridlock around Ikeja and environs. The association in a statement on Friday signed by its Chairman, Olorogun Emadoye, described the proposed bridge as one of the numerous projects to better the lives of Lagosians. LERSA however urged the governor to immediately halt the encroachment on the land allocated for the construction of the Lekki Coastal Road by private developers and initiate the process to make the construction process a reality. The association added that when completed, the Lekki Coastal Road would reduce the perennial gridlock on the Lekki-Epe Expressway. The statement read in part, “We are pleased to note that while flagging off the construction of the bridge tagged the project a ‘legacy project,’  the governor said the project was an innovative solution to the perennial gridlock around Opebi/Mobolaji Bank Anthony Way/Ojota/Mende corridor. This is a commendable step in the right direction. “This long-expected road that was promised by the current administration is expected to bring succour and reduce the hardship of residents who spend hours on the Lekki-Epe Expressway. The much-needed project, which will help to alleviate the severe traffic congestion on this axis, is currently under threat following infringement by illegal developments. “The association is, therefore, requesting that an immediate halt be placed on any development along the planned coastal road and for the governor to put in place the necessary machinery for the quick development of the Lekki Coastal Road.” LERSA also expressed delight at the various developmental projects across the state, saying they would bring relief to residents. It added, “The attention of the government is required around the Lekki axis where the increasing scale of commercial activities has made the Lekki Coastal Road an urgent necessity.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com