A non-governmental organisation, Access to Learning and School Initiative has put smiles on over 2000 beneficiaries, including children at Iyafin community in Badagry area of Lagos State. The organisers said the gesture was part of efforts to address extreme poverty in communities through social action. During the outreach programe tagged, ‘Christmas with a Smile,’ done in conjunction with April Academy, over 700 children and adults were administered with de-worming medicine. A statement by the organisers on Tuesday said the beneficiaries were also provided free HIV screening and counselling, first aid kits donated to the community and food items given to the elderly. The Executive Director of ATLAS Initiative, Habeeb Balogun, reiterated the importance of bringing together people who care about a cause to make a difference. He said, “The power of community proves that when people care and come together, change is more than possible. We hope this year’s outreach inspires others to share the love and give hope to others, one society at a time. “We plan on returning to the community school to donate what we have raised for them, and we are taking this opportunity to call for more support because, in truth, every day should feel like Christmas. “In many parts of the country, especially in rural areas, girls and young women have little or no knowledge about reproductive tract infections caused due to poor personal hygiene during menstruation. “This, coupled with the statistics highlighting that women in rural areas do not have access to sanitary products or cannot afford to buy them, caused the charities to partner with Diva Pads Nigeria to not only educate but also distribute sanitary pads to hundreds of teenage girls and young women in the community.” The Gender Lead at ATLAS Initiative, Modupe Asama, affirmed that putting smiles on the faces of people was something so dear to her. According to her, hosting ‘Christmas with a Smile’ annually presents a perfect opportunity to share joy, put smiles on the faces of people and give people a tangible reason to enjoy the season. “We are grateful for the support as this reality could only have been made possible with the support of our patrons”, she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com