Celebrity couple, Norbert and Gloria Young, tells BLESSING ENENAITE about their journey in the movie industry, family and other issues You have been in the industry for about three decades. How were you able to come this far and stay relevant over the years? If one does one’s job diligently and one is committed, one would always be relevant. Dedication and diligence are other qualities that have brought me this far. What inspired you to go into acting? When I watched Langbodo, which was Nigeria’s entry for drama at the Second World African Festival of Arts and Culture 1977, I was inspired, I enjoyed the play so much. It had fantastic actors and I think that was the turning point for me. That was when I decided to study Theatre Arts. You have acted in some stage productions. How is that different from acting for the camera? On stage, one must have rehearsed for about a month till one is near perfect, then while performing, one is on one’s own. There is no room to ‘cut’ and reshoot any scene. That feeling that people are watching one in the moment gives one a lot of adrenaline and shows if one is a good actor or not. On stage, one would get instant reactions to one’s performance. But, for television, one would have done it and gone, and one would only get reactions much later when the film is out. The instant adrenaline and the constant rehearsals (for stage performamces) would make one better at one’s craft. For me, the instant reaction is the adrenaline I like, knowing that one has the power to control the thinking of the people that are watching one’s performance. At the same time, it gives one the feeling of being strong. What were the obstacles you faced on your journey as an actor? When we started, opportunities were limited in terms of the fact that we had just one major television station in Nigeria, and stage plays were not as frequent as we have them now. Other limitations were not making enough money and not having enough jobs to occupy one for a long time. But these days, things have changed and there are productions going on everywhere. As regards my work, I don’t think there is any limitation. In your opinion, what does it take to be a good actor? One needs to have the (acting) talent, technique, skill and be able to understand what one’s director is saying. One should also be willing to constantly give one’s best to execute the director’s instructions. Commitment, dedication and seriousness with what one does also matter. I guess those things make one relevant. The industry has witnessed tremendous growth over the years. What would you say is responsible for its progress so far? First, the interest and the overwhelming and inexhaustible potentials of creating art (are responsible for the progress in the industry). Do you know the power one feels when one tells a story using technology? A lot more people got into the business and got trained in reputable organisations and schools, and we can see the fantastic work they have been doing. Don’t forget that we started with nothing. We practically did everything manually. Things have improved so much and I think it is the interest, doggedness and belief we had in the industry that made that happen. The potentials are limitless. In what areas do you think Nollywood can improve? Just like in life, we must try to improve in every aspect. We are doing well but we still need to do much better. Every department must keep striving to be better in terms of being aware of the things that are available for us to use, and going out to really get them. What is the most challenging role you have played so far? All roles have their peculiar challenges. It is going to be difficult for me to say one role was particularly challenging. If I must answer this question though, it has to be the role of ‘Professor Edem’ in Checkmate. It was quite challenging, especially with the make-up that was applied on me. I was a young man when I played that role. It was quite challenging but I am happy I was able to pull it off. Which role would you like to play but have not yet got the opportunity yet? I don’t think I long to play any particular role because I have played many roles. If I get any role, I give it my best. Have you ever felt like giving up? No, I have never felt like giving up. I actually left paid employment to become a full-time actor. Giving up has never crossed my mind. Instead, I want to do more. Have you ever been a victim of nepotism and favouritism in the industry? If I have been, I wouldn’t know. Maybe, (it was) not (done) in my presence. Even if it happens, I would consider it to be normal. What is the difference between your early days as an actor and now? It is like asking me the difference between when I was younger and now. (The difference) is growing up and getting better at what I do. Earlier on, I said there were limitations when we started but now, there are many opportunities around. In terms of the art itself, I try to keep getting better and try to continue being relevant. You are married to an actress. Was it deliberate? (laughs) One falls in love and gets married. If one finds nearly everything one wants in a woman, one would get married regardless of where the woman is from or where she works. One falls in love with the person before thinking about what they do. I did not deliberately say I wanted to marry an actress. I fell in love, felt satisfied with what I saw and the next logical thing to do was to get married. It is generally believed that celebrity marriages don’t last for long but yours has been on for over 19 years. What has kept your marriage this far? If one deliberately sets out to marry an actress, it means one would have a particular interest. And when that interest wanes, what happens? So, love holds us together. There is no special thing that we do to be together. We just live our lives from day to day. We still keep being friends, keep communicating, win and face our problems together. The most important thing is that we still keep being friends. There is no special thing we do to keep our marriage. We lead normal lives and do not pretend about it. We do not live above or below our means. What are the qualities that endeared you to your wife? I don’t know. I don’t think love has any qualifications. Beauty is everywhere. I know that my wife is a quality human being and is very resourceful. She is beautiful and very helpful. She is my friend. What is your most embarrassing moment as an actor? I don’t keep such things in mind although I must have had some embarrassing moments. Around 1991 or 1992, some ladies nearly beat me up on a bus because of the role of Professor Edem, who was a randy person. The two ladies were actually harassing me on the bus. However, it was very early in the morning and there weren’t many people on the bus. So, there was no big crowd for me to be really embarrassed. But, I remember that incident very well. If you were not an actor, what would you have become? I probably would have become an aeronautical engineer. I love the ‘mystery’ of flying an aircraft. I really would love to know more about it (the profession) because I still have interest in it. What are the biggest lessons you have learnt so far in your career? I understand human nature better and I know what it means to portray multiple personalities. I understand how to relate with mankind. Those are very valuable lessons to me. How do you manage work and family? It is very simple. Corporation helps me to manage work and family. I believe that when one is not working, one should spend time with one’s family. When one is working, one should divide one’s work time with one’s wife and plan how to take care of the home when one is away. When we are both on location at the same time, one cannot stay at the accommodation provided by the production company. One would have to go to the film location from home as long as it takes. At any time, someone must stay at home. So far, it has been working for us. There is no conflict at all. Aside from acting, what are your other areas of interest? I teach acting. I used to run a school where I taught young people acting, and I still do consultation on acting. What food can you prepare very well? I can prepare many dishes, especially food from my part of the country (Delta State). I was brought up in a home where everyone had to be in the kitchen. That was how I learnt how to cook. How would you describe your journey as an actress over the years? It has been wonderful and great. I have tried to remain relevant too. What inspired you to become an actress? I did not think about it. I was not planning to become an actress. As a matter of fact, I studied Mass Communication. What I wanted to do was to write. However, I stumbled into it (acting) and discovered that I had a talent for it, which inspired me to continue. Also, there was a major responsibility I had when I started my career, which was to change the status quo and people’s mindsets about different things. Every story comes with a lesson and I wanted to be part of that. I am not a noisemaker and I believe I can speak in many ways without hurting myself or my family. What were the factors that have helped you to sustain your career over the years? I think it has a lot to do with my upbringing. My upbringing was strict but good in the sense that we were not allowed to just mess around anyhow. But we were always encouraged to express ourselves. My parents would tell us not to do certain things and they would give us reasons. That is how I am training my daughter now. I will tell her what is not right and give her reasons because that was how I was brought up. I was also told many times that I must not destroy my family name and reputation. This made me to be careful. Naturally, I have had one or two issues in the past but I responded in ways that did not cause any confusion. This is because the ‘Internet does not forget’. The industry has witnessed tremendous growth over the years. What do you think is responsible for that? It is natural. As a matter of fact, if there is no growth, then something is wrong. I would not call myself a pioneer, although people call us veterans without realising that there were many people who came before us. I remember when it used to be VHS cameras we were using to shoot our movies. But, we were growing.  We are also growing financially. In the beginning, people were just doing it because of their talents and because they felt it was a nice thing to do. People started rushing into it because they realised that those of us in it were becoming famous. Those people did not realise how we were handling it. They thought it was a wonderful thing. Thereafter, we moved into the glamour age. We have grown in leaps and bounds. We are now in the glamour age where everything is about make-up and looking like models. People like me who are big (in stature) are not the reigning ones. It is people with tiny waists that get all the attention now. Drama is life and we would always have fat and slim people, as well as old and young ones. We are getting somewhere and I am glad to be part of it. What do you consider to be your biggest achievement as an actress? I cannot mention a particular movie because I am still in the industry. My biggest job would be the ones I am going to do; not the ones I have done. If I say a particular movie was my best, what about the others I did with other producers? My biggest achievement is yet to come because I am not done. With God on my side, I still have a lot more to do. Are you fulfilled at this point in your career? I am not fulfilled yet. When it comes to my career, I want more and I am willing to go out there and get more. I want to be challenged and pushed. I am not fulfilled but I am happy. Fulfillment would come later. I pray and constantly work on myself so that when I come out, I would be fresher, clearer and better. Did marriage limit the kind of roles you play? Marriage has never limited the kind of roles I play because I am also married to an actor. We discuss our roles, chat over them and learn from each other. We bounce ideas off each other. Sometimes, I read his scripts, while he reads mine too. Unlike in the past, women are now blazing the trail in various sectors in the country. What do you think is responsible for that? It is because women have woken up. This is not to put down our mothers but they decided to take a back seat in their time. Now, we are saying we can always sit beside the driver. I am not from the school of thought that wants to be the driver. Instead, I say that my husband can be the driver while I sit beside him and we work on it together. Women are blazing the trail because they are more outspoken. They are talking about the hurt they have experienced and are learning from one another. However, women are still their own worst enemies. That is because it takes a woman to understand another woman. There are always many things on the woman’s mind. Women are now more assertive and are willing to explore new boundaries. A woman can now boldly say she wants to become an engineer. Even when she is pregnant, she would still want to do great things. I am happy with all that is happening with women now. What are the challenges that come with being married to a fellow actor? The major challenge is family. The both of us cannot be away at the same time because one has to look after the home. But somehow, we manage to do it. We make sure one person is around while another is away, so we work on our schedules. At times, it could be pretty difficult but we have been juggling it so far and it has been good. Many celebrity marriages are usually dogged by scandals but you and your husband seem to have been able to stay away from scandals. How have you been able to achieve that? Every marriage would have issues because it is made up of two people from different backgrounds. It is because celebrities are in the public eye that it seems like a big deal. If one marries one’s friend and one decides that one would make the marriage work, one would not leave any door open. I have noticed that when many celebrities get married, there is one door open somewhere. They have the mindset that they can always dump their partners and walk away; whereas they can always settle their issues. We (me and my husband) are not ‘public’ people per se. When we get home and close the door, we are normal people. We are committed to each other. If one is not committed, one cannot have a successful marriage. It is necessary for partners to look for ways to enjoy marriage. If I have any issues, I don’t bring it to the public space because we (me and my husband) have a way of settling them. What endeared you to your husband? He is fun to be with and he makes me laugh. He calms me down whenever I am angry. He is a stabilising factor in my life. His calmness endeared me to him. He is a good father and a wonderful husband. Are any of your children pursuing careers in acting? Yes, but we don’t want to talk too much about it in case she changes her mind (laughs). Our daughter acted in (the 2020 remake of) Rattle Snake and she is still talking about it. She is 13 years old. We don’t believe her school work should suffer because she is interested in acting. If she wants to act in other movies when she is on holiday, I would let her. What is your advice to young people aspiring for marriage? They should be prayerful and embrace friendship. Make your partner your friend. Aside from God being a priority in their marriages, they should work on it. They should also understand their partners. If their partners understand them too, they would become friends. If they are true friends, anyone that wants to come between them would not succeed, even though they could try. There will always be challenges but if they can work on them, they would be able to surmount those hurdles. Besides, marriage involves companionship. How do you handle work and family? We support each other. If I have to leave the house for a week to go and shoot, we would still communicate with each other. It has not been difficult. What are your other areas of interest? I have a lot of other interests. However, because I am now focused on taking care of the home front, I have had to put most of those things in the back seat. I market perfume oils but I have not used social media to sell it (yet). I also write, cook, bake and sew in my spare time. I love music as well. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com