Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, was absent at the eight-day prayer held for the repose of the soul of the late Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji. Muslim clerics and their Christian counterparts led the prayer session which was held at the Mapo Hall, Ibadan on Sunday. Apart from clerics, prominent indigenes of Ibadan and other dignitaries gathered at the venue of the prayer. Although Makinde was said not to be in the country on January 2 when the 93-year-old Oba Adetunji died, he reportedly returned to Ibadan on Saturday. Sources said although the Friday prayer as well as Armed Forces Remembrance Day service held at St. Peters Cathedral, Aremo, Ibadan were on the itinerant of the governor, he also did not attend any of the events. However, the state Commissioner for Chieftaincy Affairs, Chief Bayo Lawal, represented Makinde at the prayer held for the late Oba Adetunji. The commissioner declined comments on why his principal was not present at the event. An Islamic cleric, Prof. Jamiu Olosho, in his sermon, described the late Olubadan, as a peace-loving king who was committed to the development of the city. Pastor Iyiola Oladokun urged the people to always remember that they would die one day, saying they should begin to prepare to be with the Lord after their death. Gospel musician, Bola Are, described the late monarch as a peace-loving man who dedicated his life to the development of the town. Among those present were former Governor Rasidi Ladoja; Senator Teslim Folarin; Bayo Adelabu, Senator Olufemi Lanlehin; and the Aare Musulumi of Yorubaland, Alhaji Daud Makanjuola. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was represented by Senator Ganiyu Solomon and Mutiu Are. Meanwhile, the Otun-Balogun of Ibadanland, Oba Tajudeen Ajibola, has said the meeting of the members of Council of Okubadan which will hold on Tuesday would be to ratify the choice of Otun Olubadan, Senator Lekan Balogun as the new Olubadan. He said nothing fresh would be done than the ratification of the choice already announced on Wednesday. According to a statement, he said this on Sunday during a radio programme. He said, “The kingmakers’ meeting holding on Tuesday is to formalise what the members of Olubadan-in-Council said last Wednesday at the media parley held at Mapo Hall in the hinterland of the Oyo State capital. “You would recall as well that the Balogun of Ibadanland, Oba Owolabi Olakulehin, said the Olubadan-designate should brief the media to correct all the wicked rumours being circulated on his health status. That was last Wednesday.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com