The pan-Northern socio-political organisation, Arewa Consultative Forum, says it won’t endorse any presidential candidate, either from the North or South, ahead of the 2023 election. This, the Forum said, was because political parties have the exclusive preserve to choose their presidential candidates, saying that once that is done, the ACF would only subject candidates to scrutiny. The organisation also praised the Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje, for the proactive action taken on the abduction and killing of a five-year-old Hanifa Abubakar by her teacher in Kano. This is just as the regional body hailed the developmental efforts of the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, saying that “Kaduna now is wearing a new face.” These were contained in a communiqué signed by the ACF National Chairman, Chief Audu Ogbeh, after a meeting held in Kaduna on Wednesday. The communiqué released to journalists by the National Publicity Secretary of the Forum, Emmanuel Yawe, also proposed a meeting with Afenifere, Ohanaeze Ndigbo and other socio-cultural groups ahead of the 2023 general elections. The communique read, “As the country moves towards 2023. We of the ACF need to remind our members and all that we are not a political party. “We do not have a candidate and will not endorse one in the 2023 election, North or South. When the political parties, who have the exclusive permission of the Constitution to sponsor candidates, choose a presidential candidate each, we shall engage the candidates and find out what programme they have for the North. It added, “After extensive deliberations on the murder of Hanifa Abubakar, the five-year-old girl in Kano, the meeting resolved to commend the Governor of Kano State, Dr Adulahi Ganduje, for his prompt action in arresting the situation.” Ogbeh had, earlier at the opening of the meeting, disclosed plans to meet other regional groups ahead of the 2023 election in order to douse the already charged political tension in the country. He said, “Our plan to have meetings with Afenifere, Ohanaeze and South South People Congress is still on course because there is the need to put a stop to abusive words against one region or the other. “We should desist from endorsing any candidate for the 2023 presidency. If anybody ask you about endorsement, tell such person that we are not political party.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com