The Chairman of the Nigerian Insurers Association, Mr Ganiyu Musa, has said insurance companies expect builders to give all necessary information about their buildings to enable them to evaluate the risks to determine the premiums and claims when losses occur. Musa said this during an interview with our correspondent, stressing the need for owners or developers of buildings to take insurance and be professional while constructing their buildings. He said, “To decide on the premium to be paid on building insurance, insurers need to get a lot of information we need from the person – that is, the proposals from the person to take out the insurance, which you will evaluate to determine the premium. That is the whole essence of underwriting. “Insurers will look at the risks and put quantitative and qualitative considerations to the underwriting process and then come up with not just the pricing, but also other terms and conditions. Premiums will be examined on a case-by-case basis before you come up with other terms and conditions. “It is important for the insuring individual to adhere to construction rules because it is not possible to build illegality on legality. If an accident occurs and the builder has complied with all the rules while taking insurance, insurance companies will pay claims for the loss.” According to him, insurance is a contract and is also based on utmost good faith, provided the client has complied with all the requirements and all the warranties in the contract. “If they have been complied with, the insurers will pay when there is a loss,” Musa said. He said the insurance industry was engaging with the authorities in a number of states, especially Lagos, adding that the National Insurance Commission was also leading the charge. He said on several occasions, NAICOM had gone to meet with specific state governments or the Governors’ Forum to solicit their cooperation in ensuring compliance with building insurance. According to him, some professional builders who knew the essence of insurance and were compliant with the laws have insurance for their buildings. He said, “Most of the standard constructions actually carry insurance, even far beyond the minimum because most of the serious-minded professionals, builders, construction companies and architects do indeed carry the required insurance; be it the Construction All Risk, professional indemnity for the professionals and the rest. “We have that for the major standard construction. The challenge is to really propagate it when you move down beyond the prime market to the next layer, which is really where you have quite a number of the mixed-sized construction projects.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com