The phrase “jump the gun” came into being in the early 20th century during track and field races arising from the unhealthy activities of some athletes.  At the beginning of a race, a starting pistol is fired. The sound of the shot indicates that the race should commence. Interestingly, in some situations, some athletes will embark on the race before the gunshot is heard.  This action prompted the expression, “jump the gun.” The Independent National Electoral Commission is yet to officially announce the commencement date of campaigns for the 2023 general elections. INEC’s position notwithstanding, politicians have commenced aggressive political activities cum subtle campaigns, preparatory to the elections.  This unwholesome behaviour exhibited by politicians is resoundingly similar to the aforementioned action of some athletes during track and field races. Accordingly, it would not be out of place to describe this unethical activity of politicians as “jumping the gun.” Evidently, politicians have started building bases of support and embarking on massive constituency building. On a daily basis, the tempo of political activities has spiked exponentially but has yet to reach its crescendo. The All Progressive Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party have had their internal squabbles and bickering. The battle for the soul of APC culminated in the eventual stepping down of APC National Chairman, Odigie Oyegun, from the race for re-election after his first term. Consequently, the path was paved for immediate past  Governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole, to emerge as the APC National Chairman. Oshiomhole’s tenure was punctuated by calls for his resignation. He finally succumbed to intrigues and centripetal tendencies within the party in 2020. In the same token, the PDP has had its own share of internal wranglings. Following these internal crises, stakeholders in the party called for the removal of Uche Secondus as the chairman of the party. It will interest you to know that the Governor of River State, Nyesom Wike, was one of the most vociferous voices in the call for his resignation. Increasingly, however, a vast majority of Nigerians, more than ever before, are no longer enthusiastic about politics and are disenchanted with the level of governance in the country. The election cycles have been largely marked by fanfare and pageantry.  Politicians have always come to dazzle and placate the masses with promises during elections. The former Governor of New York, Mario Cuomo, is noted for his tag of politicians as “campaigning in poetry, but governing in prose.” Cuomo’s assertion has continually remained a relevant and concrete exemplification of our governance culture.  Little wonder, we have been bedevilled by security, socio-economic challenges over the years.  Quite unfortunately, our economy is in dire straits. Nigeria cannot be allowed to be relegated to the second or third division in the scheme of things in Africa.  There is an urgent need to effect a narrative shift. Amidst these challenges and unsavoury trajectory,  Nigerians are confident that our present predicament could be redeemed and Nigeria repositioned to emerge as a globally admirable country. This is achievable when we deliberately tackle holistically our leadership challenges.  We strongly crave a leader poised to unleash the full potential of the country. Nigerians are clamouring for a transformational leader as against that, which predominantly had been transactional. The former elevates governance to enviable heights, whilst the latter breeds mediocrity. It is in recognition of these dimensions of leadership that the search for an “avant-garde leader”  becomes imperative as we prepare for the 2023 election. An avant-garde leader who would break away from the conventional and traditional way of getting things done, while addressing the critical issues of governance. A leader that challenges the status quo by taking tough and far-reaching decisions, whilst abiding by democratic tenets and the rule of law.  His dosage of willpower must be astounding. Equally important, we desire a leader that distinguished himself as an entrepreneur.  He must have proved his mettle beyond mere rhetoric in running an organisation. No doubt, the experiences garnered over the years would be brought to bear as cutting edge to the dearth of leadership challenges. It is strongly believed that any candidates desirous of leading the country must be one with a clear understanding of the economy and have a sufficiently robust entrepreneurial background. Another expectation from any candidates desirous of governing this country should be that of a bridge builder. Any leader that emerges must make frantic efforts to treat all the ethnic nationalities equally and each given a seat at the table. Let us create and sustain a paradigm of diversity and inclusion. The country today is sharply divided along ethnic, religious and political considerations. The president should be committed to building bridges of trust, love and harmony amongst the various ethnic divides in the country. There is mutual fear and suspicion amongst the various ethnic nationalities in the country. It will gladden the hearts of Nigerians to high heavens when the incoming president in 2023,  tackles the lingering challenges of insecurity, which has mutated to other variants like banditry, youth restiveness and kidnapping, etc. It is instructive, and advisedly too, that politicians should make promises that are feasible and achievable. In the words of the renowned Scottish-born American industrialist and philanthropist, Andrew Carnegie, “Actions speak louder than words; let your words teach and your actions speak.” Our leaders should allow their performances in human capital development,  infrastructure developments and sustainable economic growth, among other achievements, to speak louder than what they say.  The trust deficit from the populace against governments is towering.  Leaders should have a clear understanding of the limits of what is possible and convincingly communicate the same to Nigerians as equal stakeholders in the shared goals and vision of the country. The journey to that better Nigeria that is envisioned by all is tough, but undoubtedly, attainable when we all pull together. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com