Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to redouble efforts in fulfilling his cardinal electoral promise of securing the country. Speaking during the 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Ceremony in Port Harcourt on Saturday, Wike said Nigeria was at the crossroads and everyone was weary about the prolonged Boko Haram insurgency in parts of the country. This was contained in a statement by the Special Assistant to the Governor on Media, Kevin Ebiri, and made available to journalists. “However, the generality of Nigerians believe that the progress made can’t be good enough insofar as Boko Haram and its affiliates are still active in the North-East, North-West and some other parts of the country, killing, maiming and kidnapping helpless people, including school children, and destroying and displacing hapless communities. “We, therefore, call on Mr President to redouble his efforts and fulfil his cardinal electoral promise to secure the country and ensure that Nigerians feel safe and remain safe and secure wherever they are in their own country,” he stated. Wike pointed to the need for the Federal Government to take as top priority the equipping of the nation’s armed forces appropriately. This, he noted, would motivate men and officers of the military to be well poised to accomplish the noble task of securing the country and ensure that Nigerians feel safe within their various communities,” the governor stated. Speaking further, Wike described officers and men of the armed forces as enduring symbols of national unity. He said, “Nigerians are proud of them for their principled loyalty to the nation, including their capacity and commitment to defend Nigeria’s territorial integrity, democracy and constitutional freedoms of the citizenry. “It is also significant to appreciate that for several families across the nation and communities, today’s remembrance ceremony is a very painful reminder of the loved ones that they lost years, months and even barely weeks ago.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com