Osun State lawmakers have sought the help of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, to end the feud between Rauf Aregbesola and Gboyega Oyetola. The former governor of Osun State, Aregbesola, and his successor Oyetola have been at loggerheads for undisclosed reasons since the start of the latter’s tenure. The feud has spread between their supporters and split the Osun State All Progressive Congress into different factions. A source close to the lawmakers told Vanguard that the Speaker of the Osun State House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye, alongside eight other lawmakers, were at the church’s headquarters, the Redemption Camp, in Ogun State recently to seek Adeboye’s intervention in the matter. “The visit was led by the Speaker and they sought Baba’s help to broker peace so as to guarantee and sustain the development of Osun. “Baba appreciated the visit and the Speaker’s team’s initiative to resolve the issues. “He, however, stressed that though he is not a politician, he will be guided by the scripture,” the source is quoted as saying. Confirming the meeting, the Speaker’s media aide, Kunle Alabi, told Vanguard that Owoeye was a regular visitor at the Camp adding that he was not privy to the matters discussed. He added that the Speaker would be willing to use the necessary means to resolve the issue between the Minister of Interior and the current governor of the state, not excluding tribal lines. He said, “Well, I was aware of the meeting but I am not privy to what was discussed. “However, the Speaker is a party man to the core and would stop at nothing, including enlisting Baba Adeboye’s help to resolve the crisis, towards ensuring that APC is victorious during July 2022 governorship election. “So, if such matter was discussed, it is not out of order. Baba Adeboye is an Ijesa man, Aregbesola is an Ijesa man, so also is the Speaker. “Moreover Baba is from Osun and an elder stateman to that effect, so, he fit to be sought after,” Alabi added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com