The spokesperson of the United States Mission in Nigeria, Jeanne Clark, on Wednesday, in Kano, charged Nigerian journalists to adhere strictly to the ethics of the profession so as to ensure a stable and peaceful society. Clark gave the charge during a town hall meeting organised by the Nigerian Guild of Editors in collaboration with the United States Embassy for the North West zone titled ‘Assessing media performance in consolidating Nigeria’s democracy: Citizens verdict and outlining an agenda for the future.’’ According to her, the meeting was meant to, among other things, ensure professionalism in media practice. She encouraged journalists to ensure that they verify their facts before reporting. Clark explained that the town hall meeting will, among others, enhance the morale of Nigerian journalists. She disclosed that the United States is taking bold actions in five key areas, which include supporting free and independent media, fighting corruption, bolstering democratic reformers, advancing technology for democracy and defending free and fair elections and due political processes. Earlier in his welcome address, the National President of NGE, Mustafa Isah, said the town hall meeting would provide a platform for media stakeholders to undertake self-scrutiny, as well as begin a robust conversation on a framework for media regulation. He said, ‘’All aspects of good governance are facilitated by a strong and independent media. A free and critical press is essential for the growth and development of any democracy. “It is only when journalists are free to monitor, investigate and criticise public policies and actions that good governance can take root.’’ In his paper presentation, the former Dean of Social Sciences, Bayero University, Kano, Prof. Kamilu Fagge, said journalists have a great role to play in ensuring the sustenance of the nation’s democracy. The Kano State Commissioner for Information, Muhammad Garba, noted that the meeting came at the right time when the 2023 general election is approaching. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com