The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board on Monday said it had rejected the apology of a “repentant” candidate who wrote to intimate the board of examination malpractices which he committed 21 years ago. This is as the examination regulatory board added that the only way it would accept the apology is for the former candidate to forfeit all the certificates he had acquired with the result of his Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. This was disclosed in the weekly bulletin published by the Board and made available to The PUNCH in Abuja by its Director of Protocols and Public Relations, Dr Fabian Benjamin. The bulletin partly reads, “A repentant candidate named Mr Timipade Kemepade has written to the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board asking for forgiveness owing to his involvement in examination malpractice in the course of obtaining the result of the UME (as UTME was known then) that he sat 21 years ago. He blamed youthful exuberance for his misconduct. “Mr Kemepade’s plea was contained in a letter addressed to JAMB titled: Restitution on my JAMB Result 21 Years Ago.” The letter read in part, “With regret and sincere apology to JAMB, I, Timipade Kemepade, with Certificate No. 33208803GA, confess that I participated in examination malpractice 21 years ago while sitting my JAMB examination.” The letter continued, “I, therefore, seek the forgiveness of JAMB. I sincerely regret my youthful exuberance.” *Board insists on forfeiture of results The Board, in its reply to Mr Kemepade, stated that the apology and consequent admission of guilt are “rejected in their entirety and are, therefore, not admissible.” “Consequently, Mr Kemepade was informed by the Board that the only condition for accepting his apology is his willingness to forfeit all the certificates he had fraudulently acquired with the result of the University Matriculation Examination.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com