Alhaji Aliko Dangote, born April 10, 1957, wealthiest African—no African American with the backing of their $21 trillion economy come close; owner of a series of mega factories: from sugar refineries to cement plants to a mega fertiliser plant and soon-to-open petrochemical and petroleum refinery, all across Africa—from Algeria to South Africa. These are those we see and know, there are subterranean ones. Beloved by other African nations, who wished he were theirs, but not so loved by his own. Were he an American, a  number of books and biographies would have been written about him to tell his story and inspire others but I have come across only one, which was written by a foreigner. Definitely not understood by his countrymen because he is unlike them. On a lighter note, lover of Arsenal football club which happens to be my club. Also a friend of one of the world’s richest men, who came to grace his daughter’s wedding, an honour that says a lot. Yet seen by a large section of Nigerians as a villain. Seen as the number one beneficiary of the corrupt polity. Even has haters in his home state, Kano; I met one. Until recently very few considered him a hero and those who do consider him a hero are in the younger generation. Why have I appointed myself public relations’ agent for Aliko pro bono? My last article highlighted that individuals in a capitalist free market environment create societal wealth for redistribution and not governments or collectives, therefore, it is pertinent I dwell on our foremost capitalist this week. I, also, use him to counter those who say ‘enu dun ro efo’ meaning ‘it is easier said than done.’ This phrase is in response to my contrarian views on developmental economics in Nigeria. Alhaji Dangote is an executor of developmental views I have held since the mid-1990s such that when I shared it with other colleagues lately I was given the new nickname, Gbengote! Dangote on the radar: This can be divided into two periods, pre-2000 and post-2000. He had graduated in 1977, aged 21, from the prestigious Cairo Al-Azhar University. By the way, where did he serve? This shows intelligence because graduating at 21 was a rare accomplishment in his part of the country. He did not join the Dantata group or Kano State government nor a corporate body with his degree in business administration as most of his peers did. Rather he formed his company in 1977, another rare feat unheard of in my part of the country. He then left his comfort zone of Kano and relocated to Apapa in Lagos State to hustle, independent of the Dantata Group. He remained a trader, bringing in various commodities throughout the eighties and much of the nineties. I never thought much of him as a trader, who was importing and seizing opportunities accorded him by the government, and surprisingly his competitors never did too! Yes, he had old money backing him. He obtained a mega loan from his uncle to launch him into the big league. He repaid the loan much earlier than expected as he had done his homework. Some allegations against Aliko Dangote: These are from the most bizarre stories of him being ritualistic to him being a rapacious businessman, who plays very dirty. The stories of ritual origins to his wealth are typical of Nigerians, who cannot imagine wealth without ritual inputs (thanks to African Magic movies also). This is easily debunked as we know he is well-rooted in the wealth of the Dantata family. His tutelage in this commercial family is key to his success but we should acknowledge that he is not the only scion in the Dantata family and that he is a grandson and not a direct heir to the late Alhaji Alhassan Dantata. Drugs: That Dangote once trafficked drugs to the US making good money.  He then left the drug business to pursue legitimate business with the money made from illicit drugs and has remained legit ever since. Do traffickers and barons move out of the business so easily? It has also been said that he fronts for Generals and others who milk our commonwealth. This is moving the goal post just to hang Aliko. I debunk this by pointing out that, his amazing business decisions would be near impossible when you have Generals looking over his shoulders. He exhibits much independence in his business decisions. Many others have had these opportunities too but he outpaced them with his business acumen. Finally, he might not have passed the World Bank due diligence in obtaining a $0.8 billion loan to build the Obajana cement factory. Red flags would have been raised by the Americans. People also say, “give others, including themselves, the opportunities and favours the government gives Aliko and they will outperform him.” I laughed! Some of these naysayers are 30-year career civil servants. Aliko’s second era: In 1998 it became known that Dangote had contributed N140 million towards retired General Olusegun Obasanjo’s presidential campaign. The boy had arrived. From trading, he had moved into the light industries of flour mills, salt and sugar refineries. He also learnt to play the Nigerian Stock Exchange to his advantage, unlike Nigerians who brought their companies to the NSE but are nowhere to be found today. Then the big move into heavy industries starting with cement production, treading where Nigerians fear to tread. As president, Obasanjo had in the early 2000s introduced a policy directing all cement importers to build plants in the country so cement importation would stop in a number of years. Nigeria was importing around half of its cement needs and Obasanjo stated the country had no business importing cement since we had virtually all the raw materials needed for cement production within our borders. Only Dangote Group seized the bull by the horn and in no time had two mega plants of over 20 million tons annual production at two locations in Nigeria—Obajana in Kogi State and Ibese in Ogun State. His competitors dilly-dallied and, in no time, Dangote had 70% of the cement market thus overtaking a blue-chip foreign-dominated company that had been operating small plants since the sixties. Other competitors believed the government would flip flop on the policy and, to some extent, late President  Musa Yar’adua did partially reverse the policy. But it never made sense for Nigeria to import cement when we have high-quality limestone across the country and gas to power the plants. Aliko had won the day, his competitors in the cement industry had to play catch up. Aliko has shown great wisdom in taking his grandfather’s advice of never duelling with the government. Abide by their policies; take advantage of such policies good or bad, be it lifting of import licensing or ban on cement importation. From a favourable sugar policy to an awkward forex policy. He always remains a friend to any government in power. Neither does he tackle his adversaries in public and they hardly sue him to court for his alleged unsavoury business tactics. Who sent me to defend him when he hardly defends himself? Posterity I say. While many consider him as part of our problem others identify him as a solution and solution provider. He has stopped the importation of cement, he is very active in the agric sector and most important, at this stage of our economic quagmire, he is addressing the core lack of the economy. He is getting involved in the export of high-value products like fertiliser, cement and, soon to join, refined petroleum products and petrochemicals. That indeed is what the economy needs urgently and he is at the forefront of providing it. This is the supply side of the naira value equation that has been overlooked and again he has seized the bull by the horn. Before AfCFTA came into being he had gone continental with cement plants in over ten African countries and a sugar refinery in Algeria. In my book, Nigeria attaining trillion dollar status, I alluded to what I call a Dangote Blueprint for acquiring heavy industries for value addition to raw materials like bauxite and iron ore.  We can bring in ores like copper ore, iron ore and bauxite from  African countries for their maximum beneficiation and export of end products to the world. Looking into the future there is optimism. If one extrapolates 20 years ahead, what is possible is beyond imagination. He could solve the Nigerian power problem, meet our steel needs, what else? I am also gladdened to see Alhaji Abdul Samad Rabiu borrowing from Aliko’s playbook and already being rewarded by becoming the fifth richest African. What is the Achilles heel of this fix all Dangote? Succession issues, health issues, family feuds, technical failures and not the least political intrigues. Having all our eggs in one basket and suddenly the strongest link becomes the weakest link! To forestall this, Nigeria needs more Dangote-like players across the country. He has led the way and shown what is possible and now we see BUA and IBETO groups coming up. We also need a system that churns them out in each new generation. Then we need antitrust laws to forestall monopolistic abuses that naturally come with market dominance and cartel formation by having just a few operators in these industries. Finally Aliko, you say, ‘I want to give my wealth away in my lifetime;’ please don’t do this. American billionaires can afford this as they churn out many Bill Gates every decade. Please leave your wealth in the hands of well-chosen successors who will increase it. You can also in your lifetime birth non-biological Alikos like Tony Elumelu is pursuing. Identify them, nurture them and act as angel investors for them. Please don’t just give your wealth away! Have you ever considered running for the office of President of Nigeria? I doubt it ever crossed your mind,  you are more useful to Nigeria as President of Dangote Worldwide than as President of Nigeria. What Nigeria needs from you is your autobiography and, of course, well-researched biographies that would set a lot of records right. Dr Jaiyesimi writes from Sagamu via jerry3jaiye@gmail.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com