Normally, we do not use article ‘the’ with personal names. All we need to know is that people’s names fall under the type called proper nouns, which should begin with capital letters. So, if someone asks, ‘What is the name of our teacher?’, the answer expected is ‘The name of our teacher is Akeem Lasisi.’ Not ‘The name of our teacher is the Akeem Lasisi.’ Similarly, there are grammatical issues with the following sentences: Ekiti State Governor, Dr the Kayode Fayemi, will attend the event. The man, whose real name is the David Ukpa   wants to be there. Emphasis It is obvious that the ‘the; that precedes the names mentioned in the last two  clauses is out of place.  In this lesson, however, we shall discuss some four instances that the article ‘the’ can be used with such names, and how this may affect the structure of  certain statements. The first is when the speaker or writer wants to place emphasis on the person being referred to. In this context, the listener too has a previous knowledge of the subject, but there is the need for some clarification or emphasis: Akin: I saw Uche Jumbo there. Ngozi: Which Uche Jumbo? Akin: I mean the Uche Jumbo of Nollywood. The Muhammadu Buhari I know won’t support the idea. In the sentences, ‘the’ provides more information about Uche Jumbo and points to Buhari’s disposition or character.. Preceding family names The second circumstance ‘the’ may precede a person’s name is when it introduces a family. Here, the name comes plural: The Ades are visiting us tomorrow. The Johnsons are not going to come. The use of ‘the’ in the sentences are valid, and the construction is one you too can use, if you do not want to say something like ‘The Ade family are coming tomorrow’ or ‘Mr Ade, his wife and children are coming tomorrow.’ Based on the last two examples, you can see that ‘The Ades’ expressions are usually more compact than the other patterns. Consider: The Gideons will soon be here. (Six words.) Gideon, his wife and children will soon be here. (Nine words.) Introducing a category, class or type In the third situation you use ‘the’ with personal names, a class or type of people is indicated. When talking about rich folks, for example, you can say the Dangotes of this world or the Otedolas of this world. Talking about social media or tech gurus, you can say the Mark Zuckerbergs of this world, or you are referring to film stars, we can have the Funke Akindeles, the Kanayo O Kanayos, even without adding ‘of this world’: The Dangotes of this world have their own challenges too. The Funke Akindeles have a lot of admirers. Introducing ethnic groups The fourth situation captures references to ethnic groups and nationalities. One can, for instance, say Hausas, to refer to all Hausas. Yet, one can simply say the Hausa. With ‘the’ before ‘Hausa’ here, it means we are referring to all Hausas whether in a community, state, country or throughout the world.  So, all the sentences below are correct: Hausas are a dominant group in Nigeria. The Hausa are a dominant group in Nigeria. Yorubas have a proverb that you don’t throw a bad child to a lion. The Yoruba have a proverb that you don’t throw a bad child to a lion. I have many friends among Igbos. I have many friends among the Igbo. Ijaws have produced a President. The Ijaw have produced a President. Note that, in this context, you do not need ‘s’ with the name of the ethnic community preceded by ‘the’: Egbas have a great culture. The Egba have a great culture. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com