Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, and his predecessor, Ibikunle Amosun, stuck to their guns on the structure of the All Progressives Congress in the state. The Reconciliation Commitee of the APC on Friday met separately with the two factions led by Abiodun and Amosun in Abeokuta, the state capital Our correspondent gathered that both Abiodun and Amosun factions of the APC insisted on the stance to be in charge of the party in the state. Amosun faction reportedly wrote petitions against Abiodun, alleging that due process was not followed in the conduct of last the congress in the state. The committee, which was led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu, had earlier met Abiodun at the state’s presidential lodge around 11am before meeting Amosun at Mitros residences, a state government owned hotel. The party had last year held parallel congresses in the state which produced two results. After the controversial congress in the state, an Appeal Committee was sent to the state to collate petitions. Abiodun had in his camp former governor Segun Osoba and former three senators in the state among others in his camp. Amosun had in his camp the two  senators and former governorship aspirant in the state, Jimi Lawal among others in his camp. The 11-man committee led by Senator Adamu Abdullahi, after meeting with Governor Abiodun at the Presidential Lodge, said it was in the state on a mission to reconcile aggrieved party members. Adamu equally assured all members of the party in the state that the committee would adopt the principle of fairness in solving the crisis facing the party in Ogun. The former governor of Nassarawa State, who said the committee visited the governor to intimate him with its mission, noted that the desire of the party at the national level was to have peace among its members in Ogun. “We are here with a mission of meeting our party members and to see the best way we can pilot the reconciliation efforts of the party “It is the concern of our party at the national level that peace prevails in this state. And we will do everything to ensure that nothing truncates that peace. “We owe the party a duty by ensuring that principles of fair hearing is given to all parties involved”, Adamu stated. In his remarks, Osoba, while describing the committee as comprising seasoned administrators and people of proven character, enjoined the members to ensure equity, fairness and ensure that justice is done in the course of carrying out their assignment. Abiodun acknowledged that there was bound to be friction in a party as big as the APC and lauded the party for choosing the path of reconciliation to guard against polarising the party in Ogun. “This committee was carefully chosen to further strengthen the party. It is important to continue to have peace and harmony among us. Though there is bound to be conflict here and there, we must continue to find a way to cooperate, and I am happy to have you with us today. We will cooperate with to ensure peace in our state”, Abiodun said. The governor, who expressed delight with the calibre of people appointed into the committee, said they were made up of committed  party members who understand how party works, assuring that the committee would have opportunity to meet with executive members of the party in the 20 local government areas to have a feel of what is going on in the state. The Reconciliation Committee chairman, thereafter, presented a copy of petitions received so far to the governor. While briefing newsmen after meeting the Amosun faction, Adamu said the committee was optimistic that the crisis would be resolved. When asked if there was a sharing formula to appease the two factions, Adamu said, “There is no sharing formula. “What to take home in the name of God and most sincerely is that we got here around 11:00am. We have been to the Government House to greet His Excellency and to announce formally that we are in Ogun state on the mandate of our committee.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com