Family members of a Nigeria Air Force officer, Endurance Eugene, allegedly shot dead by a member of a vigilante group called OSPAC in Omuanwa community in Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers State are demanding justice for their son. The deceased’s brother, Onyemechi Eugene, made the plea while addressing journalists in Port Harcourt. “I am calling for the arrest of the man that killed my brother. They should make him face the law,” he stated. The PUNCH reported that the acting spokesman of the state police command, Grace Iringe-Koko, in a statement on Wednesday said the vigilante member, Progress Amecheta, has been arrested, while the Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka, has ordered a full-scale investigation into the incident. Continuing, the deceased’s sibling said his brother came home for the Christmas holiday to spend some time with his family before the unfortunate incident. He said, “My brother came home for Christmas to stay with his family. There was this colleague of his that he called for him to accompany him to go and rescue his brother that the OSPAC arrested. “At the OSPAC office, they (vigilantes) were telling my brother and his friend to leave, that his brother was not with them. “My brother asked if he had any problem with them with the way the vigilantes reacted. They started pushing my brother and they beat him up. “Then my brother left the place. Thereafter, the boy (vigilante) ran into his car, brought a gun and shot my brother. So, all I want is justice for my brother.” Meanwhile, the Chairman of Ikwerre Local Government Area, Dr Samuel Nwanosike, said no vigilante group in the area should operate a detention camp, saying if any arrest was made, the suspect should be handed over to the police. Nwanosike, while commiserating with the deceased family, condemned the killing, saying no one has the right to take the life of another. He said the council was working with security agencies to unravel the cause of the incident and ensure that appropriate action is taken according to the law. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com