The Nigeria Customs Service has disclosed plans to deploy 135 scanners across all the ports and land borders of the country. The Comptroller-General of the NCS, Hameed Ali, who disclosed this on Wednesday in Abuja, noted that in the next two years, all points of entry and exit would have scanners. He said all the scanners to be deployed by the NCS would have the capacity to scan 20 containers in one hour. Ali, who spoke at a press briefing held on the sidelines of the 2022 International Customs Day celebrations, themed: “Scaling up Customs Digital Transformation by Embracing a Digital Culture and Building a Data Ecosystem,” stated that the scanners have the ability to store images. According to the Customs CG, three multidimensional scanners have been deployed in Apapa, Tin Can and Onne seaports to deepen trade. He said, “We are a major contributor to the economy of Nigeria. You can’t facilitate trade without revenue. Then, the third arm is national security. No aspect of our mandate is raised above the other. They go hand in hand. “They detect organic and inorganic substances. We can’t facilitate trade manually, hence our investments in digital operations. “e-Customs will ensure we have 135 scanners in all our ports and land borders. In the next two years, no point of entry and exit will not have scanners. “They have capacity to scan 20 containers in one hour. It’ll store images and we can do analysis with them.” He also clarified that the 2022 revenue target given to the service by the Federal Government is N3.1tn, and not N4.1tn as reported in some media reports. On the accusations that Customs seems to be focused on revenue generation and not trade facilitation, Ali said the service remains a major revenue generator and trade facilitator of the country as the agency could not downplay one role and promote the other. Ali also spoke on the need for a Customs data ecosystem to be built on trust in recognition of the extensive volume of data the service collects on actors in the international trade chain including the citizens, government agencies, local and transnational companies. He noted that the NCS’ capacity to facilitate more trade transactions peaked at 858,843 transactions in 2021. “This translates to 17.26 per cent increase in the volume of transactions handled in the year 2020. “Another, patent result of our effort in this regard is in our landmark revenue collection of N2.28trn in 2021. All these would not be possible without digital transformation and scaling up the use of data”, he stated.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com