American rapper and business mogul Kanye West has confirmed rumours surrounding his relationship with actress, Julia Fox. With sensual pictures of the new couple published by Interview Magazine, West seems to have taken a U-turn from his public pleas to estranged wife, Kim Kardashian, to take him back. Fox and Kanye West, whose name is now officially Ye, were spotted on a dinner date earlier this week, and that has sparked dating rumours. Speaking with Interview Magazine, the Uncut Gem actress said they both had a feeling of “instant connection” after meeting in Maimi on New year’s Eve. She said, “I met Ye in Miami on New Year’s Eve and it was an instant connection. His energy is so fun to be around. He had me and my friends laughing, dancing, and smiling all night. We decided to keep the energy going and fly back to New York City to see Slave Play. “Ye’s flight landed at six and the play was at seven, and he was there on time. I was impressed. After the play we chose to do dinner at Carbone which is one of my favorite restaurants.” Fox who is seen passionately embracing and kissing the Donda rapper in the pictures, revealed he directed the entire photo shoot in a restaurant. The actress said, “At the restaurant, Ye directed an entire photoshoot for me while people dined! The whole restaurant loved it and cheered us on while it was happening. “After dinner, Ye had a surprise for me. I mean, I’m still in shock. Ye had an entire hotel suite full of clothes. It was every girl’s dream come true. It felt like a real Cinderella moment. “I don’t know how he did it, or how he got all of it there in time. But I was so surprised. Like, who does things like this on a second date? Or any date! Everything with us has been so organic.” While she is unsure of the relationship’s direction, Julia stated, “If this is any indication of the future, I’m loving the ride.” See photos below:  Source: Interview Magazine While reality TV star Kim Kardashian filed for divorce from Ye in February last year, the rapper has made several public statements indicating his desire to reunite with her. The artiste dedicated his song “Runaway” to the mother of his children at the Free Larry Hoover concert which was held in December. “I need you to run right back to me, baby. More specifically, Kimberly,” he sang. However, Kim seemed to have moved on especially with her public romance with comedian, Pete Davidson. She also filed to be declared legally single in December last year. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com