Kellogg Tolaram Nigeria Limited has rewarded winners in the third edition of its SuperStars Scholarship essay competition. The firm, in a statement on Monday, said 100 outstanding essays emerged out of the over N250,000 entries received and evaluated by independent assessors. The firm’s Marketing Manager, Darlington Igabali, said the contest was borne out of the increasing population of elementary school students’ dropout rate in Nigeria. He said, “This challenge was one the major reasons which sparked up the idea of the Kellogg’s SuperStars Scholarship. This edition’s prizes included awarded scholarship worth N100,000 as educational grant to a hundred children across different states. We are also giving out additional 1,000 consolation prizes to other participants as a form of encouragement. “Last year, the target of sampling six million schoolchildren nationwide was met and exceeded, providing the opportunity to a healthy breakfast diet, which we believe supports mental alertness and will, in turn, contribute towards better academic performance. “Kellogg’s Super Stars Scholarship comes as a reward from participating in Kellogg’s annual essay writing competition which kicked off in 2019. It is designed for primary school pupils to sharpen their creative writing skills while also bringing out the imaginative uniqueness in them. Students who perform excellently in the essay competition are being awarded prize money in pursuance of their education.” The Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Folasade Adefisayo, hailed the firm for encouraging these children in their quests towards becoming agents of change in society. Adefisayo was represented at the event by the Director, Science and Technology, Lagos Ministry of Education, Grace Akinfoyewa. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com