A Peoples Democratic Party chieftain, Raymond Dokpesi, on Sunday insisted that the All Progressives Congress has demonstrated incompetence in running Nigeria. He insisted that the country has never had it so bad in terms of insecurity, youth unemployment and division among Nigerians along ethnic and religious lines. Dokpesi made the declaration in Katsina when he led a team canvassing for former Vice President Atiku Abubakar to become Nigeria’s President in   2023. The team was in Katsina to meet with the PDP leaders and other stakeholders in the state. Dokpesi, who is the Chairman, African Independent Television, said, “Since the APC came to power in Nigeria, the country has been in turmoil. The country is so divided along religious and ethnic lines. No employment for our youths. “Our youths who go to schools and graduate are roaming the streets because there is no work for them. Some of them have been forced to leave Nigeria and seek greener pastures outside the country. Insecurity in the North-East is so terrible that I was told, seven local government areas in the region are under the command of insurgents. “Our daughters and sons here in Katsina here have been victims of banditry and other criminal elements. I wish my boss and mentor, General Shehu Musa Yar’adua was alive. This is not Nigeria of his dream.” Dokpesi argued that the PDP constitution allows power to rotate between the North and the South, insisting that it was the turn of the North to produce the President “for the sake of fairness, justice and equity.” He added, “I believe in one Nigeria and I believe in a united Nigeria. Above zoning arrangement, I believe, our party, PDP has many credible and acceptable aspirants both for the governorship and for the Presidency; Waziri Atiku Abubakar is the most experienced, most capable and most willing to provide leadership among all of them.” The Katsina State PDP Chairman, Alhaji Salisu Majigiri, urged the party members to unite and work for the victory of the party in 2023.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com