The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, has commiserated with the government of Sokoto State and the Sultan of Sokoto over the unwarranted killing of innocent citizens by bandits. Condemning the attacks, the Governor said the government and people of Rivers State consider the dastardly activities of marauding bandits as barbaric. Wike stated this when he and the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, paid a courtesy call on His eminence, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, in his palace in Sokoto over the weekend. “We have had a long-standing relationship and so the people of Rivers State have told me to commiserate with you and the people of Sokoto State. I’m sorry for what happened and we believe God will give the families that have lost their loved ones the courage and the strength to bear this unnecessary loss of lives.” Wike also thanked the Sultan for the role he has been playing to ensure the stability of the country “You’ve been trying to stabilise all the religious groups, all the ethnic groups, to understand we have no other country than our country call Nigeria. You have always spoken out irrespective of whether it touches on Muslims, whether it touches on Christians, or whether it touches on those who don’t have religion. “You’ve always spoken out and you have admonished government where necessary in terms of insecurity, in terms of other crisis, in terms of poverty. You have always spoken out and advised the government on the best way to try and see that things get better for the citizens of the country.” He said it takes somebody who has passion and undying love for the country to play the kind of role the Sultan has been playing to ensure stability and unity of the nation “This character in you is rare. If all leaders can exhibit this kind of trait, then we will have a future, then we can know that our country is going somewhere. You’re exhibiting the character that is expected of leadership. “You have had sleepless nights talking to Christians, talking to Muslims, talking to the North, talking to the South, talking to everybody to see ourselves as one Nigeria,” he said. The Governor urged the Sultan not to relent in speaking for the oppressed, the less privileged, the poor and rich Nigerians. In his response, the Sultan thanked Wike and the Rivers delegation for the brotherly visit. This is as he blamed lack of love for the prevalence of killings, confusion and acrimonious relationship among Nigerians. “If there is love, all the acrimonious we hear, all the confusion all over the place, the killings won’t have taken place. People kill without any motive. Bloodthirsty people kill anyhow because there is no love, and there is no godliness,” he said. The Sultan assured that he will continue to build bridges and cement relationships between the people of Sokoto and Rivers states. “Whatever we have done, it is what our forefathers and religion ordered us to do, and we will do more to strengthen our relationship so that we can have a peaceful society. “So that we can have a country that we can be proud of and say yes, this is the Nigeria that we dream of. Not the Nigeria that we hear the sad news of killing innocent people, unnecessary shedding of blood,” he said. He commended Wike for his consistent visit to him, particularly during festive periods and for supporting the government and people of Sokoto State. The Sultan further appreciated Wike for his unprecedented developmental strides in Rivers State. Wike was accompanied by the Rivers State chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ambassador Desmond Akawor, Senator Olaka Nwaogu, Senator Lee Maeba, Mr Ledum Mitee and Director General, Rivers State Bureau on Public Procurement, Mr. Igonibo Thompson. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com