The Ondo State Police Command on Saturday said it had begun investigation into the killing of a young lady, Ebunoluwa Osatuyi, by yet-to-be-identified persons in her father’s house at the Okuta Elerinla area of Akure, the state capital. It was gathered that Osatuyi, 20, was seeking admission into a university before her untimely death. She was said to have been killed shortly after she returned from a coaching centre where was taking tutorials ahead of the forthcoming Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. A source in the area stated that the alleged killers gained access to the house through the windows and ransacked all the rooms in the house. The reason for taking the life of the young lady was yet unknown as of the time of filing this report. Speaking on the incident, the deceased’s mother, Bosede Osatuyi, said when she came back from work on the fateful day, she met her daughter in the pool of blood, adding that she also saw an axe and a pestle in the sitting room where the victim was killed. She said, “My husband and I entered the sitting room and found our daughter with her two hands tied with rope on the floor. She was bleeding profusely and we also found the axe and a pestle with a bloodstain on the chair including a rope hung on the fan. “We quickly rushed her to the hospital immediately where she was confirmed dead before we went to the police station to report.” She called on the state government and the security agencies in the state to fish out the killers and bring them to book. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Funmilayo Odunlami, confirmed the incident, stating that investigation had commenced into the incident. “The parents are not suspecting anybody but we have commenced investigation into the matter,” Odunlami stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com