The crisis in the All Progressives Congress in Ogun State became messier following the suspension of Mrs Adetola Kadiri, mother of the sacked Deputy Speaker of the State House Assembly, Dare Kadiri. The development has split the camp of the state governor, Dapo Abiodun, within the state chapter of the APC. Kadiri, representing Ijebu-North II State Constituency, was sacked as the Deputy Speaker in March 2021 over alleged gross misconduct. Kadiri’s removal was attributed to internal wrangling within the ranks of APC leadership in the local government. It was gathered that the crisis took another dimension on Tuesday  when the lawmaker’s mother and three others were suspended  for alleged anti-party activities. Others affected by the suspension are Sola Jaiyeola, Rasaq Adesina (councillor) and Mr. S.O. Bude. Mrs  Kadiri, who is a former Women Leader for APC Ogun East, was suspended by the leadership of Ward 09 in Ifelodun constituency, Ijebu North Local GovernmentArea of the state and the suspension was affirmed by the Ward Congress. The suspension letter addressed to Mrs Kadiri, dated January 14, was jointly signed by one Sesan Araba and Yetunde Adebayo, who identified themselves as the Chairman and Secretary respectively of Ward 9. The former deputy speaker’s mother accused the Secretary to the State Government, Tokunbo Talabi, of being behind the suspension. She told journalists that, “After reading the suspension letter, I called the SSG, he denied any knowledge of it. He told me to scan the letter and send to him, which I did. I sent it to the governor, the party chairman, Dare and Oladunjoye. “Later in the evening, the SSG called to appeal to me, saying what they did was bad. He said those he has in Ward 9 said they didn’t know anything about the letter. He called me to plead with me this (Wednesday) morning too, adding that the governor had ordered that the letter be reversed. I said it can’t be reversed again; it has gone viral already. “I told him that with my position in the party, this is a big slap on me! I have been in politics for more than 50 years. The SSG said he would send the party chairman to my house, I said I would disgrace him. He said he would come himself, I told him not to come to my house.” Efforts to get the reaction of the SSG, Tokunbo Talabi, proved abortive as he neither picked his calls nor respond to a text message sent to his phone. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com