The Nigeria Immigration Service has redeployed six of its Assistant Comptrollers General and 26 Comptrollers within the Service, with immediate effect. Acting Comptroller General of Immigration, Isah Idris, approved the reshuffling of the senior officers of the Service in the Posting Order with Reference Number NIS/ADM/4422/V/832/16 and dated January 21, 2022. This is according to a statement signed on Saturday by the Service’s Public Relations Officer, Amos Okpum, titled ‘NIS announces major senior staff deployment’. The spokesman revealed that the senior officers involved were moved across Commands and Formations within the country. “The Assistant Comptroller General and Zonal Coordinator in charge of Zone “F” Ibadan, ACG DE Amahian, has been moved to the Planning Research and Statistics at the Service Headquarters while ACG LE Oemi-Ockiya, formerly in PRS, proceeds to Ibadan as the new Zonal Coordinator. “The Assistant Comptroller General in charge Investigation and Compliance, ACG AO Esekhagbe moves to the Migration Directorate while ACG UA Auna, who before now was the Principal Staff Officer to the Acting Comptroller General is deployed to the Investigation and Compliance Directorate. “The Assistant Comptroller General in charge of General Services at the Service Headquarters, ACG OG Osisanya, proceeds to Lagos as the new Zonal Coordinator Zone ‘A’ while ACG EI Inok formerly the Zonal Coordinator of Zone ‘H’ Makurdi has been moved to the Service Headquarters to be in charge of Budget,” the statement read. Some of the Comptrollers deployed include the current Lagos State Command Comptroller, AB Aliyu, who has been moved to the Service Headquarters as the Principal Staff Officer to the Acting Comptroller General. At the same time, Comptroller Bagiwa Mani, formerly of Kaduna State Command, will take over as the Lagos State Command Comptroller. Comptroller K Nandap, formerly in charge of Plateau State Command, is now the Comptroller of Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Ikeja, while Comptroller Chris Nomhwaange replaces her as the new Comptroller of Plateau State Command. Also deployed are Comptrollers YU Galma, formerly in Zone ‘B’ Kaduna and NI Eneregbu of HRM Service Headquarters, who have now been moved to head Seme Border Command and Mfun Border Command, respectively. Meanwhile, Comptroller ES Fagbamigbe has been deployed to Idi-Iroko Border Command while Comptroller G Bello of Kano State Command moves to Katsina State to swap with Comptroller Muazu Abdulrazaq, who now moves to Kano State Command. The Acting Comptroller General, Idris, urged the Officers to deepen their contributions to the ongoing reform efforts in the Service at their various Commands and Formations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com