The Lagos State Government has said it will alleviate poverty by using waste recycling processes to create jobs for women across the state. The Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Mrs Bolaji Dada, disclosed this in a statement on Thursday. Dada, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Mrs Oluyemi Kalesanwo, was quoted to have said this during a workshop held at the Women Development Centre, Agege. She said, “This programme was organised to initiate a progressive solution in the area of converting waste products into consumables in a bid to ensure the socio-economic development of women in the state. “Lagos State, with a high population, generates 13,000 metric tonnes of municipal wastes daily, thereby making the Lagos State Waste Management Authority to dispose of about 7,000 tonnes of solid waste a day, across four landfill sites in the state. “The call for action is necessary to groom a generation that is equipped with the tasks to imbibe positive changes for generating less waste by creating reusable consumables, recycling of waste as well as processing valuable resources derived from waste products.” A representative of LAWMA, Mrs Jirinsola Ladipo-Okunbanjo, urged participants to use the PAKAM application through which they could convert waste to wealth. “Once you register on PAKAM, a wallet is opened, after which you can request a truck and a recycler close by and they will attend to you by weighing the waste and calculating the incentives. “Recycling as part of the state government’s focus, involves a partnership with privately-owned recycling companies to alleviate poverty, increase prosperity and provide employment opportunities for the citizenry,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com