There were strong indications on Thursday that the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill would suffer further delay at the National Assembly as the Senate and the House of Representatives had yet to refer different versions of the bill to the Conference Committee. The Senate and the House had on Wednesday reviewed the bill for which the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had withheld assent over the restriction of political parties to direct primaries in the selection of candidates for elections. Buhari had vetoed the bill and sent it back to the National Assembly over the restriction of political parties to direct primaries, insisting that the parties should be allowed to choose from different options. However, in a later interview on Channels Television, the President said the option of consensus must be included before he would sign the bill. The House, however, focused only on the President’s letter alone, arguing that its rules mandated it to focus only on the letter. The lawmakers consequently amended Section 87 of the Electoral Act, 2010, which is Clause 84 of the electoral bill, by inserting the indirect primary option. The Senate, however, not only added indirect primary, but also consensus adoption of candidates for elections by a political party. By passing different amendments to the bill, the Senate and the House will have to refer the versions to a conference committee to harmonise the differences and report back for final passage and transmission to the President for assent. After the passage on Wednesday, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, had said the National Assembly would transmit the revised bill to Buhari for assent this week. Lawan, in an interview with State House correspondents on Monday after a meeting with the President at the Presidential Villa in Abuja, however, said if the “cleaning process” took more than a day to complete, then it would be represented to Buhari early next week. However, as of Thursday, neither the Senate nor the House had referred the bills to the conference committee. Referrals are usually done by the presiding officers in plenary. The next sitting by both chambers is on Tuesday, which means the harmonisation process cannot begin before next week. Earlier on Thursday, state governors under the aegis of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum hailed the Senate for including the consensus option in the bill. The governors subsequently asked the House to follow suit but the lower legislative chamber snubbed the demand. The NGF Chairman and Governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi, who spoke to journalists after the governors’ meeting, urged the House of Representatives to do the needful quickly so that the President could sign the bill. However, the lawmaker representing Kebbi South Senatorial District, Senator Bala Ibn Na’Allah, defended the Senate’s decision to include the provision for consensus, adding that it would promote democracy. He alleged that the inclusion of mandatory direct primary in the Electoral Act Amendment Bill was the idea of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila. Na’Allah further stated that he was told that the provision was meant for a particular individual hence the bill did not go through a thorough process before it was forwarded to the President. “We are hearing that that law (direct primary) was intended for an individual. I don’t know. I honestly don’t know but I must say and maintain that the process was not painstaking enough,” said Na’Allah on Channels Television’s Sunrise Daily programme on Thursday. Na’Allah added that during the discussions at the committee level, the issue of direct primaries was never brought up. The senator said it was when the bill was to be passed before the House that Gbajabiamila included the clause. “The issue of direct primary came at the dying minute on the floor of the House of Representatives when they were considering the report of the Committee on Electoral Matters. What it means is that it was never discussed or adopted by the committee of the House, but that it came as an amendment allegedly because I don’t have the records by the Speaker of the House of Representatives,” he added. Na’Allah stated that the second argument by Gbajabiamila that the direct primary had become necessary in order to protect federal lawmakers from overbearing governors showed that the proposed law was done for personal reasons. The senator argued that this was evidence that the law was not done in the interest of Nigerians as such, but for self preservation, which was at variance with the oath of public office. In his reaction on the floor of the House, however, a furious Gbajabiamila lamented that some lawmakers were disparaging the National Assembly on television. He, however, failed to mention Na’Allah’s name. The Speaker said, “Honourable colleagues, I am constrained to say at this point that I watched with dismay this morning some members of this National Assembly exercising their freedom of expression and speech, and that is well within their rights. But when you exercise such freedom, be careful not to mislead the public; be careful not to malign this institution unjustifiably. “This leadership has allowed people to express their opinions at all times; I have no problems with that. But when you begin to call the institution, which you are a part of, names and unwittingly maligning even yourself, we need to draw a line, especially when you are peddling untruths. And I just thought it was important that we mention this so (that) in the future, we will be guided both by the freedom of expression and by the truth. “It was a show of disgrace as far as I’m concerned. I don’t care what anybody says, the things that were uttered by members of this National Assembly was a show of disgrace! I am extremely disappointed.” However, a member of the House, Uzoma Nkem-Abonta (PDP/Abia), who had gone on television to accuse the National Assembly of being controlled by the executive, apologised on the floor of the House. Gbajabiamila, while accepting the apology, advised members to be very circumspect when they go out in public and express their personal opinions. Meanwhile, some civil society organisations such as YIAGA Africa, Coalition in Defence of Nigerian Democracy and Constitution, and the Centre for Transparency Advocacy have told The PUNCH that the decision of the Senate and House of Representatives to pass different versions of the electoral bill might lead to delay in presidential assent. Speaking in an interview with The PUNCH, the Director of Programmes, YIAGA Africa, Cynthia Mbamalu, said the country “was running out of time” and that there would be an “urgent” need for the immediate harmonisation of the bill. She said, “It is commendable to see that the National Assembly prioritised the review of the Electoral Bill, 2021 and ensured the re-committal of the bill to review Clause 84 on the direct primaries on their resumption. “While this is a positive development, the Senate and the House of Representatives passed different versions of the review to Clause 84 on direct primaries. Considering that we are running out of time, there is an urgent need for the immediate harmonisation of the bill before re-transmitting to the President for assent.” The Convener, Coalition in Defence of Nigerian Democracy and Constitution, Dare Ariyo-Atoye, in a separate interview with The PUNCH, agreed with Mbamalu. He added that the failure of the lawmakers to harmonise the bill on time might lead to presidential assent delay. “Well, while we hope that this is not a part of their delay tactics, it is important to know that we are running out of time and there is a need for the lawmakers to meet and make sure that the bill is harmonised on time. Failure to do this may lead to a delay in presidential assent,” he stated. The Director, Centre for Transparency Advocacy, Faith Nwabushi said, “What this has shown Nigerians is that if a bill is at the National Assembly and it is taking like 20 years to be passed, it is a deliberate attempt.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com