Actor and comedian, Michael Uba, aka Ogbolor, has said that though he was already known before featuring in the popular TV series, Jenifa’s Diary, his role as James on the show positioned him more opportunities. He told Sunday Scoop, “Jenifa’s Diary made me more popular. It also gave me a good platform and brought me better opportunities. I am very careful with the kind of scripts I accept because most times they (producers and directors) want me to play the same kind of role I played in Jenifa’s Diary. ”After I went to audition for the role of James in the TV series and I was selected, I went to study people that had effeminate characters. I have a friend who behaves that way. I see people on social media too who have such mannerisms, and I study what women do too. For the funny statements, I put it in myself. As an actor, I am given the opportunity to be spontaneous most of the time. “I had about 15 movie offers in 2021 but I accepted only three. However, I love to do more stage than screen. Last year, I also had my own comedy stage play, which is an annual affair.” The actor also stated that his social media post which criticised ‘someone’ for getting divorced after saying her marriage was ordained by God was not targeted at Olori Naomi Ogunwusi, the estranged wife of the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi. He said, “My statement was not in any way directed to Prophetess Naomi. My friends were talking about the divorce rate in the country and abroad because a number of our friends had gone through the process too. “One of my friends told us his story too. He said the lady he was dating left him to follow someone else, claiming that he was not ordained by God for her. My friend had to let the relationship go. Afterwards, the lady went into another relationship and got married. The marriage did not last because she realised her husband was gay. That was what prompted the question, ‘If God ordained your marriage, why the divorce’? That was what triggered my post. It had nothing to do with the (estranged) wife of the Ooni of Ife.” Ogbolor also stated that the criticisms he got over the post, including that of Simi Oluwaseyi, Olori Naomi’s sister, who described his career as ‘redundant’ did not get to him. He said, “I thank God I am making money and I have a job. My career is not in any way redundant. It is not something to brag about but I am grateful for where I am. I do not blame the sister of Prophetess Naomi for the way she reacted to my post. “In fact, her reply was not as bad as what some other people sent me messages concerning that post. I have learnt to overlook unpleasant comments that are thrown at me. I just smiled away after I saw her reaction because I am not the kind of person that likes trouble. I even made a video apologising for how my post was misinterpreted.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com