Joseph Orji, the Managing Partner of Brookstone Property tells BLESSING ENENAITE about his career and other issues Tell us about your background. I was born in Nigeria and I went to the United States of America when I was eight years old. I lived, schooled and worked in the US for about 24 years. I worked with the Landmark Group as a developer for eight years before I left in 2013 and returned to Nigeria. I started the company in 2015. What are your roles as a Managing Partner of Brookstone Property? I direct and guide on the strategies, finance, location, market, investment, the kind of brand we would have and the competency of our staff in terms of the training they would have. In addition, I define how our operating model will be. How would you describe your 18 years experience in the real estate sector? My years of experience are like two worlds. In my first nine years in the US, I observed that the market I worked in was larger. When I came to Nigeria, it was a totally different market. So, learning new ways in one market is different from the other one. In the development business, you take more risks because you don’t know what’s going to happen at any time, how the market will move, and if the client of today would want the same thing they wanted yesterday. What is your biggest ‘headache’ as a real estate practitioner? My biggest headache as a real estate practitioner is managing the supply side of the business. If you ask a developer years ago what their biggest challenge was, I would bet that they would tell you the same thing. Their biggest challenge years ago is the same biggest challenge today. I think the supply side is something significant— from managing supplies to managing vendors and instructing your building team in a way that creates a line between you and them. What makes your company distinct from others? There are three things which guide our work and make us distinct from others. Those are quality, trust and delivery. Our lifestyle brand defines the quality of our work in the luxury space. We develop trust in the market space with our clients by delivering on what we say we are going to do and people will patronise one based on that trust. There seems to be more real estate companies springing up recently. What would you say is the cause? I think the biggest reason is because of the way real estate is being acquired today. Ten years ago, if you wanted to acquire real estate, you would have to do a joint venture acquisition. Then, you would need a capital expenditure and this has been removed, which makes it easier to acquire. What are the biggest challenges you have faced in your career? My biggest challenge was in 2020. First, the COVID-19 pandemic happened and secondly, Nigeria went into a recession. Thirdly, there was devaluation in the naira which was as a result of the first and second issues. Also, there was a lockdown and you cannot construct (buildings) from home. Sites had to close up and this also affected supplies. Getting materials was difficult and all these things happened in one year. All these can close down many businesses. We were fortunate because we stayed up and utilised that time. Frankly, I have never been more proud of my team than during that period. We came alive and we did much of what we could from home digitally. This showed that we could prevail in tough times. The cost of housing is becoming too expensive for the common man. What is your take on this? If you look at the pattern of inflation in the country in the past 10 to 20 years, you would understand the past and project on the future. Our projects are finance-based first before they are design and engineering projects. We try to factor in what the economic conditions would be during those projects. We factor in inflation, naira devaluation and cost. Despite factoring all these, at times, the market outshoots one’s projections. How do you think housing can be made affordable for more people? There is affordable housing at N50m and there is affordable housing at N15m. Local procurements will help to maintain costs which will make housing affordable. If you are investing in the N15m segment, what you need is the government to act as your partner. The government can help to take away some of the fees you may have to pay. Government can build roads and some infrastructure towards development around that area of the state. When you own your home, you become an invested member of society and that means you are playing a role. The government should play a role too. There have been recurring cases of building collapse. What are the common factors responsible for that? One building collapse is one too many. Those instances were tragic and I personally know some of the victims of the recent building collapse. If we access all the incidents that have happened, you will find out that these were instances based on human error and poor decision making. That is what you have to address. We also have to address the mentality that makes those decisions. In addressing that, you have to address what you are trying to deliver in terms of products. If you are taking a long-term view (10 to 20 years) of the market, and you are trying to grow customer loyalty for your products, you will invest in high quality goods for the buildings. This will build trust in your clients. There have been complaints that real estate companies often cut corners in the materials they use for building and end up using substandard materials. What is your reaction to that? Unfortunately, that claim is true. We have this belief that we can build better than other developers and we feel that some developers use poor quality material and we were ambitious enough to think that we could do it better. We tried to understand the gaps in the market and where other practitioners were falling short in the market and we built the company to have those capabilities and focus on projects which were not centered on cutting corners. We invested in areas clients wanted and we built a brand around that. What new regulations do you think should be put in place in the real estate sector? The regulations we will like to see are those that streamline the real estate development process. It makes it more transparent and efficient. If those things happen, both the government and private sector will be better off. If people understand what it takes to get permits and it is in a streamlined and transparent manner, developers can get their permits quicker. At times, it takes close to two years to get a permit. This does not instill confidence in investors. Streamlining and making those processes efficient is important. In my opinion, it is not about new regulations but about enforcing the existing regulations. You co-founded the company with your partner, Emmanuel Atureta. How do you delegate roles without causing any friction? There are different things to note in a partnership. One of them is communication. Roles and how you assess performance have to be communicated. This brings about clarity and we operate on the key performance indicator model. Everyone in the company, including the partners, understand their targets and the goals we have set out to achieve. How do you handle tough clients? Recently, we came up with the idea of treating every client as if they are Dangote because there is a special kind of treatment one would give him. On this note, one would treat that client right and give them the best possible service. Not everyone is in your target base and when you know whom you would do business with, try to communicate with them about the services, prices, timeline and expectations. Both parties working towards that direction will help to reduce the rate of tough clients. The increasing rate of fraudsters in the real estate industry has been a cause for worry for some time. How does one identify a true real estate company and what are the red flags to watch out for so that one does not get duped? Because of this issue, we created the ‘Developer You Can Trust’ campaign and for us, the developer you can trust is about us clearly stating who we are, expectations and what to get. On the part of the customer, they should do their due diligence on the developers. This will help them know the track record of the company. How a customer is treated in the past means he or she can treat the company the same way again. What was your career trajectory before starting this company? Before I co-founded this company, I worked with Landmark Africa and I maintained the portfolio for about five to six years. It is a development firm based in Lagos (Nigeria) and London (United Kingdom). I have also worked as an investment adviser for an institutional sales company based in Washington DC, United States of America. What do you consider to be your biggest career achievement? My biggest career achievement is co-founding this company and taking it to the level it currently is. We have one of the strongest brands in Lagos and I am grateful to my team for working very hard. They inspire us as much as we inspire them. What advice do you have for people who are interested in the real estate industry? My advice to them is to ask why (they want to get into the industry). This will help to determine what they want to accomplish and also steer them in the right direction. Secondly, take a long-term view and ask what you want to do in the next five to 10 years. That will help you plan how to get there. What inspired you to become a real estate developer? After the (global economic) crash in 2007, it was quite painful and we lost a lot of investment and income. A large part of me did not want to work in real estate. After I got my Master’s degree in Business Administration and did soul searching in the US where I was based then, I felt Nigeria was a developing country and I had to develop alongside the country. I saw it as an opportunity to come back. It was quite compelling and I jumped on it. I have not gone back since. If you were not a real estate practitioner, what would you have become? I would have become a doctor. Who are your role models/mentors? I am extremely lucky because I speak with several of my mentors frequently. The CEO of Landmark Africa, Paul Onwuanibe, who is the chairman of our company, is one of my mentors. The chairman of Fidelity Bank, Mustapha Obi; as well as Ari Firoozabadi and Michael Ward are also my mentors. How do you manage work and family in a way that none of them suffers? I have a wife who understands how my work is to me. To be frank, I do not manage work and family very well. My life is a function of my work and not the other way round. It is a work in progress and I am getting better. How do you unwind? I relax by working. So, I am always working. When you are not in the office or on site, how do you like to dress? I love to dress in ankara trousers and loafers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com