Two Chinese expatriates, working at the ongoing Zungeru Hydro Electric Power Dam project in Niger State, have been kidnapped from the site they were working. Our correspondent gathered that one other Chinese National was shot while two of their security guards were killed when armed kidnappers stormed the site and carried out their activity. The incident occurred on Tuesday evening when the workers were working on the connection of high tension extension from Zungeru Dam to Gusase community in Shiroro Local Government Area of the state. Our correspondent gathered that the armed men arrived at the construction site on motorcycles shooting sporadically to scare the people and carry out the mission unchallenged. An eye witnessed said that they were shocked to hear gunshots and see the kidnappers with sophisticated weapons carrying out their mission while people scampered to safety. “We were shocked with the sudden appearance of the armed kidnappers with their very sophisticated weapons, we were confused and don’t even know what to do or say.” He further revealed that one of the Chinese workers was shot and two of their internal security guards were killed while the kidnappers left with two other Chinese workers. At the time of filing this report, the number of people kidnapped could not be ascertained as many people including the Chinese expatriates were said to have run into the bush. “I can’t say more than this for now because many people were just running into the bush and can not ascertain their location at this moment.” However, when contacted on phone, the Secretary to the Niger State Government, Ibrahim Matane, confirmed the incident but declined to give further information saying he was yet to be briefed on the incident. “Yes, I can confirm that the incident occurred, but we are yet to get information on the numbers involved and until we get that, we can’t say exactly the number of people involved.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com