THE Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq on Friday carried out a minor cabinet reshuffle as he inaugurated five new commissioners, charging them to key into the rebuilding efforts of his administration. The newly inaugurated cabinet members are Abdulmaliq Mopelola, (Women Affairs); George Towoju, (Communications); Ibrahim Akaje (Housing); and Adamu Bake (Youth). Sambo Murtala, whose appointment was recently announced as the Special Adviser on Legal Matters, was also sworn in. The governor also moved three existing cabinet members to other ministries, a step he said was meant to improve service delivery to the people of the state. The rejig saw Mrs Abosede Buraimoh moving from Communications to Environment, while Remilekun Banigbe now heads the newly created Budget and Planning. Mrs Harriet Oshatimehin of Youth Development goes to the newly created Solid Minerals which evolved from the defunct Ministry of Enterprise. Deborah Aremu stays in the Ministry of Social Development. The development means the state now has 20 ministries, with the old Ministry of Finance and Planning evolving into the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Budget and Planning, respectively. The old Works ministry has now been divided into the Ministry of Work and Ministry of Housing, respectively. The Enterprise ministry is now the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Technology and the Ministry of Solid Minerals. The former Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development is now the Ministry of Women Affairs and Ministry of Social Development, respectively. “I congratulate you on your joining the Kwara State Executive Council. It is an opportunity for you to contribute your quota to the development of our state,” the governor said at the brief event.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com