The President of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria, Mr Adesina Adedayo, has said the institute will ensure awareness creation and partner with the government to advance taxation development in the country. Adedayo said this in Lagos on Tuesday during a press briefing ahead of activities to commemorate the institute’s 40th anniversary. He said, “CITN has also ensured that it is living up to its duty to continually enlighten and educate the public and stakeholders alike both through members of the profession, district societies and the institute. “We do this through advisory, involvement and participation in activities geared towards improving the legislative, administrative and policy frameworks of tax education, administration and practice. “We make informed input to government fiscal and tax policy direction and also update our members on emerging tax policy and related issues. These achievements and more would be highlighted in the course of the celebration events.” According to him, the CITN’s singular focus over the next six years is the development of the tax profession. Adedayo said, “The institute, which started on February 4, 1982 as Association of Tax Administrators and Practitioners, thereafter metamorphosed to Nigeria Institute of Taxation and became chartered by Decree No. 76 of 1992 (now Act. No. 76, CAP C10, LFN 2004) as the foremost institute recognised by law to regulate the taxation profession in Nigeria. “From that period till date, the institute has grown in leaps and bounds, hence the reason for this celebration of our great institute. The Chairman of the 40th anniversary, Mr Foluso Fasoto, said part of the activities line up by the institute to mark the celebration between January and February included tax walk in all the district societies nationwide and at the national headquarters, public lecture and visit to IDP camps, orphanages, among others. “In this context, council deemed it fit to put the necessary machinery in place to celebrate the 40 years of our existence as a foremost professional tax institute,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com