Cardiologists have urged Nigerians living with hypertension to always ensure that they have good blood pressure control, especially at night and early in the morning. The cardiologists said studies have shown that heart attacks occur more in the early hours of the morning, noting that ensuring good blood pressure control at night and early in the morning could help prevent it. They explained that heart attacks in the early hours of the day are usually fuelled by some hormonal changes that tend to occur at that time of the day. According to the heart care specialists, the surge in hormones during the early hours of the morning could lead to a heart attack which could also lead to cardiac arrest if not managed promptly and properly. A heart attack also called myocardial infarction is when there is a shortage of blood supply to parts of the heart, especially when there is a blockage of blood to a part of the heart. According to a publication by flyingdoctorsnigeria.com, in 2018, cardiovascular diseases were among the top five causes of death in Nigeria. According to the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, some of the symptoms of heart attack are chest pain, weakness, pain in the jaw, neck, or back, pain or discomfort in one or both arms or shoulders or shortness of breath, Speaking in separate interviews with PUNCH HealthWise, the cardiologists, Prof Kamilu Karaye and Dr. Ramon Moronkola also said stroke could also occur early in the morning. They explained that a heart attack is when there is no supply of blood to the heart while a stroke occurs when there is no supply of blood to the brain. Karaye, who is a Professor of Medicine at Bayero University, pointed out that not all heart attacks are visible. Some can be masked due to some advanced underlying diseases like diabetes. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com