The National Youth Service Corps on Wednesday raised concerns over the poor state of infrastructure and operating conditions at its orientation camps nationwide. The organisation blamed the poor state of affairs in the camps on the failure of some critical stakeholders to discharge their statutory responsibilities, especially in the states. The Director-General of the NYSC, Major Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, raised the fears during the 2022 NYSC annual management conference in Abuja with the theme: ‘Repositioning the NYSC for improved healthcare delivery, revenue generation and corps employment for reliance’. The event was to deliberate on the state of the operating environment of the NYSC. Ibrahim said, “Despite the achievements, the scheme still faces some challenges. These arise mainly from the non-discharge of the statutory responsibilities of some critical stakeholders. “Problems such as dilapidated orientation camp facilities, inadequate corps lodges and lack of befitting office accommodation are being contended within some states.” He also lamented that lack of start-up capital to corps entrepreneurs was already affecting their productivity, profitability and hindering the continued survival of their businesses. Ibrahim, therefore, made a passionate appeal to the Federal Government and well-meaning Nigerians to support the establishment of the proposed NYSC Trust Fund to urgently address the situation as well as its infrastructural needs for enhanced operational efficiency. The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, said the government would encourage a sustained focus on developing NYSC members for entrepreneurship and self-reliance because it would contribute to the success of the Buhari regime’s economic agenda. “I reaffirm the commitment of the Ministry to the actualization of the proposed NYSC Trust Fund. This is based on our firm belief that the Fund will enhance the operations of the scheme, especially with regards to the training and empowerment of corps members for self-employment and wealth creation”, the Minister said. The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Muhammad Musa Bello, said the FCTA would continue to partner with the NYSC for the successful implementation of its programmes and the discharge of its statutory obligation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com