Nigerian football fans have slammed Saudi Arabian side, Al Shabab, over their refusal to release striker, Odion Ighalo, to represent the country for the forthcoming Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. A 25-man Super Eagles team arrived Garoua, venue of their Group D games on Wednesday and had their first training at the VSTS-Annex of Roumdé Adjo Stadium, Garoua. While still expecting Venezia right-back, Tyronne Ebuehi and Jamilu Collins, the Nigeria Football Federation on Thursday confirmed that former Manchester United striker, Odion Ighalo, will play no part in the competition. “Forward Odion Ighalo is no longer expected as a result of issues with his Saudi Arabian club.” According to reports, the club had decided to hold on to the player over contractual reasons. Ighalo in a cryptic message on Instagram on Wednesday wrote, “We plan but God decides.” The decision of the club to hold on to the striker, who was top scorer at the last edition in Egypt, infuriated some fans. @Chike_Okoro wrote on Twitter, “What Al Shabab has done is totally shameful, denying a man the opportunity of representing his fatherland is extremely low and must be condemned in the strongest term by the NFF to avoid future occurrence.” Desina David added, “So Odion Ighalo officially out of AFCON squad. The rumored clause first of all in his contract is baffling, how do you insert a clause of no international involvement in a player that has already retired from the national team, it was just obviously a fast one they played.” Kolaq Akwwm tweeted, “It’s so sad that Nigeria have lost two very good players to clubs refusing to release them. Al Shabab may not get the best out of Ighalo now that they have dampened his morale by refusing the opportunity of attending the AFCON.” “It is not fair from Al Shabab not releasing Ighalo just because they want to win the league,” @Lexy-lewy wrote on Instagram. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com