Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his Ogun State counterpart, Dapo Abiodun, have pledged support for real estate development, saying their governments will continue to ensure beautiful edifices are erected to boost wealth creation and wellbeing in the two states. The duo spoke when Brookstone Property, a real estate investment and development company, inaugurated Okotie-Eboh Overlook Condominium located in Ikoyi, Lagos, recently. Aside from Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Housing, Toke Benson and Abiodun, other dignitaries who attended the event include ex-governor James Ibori of Delta State; President and founder of Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote; and Olu Atuwatse III Utieyinoritsetsola Emiko, the Olu of Warri. The Okotie-Eboh Overlook Condominium, modeled after American-styled condos, is named after the late Nigerian parliamentarian and businessman, Chief Festus Samuel Okotie-Eboh. The nine-floor luxurious condominium comprises 22 apartments of two-bedroom and three-bedroom flats and three-bedroom duplexes. Benson, speaking on behalf of Sanwo-Olu, reiterated the state government’s commitment to striking productive partnerships with private development firms. He said, “The state government is committed to partnering with development firms and real estate companies to erect beautiful edifices across the state to create opportunities for wealth creation and drive needed economic growth. We understand that there are challenges that impact developments across the state. However, we are committed to working through these challenges to make Lagos State the choice destination for real estate development and tourism,” Abiodun, who performed the momentous function of switching on the lights of the Okotie-Eboh Overlook Condominium, said, “I am pleased to light this beautiful edifice which has been tastefully built to meet the class and style of an international standard facility. I hope that this will signal the dawn of more constructions of this nature by the developers and trust that this would provide more jobs for the unemployed youth.” Speaking at the event, a Managing Partner, Brookstone Property, Mr. Joe Orji, said the facility would raise the bar with regard to luxury living in Lagos State. He said, “We are pleased to unveil the biggest of our luxury real estate properties in Nigeria and truly proud of the work the entire team had put into actualising the dream. The Okotie-Eboh Overlook Condominium is at the forefront of luxury living in Lagos State and we have built a facility that is available for owners at a rate that offers them a great return on investment.” In his remarks, a Managing Partner at Brookstone Property, Mr. Emmanuel Atureta, described the project as a vestige of the late Okotie-Eboh. “The overlook condominium is a legacy for the late nationalist and shrewd businessman, Chief Festus Samuel Okotie-Eboh. We carefully chose this location which is on a street named after him and inaugurated on a day that he left the world. With this facility, we are committed to reshaping people’s ideology of what luxury is and very friendly rates which allow people to build wealth with their investments in the property,” he said The multi-million dollar condo is also fitted with video access capabilities, an open terrace, king-size swimming pool, and is located between two of Ikoyi’s most prominent social/recreational establishments-the Ikoyi Club 1938, and the Lagos Polo Club. According to the company, the construction of the condominium commenced in July 2018 with the development designed by internationally acclaimed design firm, ANA Designs. The company also said the Okotie-Eboh Condominium was conceptualised with a view to setting a benchmark in the real estate industry with its unparalleled views of an 18-hole golf course and international polo grounds, residences with grade A standard finishes plus stunning common area amenities, and large living spaces with attention to detail on the most efficient layouts.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com