Meristem Securities Limited has announced the launch of a new TV commercial that highlights the importance of growing, preserving and transferring wealth. The company said in a statement on Monday that it had been consistent in value creation and innovation within the capital market space. “‘Building wealth isn’t only what you do for yourself; it’s what you do for generations to come.’ That line in the new TV commercial aptly captures the company’s promise of growth, preservation and transfer,” it said. According to the statement, the new commercial features Allyson-Aina Davies, daughter of a famous art gallery owner, Nike Okundaye, in her art studio, who is following right in the footsteps of her mother. “Aina, like her mother, is passionate about art and is the founder of Adire patterns and Olori Art Foundation. The choice of Aina signifies the importance of not just growing wealth but preserving and transferring it through the right investment choices,” it added. Meristem Securities said it had in over 17 years been growing wealth, preserving it during stormy times, and assisting in transferring it on to the next generation. The Group Managing Director, Meristem Securities Limited, Wole Abegunde, said, “We will continue to be proactive with product innovation so that our clients can be assured that we are not just growing their wealth for now, we are preserving it and are also helping to transfer it for generations.” The Head, Brand Management, Adefemi Taiwo, said, “With this campaign launch, we hope to ignite a flame in the hearts of our prospects to see the benefits in wealth sustainability by choosing us as the right partner. We want to be the first on your mind when it comes to wealth growth, transfer, and preservation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com