The Rivers State Government has said it will publish names of substandard water producers in order to protect residents from unsafe drinking water. The State Commissioner for Water Resources and Rural Development, Dr Tamunosisi Gogo-Jaja, said this while speaking with newsmen in Port Harcourt on Sunday. While urging residents to be cautious of the water they drink, Gogo-Jaja said staff of the ministry had been trained on how to regulate and monitor water producers to protect the rights of consumers in the state. He urged residents to report all those involved in the illegal production of water. He said, “As from this year, 2022, we are going to send them (staff) into the field. They are going to visit factories, monitor the quality of water people are being served with. We have to bring in professionals as well as to have in-house training, which we did. We have upgraded and refreshed their knowledge and we are equipped. “You are aware, for the communities, we have given water, we have discussed with the council chairmen to continue to assist in the discharge of portable water to them. By the special grace of God, His Excellency, the governor, will take another phase of it gradually before the expiration of the tenure. Work is ongoing in the Port Harcourt water project.” The commissioner said the ministry would stop the sale of water from neighbouring states that fail to meet the required standard. He said, “The governor has directed that we ensure that we protect the health of those who live and do business here and indigenes of our dear state. We are also using this opportunity to inform water producers that any person who produces substandard quality will not sell anywhere in Rivers State. “Those whose factories or wells are not sited in Rivers State as well may not have the opportunity of sending their products into our markets. Having completed this training, we are going to release the result of samples taken from water producers to the people of the state. “We are going to mention the names of factories that have been certified. It will now be left with consumers to make a choice.” Copyright PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com