Three suspected members of a kidnap syndicate who have been terrorising residents in Plateau State have been gunned down by troops of Operation Safe Haven. They were shot dead around Gyero community in Jos South Local Government Area with several items, including one AK-47 rifle, two AK-47 rifle magazines, 101 live rounds of 7. 62mm ammunition and one tricycle (Keke NAPEP) recovered from them. The Military Information Officer of Operation Safe Haven, Major Ishaku Takwa, confirmed the killing of the suspects in a statement on Friday. The statement read, “Troops of Operation Safe Haven acting on credible intelligence have burst and counteracted a notorious gang of kidnap syndicate on the Plateau. The syndicate has been on the watch list of Operation Safe Haven and is believed to have masterminded the recent kidnap incidents on the Plateau. “The syndicate is also believed to have participated in the Jos prison jail-break on 28 November  28, 2021. The syndicate met its waterloo when troops of Operation Safe Haven tracked them to Gyero general area where they planned and carried out their nefarious activities. “The kidnappers on sighting the troops opened fire. Our troops responded with superior firepower, resulting in neutralisation of three notorious kidnappers. Items recovered from the syndicate include one AK-47 rifle, two AK-47 rifle magazines, 101 live rounds of 7. 62mm ammunition and one tricycle (Keke NAPEP). Other items recovered include one Itel phone, one Techno phone, two sharp knives, and two military head warmers.” The statement noted that while commending the resilience of the troops for another successful operation, the Commander, Operation Safe Haven, Major General Ibrahim Ali, also warned kidnappers and perpetrators of evil to stay away from Plateau State, adding “he has restated his determination to make the state unbearable for all criminals to operate”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com