The Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association, Jos Branch, Yakubu Bawa, speaks with JAMES ABRAHAM on the crisis rocking the Plateau State House of Assembly How does the Nigeria Bar Association, which you head, view the lingering leadership crisis at the Plateau State House of Assembly where two persons have continued to lay claim to the position of the Speaker? The last development that caused us to worry and which sent a very negative signal that necessitated our intervention as members of the legal profession is that first, we learnt that the matter is already in court. But at the same time, we learnt that one of the factions led by Yakubu Sanda is also sitting and conducting proceedings outside the Assembly complex. That same facility outside the Assembly where his loyalists are meeting is owned by the government. We frowned on that because we feel that there are a lot of judicial authorities and decisions by the appellate court and even the Supreme Court, stating clearly that once a House of Assembly of any state conducts a sitting or proceeding outside the vicinity of the House of Assembly, such action is illegal, wrong and unlawful. We wonder why the executive arm of the government which claimed to have no hand in the Assembly leadership crisis and which on several occasions has said that it would maintain a position of neutrality in the matter would be the one to have approved the facility for use by this particular faction to conduct their proceedings especially when the matter is in court. Are you saying the executive arm of government in the state has so far not maintained a position of neutrality? With this attitude of the executive arm of the government, it means that it has given credence to this faction despite the fact that the matter has not been decided by the court. How can you justify this action of giving support to a particular faction in the crisis when there are a lot of issues associated with the impeachment; whether it is done illegally or in tandem with the law?  As far as we are concerned, the action of the state government is subjudice. So, the situation is a source of worry to us and that caused us to wonder whether the government of Plateau State is truthful in its dealings and conduct in the way and manner this matter should be resolved. More than two months since the leadership crisis worsened, the Assembly complex has remained shut on the orders of the police who have continued to cordon off the premises pending the resolution of the matter. Do you think the action of the police is justified? We are not happy over the situation in the Plateau State House of Assembly because the closure of the state House of Assembly is a direct affront to us and a rape on our constitutional democracy. In the first place, we are not happy with the invasion of the Assembly complex by security agents. Secondly, we had expected the state governor (Simon Lalong), even though he claimed not to be part of this, to as a father of the state, employ the services of other leaders of the state to see how peace can be brokered between the warring groups in the state House of Assembly. That he did not do. Now that the matter has degenerated to this level and is presently in court, our expectation is that the state government shouldn’t show any form of partiality to one of the factions or let the status quo be maintained until there is a pronouncement by the court. As it is, the people of Plateau State have been deprived a good and robust representation by the members of the state House of Assembly who are representing them from the various constituencies. For instance, a lot of states have presented their budget. I don’t know whether that has been done by the other faction that has the support of the government. So, the leadership crisis is depriving a lot of progress and development in the state because of the closure of the legislative arm of the government. These are some of the issues that we raised in our recent press statement and we still maintain that position. Why do you think it has been difficult for the warring factions to resolve the contending issues? We find it difficult in this country to have politicians who have respect for the rule of law. In other sane climes, if politicians in positions of power are losing their legitimacy, they believe that the best thing to do is to resign and that is how it should be. Whenever as a speaker or governor, you are losing your legitimacy, you should resign. We should learn that leadership is a call to service. Our problem with the Nigeria politician is that we hold on to our personal interest. They forget that political leadership is not about personal interest but the interest of the people we are leading. We should learn this from other climes and know that our democracy is still shaking. The truth is that the trajectory we are going in this country as politicians portends great danger to our democratic practice because we are growing on a faulty foundation. We are yet to understand the philosophical underpinning of political leadership and how it should play out. So, it is not about you but about the people you are representing. In other climes, we shouldn’t go to this level where we need to go to the court and the House of Assembly is under lock and key with the police laying siege to the complex. The leadership crisis had already cost the Commissioner of Police to be redeployed out of the state. So, these are issues of concern to us because people are doing what they ought not to do because of personal interest, which politics is not, but the interest of the people, which you claim to represent or lead. Some people have expressed concern that one of the factions led by Yakubu Sanda said to have the backing of the government has continued to hold proceedings of the House, including confirmation of appointments made by the governor as well as the passage of the 2022 budget among other businesses of the Assembly. What is the implication? In accordance with legal principles and provisions, in all these businesses done by the faction and purportedly executed, the question is have they, in the first place, established the required quorum necessary to legitimise such legislative businesses? Secondly, in the event where Yakubu Sanda, who claimed to be the rightful speaker, the court nullifies his selection or the position that his speakership was done illegally, it means that everything he has done would amount to nothing and ultra vires. You can’t give the action any form of validity. That is the implication from the legal point of view. People have pointed to a lot issues regarding the impeachment of the Speaker; that no quorum was formed, how it was carried out and at what time were also issues of contention. These are some of the issues before the court to adjudicate on. Given the situation at hand, some people believe that the Plateau State House of Assembly has no leadership at the moment. Is that correct? There are two ways to look at it. From the political point of view, you can say that they have leadership, but if you look at it from the constitutional point of view, the leadership is questionable. This is because there is a leadership tussle. Who is the rightful Speaker? Is it Abok Ayuba or Yakubu Sanda? These are questions for the court to decide. We cannot conclude now until the court decides because the matter now is before the court. It is the court that will decide whether the impeachment was done properly or not. We want the court to make that pronouncement. But for politicians who are not mindful of the law, not knowing that our democracy is rooted in the constitution, they don’t care. They are our problem in this country. What do you think is the way forward? My recommendations are two. We can follow legal ways to solve the problem and that is what one of the parties to the dispute has done. But even as the matter is in court, it does not prevent the two factions to resort to an amicable settlement of the issues. For me, the contending issues would have been solved politically. How do you mean? We, elders in Plateau State, devoid of any sentiment and looking at the matter objectively, this matter can be resolved. Some said Abok Ayuba at a point wanted to resign. His worry was that he shouldn’t be impeached in the manner they did, but he wanted to even leave the seat. I believe that if that option was well exploited in a political manner by meeting the factions and having people that have the influence and power to intervene and negotiate in the matter, the issue would have been settled amicably in a win-win situation, using alternative dispute resolution mechanism. Unfortunately, the matter was allowed to degenerate to the level where we are today, where they have resorted to litigation. While we are waiting for the court decision, I think the arms of the government should understand their responsibility which is to serve the people of Plateau State. They should re-examine their conduct and search themselves and asked themselves questions whether they are truly representing the people well. At the end of my stewardship, would the people say that their lives are better off than I met them in terms of development, human resource development and so on? Whether they like it or not, let them know that a day of accountability is coming; if not to the people, to God that allowed them to be there in the first place. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com