The Akwa Ibom Government has said it is committed to the timely delivery of developmental projects that would move the state and nation forward and add value to the emancipation of women. The State Deputy Governor, Moses Ekpo, said this on Friday while playing host to the leadership of the Nigeria for Women Project, a Federal Government initiative backed by the World Bank, to enhance the empowerment of women across the country. Ekpo said that the project is a welcome development as women are the bedrock of any society, adding that it has become imperative for women to be empowered. He commended the Federal Government and the coordinating ministries for the initiative and pledged the State Government’s readiness and commitment to the actualisation of the project in the state. Earlier in her remarks, Ruth Peter, the National Project Coordinator, commended the effort of Akwa Ibom Government in enhancing the kick-off of the project in the state. Peter said that the project is made up of three major components – the Project Committee headed by the state Deputy Governor as well as the Technical and Project committees. She said the successful signing of the state’s loan and legal agreement with the acquisition of a state office and recruitment of key staff is a significant milestone. The coordinator said she is optimistic that Akwa Ibom would catch up with other states which have been enrolled for the past three years. Peter charged the beneficiaries to judiciously use the benefits of the project to improve their living standards. She disclosed that the project is aimed at creating a future in which Nigerian women will be empowered through economically developed gender sensitive and responsive programmes that will alleviate and eradicate poverty in the land. “The project will support the growth of women generally to enable them become economically stable, self-reliant and help them build social capital to become useful in their homes and in the society, “she said. Peter added that the project is targeted at empowering 54,000 women per state, between the ages of 18 and above with particular preference for economically active business women. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the Nigeria for Women Project is a strategic long-term partnership between the Federal Government of Nigeria and the World Bank to support the government’s goal of ensuring gender equality. (NAN) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com