Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has promised citizens that 2022 will witness remarkable development in the various sectors of the state. Sanwo-Olu said this on Sunday in his New Year message delivered at the 2022 annual thanksgiving service, themed, ‘Songs of thanksgiving,’ at the Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja. He said, “This New Year 2022 is a special year for us as an administration, because it will be the final full year of the four-year mandate you gave us in 2019. “It will therefore be ‘a Season of Consolidation,’ year in which we hope to complete all ongoing projects and significantly advance our journey towards the ‘Greater Lagos’ of our collective desire. “By the special grace of God, the vision of having the largest rice mill in sub-Saharan Africa and one of the largest in the world will become a reality this year. “Also, this year 2022 will witness a milestone achievement in the rail transportation system in our state, as we expect the 37km Red and 27.5km Blue Line rail projects to commence commercial operations between the last quarter of this year and the first quarter of 2023. “These are just a handful of the projects that will be completed or advanced this year. Indeed, 2022 will witness remarkable development on various fronts: infrastructure, technology, health and education, security, and many more; all of which will translate to a significant improvement in the quality of life of all Lagosians.” The Commissioner for Home Affairs, Mr Anofiu Elegushi, commended Sanwo-Olu for his achievements regarding healthcare, housing and security in the state during the course of the previous year. “The administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is committed to ensuring that every life matters in Lagos State, and this is why security of lives and property has occupied the front burner of this administration, as all major roads in the state have been lit up with street lightings to curb traffic robberies and other social vices. You will agree with me that we have a lot to be thankful for in Lagos State for, even as we welcome the new year,” he said. The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, urged citizens to have hope regardless of life situations as this will see them through the new year. Dignitaries also present at the event included the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, and the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola (SAN), among others. Copyright PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com