The Kaduna State Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, said on Monday that troops have foiled an attack and killed five terrorists in Kwanan Bataro in Giwa Local Government Area of the state. This, the commissioner said, was according to information made available to the state government by the military authorities. Although Aruwan was silent on when the attack was foiled, it was gathered that the incident happened on Sunday. This followed an intelligence reportedly received on the movement of the terrorist which led the troops to mobilise against the terrorists, according to him. The latest military operation, the commissioner said, excited the state governor, Nasir El-Rufai, who he said praised the gallantry of the security forces. He said, “The Kaduna State Government has been informed by the military authorities that troops foiled an attack and neutralised five terrorists in Kwanan Bataro, Giwa Local Government Area. “According to the operational feedback, the troops who were conducting clearance patrols in Giwa LGA received credible intelligence of terrorists’ movement towards Fatika town. “The troops then mobilised to Marke and Ruheya in response. “The outlaws were sighted and attempted to escape the advancing forces. The troops however cut off their escape route at Kwanan Bataro, and engaged them in a firefight, during which five of the terrorists were neutralised. The troops returned to base after clearing the area. “Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i expressed satisfaction at the operational feedback, and commended the troops for their proactive and sharp response to the intelligence received. He encouraged them to keep up the intensity in the ongoing offensives against terrorists in the area. “Security forces are sustaining monitoring and patrols in the general area.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com