The Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, has said the ban on the operation of commercial motorcycles otherwise known as okada to tackle insecurity in the state, was still in force. He added that other measures, such as the restriction of movement of commercial tricyclists also known as Keke NAPEP, are also still in place. The state government had in October 2021 shutdown telecommunication services as well as barred the operation of okada riders and restricted the movement of tricycles in seven local government areas of the state to battle insecurity. The local government areas are Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi, Chikun, Kachia, Kagarko and Kajuru. In a statement on Tuesday, the commissioner said the ban on the use of commercial or private motorcycles was still being enforced in the state. While empathising with residents over the stringent measures, the commissioner implored citizens to comply with the ban. He said, “The Kaduna State Government wishes to inform citizens that the ban on use of motorcycles (popularly known as Okada), for commercial or personal purposes, remains in place until further notice.” “Other containment measures which remain fully in place are listed as follows: ban on wielding weapons; and restriction on the movement of tricycles from dusk till dawn (7pm to 6am) in Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi, Chikun, Kachia, Kagarko and Kajuru LGAs. “The Kaduna State Government continues to empathise with citizens over difficulties which these measures may engender and implores all residents to comply fully with these measures in the wider interest of general security.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com