The suspended Chairman of the Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Commission, Muhuyi Rimin-Gado, has instituted a suit before the National Industrial Court, Abuja. In the court document sighted by our correspondent, Rimin-Gado challenged his suspension by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje. Joined in the suit are the Kano State Government; the Attorney-General of the state; the state House of Assembly; Accountant-General of the state; the acting Chairman of the anti-graft commission, Mahmud Balarabe; and the state Commissioner of Police. The state House of Assembly had suspended Rimin-Gado on July 5, 2021, over his refusal to accept a level 4 officer sent to his office, and on July 26 recommended his dismissal and immediate arrest and prosecution for alleged forgery. However, since then nothing had been heard either from the government or the assembly. The claimant, through his counsel led by Muhammad Tola, asked the court to determine whether by virtue of sections 4(a), 5 and 6 of the Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission Law, 2008 (as amended), the 5th defendant had a legal right to continue parading himself as the acting Chairman of the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission after the expiration of the one month suspension of the claimant by the 1st defendant. The court is also to determine whether the 1st defendant can suspend the claimant indefinitely and without the payment of his entitlements as the chairman of the commission. Rimin-Gado wants the court to declare that the 3rd defendant has no right to determine the 4th defendant’s petition by causing the suspension of the claimant without first having heard from him by according him the opportunity of defending himself. As a result of the suspension, he is asking the court to declare the actions of the 3rd and 4th defendants as malicious, ultra vires, null and void, thereby infringing on the claimant’s fundamental right of fair hearing. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com