William Troost-Ekong scored Nigeria’s second goal against Guinea Bissau after a sensational dribble by Moses Simon. Simon’s shot hit the bar after he dribbled three opponents before Ekong scored from the rebound. Sadiq Umar scored in the 56th minute to put Nigeria ahead against Guinea Bissau in their Group D encounter at the Africa Cup of Nations on Wednesday in Garoua, Cameroon. He scored through an assist from Kelechi Iheanacho. Both teams created good chances but failed to score in the first half. Sadiq Umar had missed what should have been the first goal of the game in the 24th minute. In the 15th minute, Semi Ajayi also missed a goal by nodding above the goalpost. Guinea Bissau are eyeing their last hope as they lock horns with already qualified and top of the group Nigeria. Although they came to the tournament with many absences and technical changes, Nigeria’s Super Eagles established themselves as one of the favorites with an outstanding performance in their first two matches. A convincing victory over Egypt, followed by another against Sudan, ensured the Super Eagles qualified as the top of the group, regardless of the outcome of Wednesday’s match. This is the first encounter between Guinea-Bissau and Nigeria at the Africa Cup of Nations. Guinea-Bissau remain winless in their eight matches in the Africa Cup of Nations (D3 L5). Nigeria have won 11 of their last 13 Africa Cup of Nations matches (L2), including both in this year’s tournament so far. They last won each of their opening three matches of an edition back in 2006. Guinea-Bissau are yet to score in this year’s Africa Cup of Nations despite attempting 16 shots with an xG total of 2.21 in their two matches so far. Overall, they have failed to score in their last six Africa Cup of Nations matches; no nation has ever gone seven straight games without a goal in the competition’s history. If Nigeria win, they will be the only team that qualified to the last 16 round winning all group matches at the 33rd AFCON Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com