The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said the state government would continue to remember members of the Nigerian Armed Forces who died while defending the nation’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. The governor stated this on Saturday at a short ceremony to commemorate the Armed Forces Remembrance Day. At the ceremony, which held at Remembrance Arcade, Tafawa Balewa Square, Onikan, Sanwo-Olu laid the wreath in honour of fallen military men. According to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, titled, ‘Fallen soldiers made supreme sacrifice for nation’s unity – Sanwo-Olu,’ the governor said the sacrifice made by the fallen heroes was supreme and marked the symbol of the nation’s unity. The statement added that a few days ago, the governor fulfilled a pledge of N50m donation to the Lagos command of the Nigerian Legion, in addition to employing over 5,000 military veterans as security guards across the state-own public schools, hospitals and government facilities. “Today, we have come out in honour and in remembrance of fallen members of the Nigerian Armed Forces, who, at one time or the other, had been of great service to our nation and paid the supreme price to keep our unity and security. As a yearly tradition, the state government comes together with military formations and veterans to commemorate this day in their honour and say that their sacrifices are not in vain. “This is to continue to encourage the men of the Nigerian Armed Forces and to show them that the country will continue to remember them and ensure their efforts are not in vain. As a government, we have been supporting our soldiers to keep the territorial integrity of this nation secure, while working with them in the areas of intelligence gathering to ensure Lagos remains safe for our citizens and visitors.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com