SIFAX Shipping ICT Limited, a subsidiary of SIFAX Group and operator of its Ijora Inland Container Terminal, has announced an expansion of the capacity of its terminal. The company noted that the terminal was inaugurated in October 2020 to alleviate the difficulties experienced by various port users, including truckers, shipping lines, agents and consignees, in accessing the Apapa ports due to the congestion within that area. In a statement, the Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group, Dr Taiwo Afolabi, said, “It sounds so unbelievable that the off dock terminal is just one year old, going by the impact made in such a short period of time. “Our stakeholders have been treated to a whole new experience in cargo clearance. Consignments are moved to the terminal through barges without the hassles of traffic congestion. Goods are cleared in record time while the location of the terminal makes it attractive for truckers. All these have increased our patronage and made the initial terminal capacity inadequate to satisfy the increasing demand.” The company said the terminal had acquired adjoining properties to increase its total capacity from 15,000 square metres to 83,000 square metres. It added that China Civil Engineering Construction Company Nigeria Limited would construct the terminal’s pavement. The Managing Director, SIFAX Shipping ICT Limited, Paul vd Linden, said, “CCECC is a notable construction company with a track record of excellent service across the country. Having expanded the size of the terminal, we needed to put the terminal floor in a world-class state and that’s the reason CCECC was contracted. “Due to the heavy-duty equipment that have been deployed, a super solid concrete surface that can withstand the pressure became necessary. We are excited with this agreement signed with CCECC and we are convinced they will deliver the project within the agreed.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com