Fans and colleagues of actress and filmmaker, Kemi Afolabi-Adesipe, have thrown their weight behind her after she stated on December 31, 2021, that she had been battling with an ‘incurable disease’. She had written on Instagram, “I wrote my will and booked a space with ebony vault this year 2021 but God showed me how faithful he is despite my unfaithfulness. Who am I that God is so mindful of my existence? Me, ordinary sand? That was a toss around from a private hospital to Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, to Army barracks hospital WAEC and finally LUTH where I spent over three months! “Finally, I was diagnosed with a condition that has no cure but can be managed by medications and takes me in and out of the hospital at will (SLE). Fluid blocked my lungs, affected my heart from functioning well which was the reason for my breathlessness and that is caused by the condition diagnosed! Surgery was the only option to drain out the fluid fast.” SLE is an abbreviation for Systemic lupus erythematosus and is said to be ‘a disease which makes the immune system of the body mistakenly attacks healthy tissue. It can affect the skin, joints, kidneys, brain and other organs’. Afolabi added that she was thankful that she is still breathing. She stated that it had been a struggle for her, especially because the industry she is in places a premium on physical appearance. Meanwhile, many of the actress’ colleagues and fans have continued to send her messages of encouragement. Toyin Abraham wrote, “God is good and will never leave you.” In a similar vein, Adeniyi Johnson said, “God will perfect your healing sis.” Actor and filmmaker, Jide Awobona, wrote, “Alhamdulilahi. You shall live so long to witness more of God’s benevolence.” The actress’ fans were also not left out. Remmy Oba wrote, “God is a faithful. I am happy for you sis. It is well. I am glad you hold on to Allah. He is the only key to this life. Happy new blessed and healthy 2022.” Another fan, Olubae commented, “That same God that kept you will perfect your healing. He is such a loving father. Just get closer to him and strengthen your relationship with him. Already, you have seen that He is faithful. God is the greatest physician. He cures the incurable. I believe He will heal you…” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com