A German consumer electronics manufacturer, Loewe, has launched its first set of products in the Nigerian market amid its planned growth into the broader West-African region. The Chief Executive Officer, Loewe Technologies Nigeria Limited, Omodunke Adelakun announced during the product launch in Lagos that the firm had selected Lagos-based Courtleigh Investment Limited as its official and exclusive distributor for the Loewe brand in Nigeria and West African countries. She said, “Since its establishment, the company has been shaping the industry with its iconic products and technical innovations and has received numerous awards for its elegant designs and superior performance. “It may interest you to know that Loewe are the pioneers of television production in the world. Courtleigh Investment Limited is a leading player in the Nigerian luxury and premium audio/visual market with a retail store for exclusive customer in-store experience, products purchases and reliable after-sales service. Courtleigh has developed the retail part of the business through a customer experience Loewe Gallery under the registered name of Loewe Technology Nigeria Limited.” According to her, Loewe is committed to sourcing for first-class materials, high-quality craftsmanship and a unique and timeless design. “Loewe develops its products at its German headquarters and has its own production facilities with automated production line and a handmade fabrication for OLED devices entirely made in Germany,” Adelakun said. Adelakun told our correspondent that the company intends to expand into Ghana, Cote D’Ivoire among other West-African countries and is currently in negotiations with multiple distributors to move into Abuja and other Nigerian states. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com