Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, has urged members of the All Progressives Congress in the state to conduct themselves peacefully in today’s governorship primaries across the 177 wards of the party in the state. This was contained in a statement on Thursday by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, titled, ‘Fayemi Commends Apc Aspirants For Peaceful Conduct’. The governor “commended the aspirants for their great effort at mobilising for the ruling party” and “urged members of the party to conduct themselves peacefully during today’s primary election across the 177 wards in accordance with the law”. While assuring the residents of adequate security arrangements, Fayemi also urged residents of the state to go about their daily routine without fear of intimidation, while urging party members involved in the primary election to go about it peacefully. “I commend our aspirants for a well-conducted campaign and great effort at mobilising for our party. I implore our party members and supporters to ensure the process holds peacefully today.” the governor was quoted as saying. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the immediate past Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ekiti State, Bisi Kolawole, on Wednesday emerged as the candidate of the party for the June 18 governorship election. Kolawole, who is former Governor Ayo Fayose’s preferred aspirant, garnered 671 votes to beat his closest rival, former Governor Olusegun Oni, who scored 330 votes and other aspirants. Meanwhile, the men of the 32 Artillery Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Akure, Ondo State on Wednesday arrested no fewer than 150 political thugs at Ita Awure/Efon Junction in Efon Alaaye in Ekiti. It was gathered that the political thugs were heading towards Ado Ekiti for the primaries of some of the political parties ahead of the forthcoming state governorship election when they were apprehended. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com