The Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, on Sunday visited Omolege community in Ute, Ose Local Government Area of the state where gunmen suspected to be herdsmen carried out an attack, killing people. The attackers stormed the community on Thursday evening, killed three people and set buildings ablaze. The community’s head was said to be among those killed. Akeredolu, who commiserated with the people of the community over the death of their loved ones, particularly the community head, vowed to deal with the perpetrators. He said efforts would be made to forestall future occurrence. The governor visited the scene in company with the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Oyediran Oyeyemi; the Commander of the Amotekun Corps, Tunji Adeleye; and some members of the state executive council. He said, “I commiserate with you on the death of your loved ones. May their souls rest in peace. No government will be happy with this kind of development. “But you have to be prepared. These herdsmen are becoming too problematic. We are not sleeping. You can see police and Amotekun here. With this one they have done; we will ensure that it is their last evil act here. “Those behind this are criminals. Those supporting them are all criminals too. Anyone who commits crime will answer for it. The police and Amotekun, with other security agencies, will set out and bring them to justice. We will treat them like criminals. “Both the police and Amotekun have briefed me that they were being shot at. But for their boldness and courage, the criminals would have overwhelmed them. “I want to assure you, don’t be scared. We are still on their track. They have escaped to Edo now. But for the houses that were razed down, government will bring relief materials. We will rebuild the ones that were razed completely.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com