The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Monday described a one-time presidential candidate who ran against Chief MKO Abiola in the 1993 elections, Bashir Tofa, as a true nationalist. Tofa, a former presidential candidate of the defunct National Republican Convention died, on Monday after a protracted illness. Buhari also dispatched a delegation to Kano with a condolence letter to the State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, disclosed this in a statement titled ‘President Buhari mourns true nationalist, Bashir Tofa.’ Buhari described the deceased as a politician of note who was also a promoter of Islamic culture and civilisation. “The late Tofa was noted for his untiring commitment to public enlightenment and was unafraid to speak the truth all the time that he lived,” the President said. The Yobe State Governor and Chairman of the All Progressives Congress’ Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Mai Mala Buni, has also commiserated with the government and people of Kano State and the family of the deceased. His condolence message was contained in a statement by his spokesman, Mamman Mohammed. Buni said, “It is with deep sorrow and sadness that l received the news of the passage of late Alh. Othman Tofa. “He was an iconic politician who shared the values of politics as a call to service, to promote good governance and to improve the lives of the electorates. “Late Tofa was a fine gentleman, a true democrat and a nationalist with a definition of politics as a tool for service delivery.” Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State also mourned the deceased. In a statement by the state Commissioner for Information, Muhammad Garba, the governor noted the sacrifices of Tofa, who started taking up leadership responsibilities at an early age, when he was elected councillor in Tofa in his late 20s. “The legacy of his political beliefs and triumphs will be important footnotes in the literature of Nigeria’s government and politics for generations yet to come,” Ganduje said. The Coalition of Northern Groups also on Monday expressed sadness over the death of the Kano politician. and The CNG, in a condolence message by its Spokesperson, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, said it owed immeasurable gratitude to the late Tofa. Also, the pan-Northern socio-political organisation, Arewa Consultative Forum, mourned Tofa, saying that he was a patriot whose ambition to serve was truncated by the military. The groups’ condolence was contained in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Emmanuel Yawe, in Kaduna on Monday. On his part, the Chairman of the Northern Speakers Forum and Speaker of the Kaduna State House of Assembly, Yusuf Zailani, described Tofa’s death as a great loss to Nigeria. The Speaker described the late Tofa as a perfect gentleman, saying that throughout his lifetime, he was never among politicians fanning the embers of “disunity, confusion and disintegration” of the country. Meanwhile, a funeral prayer for the deceased was held at his residence in Kano. The prayer session was led by Imam Shehu Tijjani Mota at exactly 9.20am. The funeral prayer, held at his residence at Gandun Albasa was attended by the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Bayero; Kano Central Senator, Ibrahim Shekarau; former Minister of Agriculture, Alhaji Sabo Nanono, and Alhaji Sule Hamma, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com