Three female kidnap victims were on Thursday rescued in Plateau State less than 24 hours after they were abducted by gunmen. Two of the victims were identified simply as Benefit and Longfei. PUNCH Metro gathered that the three persons were kidnapped when gunmen attacked their residential area in Ban village, in the Barkin Ladi LGA on Wednesday evening. Ban village is behind the main campus of the Plateau State Polytechnic at Heipang community where many students of the institution reside. The bandits were said to have scared the community with gunshots before they escaped with their victims. However, one of the bandits was arrested by security agents after the attack on the village located behind the Plateau State Polytechnic. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Ubah Ogaba, on Thursday, confirmed the release of the girls said to be students of the state polytechnic. The PPRO said, “The team of the police and STF deployed to rescue the victims kidnapped yesterday (Wednesday) at Ban village behind the Plateau State Polytechnic have rescued them today, 13/1/2022 around 2.30pm unhurt; they are presently with the police. “Meanwhile, effort is still on to arrest other perpetrators of the act.” The Military Information Officer of Operation Safe Haven, Major Ishaku Takwa, also confirmed the release of the three ladies in a statement on Thursday. The statement read in part, “The troops deployed in Nding Sesut, a remote community in Barikin Ladi, noticed an unusual movement of persons during patrols. The troops immediately conducted a cordon-and-search operation in the general area that led to the rescue of the three students at an abandoned poultry farm. The victims have since been united with their families. A manhunt to apprehend the suspects is still ongoing. “While commending the vigilance and efforts of the troops, the commander, Operation Safe Haven, Major General Ibrahim Ali, has commended the law-abiding citizens who provided credible information to security agencies. He reiterated his resolve to make Plateau State a difficult terrain for criminals to operate.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com