“The LIDISKI Project is set to scaleup its activities into 2 more States in Northern Nigeria”
The EU-funded Livestock Disease Surveillance Knowledge Integration (LIDISKI) Project has made significant progress in the pilot state of Plateau since its inception in 2020. A 4years Project (2020-2023), LIDISKI aims at improving disease control and surveillance related to Newcastle Disease (ND) and Peste des Petits Ruminants (PPR), two livestock diseases of economic importance to smallholders and livestock security in general. LIDISKI is therefore tasked with four inter-dependent actions: i). improving the capacity (technical and material) of animal health actors, ii). engaging field actors in vaccination and disease reporting, iii). understanding the socio-economic and epidemiological context and iv). developing technological tools for PPR and ND surveillance and control. On the 9th December 2021, stakeholders from the Nigerian livestock sector gathered to review LIDISKI’s progress and impact in the past 2 years. For opening remark, Leila Ben Amor Mathieu, Human Development Team Lead of the European Union delegation, expressed appreciation to the project team for their commitment toward ensuring timely output and impact within the last 2 years despite the challenges of COVID-19 and insecurity. Similar accolades were conveyed by representative of the Minister of Agriculture, Dr. C.T Vakuru, who commented that “the LIDISKI Project is a life-touching project, and the ministry will do all within its power to institutionalize the project to ensure its sustainability and wider reach in the livestock industry”. Speaking on behalf of the LIDISKI Project, the Executive Director of the National Veterinary Research Institute, NVRI, Dr. Maryam Muhammad expressed the Project team’s continued commitment to meeting its target. Commendations and robust feedbacks were shared by relevant stakeholders including the National Agricultural Extension and Research Liaison Services, representatives of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Mercy Corps, Alpha Zoetis, FAO, Sahel Consulting, Poultry Association of Nigeria; CORET, NASHGODAN, Miyetti Allah; Livestock247; Ambuvet Konsults, SHEGODAN Lagos/Ibadan, Agriquest African Network, to mention a few.  Some of the major achievements of the LIDISKI Project presented at the event includes – the installation of solar panels at the National Veterinary Research Institute in Vom, and across 5 of its outstations – Bauchi, Yola, Katsina, Kano and Kaduna, significantly reducing their energy cost by 65%, minimizing dependency on erratic power supply and improving vaccine production and storage; introduction of technology to improve the efficiency of data collection, disease surveillance and modelling disease control measures; the capacity of animal health actors were built in the area of disease genotyping, biostatistics, serotyping, epidemiology and vaccine development; a survey in 200 villages across the 17 LGA of Plateau State to better understand the epidemiological patterns and the socio-economic determinants of the disease; and together with the Veterinary Council of Nigeria, the training and mobilization of Community-based Animal Health Workers (CAHWs) combined with media campaigns to drive awareness on the signs of ND and PPR and the availability of affordable vaccines for control.  In the coming year, LIDISKI plans to expand into 2 new States, starting with Bauchi, ploughing in the key lessons from Plateau State with the goal of generating sufficient evidence on the cost-effective PPR and NCD control strategies to inform national disease control policy.
The LIDISKI project is implemented by a Consortium led by CIRAD and includes IZSVe, NVRI and Ikore International Development Limited. The project’s mandate is to implement sustainable PPR and ND surveillance and control strategies that will reduce disease burden and therefore directly contribute to increasing food security and women empowerment, reducing poverty, and strengthening the resilience of the poorest people. For more information about the LIDISKI Project, please visit our website at www.lidiski.org. Media Contact: Jesutomi Lawal
Email: jesutomi@ikore.org Tel: 07088559767