The Federal Government on Tuesday named a large delegation to lead the Nigerian contingent at the forthcoming Africa Cup of Nations tournament, which begins in Cameroon January 9, The PUNCH reports. The delegation is expected to leave for Cameroon January 10, ahead of Nigeria’s first game against Egypt on January 11. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwoolu, heads the delegation, while the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege; Chairmen, Senate and House Committees on Sports, Senator Obinna Ogba and Olumide Osoba are also in the delegation. Other members include Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Dr Folashade Yemi-Esan; Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele; Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Youth and Sports Development,  Sunday Dare; Minister of  Agriculture, Dr Mohammed Abubakar, Minister of State for Finance, Clem Ikanade Agba; Minister of State for Agriculture, Mustapha Shehuri and Minister of State for Science and Technology, Mohammed Abdullahi. Presidential aide on sports, Daniel Amokachi, and a representative of the Department of State Security(DSS). Meanwhile, three-time African champions Super Eagles will depart for Garoua, Cameroon on Wednesday (today) for the AFCON tournament. The Eagles, who will be making their 19th appearance at Africa’s biggest football showpiece, will fly in from Abuja aboard a private jet to the northern part of Cameroon. They will leave Abuja by 8pm today courtesy Air Peace and land in Garoua at 8:45pm. A team source said the late departure was to ensure that the final set of players yet to arrive as at the time of filing this report, namely Jamilu Collins, Joe Aribo, Samuel Chukwueze and Odion Ighalo could join the squad for the trip to the neigbouring country. The Super Eagles camp swelled to 23 players on Tuesday with nine players — Wilfred Ndidi, Kelechi Iheanacho, Kelechi Nwakali, Semi Ajayi, Kenneth Omeruo, Ola Aina, Alex Iwobi, William Troost-Ekong and Frank Onyeka joining up with the squad. Venezia defender Tyronne Ebuehi will join the Eagles in Garoua, ahead of their opening fixture against Egypt on January 11. Eagles, 2013 winners, are seeking their fourth AFCON title after placing third at the 2019 edition in Egypt. They are pooled in Group D alongside Egypt, Sudan and Guinea Bissau in Garoua. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com