ABIODUN SANUSI speaks with some entertainers about their New Year resolutions, experiences and other issues related to the festive season Veteran waka musician, Salawa Abeni, talks about how New Year celebrations have changed and other issues How often do you celebrate New Year with your family, considering your profession? I usually celebrate New Year wherever it meets me. If I am at home, I would celebrate it with my children. But, if I am at an event performing, I would pause my performance and thank God for the New Year on stage, no matter what event it is. Do you make New Year resolutions, and how often do you follow through on them? I always pray to God on New Year’s eve, and I usually make my requests known to God while I remain hopeful that He would answer my prayers. I always pray to achieve great things and also ask God to avert bad things on my behalf. I always accept whatever God gives me. There are no bad things I was doing, hence there is no reason to pray to God for me to stop doing some things. I only always ask God for more success. What changes would you like to see in the music industry in 2022? Everyone should watch out because there would be a tremendous transformation in the music industry in 2022. People should expect so much from the music industry. Which is your fondest New Year celebration? My fondest New Year celebration was when we used to travel to Epe, Lagos, to celebrate the New Year with my mother. My siblings and I, and our grandchildren, used to travel to Ijebu Itokin and Epe (both in Lagos) to celebrate with my mother, friends and families. Many years ago, when I was much younger, Nigeria was very safe, and sometimes, my crew and I would set out from December 21 and keep on travelling from one place to another until January 1. We also used to visit several families and friends prior to the New Year. The country was very safe then. But all that is impossible now due to the high rate of insecurity in the country. Whenever we are called to perform far away from home these days, we get scared because we fear for our lives, especially due to reports of incessant kidnapping. To even move within Lagos has become hard. Singer and activist, Charles Oputa, Charly Boy, speaks about his fond memories of New Year celebrations and other related issues How often do you celebrate New Year with your family? My family is global because my children are scattered all over the world. For some years now, it has been my wife and I staying together, and we have always made sure to connect with the whole family every year during the festive season. We celebrate with all our children and grandchildren from wherever they are with the help of video calls. We share gifts, see one another and talk as a family. I only have one problem concerning Nigeria. I respect and honour my father because he raised me properly. However, I do not think he raised me to fit into Nigeria of today because I have always been an independent thinker. My father encouraged us to be inquisitive and not accept rubbish, but to question whatever we noticed to be wrong, and I took his teachings seriously. Even though I was a privileged kid, I pitched my tent with ordinary people, and that has helped me to understand life better. Regardless of my pedigree, I have also suffered and have been poor, although it was intentional suffering. My case was like that of a kid who was laid on the bed but instead of sleeping on it, he decided to go and live in the wild to observe how animals sleep, and after getting into the wild, he had no interest in leaving but chose to make friends with the animals and became like them. Do you believe that the best way to spend the festive season is with family? Family is very important. My father trained us like we were in a military barracks, and my rebellious lifestyle started from home because I got tired of being controlled and given rules to follow at all times. However, I hope that what we started with my family – the video conference get-together would continue and last longer because about four years ago, I used to do a one-on-one (video chat) with my children individually but we now have an online platform where my children and grandchildren are all present. That has helped us to keep talking to one another consistently, and I would like that to keep happening to go into the New Year because that is the only way to build the kind of bond that I want my children to have between one another. That’s especially because I had been married before and I had children with my ex-wives before I got married to my wife whom I have been with for 45 years and have children. Because I had some kids before getting married to my wife, there is a need for me to make sure that all of them love and respect one another. That was how my parents groomed me and my siblings. My father and mother were seen together all their lives as a couple. My father was very rich as a lawyer but our lives changed for the worse when he became a judge because the family was only living on his salary as he did not take bribes or use his position to covet people’s wealth and properties because he was not a corrupt person. If not for the investments he had as a successful lawyer, things would have been much worse for the family when he became a judge. What’s your most memorable New Year celebration yet? It was in 2008 when my parents were still alive and they were living with me. Most of my children and grandchildren were present. I have a very big family of 11 children that I know of, and 16 grandchildren. During festive periods, we do the best we can because all the children have left the nest. Some are married and others live far away. Hence, to get them for a reunion, one has to inform them ahead of time because they are always busy. However, we always find a way to be together during the festive period, and thanks to Zoom, which allows us the opportunity to have a video get-together on the Internet. My wife and I have a ritual of sleeping and loving into the New Year, depending on whichever comes first. Do you believe in New Year resolutions and do you keep them? I am old now, so I no longer make New Year resolutions. To me, years are the same. Life is continuous. Everything has its season, and it does not matter whether it is a New Year or not. I used to be a biker while I was younger but I no longer ride power bikes. What reasons do you think has made Nigerians to be less enthusiastic for the New Year unlike they used to be in the past? It is because the government has let Nigerians down. The leader has betrayed the citizens, and the citizens cannot trust anybody. Nobody makes plans anymore, because if you make plans today, the government could come tomorrow to destroy your plans. I think that in 2022, there would be more hunger, more devaluation of the naira, and more violence as a result of suffering. And because the old politicians in power do not want to change for good nor leave power for the younger generation, the youths would also not take it lightly with them because everything has an expiration date and their time is running out. Although all the youths cannot come together at once, the outstanding ones who are angry and prepared would disrupt the system next year, and I am very happy about that. Our young people are doing great all over the world except in Nigeria. So, why would they not be angry? Some have said that your activism activities have reduced. Is this due to old age, a loss of hope in the country, or because you want young and vibrant activists to take over? I am not getting younger, and I do not have that much energy anymore. We need more young people in activism and politics, and interestingly, a lot of people are now into activism and politics, so the older generation needs to support and encourage them, instead of wanting to always take the centre stage. If we want young people to take over, we, the older ones, need to step aside. During the #EndSARS protests in 2020, I was really happy and I was satisfied that my works were not in vain. I was glad that the youths stood up but the Lekki massacre really hurt me because it was a great chance for the youths to take over if not for the attacks that followed the protests. I am hopeful that some intelligent and versatile youths would get together, especially in 2022, and they would unite to push out those corrupt old politicians. There are more young people out there who are way better than us, and they need to take over and redeem our people. Actor, Jide Kosoko, talks about how he used to celebrate New Year’s day and other issues With the nature of your profession, how often do you celebrate the New Year with your family? There is no doubt about the fact that I am a very busy entertainer. However, over the years, I have made it a culture to host my children and grandchildren on December 26 in my home. We meet to enjoy ourselves with friends, and also discuss important things in preparation for the New Year. We also join our extended family in celebration of our traditional festival. For the New Year, everyone is allowed to celebrate at their residence, and we also come together during our birthdays, which are spread over the year. What are your fondest memories of the New Year celebration? It comes in various stages. When I was much younger and I was still rascally, I got involved in various activities. I was involved in masquerade activities. I had all the costumes and I was a leader of a team. We used to go about dancing in our costumes and making money at the same time, and it was always interesting. December was always loaded with festivities until the New Year. What are your expectations for the New Year? Personally, I am looking forward to producing some works that I had abandoned in the past, especially Ogun Awoyaya, which is based on the history of Lagos. I had been postponing it because of its expensive budget. However, I realised that it is time I produce the film for people to learn about the history of Lagos, especially the feud between King Kosoko and King Akintoye, which led to the invasion of Lagos by the British imperialists. Also, the war between King Kososko and the British imperialists, which led to King Akintoye and King Dosumu signing a treaty for Lagos to become a British colony. For Nigeria, we can only be hopeful because the whole country at the moment, is in the hands of God, and I have been praying to God to give us the opportunity to understand ourselves and give us good leadership. Selfishness should be jettisoned because that is a major problem for us as Nigerians. Do your kids still come home to spend the New Year holiday with you? My children are all grown now. Asking them to spend the New Year holiday with me is not really feasible, except on some occasions when my children bring my grandchildren to spend the holiday with me. I am usually very happy on such occasions. Do you believe in New Year resolutions, and do you keep to them? A change of calendar requires some readjustment in whatever one does, so, I believe in New Year resolutions and of course, it gives everyone the opportunity to observe their activities and make some adjustments or improvements where it is necessary, and also correct wrongdoings. The New Year is always a good time to make resolutions considering one’s activities in the previous year. What changes would you like to see in the movie industry in 2022? The Nigerian movie industry is changing and I hope the practitioners would endeavour to keep on doing it right. I have observed that some producers have been making efforts to ensure that there is a professional standard, and an expansion of the distribution network within the movie industry, which is commendable. Although some are not doing things right, I urge everyone to abide by the ethics of the profession as that would help us improve. What I am more concerned about, however, is unity in the movie industry. I hope that we would be able to have one voice on a better way to regulate our industry. We have been trying our best to come together under one umbrella, although our best has not been enough. Individual associations that exist within Nollywood cannot solve the problem of disunity. Musician, Dede Mabiaku, says he considers whoever is around him as his family and he celebrates the New Year with them Do you believe in New Year resolutions, and how often do you keep them? Most New Year resolutions always get broken very early into the year. And, this is because most people who make the resolutions break them, even on the next day. So, why make a resolution that you would not follow through? Let’s even assume that people want to keep to their new year resolutions, is it in this country where people or organisations could go on strike at any time, petrol price could suddenly increase, police harassment, and several other unfortunate events that can frustrate one’s efforts to achieve one’s resolutions. How often do you celebrate the New Year with your family considering that the festive season is usually busy for musicians? To me, everyone around me is my family. Family is not only about one’s siblings and children. People should learn to do what is right with people around them wherever they are because those are their families. I celebrate New Year wherever it meets me. As an artiste, there have been many years when I had to travel to perform, and I could not take my family with me, so people around me became my family. What is your most memorable New Year celebration? I have had many fond New Year memories. However, when I was in my late twenties, I used to make sure I got a new car every New Year, and I made my mark for many of those years. It was usually exciting for me. But later, my focus changed. Every New Year, I always make sure to positively impact people’s lives, and that always gives me joy. What is the funniest or most awkward things you’ve heard people say about New Year? The funniest is when people think that the old year would just switch off. That is impossible because everything we did in the previous year would follow us into the New Year. Only wishful thinkers would think or say otherwise. Life is continuous. For example, a student who did not study at the end of the previous year and has an examination in January would surely fail, no matter how much they feel otherwise. Do your children still come home to spend the New Year holiday with you? If they are in the country, they come around to celebrate the New Year with me if I am also in the country. What changes would you like to see in the entertainment industry in 2022? I would like to see a situation where there would be properly structured artiste management. I would also want a situation where musicians and actors would start promoting our culture because most of the things we do now negate the essence of our culture. We need to stick to our values in order to have a great future as a people. Entertainers need to start letting society see itself through us in the right way because it is through us that people see themselves better. Entertainers need to wake up and represent society better. Currently, many of our songs and movies do not portray our essence. Even the whites are now making movies and songs about our history. We have a beautiful history and we have to let the world know about it. Comedian and singer, Kehinde Otolorin, aka Kenny Blaq, talks about his New Year celebration Do you believe in New Year resolutions, and do you keep them? Yes, I believe in New Year resolutions, but I guess I have an issue with keeping most of them. For example, in 2020, I made a resolution to have a serious relationship in 2021, but I didn’t. So, I still have an issue with keeping most of my New Year resolutions. What are your New Year resolutions for 2022? In 2022, I hope to keep treating business as business, devote enough time to rest, and spoil myself. I also wish to find the bone of my bone (spouse), make beautiful music-comedy with good vibes and make sure I leave every stage with a standing ovation. Most importantly, I want to make enough money to get some of the good things of life for myself. Do you often have time to celebrate the New Year with your family? Yes, I do. That is why I always make sure to be in Lagos on January 1 of every year. I spend the first half of the day with family and friends, before I go to work later in the day. I rarely accept bookings during the day on January 1. What are your fondest New Year celebrations? My fondest memories were how I used to share chicken legs with my twin sister. Now, it is how my family reminds me of how much they are proud of me, and I get to watch some of my shows with them. What changes or improvements would you like to see in the comedy industry in 2022 and beyond? I would love to see more originality, more standard comedy shows, and investors who would invest in comedians. We have a lot of talented comedians that can go head to head with the likes of Chris Rock and Dave Chappelle. We also have senior colleagues with great production ideals. I hope that in 2022, we would have investors and fans who would appreciate quality productions. I also hope that our fans would be at our shows waiting for us, instead of us waiting for them. Where do you usually spend your New Year holiday? I spend the New Year holiday at my family house in Ejigbo, Lagos. I also use the opportunity to visit some old friends and neighbours in the area. Actor and President of the Actors Guild of Nigeria, Emeka Rollas, talks about his expectations for 2022 and other issues What changes would you like to see in the movie industry in 2022? In 2022, I expect the movie industry to consolidate the gains made so far and establish real structures. What interesting New Year celebrations are still fresh in your memory? I can never forget the New Year celebration that I experienced immediately after my marriage in 2004. What are your personal expectations for the New Year? My personal expectations are to further develop the Actors Guild of Nigeria. How often do you get to celebrate the New Year’s day with your family? I often celebrate New Year’s day with my family, irrespective of my profession. What are your expectations for Nollywood in 2022? Nollywood has recorded tremendous successes but without enduring structures like film villages. We need to improve. Bad economy affecting New Year celebrations — Esther Igbekele Gospel singer, Esther Igbekele, talks about New Year celebrations How often do you celebrate the New Year with your family? I don’t usually celebrate the New Year at home. Yesterday (New Year’s day), I was in Ibadan (Oyo State) for a performance. What are your fondest New Year celebrations? God gave me the grace to buy a new bus to replace my old bus on New Year’s day in 2020. I cannot just forget it because it was so huge for me. What are your personal expectations for the New Year? I have so many expectations for my career and home. I am expecting many positive things. Do your kids still come home to spend the New Year holiday with you? Yes, they do but not all of them, because some live abroad. Do you believe in New Year resolutions, and do you keep them? Resolutions depend on what happened in the previous year that I need to reshape or rebrand. I do not procrastinate because I react accordingly to occurrences. What changes would you like to see in the gospel music industry in 2022? I would like to see more Gospel music concerts. I would also want more sponsors to support up-and-coming artistes. What reasons do you think has made Nigerians to be less enthusiastic about New Year celebrations, compared to how it used to be many years ago? The whole world, including Nigeria, is in a financial mess, and the bad economy is really affecting us. Dancer, Adedayo Liadi, aka Ijodee, talks about the changes he intends to make in 2022 W hat was the best thing that happened to you in 2021 that you would like to continue in 2022? The best thing that happened to me in 2021 was surviving COVID-19 twice, and in 2022, I would love to be closer to God for helping me survive the coronavirus at two different times in the same year. Do you make New Year resolutions, and how often do you keep them? For about four years now, I have stopped making New Year resolutions because it has never worked for me. So, I always leave everything in the hands of God, and God has been good to me. I just keep working hard and stay focused by facing my challenges every year. How often do you celebrate the New Year with your family? I always create time to celebrate the New Year with my family because I rarely stay at home and I do not see my children, wife and parents often due to the exigencies of my profession. However, I always travel to France in November or December every year because that is where my wife and kids live. I usually spend about four months with them before going back to work. However, I communicate with my family every day. What fond New Year memory can you never forget? I love travelling so much, and it is one aspect of my life that I cannot get over. I love adventures and I love meeting different people and observing different cultures. What are your hopes for the dance industry in 2022? 2021 was tough, yet it was quite interesting. The pandemic has opened our eyes to new ideas about communication, working and relating with one another, even from long distances. The virtual world has been very useful. My hope for the dance industry in 2022 is that there would be more avenues for us to work virtually. I also hope that we would be able to do physical projects too, and also pave the way for younger choreographers and dancers. I hope that there would be big collaborations within our industry. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com