IT is utterly disgraceful that some 12 years after it was first introduced, the Gender and Equal Opportunities Bill has failed to scale through at the National Assembly. During the latest attempt by Ekiti State senator, Abiodun Olujimi, to get the bill passed, some lawmakers objected to its passage, odiously citing religious reasons. The bill mandates public institutions to ensure that a minimum of 35 per cent of all positions or appointments are reserved for women. It proposes that a widow must not be subjected to inhuman treatment, while she is entitled to the custody of her children after the death of her husband unless it is contrary to the welfare of the children. It compels public and private institutions to take appropriate measures to grant equal pay to persons of equal skill, competence, and knowledge regardless of gender. These align with global standards. During a recent Senate plenary, Yusuf Yusuf infamously stated that he would be opposing the passage of the bill because “it contravenes the tenets of Islam.” He found an ally in Aliyu Wamakko, who also kicked against it. Sadly, Wamakko, who was governor of Sokoto from 2007 to 2015, failed to appreciate the importance of the bill even though that state ranks high in underage marriage, domestic and sexual violence and low access to education for girls. Though a few lawmakers supported the bill, Olujimi was forced to withdraw it. This marks another low in Nigeria’s political history. For over a decade, the male-dominated NASS has frustrated bills that seek to empower women. The bill suffered a similar fate in the Sixth Senate in 2010 when Chris Anyanwu first initiated it. The same flimsy ground of religion was adduced for its rejection in blatant negation of Nigeria’s secularity as enshrined in the constitution. Such retrogressive attitude, especially from the North, keeps Nigeria down. The Africa Report details how 11 pieces of legislation that seek to promote gender equality have similarly been frustrated in the last decade. They include the Gender Equal Opportunities, Abuse and Administration Bill, 2010; Gender Equal Opportunities Abuse and Administration Bill 2012 (both sponsored by Helen Esuene). Others include the Affirmative Action (Equal Opportunity for Women) Bill, 2012; Gender and Equal Opportunity Bill, 2014 both sponsored by Uzoma Nkem-Abonta; Women Empowerment and Gender Equality Act, 2015; Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill, 2015 to ensure that all Political Parties are Gender-Sensitive and to eliminate all forms of discrimination in all political parties; and the Women Participation in Election Support Bill, 2018. Nigeria is signatory to several international treaties and conventions, including the Convention for the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women ratified in 1985; and the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa, better known as the Maputo Protocol; an international human rights instrument established by the African Union guaranteeing comprehensive rights to women, including the right to participate in the political process, to social and political equality with men. It is saddening that the legislators who swore to uphold the constitution allow their religious beliefs to becloud their judgement. They must be reminded that Nigeria is not a theocracy, but a democratic polity where the constitution remains supreme over any other law. Lawmakers should separate law-making from religion, which ought to be based on personal conviction. For long, unscrupulous politicians have manipulated religious sentiments to gain political advantage and deny the citizens the dividends of democracy. On religious grounds, some northern states have refused to domesticate the Child Rights Act that says no child under the age of 18 should be allowed to be married. Instead, last year, moves were made by some senators to give voting rights to underage married girls. When will such folly end? Ironically, in Saudi Arabia, the birthplace of Islam, the minimum age for marriage is 18. Muslim majority countries like Bangladesh and Pakistan have produced female heads of state. Surely, this debunks the falsehood that religion precludes women from holding positions of leadership. Nigerian women have for long been marginalised and denied key opportunities for flimsy reasons. Poignantly, they have continued to shine on the international stage. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala currently holds the position of Director-General of the World Trade Organisation. Amina Mohammed serves as the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations. Arunma Oteh, Oby Ezekwesili have also held key positions in the World Bank. In Nigeria, these women are being told that they are inferior to their male counterparts. While females constitute over 49.4 per cent of Nigeria’s population, according to the National Bureau of Statistics, only 4.17 per cent of elected officials in the country are women. The Centre for Democracy and Development found that women have not reached 10 per cent representation since the inception of democratic rule in 1999. Yet, evidence abounds that societies that empower women are the most secure and most developed. “When you educate a woman, you educate a nation” goes a popular saying. Nigeria should internalise this. Women’s lot are worse in Northern Nigeria. There, 78 per cent of girls are married off before 18, compared to 44 per cent of girls countrywide, according to Save the Children International.  UNICEF says Nigeria has the largest number of child brides in Africa with about 23 million girls and women married as children. Not surprisingly, Nigeria is currently the world’s poverty capital. The Sustainable Development Goal 5 of the United Nations on gender equality, which Nigeria has pledged to, recognises gender equality as not only a fundamental human right, but also a necessary foundation for a peaceful, prosperous, and sustainable world. Misguided Nigerian lawmakers must therefore shed their Dark Age mentality and join the digital age. The President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has also failed to promote gender equality in his seven years in office. But all hope is not lost. Olujimi and other progressive senators and civil society organisations must not give up on this essential piece of legislation. Pressure must be put on NASS to pass the bill before the 2023 election season kicks off. The battle for gender rights was fought long and hard in Europe and North America; activists here should step up the fight with superior strategy and messaging to overcome the opponents of progress. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com