The Unyenge community in the Mbo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State has condemned last Thursday’s attack on workers of the Universal Energy Resource Limited, describing it as unacceptable and unpatriotic. The community, while distancing itself from the attack, also called for investigation into the incident to unravel the perpetrators and bring them to justice. Armed men suspected to be militants had in the early hours of Thursday planted dynamites along the road leading to the UERL, and when they exploded and failed to hit the target, the gunmen opened fire on the workers, killing the driver and injuring two security agents. Speaking at a media briefing in Unyenge on Saturday, the Chairman of the Council of Chiefs in the community, Chief Ovong Ekpe, lamented the incident, saying such had never happened in the history of the community’s relationship with UERL, which has been operating in the area for more than a decade. In a text read by the Secretary, Unyenge Development Union, Edet Edietteh, the monarch while sympathising with the families of the deceased, said such an act could only have come from enemies of the land to paint the community in bad light. He stated, “The recent attack on the staff of the Universal Energy Resource Limited, the chiefs, the elders and the youth of Unyenge community regret the unforeseen incident that took place on January 20, where two police personnel and a staff member of the Universal Energy Resource Limited were attacked by hoodlums. “The community really frowns on the inhuman and unpatriotic act and do sympathise with the families of the victims of the attacks, the UERL family and the government of Akwa Ibom State. “The community sees such an act as unacceptable, unpatriotic and devoid of the character of the Unyenge people. Such a dastardly act must have been caused by enemies of the Unyenge people and that of the Oron nation at large, with the intent to paint the people in bad light. “We strongly disassociate ourselves from the activities of the attackers and reassure the government of Akwa Ibom State that the Unyenge community is safe for any form of investment. “We, therefore, called on the state government and security agencies to use their might to unravel the perpetrators of this crime with a view to bringing them to justice. Whoever is found culpable should be made to face the full weight of the law.” Speaking at the scene of the incident, the President, Akwa Ibom State Community in Rivers State, Evangelist Bassey Empimah, said, “We are not known for this kind of act; we don’t think there is anybody in the community that can be part of this heinous crime, because since this community has been in existence and the UERL has been working here for a long time, more than a decade, we have never witnessed this kind of development.” He called on the state government to beef up security in the area to prevent future recurrence of the incident. The President, Unyenge Development Union, Mr Effiong Ekpo, while lamenting frequent attacks on fishermen by suspected militants, also called on the Federal Government to station a naval gunboat near the creeks leading to Unyenge to forestall future attacks. “As a riverside community, we have suffered unwarranted attacks by militants, who seize our goods, engine boats and others. So, we want the government to reactivate the naval base and station a gunboat near the creeks leading to the Unyenge community,” he said. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com