The Police Command in Delta has arrested a suspected armed robber and recovered a stolen Toyota Venza car from him. The spokesman of the command, DSP Bright Edafe, gave the details in a statement made available to newsmen on Saturday in Warri. Edafe said that the suspect was nabbed on Friday by the command’s Dragon Patrol Team while on a stop and search duty on the Warri/Sapele Road. He said that another suspect, also in the vehicle, escaped into a nearby bush and that effort is ongoing to arrest the fleeing criminal. Edafe said, “On Jan. 7, 2022 at about 4:30pm, the Dragon Patrol Teams, while on a stop and search duty on the Warri/Sapele Road, intercepted a Toyota Venza with Registration Number: FKJ 420 GT. “The car was driven by one Akpoyerinebele, aged 33, in company of another occupant (name unknown). “The occupant immediately took to his heels and ran into the bush while the driver was arrested. “While searching the vehicle, a phone number was found inside and during the course of investigation, the owner of the vehicle was contacted through the phone number.” The DSP said that the owner of the stolen car confirmed that the vehicle was snatched from him at gun point at the popular NDC Road, Ozoro, Isoko North Local Government Area of the state. “The car was snatched from me at gun point at NDC Road, Ozoro, by a five-man robbery gang at about 0100hrs on Jan. 7,” Edafe quoted the victim as saying. In another development, Edafe said that the command apprehended two suspects and recovered a G-3 Riffle, battle axe and substances suspected to be hard drugs. He said that the suspects, Randy Omovie and Sunny Blessing, were arrested on Jan. 2 by police operatives from the Warri area command following an intelligence report. “On Jan. 2, 2022, at about 1300hrs, acting on intelligence gathered over a period of time, operatives from the area command Warri, raided Ugborikoko community. “During the raid, Omovie was arrested and one G-3 rifle with breach number 69021340 and a battle axe were recovered from him. “Similarly, Blessing, a suspected drug dealer, was nabbed and substances suspected to be Indian hemp soaked in gin, was seized. “Fourteen wraps of substances suspected to be cocaine, eight bottles of codeine, 10 cups of loud were also recovered from him,” he said. Edafe added that the command is investigating the matter. (NAN)