The Delta State Police Command, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and other sister agencies have pledged their commitment to enforcing the anti-open grazing law in the state. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State had signed the anti-open grazing bill into law and consequently inaugurated the Delta Livestock Management Committee. The security agencies made the pledge when the Commissioner for Agriculture /Natural Resources and DLMC Chairman, Mr Julius Egbedi, led its members on a consultation visit to the various security agencies on Thursday in Asaba, the Delta State capital. The Commissioner of Police, Delta Command, CP Muhammed Ali, assured the committee of the Command’s support, just as he called for synergy and collective action. He said, “I am pleased to hear that the committee has been in touch with the traditional rulers, the Miyetti Allah group, farmers and other critical stakeholders and still consulting before the full implementation of the law. “The biggest task is in the enforcement of the law and the police can’t do this alone. “We pray that the various communities would cooperate and allocate lands to cattle dealers to graze their cattle. “We need to support each other to succeed; the governor that I know is prepared and I want to assure you that the project will work. “I want to assure you that the support you need, you will get from this office.” Also, the State NSCDC Commandant, Akinsanya Iskilu, said his men are ready to provide the needed security support to ensure peace in the state. He said, “One of the core mandates of the NSCDC is the agro-rangers; it is to provide physical security to agro-allied industries which include protecting farmers and herders as they carry out their businesses “A nation that neglects agriculture has neglected development because every development revolves around agriculture.” On his part, the Assistant Director General of DSS, Ademola Adebiyi, also called for synergy among the various security outfits and assured the committee of intelligence report vital to promoting and sustaining peace in the state. Earlier, the Commissioner said that the visit was to intimate them of the existing Livestock law and to seek their support for a peaceful implementation to ensure that the herders and farmers in the state go about their businesses without conflict. He said that since the setting up of the committee by Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa, the DLMC has been on consultation visits and meeting with critical stakeholders. “We have met with traditional rulers, the Miyetri Allah and farmers in Asaba and recently in Ughelli, in Ughelli North Local Government Area on a peace-meeting with the Uwheru community and herders but the herders we met are not those in the forest. “This peace move became necessary to educate them on the law and to stop the situation in Uwheru from degenerating into crisis because, some time ago in Uwheru community, 10 persons were killed in the crisis,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com