Some members of the House of Representatives have renewed the call for the decentralisation of the present structure of the Nigeria Police, following the recent alleged disrespect to the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, by a police officer. The lawmakers, who are members of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, also faulted the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for ruling out state police. Sanwo-Olu and a Chief Superintendent of Police had exchanged words at Magodo Phase II in Lagos on Tuesday. Many Nigerians were surprised when policemen led by the CSP defied Sanwo-Olu’s directive to vacate Magodo estate. The policemen had, on December 21, 2021, accompanied some people who planned to demolish some houses in the estate as part of moves to execute a Supreme Court judgement. On Tuesday, the matter came to a head when the governor visited the estate and the CSP refused to carry out his directive that policemen should be withdrawn from the area. Also on Wednesday, Buhari, in an interview with Channels TV, insisted that state police is not an option, adding that more attention should be paid to the relationship between local government and state governors. Chairman of the House Committee on Judiciary, Onofiok Luke (PDP/Akwa Ibom), whose bill seeking to decentralise the current unitary police structure is among those being considered by the House Committee on Constitution Review, in a telephone interview with our correspondent on Friday, said he would always insist on state police. He said, “The first is that every office we occupy should be treated with respect. I know for sure; I can speak from a distance that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is not a power monger and I don’t see him to be someone who is overbearing. My thinking is that he is always there to defend the rights of the citizens and dwellers of Lagos. So, for him to have appeared there to see things showed a hands-on leader. “No matter what happened, the police officer should have accorded him the respect due to his office. So, it was disheartening for the governor to even be on site and that kind of reaction was meted out to his person. So, it is just the general militarised mentality in the country. It is just so sad. I felt bad. I keep watching the video and I am not comfortable with it.” Speaking on the officer’s referral of the governor to the federal authorities, Luke noted that the country had witnessed a series of similar issues in the past “where the police will take a decision in a state and say the order comes from Abuja.” He added, “When things happen and the governor, as the chief security officer, tries to take control of the security situation in their state and they run to the Commissioner of Police, the first response is usually that the order comes from Abuja.” The lawmaker, while reacting to Buhari’s comment on state police, noted that though there were arguments against state police, governors should be in better control of security in their states. He stated, “We know that the police came up with something called community policing. I am aware that some of those people recruited have not been paid. Some people in my constituency are calling on me to move a motion on their behalf on the floor of the House when we resume; that they were recruited, they have been working – and I have seen them in police uniform – but they have not been paid. “The question is: why did we go for community police? It answers the question that we need local policing. We need a situation where people from an area are incorporated into the police. But right now, if the police were decentralised; if it were to be state police, I don’t think that this issue of non-payment would have arisen. States would have taken care of the logistics.” Also, Deputy Minority Leader of the House, Toby Okechukwu (PDP/Enugu), said if Buhari was not interested in the state police proposal, he should provide a better alternative that would ensure safety of life and property. Okechukwu said, “The President has a right to his opinion and he should also have the mechanism for dealing with the security challenges that we have in Nigeria. In the absence of that, in the absence of a solution, he should not just reject state police for the sake of not wanting state police. We expect that there must be a solution to the challenges that we are having. There must be some level of review of the architecture of our security. If you don’t want to call it state police, that is fine. “In any case, if you don’t want state police, most of the states already have security outfits like Ebubeagu, Amotekun and vigilantes all over the country. It is state police, ordinarily. They are trying to deal with an imperfect situation. It is because of the gaps that are there that those outfits are coming up. The lawmaker added, “But the challenge that we have and the risk is that when you establish very unregimented and uncontrolled security outfits, the way they will mutate will not be controlled by you. And the reversed version will become dangerous. So, there must be a way of regimenting state police and that is why we are calling for regimenting these security outfits.”We’ll settle land dispute, LASG assures residents, others Meanwhile, the Lagos State Government has assured residents of Magodo and other stakeholders of an amicable settlement of the land dispute. Speaking on This Morning, a proramme on TVC, the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, said the recent visit by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to the Estate resulted in a meeting of all parties to the dispute and the resolution that a committee, headed by the Attorney-General, Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo, SAN, should find a lasting solution to the protracted crisis. “The Committee also has other members, such as the state surveyor-general, permanent secretary of Lands Bureau and commissioner for the environment. They are expected to map out how to go about settling the Magodo dispute and report back to the governor, who has shown sincerity in resolving the matter,” he said. Replying to a question on the “defiance” of the police officer to the governor’s directive, Omotoso said the government was taking it up with the Inspector–General of Police, just as he condemned the reluctance of the police to leave the area. According to him, South West Governors’ Forum, civil society organisations and well-meaning Nigerians have condemned the act. Omotoso also spoke on land grabbing, saying that a committee had been set up by the state government to look into such matters and resolve them amicably. On the submission of a report on the collapsed building at Ikoyi, the commissioner said the state government was committed to implementing the recommendations to safeguard the multi-billion naira property sector. He said “The report provides deep insight into why buildings go down suddenly, however Mr. Governor has promised again that such a situation that led to the unfortunate incident and subsequent loss of lives will not happen again. The administration is assuring Lagosians that the report will be made public while the conduct of DNA tests has been concluded for identification of bodies”. Making a remark on the death of Sylvester Oromoni Jnr, the 12-year-old pupil of Dowen College in Lekki, the Omotoso sympathised with the family and assured the public that the government would ensure that “justice is appropriately served.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com