The Lagos State government has said it will divert traffic on Dopemu Road in Agege area of the state for a duration of three months. The diversion which starts by 10pm on Friday, January 21, 2022, is for the rehabilitation and upgrade of Babajide Sanwo-Olu Road. According to the state Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, the repair works will be executed in three phases, adding that the first phase of the project will focus on Ipaja Road to Adealu Street junction which will last for three months. He assured that alternative routes have been mapped by the State’s Traffic Management Authority to enhance effective control of vehicular movement along the axis during the duration of the construction. The Transport Commissioner advised motorists inbound Dopemu Bridge from Iyana Ipaja/Alagba axis to go through Ipaja Road to connect Oyewole Street into Seriki Street to link Kolawole and Adebambo Streets in order to access Adealu Road for their desired destination. In the same vein, he implored motorists heading towards Dopemu Bridge from Ipaja (Oke-Koto) to utilise Markaz Road to connect Awori Street and link Sarumi Alawo Street/Oniwaya and Surulere to continue their journey or alternately go through Alfa Nla from Old Ipaja Road to connect Oniwaya/Surulere axis to reach Dopemu Bridge. Oladeinde reaffirmed that the suggested alternative routes are in motorable condition and will not pose any difficulties to motorists plying the routes, assuring also that LASTMA personnel will be at the diversion routes for efficient traffic management. While lauding Lagosians for their perseverance through the myriad of constructions ongoing across the state, the Commissioner called for support from the citizenry, assuring them that the inconvenience will soon yield the desired outcome through an effective multi-modal transportation system in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com