Many of the concerts held in the country in December 2021 were undoubtedly blighted by the lateness of many artistes, some of whom were headliners of those shows. Citing how the same singers usually showed up on time to perform at concerts in the United States of America, the United Kingdom and other European countries, some disgruntled fans stated that the singers do not have respect for Nigerians. A fan, Henry, had in December taken to his social media page to complain about Burna Boy’s lateness to his concert which was held in Abuja. He wrote, “It is 3:03 am. DJ has run out of songs to play. Hypemen are tired. Yet, no Burnaboy.” In a follow-up post, Henry wrote, “3:25 am, he got on stage and the first thing he did was to shine his teeth. Then, he went on as if he came out at 3:25 pm. I left at 3:30am as I could not stomach it anymore.” Ayo Balogun, popularly known as Wizkid, was also called out on social media after he arrived late during his concert tagged ‘Wizkid Live in Abuja’ on Friday, December 17, 2021. The show was reportedly billed to start by 4 pm but it began late in the night with invited up-and-coming singers performing and the DJ playing to get people entertained while waiting for Wizkid, who allegedly did not show up until about 3am, leaving guests frustrated. Expressing his disappointment, a Twitter user, @ChuChuIgbokwe, wrote, “They don’t behave like this when they are touring Europe and the US. Not necessarily because they don’t want to but because they cannot. Refunds and lawsuits will keep musicians and promoters honest. They can bankrupt you pretty quickly. Also, venues and city permits have fixed times. You can’t exceed them. “At the end of the day, it comes down to institutions and culture. The city, the venue the promoters, organisers, and the artistes; nobody holds the other accountable. The irresponsibility flows downhill combined with no consumer protections. All it takes is for one promoter to advertise a concert at 8pm and start on time. Customers have paid already so if they miss the performances, it is on them. Similoluwa Kosoko, aka Simi, was also called out by fans for not starting her show, ‘Do you Simi Now’, early. The event was scheduled to start by 3pm but was delayed for hours which led to some spectators leaving before the show later commenced. The singer, however, took to her Facebook page to apologise to aggrieved fans. She wrote, “I apologise for how late we started. Even I was agitated because many had to leave before the show started. I know I let you down. Don’t be crossed with me. It takes too many people to make an event like this work out, and we dropped the ball. I am sorry.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com