THE Anambra and Abia state governments  have expressed worry over the low number of applications in their various states for the ongoing police recruitment. Recall that no fewer than 81,005 applicants applied for the Nigeria Police Force ongoing recruitment. Out of the 81,005 applications received nationwide as of January 7, 2022, 1,404 applications – less than 2% of the total applications – were received from the five states in the South east. Only 261 applications were also received from Lagos State, with Anambra State having the least figure of 158 applicants. We can’t force our youths to join Police – Anambra Speaking with Saturday PUNCH, the Anambra State Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, Mr C-Don Adinuba, said that the young men and women in the South-East were not interested in joining the police as constables. He also explained that Anambra always recorded the highest number of applicants for police recruitment in the region, adding that there was nothing the government could do to force or make the people to be interested in police job. According to him, it is youths’ own personal decision and they are not apologetic about it. Adinuba said, “Although, the youths of the region are interested in police job, they want to join as Inspector cadet, ASP cadet and not as recruits. The youths are interested in police job, but they don’t want to go in as constables. “When it is time to write recruitment exams for ASP cadet or inspector cadet, our people write more applications than any other state, and they are not apologetic about it. “It is an individual decision, individual choice and there is nothing the government can do about it.” Also reacting, the Secretary to the State Government, Chris Ezem, said the state government had done all it could through sensitisation, adding, “there is nothing the government can do again. You cannot force anybody to join the force”. However, a source, said the issues of ethnicity in recruitment, promotion and fear of death are one of the reasons the young men and women in the state and region shunned the force. The source added that this situation could be solve through the approval of the Federal Government for the creation of state police which would restore the confidence on the members. Lagos explains low application Meanwhile, the Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, explained that the low applications from Lagos was not surprising, saying that Lagosians were usually indifferent about such job applications. He said, “First, maybe many people are not aware. Secondly it is not something new; it has always been like that; Lagosians don’t accord priorities to such matters. I do not know why but it is not only Lagos that has that kind of problem. Since it has been extended, a lot can be done. We will talk to our people to tell their children who may be interested that the door is still open.” Asked if the low application from Lagos could be due to the role of Lagos as the focal point of the 2020 #EndSARS protests, he said, “I do not think that is scientific enough. There is no proof to back that.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com