A taxi driver at the Ikeja Central Park, Lagos State, Mathew Okotie, has been commended for returning a laptop and other valuables left in his car by a passenger. PUNCH Metro gathered that Okotie picked the passenger, Dimeji Kayode-Adedeji, from the Babatunde Fashola Railway Terminus at Agege, en route to Ikeja, where the latter had made a hotel reservation. On arrival at his destination, one of the hotel workers who picked the luggage was said to have left a bag containing the laptop and other valuables in the car. Okotie told our correspondent that the moment he saw the bag, he decided to return it because he knew the owner would have been worried. He said, “It was when I drove off towards another destination for likely passengers after I stopped for some food that I noticed that there was a bag in my car. Immediately, I went back to the hotel where I dropped the passenger. “Eventually, I returned the laptop and other valuables to the man and people were amazed that I could do that. I felt concerned about what the owner of the bag would be going through.” The 62-year-old Delta State indigene said he once served in the Nigerian Air Force as a driver, adding that he later left to drive the managing director of a private organisation. “From there, I ventured into taxi business. I have been living in Lagos for many years. I actually loved the Air Force work, but my mother would not let me rest being her only son. She would be crying that her only son would not be a military man, so I left the Air Force. I started this taxi business over 20 years ago and to date, that is what I am doing to take care of my family. “If I wanted to take that laptop, I could have taken it, but for what gain? I have children and honesty is what I believe in. Also, if I take it and the police come after me, is that not something shameful?” he added. He appealed to the youth to be truthful and honest for the good of society. The passenger, Kayode-Adedeji, commended Okotie for his honesty. He said, “When he returned the laptop to me, I asked myself if an average Nigerian would do what he did. I am impressed that there are still good people in our society. “People like Okotie are the ones we should be celebrating because this will encourage people to act positively.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com