The pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, has decried the worsening security situation in Nigeria. The National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, Jare Ajayi, said in a statement on Wednesday that the recent incidents across the country had shown that the government was not applying the appropriate solutions to the problem. Ajayi, however, advised the President, Major General Muhammadu Bubari ( retd.), to allow state police to be created and to equip the military to wage unrelenting wars against terrorists, bandits and kidnappers. He said the government should activate the doctrine of necessity to review the   aspect of the constitution that vested police in the Federal Government alone. He said state and local governments should have their police structures, saying this will complement the efforts of the military and other security agencies. He said, “This is the time that states and local government councils must be legally allowed to have their own security agencies. Such states and local government security agencies must be fully equipped and be allowed to have the powers to investigate and prosecute accordingly. “It is therefore incumbent on the President to allow state police, strengthen the military with equipment and right motivation, prevail on the attorney general to allow rule of law to operate without fear or favour. “He should also stop nepostic justice, enable the military to mop-up too much weapons in the hands of unauthorised persons and promptly convene a meeting of ethnic nationalities and interest groups. “Such a meeting should be to return the country to a true federation with perhaps a parliamentary system of government. In the above suggestions lie the solutions to the security and economic problems Nigeria is facing presently.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com