The Akwa Ibom State government on Monday inaugurated a task force to ensure the enforcement of the ban on scavenging and commercial motorcycle operation in the Uyo metropolis and capital city including open grazing and other sundry offences in the state. The state government in a statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem, on January 4, 2022 announced a ban on the activities of scrap scavengers in the state following a clash between scavengers and indigenes of Afaha Uko community which led to the death of three persons. The Senior Special Adviser to the state governor, Udom Emmanuel on Security Matters and Special Services, Capt. Iniubong Ekong (retd.), while briefing journalists in Uyo, said the inauguration of the task force was to ensure that government’s directives were obeyed to the latter for the safety and security of the people. Ekong noted that the enforcement became necessary to beef up internal insecurity in the state, adding from investigation most heinous crimes such as rape, burglary and stealing were perpetuated with the use of motorcycles. He said, “We have seen ugly development that okada has started creeping in especially in Uyo metropolis, and part of Uyo capital city. This has not in any way helped the positivity of our security architecture. “Again, we have seen the menace of the scrap operators on the livelihood and peace of our people. Actually the government has not in any way positioned itself to block peoples’ sources of livelihood, but the freedom of one to conduct business must not impinge on the right of existence of others. Government will not keep quiet and allow a set of business ‘entrepreneurs’ who want to survive and grow their business at the expense of freedom and livelihood of any other person. Every resident is equal to the other in all ramifications and the government has the responsibility to guarantee freedom, safety and peace for all. Consequent upon this, government has set up enforcement team on ban to move around to ensure total compliance” Ekong also said a mobile court had been set up in Ibom Hall Uyo to prosecute defaulters, stating that motorcycles seized would be crushed publicly. He added that arrangement with the crushing company from Aba Abia State had been perfected and would perform the exercise every two weeks. Addressing the law enforcement officers, which included men and officers of the Nigerian Police, the military, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Ekong charged them to be diligent and not to engage in physical combat with defaulters as there was a law in place. Noting that no one was exempted from the ban, especially the officers who ride okada in the restricted zones, Ekong stated that the governor had approved an allowance and welfare package for them. Also, CSP Henry Kaboshio urged the team not to compromise, adding, “Just arrest offenders and allow the law to take its cause.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com