Barely three weeks after 44-year-old Terhemen Anongo, who dropped out as a 500 Level medical student of the University of Ibadan castrated himself, Anongo says he has peace in his mind and can now sleep well. The PUNCH had in March 2021 reported how Anongo, who later turned cart pusher, removed one of his testicles. On January 3, 2022, Anongo, who is popularly known in Gboko, Benue State as ‘doctor’, removed the second testicle. Anongo, who spoke with our correspondent on the telephone on Sunday on the effect of the full castration of his testicles, said he could sleep perfectly without waking up with sexual urge, adding that he had enough time to read his Bible. Narrating the psychological effect of not having a wife or girlfriend, Anongo said, “You know you will have a problem in Gboko if you do not have a girlfriend. You will have to go and sleep with prostitute and pay either N1,000 or N2,000, depending on the style you want. “After that (sleeping with prostitute), you feel guilt, it was very bad and almost suicidal. Then, if I see a woman shaking her buttocks, I sometimes resorted to buying data and watching pornography on my phone. But now, the interest in these things is simply not there. “There is no sexual urge at all. I can sleep perfectly now. I have a lot of peace in my mind, read the Bible and understand it.” Anongo added that if one had an urge but could not exercise it, “it makes one angry very easily.” While stating that he personally carried out the castration, Anongo said he only decided to visit hospital because of infection he had. “I had an infection, so I was going to hospital to dress it but now, I am better. I am beginning to cope very well and my voice is changing, it is becoming lighter,” he added. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com