A House of Representatives and All Progressives Congress governorship aspirant in Ekiti State, Femi Bamisile, cautioned on Sunday that the party in the state would crumble if it failed to pick its governorship candidate from the South Senatorial District on January 27. Bamisile, who lauded the APC National Working Committee for adopting the direct mode for Ekiti State governorship primary, which he said would give members the opportunity to elect their choice candidate, however, charged the party leadership to ensure a free, fair and credible exercise. The governorship aspirant, who spoke in a chat with journalists, said, “To prevent a rancorous primary, the national leadership of the party should deploy those who are independent-minded and who will not listen to any dictation to Ekiti to conduct a credible primary. “We are hopeful that this primary will be free and fair. If we want our party to remain relevant in the eyes of Nigerians, we have to be justiciable in all our dealings. Those of us from the South won’t allow anyone to take the governorship away from us this time. “I am optimistic that one of the three aspirants from the South will win the APC primary, but peradventure anyone emerges that is not from the South, that will be bye-bye to APC in Ekiti. I have visited everywhere and I know what the people of Ekiti are saying. They are ready for a southern candidate in APC.” The aspirant further warned, “We, the people of the South can no longer tolerate the conspiracy being contrived against us by the political class, with the way we were being ostracised from the political equation and insulated from producing the governor since 1999.” “I don’t disagree with Governor Kayode Fayemi for anointing one of the aspirants, but the process for the emergence of such a person must be credible and transparent. Let me restate here, if Governor Fayemi had come to the South to pick a councillor as his candidate, I will not have been contesting in this election. “It is not dignifying for the governor, who, in 2018 campaigned and promised Ekiti South governorship ticket after his four-year tenure to change the goal post in the middle of the game. But I know that the conspiracy against the South will fail this time.” The lawmaker, who appealed to party members and aspirants to allow peace to reign before, during and after the primary, said, “Peace is very important in the sense that only one person will get the ticket. They should allow the voices of the people to be heard.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com