The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, says Nigeria cannot continue to “borrow endlessly” to fund its annual budgets, blaming the Federal Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies for failing to generate enough revenue. Lawan, in his opening address as the National Assembly resumed plenary on Tuesday, noted that the oversight of the implementation of the budget was a critical function of the National Assembly. The Senate President stated that the lawmakers must strategise on effective oversight of the implementation of the 2022 Appropriation Act, saying, “This is going to be the last budget that would be fully implemented for 12 months in the life of the 9th Senate.” He also said, “Funding of the 2022 budget is predicated on significant borrowing. Our country is caught between the devil and the deep blue sea. We have to construct and provide infrastructure in all parts of our country because infrastructure is needed for our nation to develop. “However, we do not generate enough revenues to fund the provision of such infrastructure. Until more revenues are generated, the country has to borrow and also resort to other sources of funding for our infrastructural development. But we cannot continue to borrow endlessly. He added, “It is imperative that improve on the revenue to Gross Domestic Products ratio. At about eight per cent Revenue-to-GDP ratio, our country is basically at 50 per cent of what is required of the revenue-to-GDP of 15 per cent for it to support any significant economic development.” Lawan added that the Senate would develop a strategy of engagement with revenue-generating agencies on how to make them achieve their targets and generate more revenues in 2022. Also, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, in his opening address, decried that Nigerians do not appreciate the significant impacts of the constituency projects being initiated by the lawmakers across the country. According to him, the lawmakers have used the appropriations process and the power of parliament over the public purse to pursue community and constituency development across the country. , Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com