Residents of Lekki Peninsula area of Lagos State under the Lekki Estate Resident and Stakeholders Association have called on the state governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to build a coastal road he promised them during electioneering in 2019 to ease traffic in the area. They stormed streets, singing solidarity songs and displayed banners with  inscriptions such as ‘Lekki Residents Say No to Leasing of Lekki Coastal Road for Private Development’, ‘40 years later, it is time to build Lekki Coastal road’, ‘Area Boys Go, Church Come. All na noise. Bring Back our Coastal Roads!.’ The residents urged the state government to hear their cries and construct an alternative link road to the area. Decrying the state of the access to and from the area, the President, LERSA, Mr James Emadoye, said it had been over 40 years since the project lingered, noting that the situation made the residents suffer undue traffic on the Lekki-Epe Expressway. He said, “The only road that cuts across this region is the Lekki-Epe Expressway and if you live in this area, you will know that for one to move out of one’s homes to go to office, one needs to wake up at 5am. It was a thing of joy when during the campaign in 2019, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu promised to construct a coastal road. We knew that it was a good thing. This was one of the reasons we came out and voted for him. But, recently we saw bulldozers clearing the road and we actually went to church to celebrate that the road construction was going to start. “We have over 100 estates and communities around Lekki from 1004 Area to Epe. What our people are saying is that they want a coastal road. We don’t want private developers here. We are protesting to let Lagos State know that the coastal roads they said they are allocating temporarily are not acceptable to the people of Lekki for many reasons.” He claimed that some portions of the land where the coastal roads were designated had been taken over by private developers, whom he said he later got to know after inquiries from the government, were there ‘temporarily’ to avoid miscreants from taking advantage of the development. “We went several times to the government before we were able to solve those problems. If we allow this so-called temporary allocation, in one or two years, we would hear that it has become permanent. The government would begin to tell us that there are no funds to pay compensation. We do not want it. We are ready as a people directly affected by the development of this road to cooperate with the government in whichever way necessary to ensure that the road is maintained and lives are bearable for the people of Lekki. All we are saying is, “Stop this allocation!” When you allocate a place like this to a church, after one year, you would not be able to tell the sort of development that would come upon that land. It should be stopped and government should look through this.’’ Also speaking, a resident in one of the estates in the area identified only as Mrs Odubgesan said recent projects in the area would make living unbearable for the residents to find their way home using onlsy the Lekki-Epe Expressway. She said, “Mr Governor, traffic is terrible on this road. I am a woman and sometimes, I spend three to four hours on the road because of traffic. The only alternative is this coastal road. We voted for you because you promised to build it. Let our votes not be in vain. It is the only alternative.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com