Data from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control on Saturday revealed that no fewer than 32 individuals lost their lives to Lassa fever in three weeks. This is as the centre notes that a total of 759 suspected cases were reported within the period across 26 states and the Federal Capital Territory. Since, the last outbreak of the disease in 2016, the NCDC noted that there had been an increase in the number of cases. In 2019, the centre said 796 cases were reported, while in 2020, a total of 1,165 cases were confirmed at the peak of the pandemic. The PUNCH had reported that the Federal Government had last week announced the activation of emergency response over the disease. The NCDC said the activation became necessary given the increase in the number of confirmed Lassa fever cases across the country. The latest situation report showed that 72 individuals were currently undergoing treatment, 369 were under follow-up, while four health workers had so far been infected in 2022. The affected states are Edo, Ondo, Bauchi, Benue, Oyo, Taraba, Ebonyi, Kogi, Kaduna, Katsina, Ebonyi, Plateau, Cross River, Borno, Anambra, Bayelsa, Jigawa, Kebbi, Ogun, Kwara, Lagos, Delta, Gombe, FCT, Nasarawa, Rivers and Enugu. The centre noted, “The time between infection and the appearance of symptoms of the disease is three to 21 days. Early treatment and diagnosis increase the chances of survival.” report noted, “Lassa fever presents initially like any other febrile illness such as malaria. Its symptoms include fever, headache, sore throat, general body weakness, cough, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, muscle pains, chest pain, and in severe cases unexplainable bleeding from ears, eyes, nose, mouth and other body openings.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com