National Universities Commission has begin collation of data towards accreditation of seven new degree programmes at Kwara State College of Education, Ilorin in affiliation with Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti. The new programmes are; Biology, Chemistry, English, French, Economics, Social Studies and Early Childhood Care. Speaking at the opening ceremony of the accreditation exercise in Ilorin, the leader of the NUC team, Prof. Oyaziwo Aluede, said the accreditation is a process and the team was at the institution for inspection that would hopefully lead to accreditation of the seven degree courses. In his remarks, the acting provost of the college, Dr Jimoh Ayinla, said that the exercise was the first ever accreditation exercise for full-time degree programme in the college. “As an institution, we have gone through different stages of scrutiny before we got to the point of this accreditation. In 2018, a Resource Assessment Visit was conducted by the NUC and based on the visit, the Management Committee of NUC, during its meeting on Friday, August 31, 2018, approved the affiliation arrangement of this College with Ekiti State University and seven programmes were approved for studies in our College. “Course Accreditation by the National Universities Commission is germane to the credibility of degrees awarded by a University. Taking or studying a non-accredited course in any Tertiary Institution is tantamount to a colossal waste of resources. Hence the need for what we are starting today. I wish to reiterate the commitment of the College Management and other officers to the success of this very important academic exercise. “As a teacher training institution of long standing, I am proud to inform you that our College is blessed with learned and ever-learning scholars in various fields. Our teaching staff are research inclined and ever ready to do more to ensure standard.” The Provost also appreciated Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq and Commissioner for Tertiary Education for giving the institution support towards ensuring that the accreditation exercise was being carried out successfully. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com