FUZU Limited has said it is committed to the development of business organisations through coaching, training, mentoring and other human capacity development offerings. The Chief Executive Officer, Jussi Hinkkanen, said this while speaking at the launch of the company in Lagos recently, according to a statement. According to him, the company is committed to building capacity for over 78 million unemployed youths in Nigeria with the aim to reposition them to be fit and proper for the available jobs. “We encourage jobseekers to explore our website. We provide each user with personalised job recommendations, application feedback, access to career coaches, hundreds of online courses, career forums/communities and peer-to-peer learning,” he said. He said the company was established to provide human potential by providing a fully personalised user experience on assessment of skills, personality and interest. According to him, the company is working with employers of labour to open up opportunities with a promise to instil and impact the requisite skills into prospective employees to make them fit and proper for the future work challenges. Hinkkanen said, “FUZU allows career builders do search and apply for jobs that they are best fitted for. We provide Nigerians with free access to a professionally designed CVs upon completion of onboarding. “We use advanced Artificial Intelligence tools to compare candidates and provide immediate personalised feedback. We have a library of 100s of relevant courses created specifically for African context. We automatically recommends the best courses based on their past experience and future career goals. We also create forums geared towards supporting the career journey for users to communicate ideas and tips to grow.” According to him, the company also adds value to businesses by outsourcing talents, candidates’ assessment, automated candidates ranking and shortlisting, hiring management and collaboration as well as headhunting. “We will provide your business with infrastructure and knowledge support,” he said. The Country Director, Patricia Duru, expressed FUZU’s commitment to transforming jobseekers with poor chances for employment to long-term career builders with strong growth trajectory.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com