The Kaduna State Government says the attack by gunmen on Zaman Dabo Village in the Atyap Chiefdom of Zango-Kataf Local Government Area of the State in the early hours of Sunday claimed 11 lives while over 30 houses were razed. The state Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, who confirmed the incident, said as at 4.30pm, no fewer than 11 residents of the area had died. The PUNCH had reported the gunmen at about 3.00am on Sunday stormed Atak Mawai ward in Zaman Dabo Village in the Atyap Chiefdom of Zango-Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State and killed no fewer than 10 persons. However, the Commissioner, in a statement titled, ‘Eleven confirmed killed, others injured in Zangon Kataf LGA,’ said security operatives overseeing the southern part of the state said 11 people were killed while others were injured. Aruwan identified the victims as Elizabeth Ayuba, Veronica Auta, Bege Daniel, Kephas Waje, Promise Jacob and Damaris istifanus . Others, he said, are Hauwa Joshua, Dogara Gambo, Lidia Ishaya , Michael Achi as well as Gabriel Michael. He said, “Security forces have reported to the Kaduna State Government that Kurmin Masara general area of Zangon Kataf LGA was attacked in the early hours of today. “According to the reports, troops of the Nigerian Air Force Special Forces who responded to distress calls from the area also fell into an ambush as they mobilised to the scene of the attack. “The troops cleared the ambush and reached the general area, along with troops of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH). “As of 4:30PM, 11 residents were confirmed killed, and some inflicted with gunshot injuries. “Over thirty houses and properties were burnt in the attack. “The injured were evacuated for treatment. Search-and-rescue operations and pursuit of the attackers are in progress on different fronts. “The Government of Kaduna State will make public further details as soon as they are received from security forces.” The Commissioner said Governor Nasir El-rufai expressed sadness over the latest in the series of attacks in the area. Aruwan said, “He(governor) prayed for the repose of all those killed and conveyed his condolences to their families. He further wished the injured a speedy recovery.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com