Confusion has trailed the health status of Veteran Nollywood actress, Sidikat Odukanwi, popularly known as Iyabo Oko. This is as the actress, who was previously announced dead, came back alive three hours after. Her daughter, Bisi Aisha, gave the updates on Instagram. About three hours after the 62-year-old actress was announced dead, she was said to move her hand. Bisi Aisha initially announced her mother’s death in several Instagram posts late on Wednesday night, posting, “My mum is gone. Rest well mummy. May ur soul Rest In Peace mummy”. On Thursday morning, she updated the post, saying, “Wonderful being, she moved her hand after being confirmed dead three hours ago. God, we will forever praise your holy name.” Iyabo Oko’s transition was also early announced by actress Foluke Daramola-Salako. She initially wrote on her Instagram page,  “And finally we lost her… RIP Iyabo Oko, we did our best but God knows best”. Foluke Daramola-Salako also later updated that Iyabo Oko is no longer dead. “Just heard from her daughter again that she moved her hand and she is still alive. Hallelujah! She is alive. “It was her same daughter that announced her death before and she was the one that says is alive now.” One of her daughters, Olamide, earlier told The PUNCH that the actress was diagnosed with ischaemic stroke about five years ago but chose to keep her health issues away from the public. She had said, “What affected my mum was the fact that she was not going for her medical check-ups. I want Nigerians to help provide a car for her. What happened (to her) could have been prevented but because of the unavailability of a car, things took a different turn. She lives very far from the hospital. “When she had her last ‘attack’, I had to get a motorcycle to convey her to the junction before I could get a cab to pick her. She was diagnosed with right ischaemia stroke some years back. The first health scare happened about five years ago but she did not want anyone to know about it. My elder siblings even flew her to China for better medical treatment and she got better. Sadly, she had two other ‘attacks’. “But, she instructed us not to tell anyone about it, that she would be fine. But seven days ago, she had another attack that affected her limbs. However, she is getting better. She can now talk and respond to people. The doctors have assured us that with the help of physiotherapy, she would be able to use her limbs again. “We spoke out because we now need financial help. Her children are doing their best but they can’t do everything. Actresses like Foluke Daramola, Iyabo Ojo, Mercy Aigbe, and Biodun Okeowo have assisted financially in the past.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com