A security guard, Temitope Ariyo, 44, has been reportedly killed by hoodlums who invaded the Iraye community, in the Sagamu Local Government Area of Ogun State. PUNCH Metro gathered that the gunmen stormed the community last Wednesday around 3pm on the orders of one Otunba, who was allegedly laying claim to the traditional stool in the community. Our correspondent learnt that the hoodlums, who also injured three policemen, robbed residents of their valuables. The wife of the deceased, Beauty Ariyo, who urged the Inspector-General of Police to investigate the matter, said the deceased left their residence to see his relatives in Iraye. She said, “Last Wednesday, my husband left our house in Fakale and told me that he was going to Iraye town to meet some of his family members. I also left home for work. Later in the evening, someone called me that some people attacked my husband and that he was shot in both legs. “I was also told that the hoodlums dragged him on a motorcycle and took him away when they discovered that he was still gasping for breath. We’ve not seen his body since that day. I want the state government to help me.” An eyewitness, Owoduni Bakare, while recalling the incident, said he escaped the attack by a whisker. He said, “I am from Iraye and I have never seen anything like this in my life before. We have a government in Ogun State and we want the government to step into this matter and save us from these hoodlums, who want us all dead. “We were in the village on Wednesday when the thugs, numbering 200, started shooting continuously. A woman, who sells by the roadside, hid me inside her house.” Another witness, Fausat Olatunji, said, “We were all playing in our backyard when we suddenly heard gunshots. The hoodlums went down the road and later came back to our house, but we had locked the door by then. “They broke into the house through the window and started beating everybody they saw, including my aged father and my elder brother, who had an eye problem. My children and his elder brother were injured when they shattered their windows. “They asked us where Ariyo was, but we told them that we didn’t know his whereabouts. One of them, who was on deadlocks, took a broken glass and went straight to where Ariyo was hiding and cut his face. They dragged him outside and shot him in both legs.” The Baale of Iraye community, Chief Balogun Kalejaiye, said the latest attack was the second in two years. He said, “On Wednesday, January 19, 2022, around 3pm, these hoodlums invaded the community and attacked our children, elderly ones and other villagers. “We had heard rumours that they were coming since last year, but only policemen from the administrative section of the FCID Abuja came into town. Last Wednesday, policemen from Abuja said they were there to inspect a palace, but they moved around the village and didn’t find any palace. “On June 26, 2019, these same people brought policemen from the Zonal Intervention Squad, Obada-Oko, Abeokuta, and shot sporadically into many homes, but we insisted that we would not be scared from our ancestral homes. The police from Abuja had barely left the village that Wednesday when these armed hoodlums, who were led by a certain Otunba, started shooting in the village. “We have all deserted the village because the hoodlums are there. They kill cows every day and cook on our ancestral land. The IG should save us from these criminals.” The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, denied knowledge of the incident. He promised to get back to our correspondent after speaking with the divisional police officer in charge of the area. He had yet to do so as of the time of filing this report.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com