Background I was born in Ibadan, and I attended Bodija international School. I had an awesome childhood, having such successful parents with my dad (Segun Odegbami) being an international and renowned soccer star, while my mum was so ambitious, working towards ensuring that we had the best. Everyone was taken care of gracefully. Education My educational journey is interesting because I have many areas of interest. After high school, I went on to study Performing Arts and Audio Technology, then I quickly changed to Architecture, then Building Surveying. I am still a student and may attempt getting a Law degree next year. I love the concept of learning. Relocation It wasn’t always easy but we moved to the United Kingdom to continue the rest of my education. We experienced every type of racial prejudice and abuse imaginable. Leaving Nigeria where my surname was celebrated to the UK where my surname was unpronounceable and ridiculed was tough. It wasn’t fun being a Nigerian in the UK at that time. I guess that was why I fought to be the ‘coolest female from Nigeria’ when I released my debut single. I incorporated the ‘7’ into my name so people would ask where it came from. I incorporated the Yoruba culture to ignite more interest in my origins, and it worked. Nigeria is home. But, I am not sure I could permanently be based here because my children are still growing and schooling in the UK. However, I consider Nigeria and Ghana to be my homes. Music As far as I can remember, I have always been one with music. I have always being surrounded by music. My parents were big music lovers and our household was filled with the sounds of music. I picked up the drums without having a single lesson and started drumming in church. That was also how I learnt playing the piano and songwriting. Afrobeats Being called the ‘Queen of Afrobeats’ is not necessarily a tag. It is a coined terminology to illustrate my legacy. The idea of popularising an African sound in the UK, or Africanising R&B was the brainchild of Mr Wanle Akinboboye, my dad and me in 2006 when I came to launch my brand in Nigeria. The idea was initially ‘Queen of Afr&B’ because we had created a sound that incorporated Yoruba and RnB, which was a new lane that had never been explored in the way I did it, especially by a female Nigerian based in the UK.  When I released Bo Aso La Ra Mi in the UK and Nigeria in 2009, DJ Abrantee felt that ‘Queen of Afrobeats’ sounded more commercially viable and he was right. His idea to launch an Afrobeats radio show was inspired by me and our adventures touring in Nigeria and Ghana. Choir The inspiration to produce gospel music was not there when I started, even though I was in church. That may not have been my calling at the time, especially if I was attempting to reach the world and make a change with music. I still sing gospel and I ministered at a church during Christmas and will continue to minister at any given opportunity. With everything I have experienced in life, I have a lot to not only praise God for but sing about. I will make a God-centered album soon and praise God. Other activities It has been five years since I released any music. My business took over, and my partner, Abrantee, suffered a serious stroke and adjustments and sacrifices had to be made. Now, I realise why I was enterprising as a child and I appreciate my multi-faceted being and ability to operate in my true divinity. I learnt marketing, public relations, promotions and most importantly how to set up entities that would support our progression. Base I have been living in the UK since I was nine years old, so it was my parents’ decision initially. The career in Nigeria was a result of me being so different, being female and the only one doing what I did at the time. I also understood that the assignment wasn’t for me to stay in Nigeria. At that time, P-Square and the Mo’hits crew were big stars in Africa. But, they couldn’t be seen or heard on UK radio or TV and solely played to predominantly African crowds on tour. However, I was on radio, festivals and TV with a very small fan base, not just based on the merit of the songs or commercial appeal but because of a deliberate marketing strategy to get me seen. Songs For me, a good song is melodic and rhythmic, with lyrics to match. I prefer music that makes one get up and dance. Parents I am convinced that my parents did not believe a career in music was going to make me the millions I spoke of but I was unbelievably passionate about it. I dressed up, lived and breathed like I was already a pop star in school. I sang every day, performed at every opportunity and surrounded myself with music. So, they (my parents) relaxed and allowed me to live my truth and become whatever and whoever I wanted to be. Father Initially, I wanted to just make my parents proud so I didn’t tell them when I shot my first set of videos or was releasing music. I worked hard in real estate management and saved enough money for my music career. In Nigeria, my dad’s name  (Segun Odegbami) opened so many doors that I didn’t know which one to enter (laughs). I owe so much to him as this journey would not have been possible without his guidance, introduction to certain people and access to platforms in Nigeria. I worked harder than most, was pulled in so many directions as a mother but I stayed close to God and my parents to navigate my way without compromising much. Favorite song One of my favourite songs is Werk because of the beat and combination of English, Yoruba and Pidgin. It won the 2014 Screen Nation Awards in the UK. However, I love all my songs. Relationship My definition of an ideal relationship is one that is simple, honest, open and filled with authentic love for each other’s divinity. Marriage There is no pressure at all. Marriage is a beautiful thing but I don’t necessarily subscribe to pressures the way I was married before to my children’s father, then got divorced a few years after. I may get married again now that I am a lot wiser but it is not a priority. Motherhood Motherhood cannot be summed up (laughs). It is the biggest life-changing, appetite-altering and most rewarding experience of one’s life. I am just incredibly blessed. I treasure my children and every moment. There is no perfect blueprint on motherhood. It is a constant learning process. One learns something new about one’s children almost daily, and develop new ways to tackle that difference. Challenges I think singing is one of the most natural things for me but as a recording and innovative artist, the biggest challenge would be not having the platforms and infrastructure to support my growth. So, I had to create them. All my time has been spent creating, developing and engineering platforms. Sports (Laughs). I was interested in football and athletics while in school. I am still interested but it remains in my head. Collaboration The list of people I would love to feature is endless but I love Sarkodie, Wizkid and Usher. I feel they would be incredible on a May7ven track. Style My style is big, bold, different and original. I never dressed like anyone or wore clothes you would find anywhere. I always strove to stand out— from my brilliant white hair to my stage outfits. My favourite fashion accessory would be anything on my wrist. Time pieces had always been a big deal for me but nowadays, I just love to have anything unique on my wrist. Almost everything I wear is custom made, either designed by me or an original piece from a designer. Role models I admire and respect many people in the industry. However, I don’t look up to anyone as that would imply that one is down. My idols— Michael Jackson, Fela Kuti and Prince are late. So, it is about continuing their legacy and fighting for the liberation of our people, especially in the world of entertainment. Identity I never try to sound like or be like anyone other than myself. At times, that could be a hindrance as it is a safer bet to follow a new winning sound, formula or trend. Personally, I thrive on ownership, originality and accountability. If it’s great, it’s on me. If it is rubbish, it is all me as long as I am creating me. Advice Do what resonates with your heart, follow your intuitive lead, stay creative, be your own biggest fan and save/invest the money you make from music. Females in music Not just in music; poor female representation, especially at the top, used to happen in almost all sectors but that is slowly changing. We are seeing more females in leadership positions across the world. This will certainly filter to the music business as long as the women at the top pass the baton to other woman without fear. This is the most important aspect of being a woman in power− the true essence of a real queen. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com