Policemen have arrested Muazu Magaji, a fierce critic of the Governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Ganduje. According to an online newspaper, Daily Nigerian, Magaji was arrested by the police after a live television interview on Trust TV in Utako, Abuja around 9:15 pm on Thursday. Although the police have yet to speak on the arrest, witnesses told  Daily Nigerian that Magaji was chased down by the police immediately after leaving the television station. “A few minutes ago something really unfortunate, worrisome and regrettable happened along Ngozi Okonjo-Iwela Way by TOS Benson Crescent junction. Engr. Muazu Magaji was involved in an accident where his Honda car was pushed off the road and made to hit a street-light pole. Although he came out of the car looking unharmed, all the airbags were out. “Apparently, it was a police operation because he was immediately arrested and forcefully taken to the Utako police station. “As I write this I have been at the scene securing his car and we are now on our way to the police station. His bag and the battery of his car are with me,” said a witness. Recall that on January 17, the police in Kano invited Magaji to answer questions regarding a petition against him. He, however, sent his lawyers to the command instead of appearing in person, and then filed a fundamental enforcement case against the police. Magaji, a former commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, was sacked by Ganduje over “insensitive comments” on the death of the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari. Since leaving the government, the former commissioner has been critical of the governor for his leadership style and for involving his family in state affairs. He subsequently joined the Senator Shekarau-led faction of the All Progressives Congress in the state.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com