The pan-Northern socio-political organisation, Arewa Consultative Forum, has cautioned members against endorsing presidential candidates ahead of the 2023 presidential election in the country. The forum noted that it was mindful of the fact that as the 2023 general elections approaches, its members would be asked questions by other Nigerians to know ACF’s preferred candidates. But the Chairman of the ACF and former Agriculture Minister, Chief Audu Ogbeh, cautioned members to be on the watch out and desist from endorsing candidates as “ACF is not a political party to endorse any candidate”. Ogbeh spoke at the opening of the ACF’s National Executive Council meeting held in Kaduna State on Wednesday. As the 2023 general elections approach, Ogbeh stressed the need to meet its counterparts in the South-West (Afenifere) South-East (Ohanaeze)and South-south (South South People Congress) to douse the already charged political tension in the country. He noted that the region was interested in ensuring peaceful coexistence among all Nigerians ahead of the 2023 general election. Ogbeh said, “Our plans to have meetings with Afenifere, Ohanaeze, South-South People Congress is still on course because there is need to put a stop to abusive words against one region or the other. “We should desist from endorsing any candidate for the 2023 presidency. If anybody ask you about endorsement, tell such person that we are not political party. “Even for the 2023, we do not know yet who the candidate is. We are not political party. We do not participate in political activities except where it becomes necessary. May God help us with good candidate. It is only the Almighty God that can solve our problem. “Our plans to have meetings with our counterpart; South South people congress, Afenifere, Ohanaeze is still in progress. Once we are done with the plans we will let you know. “We need to make peace. Abusive words on social media will not help us. We don’t want chaos in this country. If we turn refugees where do we go. We will abandon all our property because we can not carry anything along with us other than Ghana-Must-Go bag.” The Chairman also expressed concern over the kidnapping and killing of students and pupils in both private and public schools across the country. “Government must try very hard to bring sanity to our school system, otherwise we are going nowhere because there are crimes like cultism, sodomy and others in most of our schools today,” the ACF leader stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com