No fewer than seven people have been confirmed dead in a fatal crash that occurred on Thursday at Haka Yaki Village, close to Buzaye town, along Bauchi-Jos Road in Toro Local Government Area of Bauchi State. Two other people sustained varying degrees of injuries in the crash which occurred at 12.30pm. The crash involved a Sharon Bus and a Toyota Hiace Bus which eventually went up in flames. The Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Bauchi State, Yusuf Abdullahi, who confirmed the incident to our correspondent in a telephone interview, said the crash was caused by speed violation which resulted in a head-on collision. He said that seven people were killed while two others sustained varying degrees of injuries in the crash. Abdullahi said, “Yes, there was a fatal crash today, Thursday, 13th January 2022, around 12.30pm, at Haka Yafi Village, close to Buzaye town along Bauchi-Jos Road. “The crash involved two commercial vehicles, Sharon Galaxy Bus with registration number: YLA 88 ZY which was driven by one Mustapha Adamu and Toyota Hiace Bus with registration number: KUJ 182 TU. “The crash was caused by speed violation. It resulted in loss of control and eventually, a head-on collision. One of the vehicles, the Toyota Hiace Bus, went up in flames. “The driver of the Toyota Hiace Bus who was alone in the vehicle and was conveying goods, also died in the unfortunate incident. “Our men arrived at the scene within five minutes to rescue the victims. They rushed them to the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital, Bauchi for medical treatment and confirmation, where a medical doctor confirmed seven people dead. Two others, all male adults, sustained varying degrees of injuries.” The FRSC Boss expressed worry over the recklessness and violation of speed by motorists and appealed to them to be more careful on the road. “The main issues have always been speed violation and reckless driving by motorists, these are just the problems. The motorists need to have a rethink and they should change their attitude on how they use the road,” he appealed. Abdullahi said that the obstructions on the road had been cleared to allow for free flow of traffic to other road users, adding that some items recovered included six phones and the sum of N109,090 cash, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com