The Nigerian Communications Commission has said Nigeria accounts for 29 per cent of Africa’s Internet usage, 82 per cent of its Information and Communication Technology market. The Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, said this during the 10th and 11th combined convocation lecture of the Fountain University at Osogbo, Osun State. In his presentation titled, ‘Empowering the Nigerian youth through Information and Communication Technology,’ he said, “Indeed, for over 10 years, ICT has consistently contributed more than 10 per cent of Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product – the telecom sector alone contributed 12.45 per cent to GDP as at the fourth quarter of 2020. “Given that Nigeria accounts for 82 per cent of Africa’s ICT market and 29 per cent of continental Internet usage and sub-Saharan Africa being the fastest-growing region for ICT adoption, the Federal Government, in its determination to ensure that the nation harness full benefits of ICT, instituted a broadband vision that will see Nigeria as a society of connected communities of high-speed broadband access and connectivity.” According to Danbatta, the adoption of ICT is synonymous with empowerment since it transforms processes efficiently while acting as an enabler of effective operations in every sector of the economy. He said the possibilities of ICT informed the Federal Government’s policy decisions to strengthen ICT adoption in building a digital economy in Nigeria, expressed in the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy, 2020-2030; the Nigerian National Broadband Plan, 2020-2025, and other series of policies, guidelines and regulations derivative of the NDEPS and NNBP. He said, “The envisioned society will deliver Internet connectivity speed 10 megabits per second in rural areas and 25 Mbps in urban areas by 2025. “Additionally, effective coverage will be available to at least 90 per cent of the population by 2025 at a price not more than N390 per one gigabyte of data.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com