The Enugu State Police Command on Wednesday arrested a 52-year-old man, Ifeanyi Amadikwa, in the Enugu East Local Government Area of the state for allegedly killing his three daughters. The suspect, according to a statement by the command’s spokesman, Daniel Ndukwe, murdered the children and dumped their bodies in a spoilt freezer. The statement partly read, “Police operatives attached to the Enugu Metro Area Command of the Enugu State Police Command on January 4, 2022, around 7.30pm, arrested a male suspect, Ifeanyi Amadikwa, aged 52, of 74 Nkwubor Road, Emene, Enugu, for allegedly murdering and dumping in a spoilt deep freezer, his three female children namely, Chidalum Amadikwa,11, (his step-daughter), Amarachi Amadikwa (8) and Ebubechukwu Amadikwa (4). “Preliminary investigation showed that the suspect’s wife and mother of the children went to a market with her only male child on January 4, 2022, leaving the others in the suspect’s custody. She, however, came back in the evening hours of the said date and could not find any of the three children. “But while searching for them, the suspect drew her attention to the said freezer he had brought back home from his shop on January 2, 2022, and kept in their apartment’s veranda. On closer observation, the lifeless bodies of the children were found in the freezer with bruises, suggesting that they might have been murdered and dumped in the freezer. “The lifeless bodies of the children were immediately moved to a hospital, where they were confirmed dead by medical doctors on duty and deposited in the mortuary for preservation and autopsy.” Ndukwe said the state Commissioner of Police, Abubakar Lawal, described the killing of the children as unfortunate and heartless and commiserated with the mother, relatives and friends of the deceased children. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com