Aloy Ejimakor, one of the lawyers of Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, has said a recent judgement by the Abia State High Court would aid the release of the IPOB leader. He said this in a statement on Sunday titled, ‘The Abia High Court judgement has paved way for Nnamdi Kanu’s bail to be reinstated’. According to him, the judgement proved that Nnamdi Kanu didn’t jump bail “voluntarily”. The PUNCH had reported on January 19 that a High Court in Abia State ordered the Federal Government to pay the sum of N1 billion to the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, and issue a letter of apology to him. Kanu had approached the Court demanding N5 billion over the invasion of his father’s house by the military on September 10, 2017. Making clarification on the verdict, the lawyer said, “This Press Release is necessitated by the flurry of public commentaries on the 19th January 2022 judgment of the High Court of Abia State in favor of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “Most of the commentaries have bordered on examining the latent impacts the judgment may have beyond the monetary award and the apology. Of particular note is whether the judgment should directly or indirectly impact the persisting notion that Kanu had jumped bail in 2017, which was what grounded the bench warrant that was used to justify his rendition. “In summary, the answer is in the affirmative that this landmark judgment has created new legal opportunities for Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, especially as regards impeaching the bench warrant that grandfathered his extraordinary rendition. “You will recall that from late 2017, I had maintained a well-publicized stance that Nnamdi Kanu never jumped bail and that he will, in due course of time, prove that it was the Nigerian government that compelled him to flee and seek refuge outside Nigeria. This was the material issue before the Court and it prevailed. “In particular, the Court held that: ‘It is the view of this Court that the Army set out as pythons to terminate the life of Nnamdi Kanu. The military invasion of his home at Afaraukwu Ibeku is so notorious that this Court cannot turn a blind eye to it. He deserves an apology and compensation’. “Additionally, the Court held that: ‘Kanu has by credible evidence proved to the Honourable Court that his fundamental rights to dignity of human person and personal liberty were wantonly or brazenly violated and his fundamental right to life threatened brazenly by Federal Republic of Nigeria’. “In other words, the Court impliedly held that Kanu never made a voluntary decision to flee Nigeria or to be absent from his trial. To this extent, this judgment has finally obliterated the vested and false notion that Kanu had jumped bail back in 2017. “Accordingly, the bench warrant upon which his rendition from Kenya was grounded has now become impeachable and liable to be vacated, thus paving the way for his previous bail to be reinstated.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com