NO fewer than 109 persons including four Beninois and two Nigerians are in the custody of the Gombe State Police command over suspected illegal entry to the country from Benin Republic. Disclosing this at a media briefing, the Commissioner of Police, Ishola Babaita, said the suspects were brought into the state in three buses from Benin with the connivance of their Nigerian collaborators. Babaita said upon interrogation, the suspects claimed they were members of QNET, an online networking scheme. He said, “On the 18th of January 2022, the command received information that three hummer buses brought some groups of young men numbering 109. “Immediately, police operatives in synergy with the Department of State Services were dispatched to the scene and the people were invited to the DSS facility where they were interrogated and later, two Nigerians, Abdullahi Yusuf Adamu, 26 years, from Jekadafari, Gombe State and Jasper Jacob, 33 years old, from Taraba but based in Jekadafari, Gombe State, were transferred to the police for information and possible prosecution while four Beninois namely; Dafton Wakon Elysee, Hopko Adolphe, Jamal Salami, Emmanuel Haunukon were handed to the Nigeria Immigration Service.” While urging the public to be wary of illicit business, Babaita said all the suspects would be charged. “It may interest the general public to know that this group comprises Nigerians and Beninois, who entered this country illegally. From the foregoing, it has been established that the suspects are into Ponzi scheme to defraud unsuspecting members of the public,” he added. On his part, Adolphe from Benin told our correspondent that they were on a mission to enlighten Gombe people about their business. He denied any wrongdoing, saying his motive was to empower Gombe youths. “We came to Gombe because Jasper and Abdullahi (Nigerians) invited us to know about QNET business. This is my first time here; I have never seen them before,” he said. A member of the network, Solomon Micah, said, “The business deals with partnership; when you invest, you must have your partners. I paid N500,000 to get registered, I was paid a bonus of $50, about N27,000.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com