The Federal Capital Territory Police Command has arrested a man, Patrick Odey, for allegedly raping a 21-year-old salesgirl. The victim, it was gathered, recently started working at a garden in Orozo in the Angwansarki area of Abuja and lives in one of the apartments in the garden. Odey was said to have forcefully entered the victim’s apartment and raped her at gunpoint from 1am to 4am, and later took her to his house where he continued. A resident, who gave his name as Kelechi, told our correspondent that the suspect had been arrested, adding that a pistol was found in one of his cooking pots when the police searched the house. He said Odey was the leader of a cult, which had been terrorising the community in the last three years and had been getting away with it. Kelechi said, “The suspect has been arrested. He was sleeping when the police came this morning. When his house was searched, the police saw a pistol with live ammunition inside one of his cooking pots. The guy is one of those guys that usually terrorise the community. He is the leader of a cult in the area called the Hardcore. “The guy lived close to the bar. According to the narration the girl gave to the police, Patrick came to her apartment around 1am. She recently joined as a salesgirl. He forcefully opened the door of her room, pointed a gun at her and asked her to cooperate. “She said she started pleading with him that she was an orphan but the guy did not listen to her. She said he raped her from 1am to 4am. At some minutes past 4am, she said the guy took her to his apartment where he continued. “He threatened to kill her if she told anyone. The girl reported to the police and was taken to a hospital in Karish.” The FCT police spokesperson, DSP Josephine Adeh, confirmed the incident, adding that investigation was ongoing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com