Protesters, suspected to be Ijaw indigenes, in branded solidarity shirts have gathered at Dowen College, Lekki, Lagos to demand the continued closure of the school. Dowen College is the school where five students were accused of beating a 12-year-old colleague, Sylvester Oromoni, for refusing to join a cult group. Oromoni, who later died, was alleged to have been given a chemical substance to drink in addition to the beating he suffered. The five students and five staff of the school linked to his death were on Wednesday acquitted by the Lagos State Director of Public Prosecution. The DPP Director, Adetutu Oshinusi, had revealed that the report issued by the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital and the Central Hospital, Warri, agreed that the causes of Oromoni’s death were septicaemia, lobar pneumonia with acute pyelonephritis, pyomyositis of the right ankle and acute bacteria pneumonia due to severe sepsis. The DPP’s legal advice, therefore, concluded that based on these findings, there is “no prima facie case of murder, involuntary manslaughter and or malicious administering of poison with intent to harm against the five students”. Meanwhile, the mother of the deceased has, in a video on social media, cried out to God to avenge her son. This is as she lamented that she couldn’t celebrate Yuletide like every other person because she didn’t have her son with her. She said, “The whole world will know that there is God that fights for the oppressed. “Jehovah God, arise. King of glory, arise and cut short the lives of those that cut the life of my son short, including those supporting them. “Let them feel the pains that I’m passing through. If they breathe the air that you created, God let your rod fall on them.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com