The Katsina Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps disclosed on Friday that it recorded 1,161 criminal and civil cases in 2021. The Corps Commandant for Katsina, Mohammed Bello, made the disclosure at a press conference in Katsina. According to Bello, the command treated 256 banditry-related cases, kidnapping, theft, drug abuse, rape, vandalisation, and unnatural offences last year He further revealed that the command also received and treated a total of 905 civil cases of different nature ranging from indebtedness, misunderstanding, land-related matters, farmers and herdsmen conflict, domestic disputes, among others. The state commandant added that “the corps had made giant strides in the protection of critical national assets and infrastructure from attacks by criminal elements. He said its operatives will strive to ensure that lives and property of the citizenry were secured.” Bello sought the support of residents of the state and that of other security agencies by providing credible and timely information to effectively contain security challenges in the state. Meanwhile, a brainstorming session has been held among Katsina State officials, heads of various security agencies in the state as well as other stakeholders on how to ensure the safety of students and staff in all its schools and higher institutions. The session which took place on Thursday at the Umaru Musa Yaradua University, Katsina, saw participants offering various security tips on how to ensure the safety of schools and higher institutions in the state. Governor Aminu Masari in his address at the occasion said the state government was doing all within its powers to ensure safety in its schools and institutions. The governor represented at the occasion by his Deputy, Manir Yakubu, insisted that the state government was alive to its responsibilities including securing the lives and property of the people residing in the state. The Governor observed that although security is everyone’s business, he urged respective tertiary institutions especially, to devise other means to effectively secure their schools.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com