Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, on Tuesday, promised the people of Ibadan that the process leading to the emergence of the new Olubadan will be peaceful. The governor made the promise at the third day interfaith prayer service held in honour of the late Olubadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, who died on Sunday at the age of 93. According to a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Taiwo Adisa, the governor was represented by his Deputy Chief of Staff, Mogbonjubola Abdulmojeed, at the prayer session held at the Popoyemoja palace of the late Olubadan. “The late Olubadan was a peace-loving father for all and, definitely, his six years reign was very wonderful to the people of Ibadan and Oyo State at large. “So, the state government is promising that the coming of the new Olubadan will also be peaceful,” the statement quoted the governor’s representative as saying. The prayer session was attended by the High Chiefs of Ibadanland – Osi Olubadan, Rashidi Ladoja; Otun Balogun, Olufemi Olaifa; Osi Balogun, Tajudeen Ajibola; Ekaarun Olubadan, Amidu Ajibade; Ashipa Balogun Olubadan, Lateef Gbadamosi; and Ekerin Olubadan, Abiodun Kola-Daisi. A former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in the state, Michael Lana, on Monday asked Makinde to put the process of approving Senator Lekan Balogun as the new Olubadan on hold. Lana said Balogun had been elevated to the position of an Oba by the last administration in the state and it would be an aberration to crown him the new Olubadan after he had been crowned as an Oba before. He said the way out of the crisis was for Balogun to withdraw the suit he instituted in court insisting on his right to wear a crown. But the Ekarun Olubadan of Ibadan, Hamidu Ajibade, disagreed with Lana’s position. Ajibade had told journalists on Monday that the laid down hierarchy of ascendancy to the Olubadan throne remained sacrosanct despite the elevation of some high chiefs by the past government. But responding to an inquiry from our correspondent the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Taiwo Adisa, said, “Today (Tuesday) is the first working day of the week. So, the offices concerned can only sight the said letter today. “That being the case, a legal matter demands legal interpretations. I am sure the petitioner is aware of this fact and that’s why it was indicated that the said letter was also copied to the incumbent Attorney General of the state. “I am sure the Ministry of Justice will dissect the contents and advise His Excellency accordingly.” Efforts to get the reaction of the current Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Prof. Oyelowo Oyewo, on the matter were futile as he was yet to respond to inquiry sent to him as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com