Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello, and residents of Galadima Kogo, a community attacked by terrorists, are trading blames over the attack. While the community blamed the state government for withdrawing security personnel from the community, the government blamed residents for not informing security agencies ahead of the attack. In a press statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mary Berje, on Monday, the state government said the withdrawal of security personnel from the area was tactical. “The governor called for calm and urged the fleeing communities in Galadiman Kogo and Kuchi in Shiroro and Munya Local Government Areas to await swift and immediate response from the Joint Security Taskforce, stressing that their earlier withdrawal was tactical in order to restrategise,” the statement read. The governor said the attack would not have been successful if residents had informed security agencies of the impending attack. “The governor condemned the attack on Galadiman Kogo, stressing that it would have been unsuccessful if villagers from Galape and Kudodo in Allawa community had alerted the security agencies when they noticed movements of the terrorists towards the town. “Governor Sani Bello urged villagers in the affected communities to endeavour to provide credible information to the Joint Security Taskforce stationed in the area, adding that security agencies cannot perform effectively and efficiently without getting appropriate support and intelligence from the people,” the statement added. The government revealed that over 100 terrorists attacked the community in broad daylight, killing security operatives and residents. “Terrorists numbering over 100 are said to have invaded the community in broad daylight, killing about 11 Joint Security Taskforce members, several villagers and leaving many injured while scores of the gunmen were also said to have been neutralised,” it added. According to the statement, the governor has secured an order from the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to carry out airstrikes on the bandits. “The state government has already secured the order and clearance of President Buhari to carry out intensive military operations in Shiroro, Munya and Rafi Local Governments axis, assuring that ground and airstrikes would continue to comb the areas so as to flush out those miscreants. “We have really run out of patience with the terrorists and we’ll use every means possible to bring an end to these incessant bloody attacks on innocent people. We’ll do everything to stop the killings and return normalcy to the affected communities,” the statement read. The PUNCH had on Monday quoted the co-convener of Concerned Shiroro Youths, Sani Kokki, of accusing the state government of withdrawing security operatives from the communities, adding that the withdrawal emboldened the terrorists to carry out the attack.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com