Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Governing Council, Chrisland University, Ogun State, Prof. Ayodeji Olukoju, has said education should be well funded and focused towards meeting national needs. Olukoju who was the guest lecturer at the first Distinguished Public Lecture of the Faculty of Humanities, Anchor University, Ayobo, Lagos, said that there was an urgent need to revamp the Nigerian education sector to restore and maintain quality. His lecture, titled, ‘Redefining leadership and governance: The quest to build a virile knowledge-based society,’ seeks to establish the interconnectedness of leadership, governance and the development of a knowledge society. “Education is critical to development. It should be well-funded, focused on meeting national needs and of the highest quality for the domestic market and for outsourcing. There is an urgent need to revamp the Nigerian education sector to restore and maintain quality. Education should be better funded than is the case at the moment, and there should be transparency and proper application in the disbursement of funds. Moreover, there should be a moratorium on the creation of universities and other tertiary institutions by fiat. It is only in Nigeria that tertiary institutions are created capriciously without due diligence, and polytechnics and colleges of education are converted into universities when it is known that teaching staff of those institutions are incapable of teaching in universities as the vast majority of them have no PhD degrees and requisite scholarly publications demanded by conventional universities all over the world. This is why many universities in Nigeria are no better than glorified secondary schools. It is also why Nigerian universities are invisible in global rankings. Singapore has just three universities, compared to Nigeria’s 170, and all are globally ranked and impactful. That shows that it is quality, not quantity that counts.” He stressed that leadership and governance were impossible without a solid educational grounding of the people, saying no country would  develop above the level of the education of its citizens. Olukoju said, “Knowledge should not be compartmentalised in silos but deployed to percolate through the society.  In addition, knowledge in itself has to be applied to produce the required change in society. That is why a knowledge society is critical to development. We have seen how several countries systematically developed a knowledge society applicable to local need but transferable to the world.” While giving the welcome address, Vice-Chancellor of AUL, Prof. Joseph Afolayan, enjoined universities to address real-life national and global problems. He said, “As a nation, our universities should address real-life national and global problems, unknotting critical knotty national discourses. Anchor University trains students to solve corporate, industry, and real-life issues. The concept of outcome-based education has been our preoccupation for the last five years of our existence.” The Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Dr Mudashiru Obasa, who was the chairman of the lecture, said, “There must be focus and dedication on knowledge seeking. “We will work on everything the guest lecturer has said. To our students who have listened, we charge you to work hard to take over. Put everything learnt to practice.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com