The Management of the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital has warned relatives of patients brought to the facility for medical treatment to stop attacking personnel of the hospital. The hospital reaction came as a result of the constant attacks usually experienced by medical personnel including doctors, nurses and other staff at the hands of relatives of patients, especially when the patients brought by them for treatment died in the hospital. The Management in a statement signed by the Head, Corporate Affairs Unit of the Hospital, Elizabeth Ajiboye, said that it would no longer tolerate such unruly acts from relations of patients and may seek redress for its staff in a court of law. The statement reads, “The attention of the Management of University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital has been drawn to recent unprovoked attacks on some health care providers of the hospital by some patients’ relatives in recent times. “The Hospital Management strongly frowns at this and cannot tolerate any of such harassments and assaults from anyone. “In as much as doctors or any health care providers have sworn to oaths to preserve lives, their own lives too should not be endangered discharging their duties. “Patients and their relatives are strongly advised to always channel their grievances through the SERVICOM Unit of the UITH rather than resort to the use of foul language and physical violence in seeking to redress observable lapses on the part of members of staff of the hospital. “The Management may be forced to henceforth use all the legal means available to protect lives and properties of all the hospital staff. “Therefore, the Management of the UITH is using this medium to appeal to all the users of its facilities, especially their relatives, to note that utmost care and respect for one another should be a symbiotic relationship. “We once again reiterate our commitment to the delivery of quality healthcare to our patients, while we covet their unalloyed cooperations.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com