The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, and Ogunsua of Modakeke, Oba Moses Oladejo Oyediran, have lauded Osun State governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, for keeping to his electoral promises despite the inherent socioeconomic realities. The traditional rulers also said they have no reason not to support Oyetola’s second term ambition, noting that his people-oriented policies and programmes have impacted positively on the lives of the masses. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Ismail Omipidan, on Thursday, said Oba Ogunwusi, while speaking in his palace, during a courtesy call on him by Oyetola and his team who were on tour of Ife Central and Ife East local government areas, applauded the governor for his faithfulness to his electoral promises. Represented by Obalufe of Ile-Ife, Oba Idowu Adediwura, the monarch said the Oduduwa kingdom was solidly behind the Governor. In his remarks, while receiving the Governor into his palace, the Ogunsua of Modakeke, Oba Oyediran, also assured the Governor of maximum support and cooperation, saying the entire Modakeke town would stop at nothing to re-elect him. While addressing crowd of the party’s supporters in Modakeke and Ile-Ife, Oyetola disclosed that the large turnout of the people was an indication that Ife was for progressive government. “What I have seen so far is a clear indication that Ife is for us. I have seen enthusiasms and show of love for our party and our government. Your presence has shown that you are committed and resolute to our cause. “I am equally happy that there is unity, love and togetherness between and among the party’s loyalists. This is a thing of joy and we will continue to do everything possible to sustain this,” he concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com