No fewer than four persons have been reported missing in a communal war between the people of Ukawu and Isinkwo communities in the Onicha Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. There were however claims that they were killed and their corpses allegedly takenaway by their attackers. The PUNCH gathered that the people of Ukawu community had, on Tuesday, went to a disputed beach, which serves as a source of livelihood to the two communities, only to be allegedly attacked by the Isinkwo warriors. It was further learnt that during the attack, four people were allegedly killed. According to a community source, the Ukawu people tried taking advantage of the sit-at-home order, thinking that the area would be calm not knowing that their opponents had already laid ambush for them. The source said, “When our people got to the beach, the Isinkwo people opened fire on us and we had to run for our lives. But on getting to our meeting point, we discovered that four people were missing. “Some of us confirmed that they saw when they were shot dead and their corpses taken away. The worse was that we were taking unawares. We didn’t go with gun because we never anticipated any attack. For some time now, except today, the area has been calm.” One of the victims, another source said, “Is Offor Ujebe, who is in his mid 30s. He has three children and the last child is about nine months old.  We are still ascertaining the identities of the other three victims.” When contacted on the telephone, Ujebe’s wife said, “They just called me that I should start coming back to the village from Abakaliki, and I left with my three children. “On getting to the village now, they are telling me that my husband went to the beach where they normally work and there was an attack and they are yet to see him till now.” It was gathered that Ukawu people had already mobilised to Isinkwo to demand for the corpses of those killed and for possible reprisal. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Loveth Odah, said the report had not reached her table. She promised to get back with further information in the matter, on Tuesday, but was yet to do so as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com