A 36-year-old woman, Mrs Esther Olatunbosun, who went into labour and delivered a baby while stuck in a heavy traffic on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, speaks with DAUD OLATUNJI about the rare experience Please introduce yourself. My name is Mrs Esther Olatunbosun. I am an auxiliary nurse living in Sagamu, Ogun State. I will be 37 years old in February. I am a mother of three; I had my third child, a girl, on Friday (January 21, 2022). A trending social media post said you delivered that baby while on the road stuck in traffic. Where and at what time of the day did this happen? It happened around 2:30pm. I was in traffic on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway around Olowotedo, some distance away from Mowe. I was in a vehicle on the way to see my doctor. I was coming from home. What kind of a vehicle were you in – private or commercial? It was a commercial cab, a Mitsubishi Space Wagon. How many passengers were in the vehicle? It was just me, my firstborn, an eight-year-old girl, and another woman. Then there was the cab driver. I sat in the back seat. Was that day your Expected Delivery Date? No, it was not. The hospital gave me February 14, 2022 as my Expected Delivery Date. The baby came earlier. You said you were on your way to the hospital. Were you already feeling that the baby might come that day? On that day, I didn’t even feel anything. I just wanted to go to and see my doctor who had advised me about eating healthy diet.  My  doctor is at Orile Iganmu, but I also registered for ante-natal care at a hospital  in Sagamu. If I knew I was going to be having my baby that day, I would have just headed straight for that Sagamu hospital for the delivery. But I didn’t feel anything like that before leaving home. That was the third time you would be giving birth to a baby. What was your experience with your two previous pregnancies? Yes, that was my third experience. I gave birth to my first two children in the hospital. In both cases, the delivery did not take more than 45 minutes. Now, in this case when you started feeling strong contractions while on the expressway in traffic, did you panic? Honestly, I panicked when I started having contractions while in traffic. You need to see the traffic, it was very thick, as usual; and considering that the distance I was going to was far from where I was, I really panicked. However, the fact that I am a nurse, sort of helped me. What did you do? When I observed that the head of the baby had already come out, I quickly removed my pants and asked the other woman in the car to help me hold one of my clothes while I began to push. As a nurse, I know that once the (baby’s) head is out, one needs to be quick to get other part of the body out. The woman was afraid but I told her not to worry; that she should just help me to hold one of my clothes to cover me because the baby’s head had already come out of my pants. As the woman held the clothes for me, I pushed and the baby came out. My being a nurse was helpful and really aided the delivery because I had the boldness that I could deliver the baby by myself. What was the driver’s reaction? When I started having strong contractions and I saw that the baby was already coming out, I alerted the driver and he immediately pulled over by the side of the road.  He then called FRSC officials, who came to help. He also called my husband to inform him that I was in labour on the expressway. What role did the officers of the FRSC play at the time? The FRSC officials really did their best for me that day and I really appreciate them. I was surprised when I saw FRSC officials surrounding the car. They were many. I wondered if their vehicle was behind ours on the road. They were just godsends. They were many but six of them followed us to the hospital. The driver and FRSC officers stood by me.  They later left and came back to take photographs with the baby. Which hospital were you taken to? It was a private hospital, Broad Life Hospital, on Orimerunmu Road, Mowe-Ibafo. It was at the hospital that I delivered the placenta. The baby was delivered on the expressway. What lesson did you learn from the experience? The experience shows me that it is good to do good to people. I am grateful for the help that I got; maybe it was because of what I had done for others while on duty as an auxiliary nurse. When the doctor I was on my way to see was called, he said he didn’t know anywhere he could suggest for me to go. Then the cab driver said I should not worry, he would search for a hospital nearby and he did. So, I am really grateful. The experience also showed me the importance of keeping fit during pregnancy. If not because of my fitness, I don’t know what would have happened when I was faced with a situation when I had to deliver a baby on my own. So, I will advise pregnant women not to be idle during pregnancy. During pregnancy, the unexpected can happen; women should not panic, but put their trust in God. Did this incident and the role played by the FRSC change your impression about Nigerian law enforcement agents, including the FRSC? I pray God bless them for what they did. Their action changed my impression about them. I know there are good officials among them. They took me to the hospital and cleared the road for me. If not for their intervention, I don’t know what would have happened. The    y gave me an impression that we have good security officials. They abandoned their duty and showed care. That single act changed my impression.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com