A reduction in the involvement of youths and their alienation in decision-making is  a recipe for increase in criminality, anarchy and political instability, the Chief of Defence Staff, Major General Lucky Irabor, has said. He also expressed fears that such a scenario could lead to the destruction of critical infrastructure, loss of livelihoods and retardation of the economy and threats to national security. Irabor stated this on Wednesday in Abuja during a two-day youth and security summit with the theme, ‘Building trust for an improved security response in Nigeria’, organised by the Abuja Global Shapers, a non-governmental organisation. The Curator, Abuja Global Shapers, Umar Abdulmalik, said the initiative would bridge the gap between the youth and security agencies to restore peace in communities. The CDS insisted that there must be substantial investments in job opportunities, access to education and good healthcare for Nigerian youths to enable them thrive and contribute positively to society. According to him, there is a strong correlation between youth engagement and national security, adding that a meaningful interaction and involvement of a youth populace in governance and administration was likely to facilitate a peaceful and conducive environment for economic growth and development. Irabor stated, “Youth engagement is essentially making the youth part and parcel of the fabric of the stability and safety of society towards enhancing national security. “The converse also holds true; a decrease in the level of youth interaction and alienation in the decision-making processes and developmental activities will result in increase in violent crimes, anarchy, political instability leading to destruction of critical infrastructure, loss of livelihoods and by extension, retardation in the economy and impinged national security.” The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, said the nation would soon overcome the challenges of terrorism, banditry and kidnapping, among others, which had given many causes for concern. While insisting that the country was not exempted from evolving security issues globally, the minister noted that the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), was working assiduously to end the current spate of insecurity in Nigeria. Speaking on the theme of the summit, Aregbesola said the topic would elicit proactive discussions that would proffer an integrative approach towards building trust for an improved security response in the country. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com