The Indigenous People of Biafra has banned the slaughtering of Fulani cows and the recitation of the Nigerian national anthem in Biafraland -South-East. This was contained in a New Year message by IPOB director of state, Chika Edoziem. Instead, Edoziem said only the Biafran anthem should be taught in schools. The IPOB spokesperson also said the group has created a new department to teach Igbo history in primary and secondary schools in the South-East. Part of the New Year message read, “The DOS will be creating a new department in IPOB to add to those already existing under the Directorate of State. The department will be designated as IPOB EDUCATION DEPARTMENT. Primary responsibility is to teach our history, language, tradition and culture to our children. We have about three books that will be published this new year in furtherance of this. After the head of this department is made public, Biafran writers will be called upon to bring forward books and educational materials to be published for our children in primary and secondary schools. “Beginning from tonight, no more Nigerian National Anthems in all Schools in Biafraland. Our Children must no longer be reminded daily that they are under oppression by singing the national anthem of the oppressor. School authorities and proprietors have a responsibility to teach our children our national anthem. The Biafran National Anthem.” The group also said only “native cows” will be permitted for consumption in Biafraland. “The ban placed on Fulani cows will take effect in April 2022. Effective this month Fulani cows will not be used for any social or ceremonial events and festivals in Biafraland. Our native cows will be used instead for these events Traditional Custodians of our Culture, the Clergy and Town Unions must ensure that this message gets to the grassroots. “We cannot continue to eat and bring cause and damnation upon our land and upon ourselves by consuming cows that were used for bestiality,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com