The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams, has urged the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, to copy the South-West Security Network Model, also known as Operation Amotekun, to curb insecurity in the state. Adams gave the charge on Saturday in Kabba, Kogi State, during the 8th edition of the Oodua Progressive Union tagged, ‘Kabba 2022,’ according to a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Mr Kehinde Aderemi. The convener of the diaspora group noted that notwithstanding the peace in the state, there was the need to beef up security across the state. “I urge our amiable governor to replicate the idea of Amotekun in Kogi State. The governor can give the state security outfit any name that suits its purpose. This will help in complementing efforts of the Federal Government in securing the state,’ he said. He also hailed the efforts of the governor in turning around the economic fortunes of the state, adding that the OPU congress in Kogi helped Nigerians in the diaspora to know more about the state. The Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Folashade Arike Ayoade, who represented the governor, lauded Adams for using the OPU to create a new bond between the state and people in the Diaspora. She added that the state government would continue to bridge the gap between the North and the South-West. The guest lecturer, Dr Oluwayomi Atte, in his lecture titled, “A strategic approach to fulfilling the destiny of Yoruba race: The way forward,’’ described the Yoruba as people of integrity, highly accommodating and worthy of emulation. In his remarks, the royal father of the day, Oba Solomon Owoniyi, lauded Adams for contributing his quota to the development of Okunland, and Kogi State in particular.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com