A presidential aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party, Pius Anyim, has encouraged Super Eagles to make Nigerians happy by winning the 33rd Edition of the African Cup of Nations. Anyim, former Senate President and former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, ave the encouragement in a message of solidarity to the Super Eagles ahead of the commencement of the continental cup. He said, “My dear brothers in the Super Eagles contingent, I bring you warm greetings and best wishes this new year. “Let me heartly congratulate you, first and foremost, for qualifying for this 33rd Edition of the African Cup of Nations 2021 tournament which kicks off on Sunday, January 9, 2022, in Cameroon. “As you join the other teams from the rest of Africa to compete for the trophy, I want you to rest assured that Nigerians are praying for your success. “I am glad that after some hiccups and postponements due to a number of factors, including the Covid-19 pandemic, the bi-annual soccer fiesta is finally here again. “I, therefore, urge you all, our national soccer pride and worthy Ambassadors, the Super Eagles of Nigeria, to go out there with courage and confidence, once again, in Garova, Cameroon, on Tuesday, January 11, 2022, and make us proud, as you file out to engage the Pharohs of Egypt in the Group D opening game. And thereafter continue to show the stuff you are made of in the other games until you win the final game and bring home the golden cup. “I want you to remember, our talented Super Eagles Champions and the management team of this tournament, that the joy of our people and the hope of our dear country winning the fourth continental title in this edition of the AFCON 2021, rests on your able shoulders. I have no doubts whatsoever that you are equal to the task. “As you know, Nigerians love soccer and will be glued to their television sets watching and cheering you all the way to the finals by the grace of God. I wish you a crisis and injury-free tournament as we look forward to receiving you home with pride on your return. May the good Lord watch over you all as you Labour to bring honor to our fatherland, Nigeria, once again!” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com