Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Saturday, said after the education reform its administration carried out, many alumni associations had supported their former schools with over N2 billion across the state. Oyetola, who spoke at 60th anniversary of St. John’s Grammar School, Ile-Ife, organised by its old students association, commended the association for their intervention in the structural renewal of the school. Represented by the Folorunso Oladoyin, the state’s Commissioner for Education, Oyetola also said the vision of the administration was to deliver 21st-century education that will make students to be globally competitive. He said, “Since the reform of education policy that we carried out, we have attracted over N2billion intervention fund from old students across the state. “We thank you for your quick intervention in the structural renewal of your school infrastructures, we are immensely grateful that you heeded our call for a partnership between the government and all stakeholders in the education sector to move education to the next level. “Infact, your own student association set the pace and since your massive intervention old students of other schools have followed suit. “I remember you injected close to N150 million last year or the year before and since your intervention, other old student have followed suit, Ilesha Grammar School inject almost N150 million, St Lawrence injected about N65 million, among many others. “Our vision is to deliver 21st-century education that will make our student to be globally competitive, we realise that the four legs on which education stands like a table must corporate and work together.” In his remarks, the Bishop, Catholic Diocese of Osogbo, Rev. John Oyejola, urged old students of the school that are into politics or have friends in government to talk to people in authorities and ensure that quality education was provided for the younger generation.   Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com