The Senate has passed the Nigerian Meteorological Agency Act (Amendment) Bill, 2022 to provide for the regulation of meteorology in Nigeria. The passage of the bill followed the consideration and adoption of the report by the Senate Committee on Aviation on the bill at plenary on Wednesday. The Chairman of the committee, Senator Smart Adeyemi, in his presentation, said the bill sought to repeal the Nigerian Meteorological Agency Act, 2003 and enact the Nigerian Meteorological Agency to provide for the regulation of meteorology in the country. Adeyemi said, “The objective of the bill is for the purpose of enacting an Act that will give the agency the sole authority to regulate, licence, approve and authorise the standard of meteorological activities and operation in Nigeria. “It seeks to be more elaborate than the existing Act to enable the agency enhance its mandates and meet its operational requirements to enable it have clearer regulatory powers; effectively regulate climate information, generation and dissemination in Nigeria; be able to charge and collect revenue; and effectively manage utilisation of climate and weather information in various sections of Nigeria’s national life.” The lawmaker noted that the dominant opinion on the bill was that NIMET should be wholly turned around for optimal efficiency and to bring it in agreement with global best practices. He said, “It is evident that the impacts of extreme weather and climate events are increasing in intensity, frequency and geographic scope in Nigeria. “In order to be proactive and consistent in providing goods and services necessary to support the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals in Nigeria, NIMET is required to contribute crucial weather and climate information services to various socio-economic sectors and to also contribute to the regional and global observation systems for the benefit of all. “This is in line with the vision of the World Meteorological Organisation 2030.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com