Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, has promised not to betray Nigerians if elected as the next president of the country in 2023. Bello made the promise while speaking to North-East state legislators during a meeting at the Hazibal Hotel and Suites in Bauchi on Thursday in continuation of his consultations towards his presidential ambition. Speaking at the meeting, the governor expressed optimism that he would win the 2023 presidential election with the prayers and support of the legislators whom he described as “critical stakeholders”. He, however, said the task ahead was enormous for them. “It is about all of us. It is about our party, about Nigeria and our future, but by the grace of God, with your support and prayers, I know we will get to the promised land.” Bello, who spoke to them on the phone, said, “I would have been there personally to appreciate you, but I don’t want to be seen to be breaking the law by now since open campaigns have not been allowed. I want to keep to the law. “I’ll come around when the ban is lifted to speak to you one-on-one in your various enclaves. However, my Speaker and other well-spirited Nigerians are moving around the country and are talking to people of importance, especially critical stakeholders like you. “I want to promise you that I will not disappoint any of you. Looking at the relationship I have with my Speaker of the Kogi State House of Assembly, I know that by the grace of God when we get to the promised land, we will have a more robust and wonderful relationship when we get to the (Presidential) Villa and I know we will get to the Villa on May 29, 2023, by the special grace of God. “I need your support, I need your prayers, I need your buy-in, I need you very much so that together, we can save this country and build on the successes of President Muhammadu Buhari. I once again promise that I will not betray your trust. I will not disappoint you because I am a man who keeps promises and trust.” In his remark, the convener of the meeting and Speaker of Kogi State House of Assembly, Matthew Kolawole, said the North-Central was the only zone that had neither produced a President nor Vice since 1960.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com