To the world, January 1 is New Year’s Day but to some others, it also doubles as their birthday. Several celebrities took to their Instagram pages on Saturday to celebrate themselves as they became a year older on New Year’s Day. Nollywood actress, Mercy Aigbe, has clocked 44 as she marked her birthday on January 1, 2022. Sharing a picture of herself on Instagram, the actress wrote, “Capricorn Queen. It’s Double 4 for me! Jehovah I do not take your love for granted! “Happy birthday Mercy, Itohan, Anuolowapo, Owo Mama Michelle, Mama Juwon, the wife of a King, the only Mercified, Omomajemu, Alhaja Minna, Agbeke Aya D’Owner.” (sic) Reality TV star, Nengi Hampson, clocked a new age as she shared royalty-themed pictures on her Instagram page. The former Big Brother Naija season five finalist wrote, “Born to be Queen. It’s the Queen’s birthday. Happy new year, my loves.” Screen goddess, Moyo Lawal, also celebrated her birthday with new pictures. Sharing the pictures, she wrote, “A star was reborn. It’s my birthday, babies. Allow me introduce to you #MoyoMonroe. Happy New year everyone. May the blessings of this new year be with us all.” Reality TV star, Chukwuemeka Okoye, popularly known as Frodd, also marked his birthday on his Instagram page. The second runner-up of the Big Brother Naija season four wrote, “Showers of grace. A king was born today.” Reality TV star, Venita Akpofure announced her 35th birthday with the caption, “Today marks 35 for me. From all my reels, I have people who stand for me. “First thing is first. A Queen is a warrior and she is more than Self Sufficient! This is the year for personal queening! Y’all ready to see these pictures or wheeeeeet?!!!! “Hello 35, Hello 2022! As you can see, I’ve been ready for you!” (sic) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com