Bandits have invaded the Igabi, Chikun and Zango-Kataf local government areas of Kaduna State, killing eight persons. The state Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, who disclosed this in a statement on Sunday, said the attacks left many others injured. Aruwan said the bandits first invaded Kerawa village in the Igabi LGA, where four people were killed and one injured. He said, “Security agencies have reported to the Kaduna State Government that four people were killed, and one injured, during an attack by bandits in Kerawa, Igabi LGA. “According to the report, bandits attacked the village, shooting sporadically and killing four residents. “In another incident, armed bandits attacked commuters along the Ungwan Rimi-Afana Road in the Zangon Kataf LGA. One Joshua Kawu sustained gunshot wounds to the chest, and was rushed to hospital, where he was unfortunately confirmed dead.” The commissioner, in a second statement, said security reports to the state government confirmed bandits killed two persons in Igabi and Chikun LGAs of the state. Aruwan, according to the report, said bandits invaded Sabon Garin Ungwar Dalha, a village on the outskirts of the Maraban Jos area, Igabi LGA where they killed a housewife. He said, “The bandits attacked the village and broke into some homes, all the while shooting into the air. One Hadiza Mohammed, a housewife, was caught by their gunfire and died instantly. “In the second incident, bandits attacked Ungwan Zallah in Udawa, Chikun LGA, and one Moses Jaja was shot dead.” The commissioner, in another statement, said bandits on Saturday invaded Ungwan Zallah Udawa in the Chikun LGA, adding that one person was killed and over 20 residents, including women and children, were kidnapped. According to a source, married women, as well as young ladies, were among those kidnapped by the bandits. The hoodlums had yet to reach out to the families of the victims as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com