The government has the primary responsibility to boost the efficiency of the healthcare ecosystem, improve healthcare delivery, stem the brain-drain of health personnel, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), has said. Osinbajo stated this on Thursday in his address at the inauguration of the Health Sector Reform Committee, which he chaired, according to a statement by his spokesman, Laolu Akande. The statement was titled, ‘Modern, People-Centric Healthcare System, Fundamental To President’s Vision For Nigeria’s Growth – VP Osinbajo’. Emphasising the importance of the committee’s task while recalling Buhari’s vision, Osinbajo, at the virtual event said, “Mr. President, has in several public statements made it clear that a modern, virile and people-centric healthcare system was fundamental to his own vision for socio-economic growth.” Acknowledging challenges in the health sector, Osinbajo explained that government has the primary responsibility to address the issues “and to put in place the structures and arrangements necessary to boost the efficiency of the healthcare ecosystem, improve healthcare delivery, stem the brain-drain of our health personnel and reduce the pressure on our foreign reserves on account of medical tourism.” He added, “There have, of course, been a good number of attempts to reform the healthcare system in Nigeria and many of us who are members-designate of this committee are familiar with some of these reform efforts, but this particular journey of reforming the Nigerian health sector (and we have heard, I think quite comprehensively from the Hon Minister of Health) began with the commissioning of a Diagnostic Needs Assessment of the sector. “Subsequently, the National Council on Privatisation at its meeting of April 12, 2019, approved the appointment of consultants to carry out the assignment, which involved a review of previous reform efforts in the sector, as well as field visits to the 55 Tertiary Health Institutions across the country and some selected sub-regional health institutions.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com