The Ondo State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party on Wednesday knocked the state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, over the alleged purchase of two bullet – proof jeeps by the latter. The opposition party alleged that each of the vehicles cost a sum of N 750 Million , saying the governor was squandering the state resources when the state workers were being owed salaries for months. This was contained in a statement issued by the state Publicity Secretary of the PDP Kennedy Peretei . The statement was titled ‘Akeredolu’s misrule in Ondo State (13): procures N1.5b bullet-proof jeeps for official use.’ The statement read, ” While Ondo State workers celebrated Christmas and New year in unprecedented hardship, occasioned by the non payment of their salaries, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN, governor of the State has just bought two bullet proof Lexus 670 LXE jeeps with six doors valued at N750M each for his personal comfort and self aggrandisement. “It is on record that each time the governor procures official vehicles, he would buy two. One for himself and the other for his wife. These latest wonders on wheels were the third batch of vehicles bought by the governor since he assumed office about five years ago. It means, on the average, two vehicles every two years. ” As we speak, the number of vehicles in the governor’s fleet (most of which are armored) are about 15. This level of executive recklessness and insensitivity to the plight of the people, is beyond any rational thinking.” However, the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, when contacted simply said, “No reaction.” But a top government official of the state government, on condition of anonymity said, ” Noise over the procurement of vehicles for the state governor is not worth it,” urging the PDP to engage themselves in constructive criticism that would add value to the development of the state and not “frivolous issues.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com