Marriage is an institution that values respect and dignity as love is made possible through appreciation for each other and it is impossible to love someone who sees the negative in everyone. Living with a spouse who has a negative approach towards life can be difficult; the partner sees impossibilities when you see opportunities and the differences in your attitudes can have a huge impact on your marriage, goals and aspirations. Negativity can be harmful Anyone can experience the negative feeling as nobody is immune to negativity because life can be challenging but when the negative emotion is poorly managed, it can have adverse implications on an individual’s health and wellbeing. A negative mindset can make life even harder when you or your spouse is constantly anxious, fearful, and uncertain about yourselves and the foreseeable future. This feeling can destroy the hormones in your body and weaken the elements in the brain that produce happiness, and this can further destroy your natural defences causing prolonged stress and making you vulnerable to illnesses too. Negativity can be genetic Research shows that negative thinking can be traced to the genes as some people are inclined to see the world as a dark place and often see situations ending in a bad outcome. A man or woman who has been subjected to severe emotional abuse and neglect are more likely to suffer trauma which can change the way the brain and mind works and affect the way they see life and people around them. Negativity can be prejudice The need to become better than everyone else around you can lead to a negative mindset especially if your intention is to undermine other people’s accomplishments in the process. A negative mindset can create an awkward feeling of jealousy and hatred towards your spouse who may be earning more money than you. When your spouse is competitively driven in your marriage, he/she will be less appreciative of the positive things your marriage has to offer and more focused on the negatives things you do. An experience can create negativity Negative emotions can be transferred from a parent to a child if the atmosphere at home is constantly hostile and parents lack the capacity to meet their own emotional needs. A parent who went through a distressing marriage can raise children with negative mindsets and they become rigid and insecure in their adolescence and incompetent of giving or receiving love in their own marriage. It is useful to find out if your spouse-to-be has genetic negative traits during courtship through your constant communication with them which may often lead to arguments because negative people can be easily triggered. This realisation can help you make informed decisions about your future together and how to prepare for the challenges ahead. Life changes can have a negative outcome A negative attitude can develop at any time in life due to life situations which can change the way your spouse suddenly sees the world in a twinkle of an eye, taking him away from appreciating and enjoying the things he once found pleasure in. A sudden diagnosis of an illness can turn the life of the most positive spouse around in a flash leaving him/her feeling depressed and less motivated about life and marriage.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com