In partnership with AIICO PLC, the Sustainable Malnutrition Intervention programme sought to improve the nutritional profile of children (6 months to 5 years) through the provision of protein-rich foods and ready-to-use therapeutic foods; food demonstration classes; and sensitization sessions. Through this programme, the Oladele Fajemirokun Foundation, the philanthropic vehicle of Chief (Dr.) Oladele Fajemirokun, lifted 19 children above malnourishment within 6 months, whilst educating mothers on low-cost, locally available nutritious meals through 51 food demonstration classes. At an event to mark the end of the 6-month intervention period, Mrs. Lawumi Fajemirokun, the Executive Director, Oladele Fajemirokun Foundation, thanked AIICO Insurance PLC especially for its financial support which aided significantly in achieving results. She further expressed appreciation to the technical team, including the officers-in-charge of the Primary Healthcare Centres in Ibeju Lekki LGA, as well as the programme implementation team, led by Mr. Kenechukwu Egbue. Mrs. Fajemirokun who spoke passionately about mother and child health, further called on well-meaning Nigerians to lend support to causes that ultimately and sincerely improve human welfare. Speaking on behalf of AIICO PLC, Mr. Olusanjo Shodimu, Divisional Head Strategy and Shared Services at AIICO Insurance PLC stated that the progress made was very impressive and the approach adopted, commendable. He thanked the Oladele Fajemirokun Foundation and the project team for striving to ensure better outcomes for the malnourished children. Mr. Segun Olalandu, Head of Marketing and Communication at AIICO Insurance PLC, further pledged the insurance behemoth’s support to such programmes that genuinely impact the lives of the most vulnerable Nigerians. Speaking with our correspondents, the Programme Manager of the Oladele Fajemirokun Foundation, Mr. Kene Egbue revealed that well over 200 mothers had benefited from 51 food demonstration classes where they learnt about locally available nutritious food combinations. He revealed that at least 8 mothers of the 19 hitherto malnourished children, were offered business support in order to improve their economic profile and sustain the progress made by the Foundation in its effort against malnutrition. Mr. Egbue seized the opportunity to urge corporate outfits to emulate AIICO Insurance PLC in such meaningful partnerships for development.