Reality TV star, Kidd Waya, has stated that women put themselves under pressure to attract men, as he urged ladies to be okay about being natural. The Big Brother Naija ex-housemate said this during an unplanned Instagram live session with his long-time friend and popular disk jockey, Florence Otedola, popularly known as DJ Cuppy, on Thursday. DJ Cuppy had lamented that young people were being too superficial, as she revealed that she felt insecure about her people viewed her haircut. “I feel like as Nigerians and young black people, we need to stop being so on the surface. We are putting ourselves under too much pressure. Even with make-up, lashes, we cannot kill ourselves. Even weight is a thing,” DJ Cuppy asserted. Kidd said, “Let’s bring back being natural. It is okay to have short hair, short nails. It is okay not to wear heels when going out ” He also said that a lot of women are under pressure to look beautiful and smashing. He said even though they claim that they do it for themselves, they do it to attract the kind of guy that loves such things. Cuppy replied that she would prefer to be real. She also believes that sharing her real self in her relationship will keep it going in the good days and the bad days. Motivating ladies, Kiddwaya said, “Girls, you have to power to control the narrative. If a lot of women decide to go natural, I think guys have no choice but to accept it. I remember about ten years ago, it was slim girls that men liked. When the Kardashians came on the scene, men began to look for women with curves and slim waists. I want someone with a big heart, that is the only thing I need.” Both Cuppy and Kidd noted that Nigerians need to be more real with one another, and support one another in trying times. While Kidd said a lot of Nigerians love to create false impressions of themselves, Cuppy said Nigerians escape from the hardship and struggle using the vehicles of music, comedy, and entertainment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com