The Chairman of Mutual Benefits Assurance Plc, Dr Akin Ogunbiyi, has said the Nigerian government should stop borrowing to fund recurrent expenditure purposes. Ogunbiyi said this during an interview with our correspondent in Lagos. “How can you be taking debt to satisfy our recurrent expenditure? How sustainable is that? It is lack of patriotism. Nigerian government should stop borrowing to fund recurrent expenditure,” he said. According to him, borrowing is not wrong when it is rightly done because many other countries also borrow for development purposes. Ogunbiyi urged the government to always carry out a debt analysis and give proper accountability on what the debts were used for. He said loans should be attached to a particular project such as road and education, among others, so that the project would be able to pay back. He said the loans should not be diverted to other things but should be channelled into productive projects for which they were obtained. Ogunbiyi noted that many road projects in the country had been awarded several times to different contractors, adding that the projects had not been completed after many years. He frowned on a situation were loans were taken to fund projects such as road and rails, and the projects were abandoned after huge funds had been pumped into them. He said the youths could change the narrative of the country, adding that Nigerians should be ready to make changes by participating in the 2023 elections. He challenged the youths to rise up to register for voter cards and vote for the right leaders because they have the population to make the change that would make the country better. Ogunbiyi urged Nigerians not to sell their conscience but ensure that they vote rightly because Nigeria has the potential to be a great country.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com