National leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu; and the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Dr Mudashiru Obasa, have described the death of a former Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Adenrele Adeniran-Ogunsanya, as a big loss to the state. Adeniran-Ogunsanya, 74, died on Tuesday, after a brief illness. Tinubu, in a statement by his Media Office signed by Mr. Tunde Rahman, said the death of Adeniran-Ogunsanya was a huge loss to the people of Ikorodu in particular and the entire state. “Her death at this time is particularly tragic because only about a week ago when I glimpsed her, she looked strong and full of life. Princess Adenrele was the first daughter of late elder statesman and prominent politician, Chief Adeniran Ogunsanya, from Ikorodu. She bore the family name with grace and charm,” he said. Sanwo-Olu’s condolence was contained in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile. The governor noted the deceased’s contribution to the growth and development of the state during her tenure. He said, “On behalf of the government and people of Lagos State, I want to express my sincere and heartfelt sympathy to the family, friends and political associates of the late Secretary to the Lagos State Government, Adenrele Adeniran-Ogunsanya. “The death of Adenrele Adeniran-Ogunsanya is a big loss to Lagos State. She made a lot of positive impacts and contributions during her lifetime to the growth and development of Lagos State as SSG. She also made significant impact in Lagos politics as member of the ruling party, especially in Ikorodu. “I pray that God will grant her eternal rest and give the immediate family, friends, political associates and the people of Ikorodu the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” Obasa, in a statement issued by his media office, described Adeniran-Ogunsanya as a woman whose contributions remain indelible in the hearts of residents of the state. He said, “She was always calm, filled with brilliant ideas and contributed immensely to the development of Lagos while she served as the SSG. Her contributions to the progress of Lagos would remain indelible in the hearts of residents of the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com