Hawau Sulayman, a 25-year-old teacher has appealed for help from members of the public as she battles kidney disease. Our correspondent learnt that Hawau was initially diagnosed with high blood pressure until her condition started to deteriorate sometime in 2017. A representative of the family, Ishola Sulayman, in an interview with our correspondent, said, “We noticed that Hauwa was losing weight in 2017; we took her to a General Hospital on Lagos Island, she was examined and the doctor said it was just a case of high blood pressure. It was when we went to another General Hospital at Igando that we discovered it was kidney disease after tests were carried out on her. “The dialysis alone is very expensive and we are appealing for help from members of the public to help us out. We have spent over N2m on dialysis and it has been a great ordeal for us as a family.” Also, Hawau, told our correspondent, in an interview that she was preparing for her Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination before she fell sick. She said, “I used to teach in a school and I am also preparing myself for higher studies in the university. I noticed that I am always very weak despite always living a healthy lifestyle. “When the pain was becoming unbearable,   I went for a test at the General Hospital, Igando and the result showed that I have kidney problem though I have gone to a general hospital on the Island. “Cost of dialysis alone has drained my family just over how many months that we started the process. I am appealing to people for help me. I was preparing myself for higher studies before I became sick.” A Nephrologist at the General Hospital, Igando, Dr Sanni Zaynab, confirmed that Hauwa would need to go for a kidney transplant to save her life. Hawau’s brother can be reached on his mobile number, 09069329048, while donations can be sent to Hawau’s Guarantee Trust Bank Account, 0160867496. (Sulayman Hawau Yetunde) Findings by our correspondent revealed that a kidney transplant at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja would cost about  N12.5m. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com