Documentary photographer, Dewunmi Oshinaike, tells ABIODUN SANUSI about his career, childhood, education and other issues for how long have you been a photographer? In 2016, while I was at Wazobia FM, I had a boss, Mr Senbore Oyebanjo, who gave me some tutorials on photo editing app, Photoshop, but I was not so serious about it at the time. However, I later became consistent with photography and all its attendant properties, and I became a full-fledged professional photographer in 2018. When, where, and how did you learn photography? I had always wanted to learn photography since I was an intern at WazobiaFM/TV in Lagos. When I went back to school, I did not joke with any opportunity to learn photography. During my one-year mandatory National Youth Service Corps scheme in Kogi State, I took up the activities of taking photos while at the orientation camp. When the opportunity came to sharpen my photography skills through the Skill Acquisition Entrepreneurship Development, I took it and was able to learn photography full-time. I also learnt a lot from the Internet. For my primary assignment, I was posted to the office of the Governor of Kogi State. There, I worked with the then Chief Press Secretary to the Governor. While there, I volunteered for projects which often required me to take photographs. What schools did you attend from primary level upward? For my elementary education, I attended Pelgen Nursery and Primary School in Somolu, Lagos. I then proceeded to Igbobi Junior High school for my junior secondary education; and Ajayi Crowther Memorial Senior Grammar School in Bariga, Lagos, for my senior secondary education. I went on to the Lagos State Polytechnic, Surulere Annexe, for a while before proceeding to Tai Solarin University of Education, Ijebu Ode, Ogun State, for my Bachelor’s degree. I plan to go back to school for more degrees though. What inspired you into becoming a documentary photographer? A whole lot of ideas are responsible for that, especially knowing that there is a story in every picture and event. Basically, I was inspired to become a documentary photographer by the camera itself. Reading and looking at other political documentary photographers makes me want to do more. Recently, I have been doing a lot of political documentary photography. I document the activities of Mr Babatunde Irukera, the Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission. Who are the famous persons you have taken photographs of? In the course of my work with Irukera, I have taken pictures of many top government officials, including those in the presidency. I have also taken pictutes of kings and queens, as well as musicians and many other public figures. How often do you practice to get better at your craft? I practice for about 15 hours every week. Irrespective of whatever happened during the day, I usually watch videos on YouTube, and do one or two things. I spend a lot on data monthly because I watch a lot of videos and prepare for the next day. If you were not a photographer what would you have been? If I weren’t a photographer, I would have been a banker, realtor or joined the Army of the United States of America. I have always had a soft spot for the US Army since I was a child. Today, photography has taken all that from me. Now, everything I do is geared towards photography. Photography is now everything I want to become. I don’t see myself doing anything else. What is the highest amount you have been paid for a photo shoot? The highest I have been paid for a photo shoot is a six-zero figure. What is the lowest amount you have been paid for a photo shoot? The lowest amount I was paid since I started photography was N5000, and that was in 2019 when I was still struggling as a photographer. It was supposed to be a case of ‘if you do this for me, you would get that from me’. Though I delivered the job, there was no gain from it. I ended up incurring a loss of N45,000, because of logistics and other gadgets I had borrowed for the shoot. How do you deal with troublesome clients? I have never had a troublesome client. They are all great. One I almost had ended up becoming one of my biggest clients who recently referred me for jobs. The only way to deal with such clients is by being professional. Make everything formal, so when changes occur, one can bring receipts to the table. However, I won’t take clients disrespecting or assaulting me or my staff members. How do you deal with your employees? They are very professional. They know the rules and ethos for every event and how they should act should there be an emergency and I am not there. They are very calm and are the best I could ever ask for. How many members of staff do you have? I currently have four members of staff. They are young guys who know what they need to do differently to deliver excellent jobs to our clients. I also allow them to have side hustles because their lives shouldn’t always revolve around me. When there is work, I call them and we all come together. What factors have aided your business success? People. I will never underestimate the love and the gift of people. Many people have recommended me to clients and I don’t take that for granted. What are your short-term and long-term plans for your business? One of the short-term goals has been achieved. It was to shoot for an international brand. But, I still want to freelance for international organisations such as the United Nation’s Children Fund and the World Health Organisation. The long-term goal is to set up a state-of-the-art studio that has everything needed for indoor and outdoor photo shoots. What do you regard as you biggest business achievements? That would be getting all my gadgets and shooting for an international brand that was launched in five countries. What peculiar problems do photographers face in Nigeria? One of the major problems Nigerian photographers face is (lack of) equipment. Most of us do not have all the equipment we need to document or take pictures of our clients. Some borrow them at a cost. In that case, a lot goes into paying back for the borrowed equipment, and that would affect one’s profit. Yet, one doesn’t have a choice but to give one’s clients the best value for their money. Money is another issue. Many people want free photo sessions. Some people would just pay half of the fees with the agreement that they would conclude the payment later, but end up not keeping their end of the bargain.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com