Motunrayo Olumakaiye, a professor of Public Health Nutrition at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, and wife of the Anglican Archbishop of the Ecclesiastical Province of Lagos, Most Rev Humphrey Olumakaiye, speaks about her growing up, career journey and family in this interview with ALEXANDER OKERE You grew up as an only girl among four male siblings. What was the experience like for you? We thank God and I am grateful to be born into such a lovely family. I was a pampered child but still got all the training I needed as a girl child. I enjoyed the care, love and protection of God, parents and siblings. They (parents and siblings) were very protective (of me), being the only girl in the family. No one could toy with me anyhow! Was that why you were nicknamed ‘Sisi Tunrayo’? (Laughs) Maybe. I just grew up with my uncles and aunties calling me Sisi Tunrayo. I don’t know how they came about the name. What impact did having parents who were educationists have on your childhood? I would say it had a lot of impact. I was focused right from childhood. I read novels from primary school; there was this novel series called Pacesetters then. The first novel I read was titled, ‘Sisi’. Maybe that was where the nickname came from. I wouldn’t know. I was made to open an exercise book where I wrote vocabularies with the meanings, idiomatic expressions, proverbs and the like. My mum was a headmistress; I attended her school at the primary school level. My dad was a secondary school principal. I also attended his school but later moved to his friend’s school. Maybe that constituted the protection I enjoyed as ‘Omo teacher,’ as it was often said. Secondary school principals as of that time were highly respected in society. Did that protect you from bullying at school? My classmates didn’t dare bully me. It is part of the protection we talked about (laughs). I was loved generally by people and my dad was a nice teacher. I didn’t have issues with bullying. Would you say your parents were strict to the point that you felt you were not living a ‘normal’ life compared to your peers? Hmm! For my dad, no; he was not strict. But my mum was. I was closer to my dad and was tagged ‘daddy’s girlfriend’ by his friends. My mum was only ensuring I acquired all I needed as a girl child, which children normally would term as strict, which I later appreciated and I am grateful for. However, she was loving and caring. I lived my normal life. I went anywhere I wanted to and did whatever I wanted but with guidance and consciousness of whose daughter I am. My mum didn’t spare the rod. She was very strict and that contributed to the little gap I had; I was closer to my dad. Both of them have passed on but I thank God. How involved were they in deciding the type of school you attended from the primary to tertiary levels? Of course, my siblings and I attended mum’s school where she taught as a primary schoolteacher and later became an headmistress. Same with dad; we all attended the secondary school our dad headed as a principal but later had to change to another school headed by his friend for some reason. Maybe that was part of the protection you talked about earlier. Of course, they were instrumental in the type of schools we attended, even up to the tertiary level. We are from Ondo town, so my mum had to settle down there at a point so we could be raised together.  So, for proximity, we were encouraged to attend Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife. You became an academic at your alma mater, two years after earning a master’s degree in Nutrition. Would you say you were influenced by the fact that both your parents were teachers? It could be! I love teaching and chose a higher school. I was offered a job at the secondary school level but rejected it and waited until I got my desired job in the higher education sector. I started at a college of education and later secured a job at the Obafemi Awolowo University, where I graduated from. My immediate elder brother is also a professor; he also graduated from OAU but lives abroad now. Did becoming a lecturer and living in the university community give you independence or did you feel alone? Two of my brothers were already in the same university when I was offered admission. They were in their third year. Their friends at church knew they had a sister that would join them so everybody looked out for me. So, it was a continuation of protection, care and love. I never lacked and didn’t see it as freedom. I lived a normal life and my dad encouraged me to do so. What was your journey to becoming a professor like? My journey in the academia has been an interesting one. Rising to the position of a professor in OAU is no joke. I enjoyed God’s grace, favour and strength. In life, there is no job without its challenges. The challenges did not overwhelm me. I am a focused person, I go for what I believe in and that is hard work. I could stretch myself to any extent to get things done. I believe in the dignity of labour, prayers and the fear of God. One of my philosophies of life is ‘where there is a will, there will always be a way’. So, we thank God for that. What were some the most striking challenges you’ve faced in your career journey? At work, getting an enabling environment to function maximally is a major challenge. OAU, being a first-generation university funded by the Federal Government, needs a lot of interventions. If you want to get your work done, you need a lot of sacrifices. At times, I had to use personal resources to get official work done. But it pays off in the long run. Unstable Internet facilities, epileptic power supply, incessant unrest from staff and students, discouraging teaching conditions, office space, laboratory equipment, to mention but a few, need to be addressed. These are things the Academic Staff Union of Universities is clamouring for and people think we are overly insensitive. I want to use this opportunity to plead with the government to do something for the sake of the students we are training and the welfare of staff. I enjoyed the support of my husband greatly to get my work done. Despite the environment that was not conducive, I was still able to do what I needed to do. Getting a PhD, sometimes, could be challenging. Did you face any opposition to your desire to earn a PhD or become a professor in OAU? Not at all! Interestingly, my story is different, though it didn’t come on a silver platter. As I said, it was a result of hard work, resilience and commitment. There was no stiff opposition or much tension in the course of attaining the feat. It was an obvious thing that I deserved promotion when it was time for me to be assessed at every point. I had enough qualification and what it took to go to the next level. My case was a reference point for others. I joined the services of OAU as an assistant lecturer in 2002 and became a professor in 2016. That is within 14 years. It can only be God. I enjoyed the support of my husband, even when I had to travel abroad to attend conferences and workshops. There have been concerns about the school feeding programme of the Federal Government and some state governments about the quality of food and the level of transparency in the management of the initiative. You were a consultant to the Osun State Government in this area. Are you worried about these issues? What is needed to mitigate the challenge is setting up a strong monitoring and evaluation group that will do the real job of monitoring not just on paper. When I consulted for Osun State and we went round some schools to assess the programme implementation, some of the things we observed are unprintable.  The school feeding programme is a good initiative to address malnutrition among primary school pupils and to improve school enrolment and completion. If this can be done genuinely, the country will be better off in later years. If the right peg is put in the right hole, things will work. My advice is that the programme should not be politicised and should not be seen as a conduit pipe to siphon funds from the government coffers. We need a re-orientation and an upgraded mindset in this country. You have interest in the nutrition and health of vulnerable groups. What worries you about the fate of these groups amid the insecurity and food scarcity in the country? Food insecurity is a concern in developing countries, Nigeria inclusive. The groups that are worse hit are the children, adolescent girls and women of reproductive age. They are the vulnerable groups. These three categories are important in that they determine the health status of the future generation, which could impact the quality of the workforce, health sector by clogging the hospital services and the national economy. I just concluded a pilot study with a student on household food insecurity before, during and post-COVID-19. The already insecure households were worse off despite the so-called palliative measure put in place, which was messed up due to greed as usual. The issue of nutrition cannot be handled with levity. If we want to prosper in this country, we must take both seriously. Out of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, 12 has nutrition components. Bill Gates once said that if he had one magic bullet to turn things around economically, that magic bullet would be nutrition. Let’s stop here for now. Nutrition is a major talk, it must be brought to the front burner by targeting vulnerable groups. You got married to the Anglican Archbishop of the Ecclesiastical Province of Lagos, Humphrey Olumakaiye, in 1997. But how did you meet each other? (Laughs) We met in the best place – the  church. I was a choir girl in my church when he came for a revival service as a student in the seminary. Somehow, by divine arrangement, we connected as friends, no strings attached. The friendship later metamorphosed into marriage. I strongly believe that the two of us were meant for each other as ordained by God. There has not been any moment of regret since we got married 25 years ago. I got married on my 25th birthday. I was born on January 18 and got married on January 18. So, I thank God I did not miss the will of God for my life, I am, of a certainty, the bone of his bone and the flesh of his flesh. No doubt! If Christ is in the boat, you have a smooth sail despite the storm. So, God has been there for us. In a 2018 interview, your husband revealed that the Lord led his eyes to you (as a chorister then) during a revival at All Saints Anglican Church in Ondo Diocese. Did he tell you this? (Laughs) He later told me. It was a divine connection. That day we met for the first time, I did not want to attend the church programme but my dad encouraged me to go as a chorister and as an obedient child, I obeyed and we met. If I did not obey my dad that day, maybe I would have missed my husband. So, God used my dad. How did you react when he told you that God led his eyes to you? (laughs) When we met, I already had friends because I grew up among boys. Most of my friends were decent boys. So, I just saw him as one of those male friends I had. It was in my third year at the university that he came out to say he was interested in taking the relationship from friendship to another level. As of that time, he was already praying for the will of God and we were already close, so I had no option but to say yes. What struck you about his personality? He is God-fearing, gentle, unassuming, hard-working, charismatic, reliable, resourceful, forthright, caring, generous, selfless and a goal-getter. Physically, I love the shape of his hair; it is unique and I have not seen it on any man. I love his height; he is neither too tall nor short. Did you ever desire to marry an Anglican cleric as a spinster? No, I never wanted to but thank God I did. It was a tug of war before I eventually agreed. But thank God, I did. Being the wife of a cleric could be time-consuming. How do you balance your work, family and religious lives? Let me tell you, the grace of God is sufficient. That is still a mystery I cannot fathom or unravel. How God does it for me is beyond human comprehension. I work circumspectly. When I am at home, I focus on ministerial work. When I am at work, I focus on my secular work. I see my spiritual life as the most important and I don’t handle spiritual matters with a kid’s glove. Once I settle with God, He settles other things. I have carved a niche for myself from Philippian 4:13,  which says, “I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me”. I don’t gallivant. I keep very few value-adding friends, no distractions, no procrastination. I draw a to-do list daily and complete the tasks even late into the night. I work best at night when there is no distraction. I give my best in whatever I do to avoid repeating the same tasks over and over again. Once a task is done, it is dusted. I listen to inspiring music while working. Most importantly, I pray daily for speed, precision and accuracy. I draw strength from God, the Holy Spirit, being my closest companion, guardian and guide. I am an indoor person. I enjoy unflinching support from my family, most importantly my husband, the Most Rev. Humphrey Olumakaiye, who is my confidant, adviser and prayer partner. He gives me my space and platform to leverage to bring the best out of me. He stretches me beyond the limit and I have come to realise my ability, resilience and tenacity. I am multi-tasking. I am grateful for that. As you mark your golden jubilee, what are you most thankful for, considering your life experience? There are so many things to be thankful for. I am thankful for my parents who brought me to the world,  and my wonderful siblings (the Akinsanmis). I am thankful for my husband and children who make life easy for me. I am thankful for the family of my husband (the Olumakaiyes). I am thankful for life in Christ, and godly mentors, spiritual and secular. I am thankful for the grace of relevance in the ministry and I am thankful for the inheritance I have in Christ. In the coming years, I have to up a notch in the areas I have identified while praying. The Holy Spirit has drawn my attention to some areas and I will work on them to be thoroughly furnished unto all good works, according to II Timothy 3:17. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com