No fewer than 60 communities in Edo and Delta States have benefited from the Nigeria Petroleum Development Company Limited’s annual scholarship scheme organised for its host communities. Manager, Community Relations Department, NPDC, Mr Dahiru Abubakar, made this known at the weekend during the conduct of the 2020/2021 scholarship examination organised by NPDC in Warri, Delta State. Represented by the team lead of the Warri Examination Centre, Mr Noble Imabibo, Abubakar said the scheme was part of NPDC’s corporate social responsibility to its host communities. He disclosed that the examination was being conducted simultaneously at three centres in Warri, Delta State, Egbema in Imo State and Port Harcourt, Rivers State. He said. “The Warri centre has about 170 candidates selected from 60 communities across Edo and Delta, 22 in Egbema and 145 in Port Harcourt centre.” “In total, we have 337 candidates from the different host communities sitting for the examination out of which successful candidates would be awarded the scholarships. “Over 10,000 students have so far been awarded the scholarships since the programme started in 2000. “The NPDC scholarship scheme has helped to reduce youth restiveness in the communities and has helped in human capital development in the communities hosting its operations. “Communities do the nominations and send the list to NPDC for the scholarship examinations.” He however disclosed that plans were under way to create an online platform for the students to take the examination particularly now that the COVID-19 pandemic had made it almost impossible for people to interact physically. According to him, to ensure a transparent, free and fair exercise, NPDC management engaged the services of the Federal University of Petroleum Resources as consultant to conduct the examination. The coordinator of the NPDC scholarship examination, Prof Prekeyi Tawari-Fufeyin, thanked NPDC for the privilege given to the students. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com