Twin brothers have been arrested for allegedly defiling a 10-year-old girl in Abagana, Njikoka Local Government Area of Anambra State. The suspects, Chukwuemeka and Chukwuebuka Okpe, were arrested together with their mother, Mrs Chinwe Okpe, who is the caretaker of the house the victim resides. Speaking to journalists in Awka, on Sunday, the Executive Director, Davina Care Foundation, Mrs Rachel Yohanna, said the case was brought to the foundation by the victim’s mother, Mrs Benedict Sunday. Yohanna said the matter was reported at the Abagana Police Station, and that policemen arrested the suspects, after which the victim was taken to a hospital where the defilement was confirmed. She said, “The victim was taken to Ntasi Centre for Sexual Assault cases at Enugu-Ukwu General Hospital, where it was confirmed that she was defiled which caused perennial tears on the area between the vagina and the anus. “She was later accompanied by a police officer and an aunt to the suspects to the police clinic for a second test when the mother of the suspects claimed the medical result from Ntasi centre was forged, but the result still came out positive. “The victim’s mother said her daughter complained of pains in her private parts and stomach sometime in November 2021, without telling her the caretaker’s sons defiled her. “As a nurse that the mother is, she bought drugs and used hot towel to massage her daughter’s vagina area. “On January 16, she said she got back from work and met vigilante group with her daughter waiting. The group said they brought back her daughter after she ran to them for safety. “She explained that the twin boys tried to defile her daughter a second time and because she refused, they beat her. When the girl reported to the suspects’ mother (caretaker), she slapped her and threatened to deal with her if she does not keep quiet.” Yohanna also revealed that during police interrogation, the victim confessed that while her mother was away, she was attacked by the suspects in the bathroom, and that they held her on the floor and defiled her. She however said the suspects denied the allegation. The spokesperson of the state police command, Tochukwu Ikenga, confirmed the incident. Ikenga said the Commissioner of Police, Echeng Echeng, described the act as unclean and desecrate, assuring that justice would be served after investigations. He said, “Two suspects are already in custody in a reported case of defilement at Abagana police divisional headquarters and the case has been transferred to the State Criminal investigation department, Awka for a discreet investigation “However, the CP while wondering why the suspects could engage in such, described the act as unclean and desecrate, assures that justice shall be served after a comprehensive investigation is concluded.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com