Popular Nigerian humour merchant, Francis Agoda, fondly known as I Go Dye, has dedicated his United Nations Eminent Global Peace Advocate Appointment and Award to victims of the #EndSARS protests which rocked the nation in October 2020. He made this known on his Instagram page on Monday night where he shared an image of himself with the award. The iconic funnyman said, “I wholeheartedly dedicate this United Nations Eminent Global Peace Advocate Appointment and Award bestowed on me to the victims of the EndSARS protest and the judiciary panel that gave some insight and recommendations to curb the future occurrence of such actions. “Our pains are widened by the gap of poverty, unemployment, and injustice. I appeal to the Government to look into the judicial panel’s recommendation and seek a better means to reward Nigerians with economic policies that will caution against the effect of poverty that’s motivating the criminal tendency across the Nation because declaring any group as terrorists is not enough to stop crime. “Government must create a secured environment especially the power failure for investors so that our youths can get employment, because no matter how much is spent on war or purchasing military equipment, none can stop the frustrated man from embracing violence as a means of survival. “When we fail to promote peace by our simple failure to care for the less privileged and reduce the poverty index in our country, crime will certainly increase. “Once again, I thank the International Association of World Peace Advocates who felt it necessary to look into our little contributions in Peace and Nation Building and bestowed on me this remarkable award and appointment. “As global diplomats, we will continue to advocate for peace and sustainable development because the world is built on our shoulders. Only peace and love can sustain our existence. I’m indeed grateful to God Almighty for him alone takes all the glory.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com