There seems to be a growing discontent among pharmaceutical importers and wholesalers over the recent pronouncement by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control to slash drug import to 30 per cent by 2025. This is even as the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Group of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria backs the pronouncement, noting that it will help reposition the pharmaceutical sector. Recall that PUNCH HealthWise had reported on Thursday that the NAFDAC had vowed to stem importation of foreign medicines from its current 70 per cent to 30 per cent in three years. According to the Director-General of NAFDAC, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, reducing drug importation and increasing local drug manufacturing will help curb the prevalence of substandard drugs and ensure national drug security. She said, “If a country is over-dependent on importation of medicine, such country will get substandard drugs and if not for COVID-19, we wouldn’t have woken up from our slumber as a country. “When I started my tenure, local manufacturing of medicine became my focus because when you increase local manufacturing you are not just giving more jobs or increasing the GDP. “Most, importantly, you are safeguarding the health of the nation because if somebody is falsifying something on Ota, for example, we can get there within one hour and something like that had happened before. “So, we want to change the 70 per cent importation of drugs into the country to 30 per cent by 2025, so that as a nation we can say we have drug security because we don’t have that now.” Her statement has, however, continued to generate mixed reactions among top pharmaceutical stakeholders in the country. President of the Association of Pharmaceutical Importers of Nigeria, Nnamdi Obi, a pharmacist, believes the food and drug regulator did not give the idea a proper consideration before making the pronouncement. According to him, the Federal Government has yet to address the several factors militating against ease of doing business in the country. He said many investors and pharma entrepreneurs are scared of establishing local plants in Nigeria due to factors like epileptic power supply, inaccessible roads, multiple taxations, and policy somersaults. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com