Dear Madam Temilolu, Happy New Year ma. I’m a 29-year-old virgin and I thought to inform you my wedding is coming up in April this year. I’d like to thank you most sincerely for your teachings which have helped me since I began reading your articles about five years ago. I’m so happy I kept myself for the right man and I must confess you really helped me. Thanks so much ma. Paula Dear Aunty Temilolu, I must confess God is really using you ma. Many thanks and may God bless you for the good work you’re doing. It appears most of your posts about ungodly sex is referring to me as my spirit is totally against it because whenever I engage in such, in my dreams I will see myself defeated and rolling in the mud. Meanwhile, many prophets have told me to stop it in order for God to use me mightily! Several times I have confessed and promised I will not do it anymore but find myself doing it with a married man of recent and single guys. No serious relationship and I am a 31-year-old breadwinner of my family, not the first nor second child. In my family nothing is working at all; we are suffering and I’m praying for God to use me to bring financial blessings to my family but I’m seriously battling with sexual lust and diverse sins. I always vow not to engage in it no matter the pressure but still fall victim. I have intentions to travel out and I have actually received many prophecies about my travelling but I’m stuck right now. Please ma, I don’t know what to do I just need your counselling, thanks ma! Ena Dear Ena, I must say God loves you and has been revealing His plans for you through His servants despite your waywardness! Isn’t it so obvious you are the light in your family, the star in their sky and the oasis in their desert? Yet, you are messing around with your body- the temple of the Holy Spirit! May I ask you how much you’ve made from sleeping around and which man has proposed marriage to you or the present state of your life? You have the solution to your life’s challenges on your fingertips- all you need to do is sit with God till He makes a way for you where there’s no way and makes you a wonderful wonder! Of course you can tame your flesh and stay away from ungodly sex. You should even be thankful you’ve been told He wants to use you mightily! Follow the tips below and watch out what will become of you in 2022! My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian daughters, If a good number of you saw what God had in store for you in 2021, you’d cry for days and blame yourselves so badly! Yes! I insist too many of you don’t have the faintest idea what leaves your life during sexual intercourse- a spiritual union and exchange! Too many lost golden opportunities that could skyrocket their destinies while many others lost financial blessings that could rewrite their family’s history even while shouting “what God cannot do does not exist!” You just cannot disrespect God by dishonoring your body- His temple and think all can be well with you especially when the devil is bent on attacking you! May you recover all you’ve lost this year in Jesus name! How to have your dreams manifest this year and shine like the star that you are! Stay away from everything and everyone who made you turn against God last year! I’m afraid you’d have to cut ties with the guy you’ve been engaging in sex with and your ungodly friends. Some of them were sent into your life by the devil to derail you and divert the course of your destiny. Some of them could even be engaging in prostitution and appear to be enjoying a world of goodies but that might just be what would ensure you never manifest what God has planned for your life, You need to be wise this year! And I must say time is going! What God scheduled to happen in your life/the blessings meant for last year, this year and next year may never ever come your way again if you don’t sit right and tight to have them at the appointed time. To be continued. I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com