Almost two weeks after the planned resumption of public schools, pupils in Niger State have yet to start schooling as the hope of the early resolution of the impasse between the state government and the Nigerian Union of Teachers fades. While parents and guardians have expressed worries over their children and wards’ inability to resume school as a result of the sit-at-home directive issued by the NUT to its members over the government’s refusal to stop the payment of salaries in percentages, the government and the union appear not to be making headway in resolving the conflict. Some parents and guardians, who spoke to our correspondent, accused the state government of being insincere with the way it was handling the situation by not taking the issue seriously as it was spending money on other less important things. According to Musa Sale, whose child is in a primary school, there is no reason why the issue cannot be resolved once and for all. He stated, “This problem has been on for a long time and I wonder why the government doesn’t want to pay them their full salaries. “How can someone be working and he is being paid part of his salary when he is not under punishment?” Another parent, who simply identified himself as Christopher, accused the government of insincerity, saying, “I know that if the government wants this issue resolved, it will be resolved swiftly, because they have their way around things, but you can see that they don’t want it resolved; if they want, the issue will be over in a matter of hours.” Some of the women, who spoke to The PUNCH,              were worried about their children seeing other pupils in private schools attending classes, while they stayed at home doing nothing. “I am just worried that while my neighbours’ children are going to school, mine are sitting at home and missing out on school work,” a housewife, who gave her name simply as Agnes, said. When contacted on the fate of the pupils, the Chairman of the NUT in the state, Akayago Mohammed, referred our correspondent to the communiqué issued after the state wing executive council meeting, which held in Minna on Monday, insisting that teachers would not resume until the government made commitments to reverse the percentage payment. He stated, “The SWEC-in-session has once again expressed worries and concerns and condemns in strong terms the continuous payment of salaries on percentage basis to teachers in the state despite several appeals for its stoppage. “The council, therefore, reaffirms its sit-at-home directive to all teachers until when there is a serious commitment from the government to go back to the status quo.” The state Commissioner for Education, Hannatu Salisu, did not take her calls and had not responded to a message sent to her mobile telephone as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com