The intersection. The carrefour. The crossroads.  The junction of flummox. Corner of the fuddle. A confined space of disturbing discombobulation. A place of uncertainty, we all often stumble on. That is life’s intersection. Therein, you don’t know what to do. But you’ve got to make a call. You’ve got to make a move. You are at the gate of decision. “Now, what do I do?” you silently inquire of your soul because you don’t know what to do. Is a right turn right? Is a left swing the best? What about surging straight on ahead, will crooked things be made straight?  Going back to where you’re coming from, is that a good backup? And maybe staying still and stagnant on the same spot doing nothing is safest. But is it? Is doing nothing doing something? At the intersection, you still have to make a move. But you are not sure if making a right turn will turn outright. You aren’t certain if a left swerve will cause you to be left out all alone in the biting cold. You don’t want to turn backwards. No one goes forward going backwards. If you stay stagnant on the same spot you may be run over by the tractor-trailer cruising fast on life’s freeway. At an intersection, the effigy of confusion emits its phantom breath of life as it beckons at you. At an intersection, an expert becomes a man of no knowledge. A cunning connoisseur appears as a dunderhead. In the midst of the confusing clouds and fiery fog, you still have to do something. When you don’t know what to do, you still must do something. Only those who make moves have a chance to make history. These four men believed that they were better off than shilly-shallying. They were on a journey into the city of their dreams. They had to make a move. Should they stand still at the city gate? Death may come calling. Should they enter the city where famine raged? There was no food or water. Should they seek asylum in the enemy’s camp? Therein adversaries salivated to bury men alive. At the city gate, they sat down in folded hands and in bemusement. Something then sprung them into consciousness. It was a reminder that the journey ahead of them was far and had not even started. And then they whispered in one another’s ears. “Why sit here until we die?” They were right. Because at an intersection of life dwells the Grim Reaper seeking whom to devour. The menace brandishes his garroting bludgeon looking for those whose days are numbered.  Life or death became a choice. What now should they do? The camp of hounding enemies wasn’t too far. “If we seek help from there, we will be interred alive.” But they had to do something. Life pushes you to a spot where you have no choice but to make a move. The move may not be the best but you’ve got to put it to the test. 32nd President of the United States spoke these words I love: “One thing is sure. We have to do something. We have to do the best we know how at the moment… If it doesn’t turn out right, we can modify it as we go along”. At the intersection of life, you seek counsel from the wise. You battle with yourself as your body, soul and spirit rage in belligerence against the custodian being. People tell you to do this and that and do that and this but they don’t feel what you feel. They don’t know what you know. Only you know what you feel and know what others don’t. You look at the face of the Grim Reaper and you shudder. If you die, you are dead alone. If you live, you live for destiny and its fulfilment. So, heaven waits for you as you ponder and wonder until vacillation vanishes. Readers, we get to some tough spots in life that making a decision is tough. But, ultimately, you must make it. Make it and say to yourself and to the garroting giant of indecision staring you in the face: “If I perish, I perish!” When you don’t know what to do, you must do something. Only those who make moves have a chance to make history. And about the four men. They chose to go into the enemy’s camp. As they tiptoed toward the bugaboo, their anxiety spiked. Their hearts beat fast. The palpitation was audible. They knew that enemies do nothing but steal, kill and destroy. They trudged on softly, closer, near the camp. Shots didn’t ring. Shouts didn’t rent the air. No guards. No gun-toting eagle-eyed men. The camp was quiet. Is this a trap, they probably asked? And they peeped inside. To the left and right, their eyes were in swift surveillance.  Alas, the camp was empty!  A mysterious, loud voice of warring horses and chariots had shaken the cantonment of the enemies. Behold, the enemies they thought were waiting to consume them had relocated. Sometimes the giant Goliath you fear so much is a mirage. It only exists in your mind. If only you knew that you could shut him down with a sling and smooth stones, you would have decided to take him on in a fight you had already won before you began. You will never find out the giant’s weakness until you make a decision to fight him. Don’t fear Goliath, my friend. Fight him. Where you think you’ll perish may become the same place you are cherished. When you don’t know what to do, you’ve got to do something. Only those who make a move have a chance to make history. It is true that we can’t change the direction of the wind, but we can adjust our sails to reach our goals. When things happen to you and it seems there’s nothing to do about it, there is always something to do. Decision. The Greeks call it “diagignōskein; diagnosis.” It means to distinguish and to know. Call it what you want in whatever tongue, it is the ability to discern good or evil. It is decision— the crucial one we all make at an intersection. Is your life at an intersection right now? Forget not what one wise man said, “The greatest mistake you can make in life is to continually fear you will make one.” You are the captain of an aeroplane. The rest of the crew is ready. The engine is revving. You are fired up with hope and expectation. But you are vacillating about taking off. Many are not victorious because they try to avoid danger, risks, and criticism. A victory without danger is a triumph without glory. Vacillating people seldom succeed. Quit vacillating! When you don’t know what to do, do something. And do it quick. The sun of success rarely shines on people who vacillate. Twitter: @Folaojotweet Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com