It is the time of the year to assess a 12-month journey by reflecting on achievements, evaluating failures and planning for higher milestones in the New Year. Individuals, corporate bodies and organisations often carry out such evaluations – objectively or otherwise. Somehow, the Federal Government’s tatafo, unmistakably outspoken talk talk master told of Nigeria’s journey through the 2021 on Thursday. Expectedly, the minister regaled us with many achievements recorded under his principal in the outgoing year even though there were no mentions of the government’s failure. Perhaps, time did not permit him to admit at least one or two failings of the government at the venue of the press conference in Lagos. Maybe there is none. Yet within the limited available time, the minister elegantly told us of “tremendous progress” the administration made in 2021 in fighting insecurity and growing the economy “in spite of daunting challenges.” But for those who keep abreast of the prevailing situations in the country, Eavedropper was almost tempted to take what the minister said hook, line and sinker without subjecting it to further scrutiny. Trust millions of Nigerians, they would not hesitate to dissect the minister’s claim against every verifiable index. One by one, they analysed some claims within his claim. As regards the ‘tremendous progress’ in fighting insecurity, the minister said over 1,000 terrorists were crushed by soldiers in the volatile North-East region that has been ravaged by Boko Haram insurgency for over a decade; over 2,000 civilians rescued while more than 22,000 terrorists surrendered. Wawu; like some stunned young fellows would exclaim. Maybe for want of time or because such information is not meant for public consumption, the minister never made any reference to thousands of people either killed, kidnapped or displaced by deadly bandits. Remember the government is still doing press-up, yet to gazette an order declaring the ruthless assailants as terrorists. In the middle of celebrating “the achievement,” one critique not easily given to political rhetoric referenced damning statistics released by the Nigeria Security Tracker, a project of the Council on Foreign Relations’ an American think tank as well as quarterly reports released by the Kaduna State Government from January to September 2021. The two reports indicated that no fewer than 3,125 innocent persons were killed and 2,703 abducted by bandits in northern Nigeria in 11 months. This was in addition to millions of naira paid in ransom during the year under review. As for the claim of growing economy “in spite of daunting challenges,” another fellow scrutinising the statement wanted to know whether prices of foodstuffs have stopped rising almost on a daily basis, despite a drop in the inflation rate to 15.4 per cent from 18.17 per cent recorded in March, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. As much as Eavesdropper tried to find substance in the “tremendous progress” the regime made “in reforming the oil sector to spur more investments, emplacing world-class infrastructure” and “providing social safety net for the poor and most vulnerable in society,” doubting Thomases seem to have reasons to puncture some part of the claim. While the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill into law gave some ray of hope, there was little or no concrete evidence to show that billions of naira earmarked for poor, vulnerable Nigerians on the National Social Register to mitigate the hardship caused by COVID-19 was fully disbursed. Lest I forget, “tremendous progress” was also made in “taking advantage of the huge opportunities offered by the Information and Communications Technology Sector,” not minding that at the last check, December 22 to be specific, Nigeria’s economy has lost N499.32bn to the shutdown of Twitter since June 4, 2021. According to the NetBlocks Cost of Shutdown Tool, Nigeria’s economy loses N104.02m ($250,600) every hour to the ban on Twitter. As of 200 days/4,800 hours since the social networking site was blocked, the loss had skyrocketed to N499.32bn and still counting. Anyway, Nigerians should take solace in the concluding remark of the minister, thanking them “most sincerely” for their support and perseverance under the current regime. As for the reassurance that “President Muhammadu Buhari is determined to leave a legacy of a safe, secure and prosperous nation,” only time will tell.