A former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has accused Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, of masterminding his suspension by the Bauchi Emirate Council. Dogara who made the accusation in a statement he personally signed and made available to journalists in Bauchi on Tuesday, said he was yet to be officially notified of his suspension as ‘Jakadan Bauchi’ by the council. The suspension was in connection with attacks on the convoys of the Emirs of Bauchi and Dass, Alhaji Rilwanu Adamu and Alhaji Biliyaminu Othman, respectively on December 31, 2021. Speaking at a press conference in his palace on Monday, the Emir of Bauchi,  represented by the Galadiman Bauchi, Sa’idu Jahun, who suspended Dogara as Jakadan Bauchi with immediate effect, expressed dismay that the lawmaker, who hails from Bogoro and bears a traditional title, would be suspected to be one of those behind the attacks on the Emirs. But Dogara, in a statement titled “My take on my purported suspension as Jakadan Bauchi,” said the Emirate did not inform him of any wrong doing. The lawmaker who represents Dass/Bogoro/Tafawa Balewa Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives noted that the decision to suspend him was based on “a ludicrous and legally inchoate criminal complaint” filed against him and others by the state governor. He said the suspension, if true, was a violation of his constitutionally guaranteed right to fair hearing since he was not invited to defend himself. Dogara, who is serving his fourth term in the House of Representatives, also faulted the claim that he did not sympathise with the Emirs. He said, “I am aware that both His Royal Highness and members of the council have been under tremendous pressure from the Bauchi State Government to withdraw the traditional title conferred on me for quite some time now. “It is all part of a smear campaign to portray me as insensitive and convict me in the court of public opinion for the political gains of some desperate characters.” He added, “Suspension of traditional titles of political opponents at the behest of the governor has become routine now. Before mine, our father, the Wazirin Bauchi, had been suspended. Likewise, my comrade in the APC, the Wakilin Birni, had also been suspended. The Emir of Misau was also suspended by the governor.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com