Despite achieving the elimination target of the World Health Organisation (one case per 10,000 population) in the year 2000 through the implementation of the global health agency’s recommended strategies, leprosy remains a disease of public health concern in Nigeria with over 3,500 new diagnoses annually and many patients battling disability, stigma and discrimination. LARA ADEJORO reports: When Vitalis Hanheza started experiencing headaches, fever, and persistent itching on his hands, he thought it was malaria and thus decided to buy some medications at the pharmacy nearest to him. He, however, did not feel better after taking the medication. He then resorted to taking herbal concoction which he said cost ‘a fortune.’ He continued the mixture of medicine and concoction for months— from December 2019 to May 2021. However, when there was no improvement, he travelled to NKST Rehabilitation Hospital, Gboko, Benue State, for treatment. Travelling from where he lives in Doma Local Government Area in Nasarawa State to Benue state via road takes nothing less than five hours. Aside from having to bear the huge transport expenses, the journey was also very stressful for him. He lamented that his poor health condition was a big challenge for him. “I spent not less than N60,000 in search of a cure but I didn’t get any solution until I got tired and went to the hospital,” he told PUNCH HealthWise. “They ran some tests and I was diagnosed with leprosy.” The 21-year-old farmer said he had begun his treatment and he feels better but he still needs money to complete his treatment. “I don’t have the money yet to travel to Benue state to get the remaining medication,” he said. Like Hanheza, many Nigerians are living with leprosy without knowing it as inadequate awareness remains a huge obstacle to the early diagnosis and treatment of this curable disease. Leprosy as a disease Leprosy is an ancient disease that remains endemic and continues to be a major public health problem in many tropical countries. It is one of the neglected tropical diseases. According to experts, leprosy is linked to underdevelopment hence its prevalence in underdeveloped countries. Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by a bacillus, Mycobacterium leprae. The germ multiplies slowly and the incubation period of the disease, on average, is five years. Symptoms may occur within one year but can also take as long as 20 years or even more. Transmitted through droplets from infected persons, it mainly affects the skin, the peripheral nerves, mucosa of the upper respiratory tract, and the eyes. The disease is curable with multidrug therapy before it progresses and causes permanent damage to the skin, nerves, limbs, and eyes. The disease, also known as Hansen’s disease can cause severe disfigurement and significant disability if left untreated. Stigmatisation The National President of the Association of Persons Affected by Leprosy (IDEA Nigeria), Mr. Peter Iorkighir said there are not less than 92 PALs in Benue State. IDEA is the first international advocacy organisation whose leadership is primarily made up of individuals who have personally faced the challenges of leprosy, also called Hansen’s disease. Iorkighir said PALs are marginalised within the disability community. “For instance, we have National Disability Commission but as I’m speaking with you, there is nobody affected by leprosy in the commission. It is wrong for us not to have representation there. Please, we need help. “We face a lot of challenges like stigma and discrimination and this leads to poverty, family rejection, and other issues,” he said. According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, leprosy remains a disease of public health importance with over 3,500 people diagnosed with it every year and about 25 per cent of patients having some degree of disability. PUNCH HealthWise reports that Nigeria recorded 2,424 new leprosy cases in 2019. About six per cent of the cases are children while about 13-15 per cent experienced the WHO ranking of ‘grade two deformity.’ Many more might be infected annually than those who come forward for diagnosis. There are a lot of myths and superstitions associated with the disease, the agency said. “Stigma and discrimination against persons and communities affected by leprosy in Nigeria are very high,” NCDC said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com