The Chairman of the Buhari Media Organisation, Niyi Akinsiju, justifies the reasons cited by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for withholding assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, in this interview with LEKE BAIYEWU The President sent  the electoral bill back to the National Assembly, citing various issues regarding the restriction of political parties to direct primary. Do you agree with the reasons for his action? I think seriously, the reasons are very fundamental and germane both to the electoral and democratic process. What we need to do is to have an objective overview of the process itself. Is it right – that is the question – for the process of recruitment of (public) office holders to be legislated and limited to a particular mode? Is it appropriate? Out of the various modes of recruiting political officer holders, is it appropriate that there will be a legislative position restricting political parties that are naturally private associations; that you now have a body – the National Assembly – restricting and compelling the adoption of a particular mode. In a democracy, I don’t think it is appropriate. So, I line up behind the President and say this is a democracy and democracy is about choices and allowing people options. So, what the President has done is to say that, ‘allow the political parties to determine how they are going to recruit people that will run on their platforms. It is not about the APC or the PDP; it cuts across all political parties. Now, we have 18 political parties that are registered (with INEC). By the time we are going into the elections in 2023, it is likely that we will have up to 100 political parties that would have been registered because the law allows INEC to register political parties that have met the minimum requirements and conditions. So, you do not now legislate how those political parties will conduct their affairs or how people will emerge on their platforms. These are private organisations. We should not forget that political parties are actually platforms that are derived from the right of association of Nigerians. In the exercise of your constitutional right of association, you now have a mega entity like the National Assembly or the government – if the President had assented to it – regulating how you conduct your democratic process within the entity of a political party. I think it is wrong. Should the arguments from the lawmakers that direct primary will allow emergence of popular candidates and leaders, while eliminating imposition by godfathers be ignored? It is not the right of the National Assembly to guide our focus and our vision. The individual political parties have their individual ideologies and the reasons for their establishment. To that extent, it is those individuals that constitute that association, that we call a political party, that should determine what is unique and peculiar to the administration of their political party. What the National Assembly is trying to do is to make the government a supra regulatory organisation, which is undemocratic in itself. While they present the arguments that it is cheaper, it will stop godfatherism and all that; the important thing is that if people have come together to form an organisation, it is their responsibility to understand which one (mode of primary) favours them and adopt the one that favours them and go ahead to implement what favours them, as long as it is within the orbit of the Nigerian Constitution which allows and guarantees freedom of association. Freedom of association is also regulated by the conduct of the people, so that you are not restricted within an association especially in the area of emergence of leadership. I don’t think the argument by the National Assembly will apply in this case. The law allows the President to veto any bill and he has exercised that power. The law also allows the National Assembly to override that veto and lawmakers are threatening to exercise their power too. Do you advise that they go ahead with that? It is not about threatening. For people like us, we have a liberal outlook of how our democracy should evolve. It is not about threatening, the law is there. The Constitution is there and it is clear as presently mainstreamed in the practise of our democracy. If the lawmakers can garner the kind of numbers (two-thirds of each of the Senate and the House of Representatives) the Constitution has outlined, why not? They can go ahead. It shows that it is where the majority of Nigerians stand. But if they cannot garner such numbers, it also shows that those numbers are not possible because Nigerians don’t want it. Would you be happy if the National Assembly overrides the President? It is not about being happy. If they override the President, what is apparent is that the supremacy of the Constitution would have been enhanced. It would show that it is what the Nigerian populace prefers. But, again, the flipside is that if they don’t get to garner those numbers or they don’t get enough number to override the President’s veto, it shows that that is what the Nigerian people want too. We should always allow the democratic interaction in all these issues. If they are threatening, I am saying that it is not supposed to be a matter of threatening. They have the capacity to go ahead in law and garner those numbers. Let us see if they can. But if they cannot, they should also agree and let Nigerians know that it is the direction we are taking and everybody should line up behind what the President has done. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com