The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Dr Iyorchia Ayu; Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde; former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki and five other governors on the platform of the party, on Friday, received the convener of the Lagos4Lagos Movement and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Mr. Abdulazeez Adediran, aka Jandor, into the PDP fold. The governors in attendance are host governor, Makinde; Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike; Akwa Ibom Governor, Deacon Udom Emmanuel; his Abia State counterpart, Okezie Ikpeazu; Enugu State Governor, Mr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi; Bayelsa State and Senator Duoye Diri of Bayelsa State. The event, which had in attendance members of the National Working Committee of the PDP, including the Deputy National Chairman, Taofeek Arapaja, and the National Secretary, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, as well as former PDP Deputy National Chairman, Chief Olabode George; former governors Peter Obi and Olusegun Mimiko, was held at the Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, indicated that Makinde, while addressing select journalists shortly after the event, said the event signalled the beginning of a new dawn for the PDP in Lagos State. According to the governor, the South-West PDP is now fully ready to lead the charge to rescue the zone and the country from the hands of APC, which promised too much but did so little to justify the trust Nigerians had in it. He said, “Today, I joined my brother governors in the PDP and other well-meaning members of our great party to welcome Mr. Jide Adediran of the Lagos4Lagos Movement to the PDP.” Earlier, the National Chairman of the PDP, Ayu, had maintained that the party would restore Nigeria’s glory come 2023 and that Lagos would also be rescued from the throes of bad governance. According to Ayu, the APC deceived Lagosians and Nigerians with the promise of change, but residents of the state and country have not been happy because they not enjoying the change. Ayu said, “PDP loves Lagos. We love Nigerians. We want Lagos to return to Lagosians and we want Nigeria to belong to Nigerians. “Today, we are happy to join Lagosians to welcome Abdulazeez Olajide Adediran to the PDP so that together, we can rescue Lagos State and rescue Nigeria from the throes of economic hardship.” Similarly, Governor Ikpeazu, who spoke on behalf of the PDP Governors’ Forum Chairman, Rt. Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, and Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, welcomed Adediran and his team to the PDP. Ikpeazu maintained that Adediran had joined a bus that would not stop until it gets to Aso Rock in 2023, charged him to join hands with existing members of the PDP in Lagos State to rescue the state and Nigeria. In his response shortly after being presented with the PDP membership card by the chairman of the party in Ojoo Local Government and the chairman of the Lagos State PDP Caretaker Committee, Julius Akinsola, Adediran said he and his followers were joining the PDP to add value to the party. Adediran said, “We once belonged to a party that was not ready for a contest. But we have now moved to the PDP, party that believes in the rule of law and in this party, we will put our numerical strength to test against the APC.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com