…says Garuoa weather affected players Super Eagles interim coach Austin Eguavoen says he is pleased with the performance of his team after they defeated Coton Sport 2-0 in a test game on Friday in Garoua, Cameroon but he was quick to admit that his side struggled to cope with the weather, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. A goal in each half from Super Eagles captain Ahmed Musa and Samuel Chukwueze handed Nigeria their first win under Eguavoen, who took over the reins after Gernot Rohr’s contract was terminated in December 2021. Eguavoen, who will be aiming to become the third individual in the history of the AFCON to win the title as player and coach after the late Stephen Keshi and Egyptian Mahmoud El Gohary, added that his team missed a lot of chances in the encounter but hopes to work on the team’s attack before the their first game against Egypt on Tuesday. “The Eagles were impressive,” Eguavoen said after the game. “We played two sets of teams in each half to see how the players would cope with the weather conditions but they struggled a little bit with the weather conditions. Fatigue also set in at some point. “In terms of ball possession and movement, I was so pleased and winning the game was good for the team. “We missed a lot of chances but it is a practice match and nobody wanted to go in full force, so we played safe throughout to avoid injuries.” He also rued his team’s late arrival in the opponent’s box while on the offensive. “Arriving in the box with fewer players is not so good and that is what we will be working on in the next few days.” Nigeria are grouped with Egypt, Sudan and Guinea-Bissau and begin their Nations Cup campaign against Egypt on January 11 and he says it’s a crucial game for his team. The Eagles then face Sudan on January 15 before rounding up their group campaign against Guinea-Bissau on January 19. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com