A man simply identified as Adam, was reportedly shot dead, while four others were injured during a clash between men of Osun State Security Network, otherwise known as Amotekun corps, and some suspected hoodlums in Osogbo. According to sources in the Balogun Agoro area, where the incident occurred, three Amotekun operatives had gone to the neighbourhood to retrieve some tools seized by a group of hoodlums that had earlier attacked a construction site at Olaiya area of Osogbo. It was further learnt that an altercation between the two groups, after the hoodlums were asked to release the items seized, later went bloody as the men, rather than releasing the tools, allegedly pounced on the Amotekun operatives and stabbed one of them on the head. A resident of the area, who pleaded anonymity, while speaking on the incident, said one of Amotekun men had shot in self-defence, as the hoodlums swooped on them. “Five of the boys that attacked Amotekun men were shot. One Amotekun corps was stabbed on the head. The agency patrol van brought to the area was also damaged. One of the boys that were shot later died. The incident happened on Friday,” the resident stated. But when contacted, the state Commandant, Osun Amotekun Corps, Brig. Gen. Bashir Adewimbi (retd.), said a group of hoodlums led by one Lekan, also known as ‘Emir’, attacked Amotekun men who were in the area on assignment. He said, “One the operatives had to shoot into the air to disperse the hoodlums and ensure that they escape from the area. In the process, one of the hoodlums was hit and, unfortunately, later died. “Our objective is to ensure that the state is rid of insecurity and act of lawlessness by cultists and hoodlums and we would not relent from doing so. Presently, police and other security operatives have been stationed in the area to ensure that law and order are maintained. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com