Premier Jason Kenney has asked Alberta’s Justice Minister, Kelechi Madu, to “step back” from his ministerial duties over a traffic violation. Madu, who previously served as minister of municipal affairs, was named justice minister in August 2020. He is the first Black person to serve as a minister of justice in Canada. The Canadian-Nigerian was booked by a traffic officer for using a phone while driving. The premier directed Madu to stay away from office until an independent review into his conduct following a distracted-driving ticket he received in 2021 was completed. Madu, a member of the legislative assembly for Edmonton-South West, Canada, was pulled over and fined on March 10, 2021, the police said. “Minister Madu had concerns about the context of the traffic stop. The ticket remains valid and was issued correctly,” Edmonton Police Service spokesperson, Cheryl Sheppard, told CTV News in an email. After getting booked, Madu reportedly called the local police chief, Dale McFee, about the ticket. In a statement, Madu said he was pulled over after leaving his home and that he ultimately regretted calling the police chief after the ticket had been issued. He stated, “The officer indicated that he had observed me driving while distracted, alleging that I was on my phone. I disagreed, stating that I was not on my phone, as it was in an inside pocket. “Later, I spoke to Chief Dale McFee. Due to the timing of the incident, I wanted to ensure that I was not being unlawfully surveilled following the controversy surrounding the Lethbridge Police Service. I also raised concerns around profiling of racial minorities that was in the media at the time.” At that time, a review into Lethbridge police conduct in 2017 was being prepared after reports of unlawful surveillance of the then environment minister, Shannon Phillips. According to Madu, McFee assured him that this was “most definitely” not the case. Madu added, “To be abundantly clear, at no point did I request that the ticket be rescinded. I would never do that. “However, in that particular call, I regret raising the issue at all with the Chief McFee. I paid the ticket fully and promptly. I have the utmost respect for our men and women in uniform, and for the invaluable, often thankless role they perform.” Despite paying the ticket, the premier said on Twitter on Monday that Madu would be stepping away from his ministerial duties. Kenney said he spoke with Madu and conveyed his “profound disappointment” over contacting the police chief after being issued the ticket. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com