The Police in Ebonyi State, on Tuesday, failed to arraign the Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chika Nwoba, who has been in its custody, since Sunday. He was brought to the Magistrate Court II of the State Judiciary Headquarters, Abakaliki, briefly by a team of armed Policemen in a white Hilux at 4pm. After spending about 20 minutes within the vicinity of the court, he was driven out of the premises by the policemen. Nwoba’s lawyer, Luke Nkwegu, who spoke to him briefly through the window of the van, told journalists that he complained of having severe health challenges as a result of the beating he allegedly received from those who arrested him. He lamented that Nwoba was having serious eye problems due to the beating he received before he was rescued by the Police and subsequently arrested. He said, “Thugs beat him up to the extent that he can’t see. The Police have refused to allow him to see his doctors despite the fact that he is having health challenges as a result of the beating he received. The Police have also refused to arrest those who beat him up. It was gathered that the Police brought him to the court to enter his charges and notify the court that he was in their custody. He was allegedly arrested by suspected agents of the state government, who intercepted a car he was driving in on the Abakaliki-Enugu highway. An eyewitness and State Deputy Chairman of PDP, Ifeanyi Nworie, who was with Nwoba when he was arrested had accused the Ebubeagu operatives of beating him up after which they bundled him into their car. Nworie, who is also a lawyer, alleged they planned to take Nwoba away but for the arrival of the Police, who he notified. He said the Police thereafter took him away to the Police station where he was denied access to his Lawyers, Doctors or any visitor. However, the State Consultant on Security, Stanley Okoro Emegha, denied that the Ebubeagu Security outfit members beat up Nwoba. He said they only arrested him in a professional manner and promptly handed him over to the Police to face charges bordering on fake news circulation. The Commissioner of Police, Garba Aliyu, denied the allegations by the PDP lawyer. He said Nwoba has been having free access to visitors who have been coming to see him all day at the station. “No one is infringing on his right to seeing his visitors. If the lawyers still want to see him, they should come now and they will see him.” He noted that Nwoba was not arraigned today because the Magistrate had closed for the day adding that he would likely be arraigned tomorrow. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com