Following the withdrawal of soldiers from the Nigeria Correctional Service custodial centres in Ondo State, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu has deployed other security personnel in the centres to protect them. The governor had on Wednesday raised the alarm that soldiers had been withdrawn from the centres, alleging the Nigerian Army’s action could induce jailbreaks in the state. Akeredolu was said to have deployed personnel of other security agencies, including the Nigeria Police Force, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and the state Security Network Agency, also known as Amotekun Corps. The Amotekun Commander in the state, Akogun Adetunji Adeleye, disclosed this to our correspondent in Akure. Adeleye said, “You will agree with me that the correctional centres are the Federal Government’s physical assets and it is the responsibility of the mother security agencies to provide security for the facilities. “ As soon as that incident (soldiers’ withdrawal) happened, the police and the NSCDC immediately deployed their men in all the correctional centres and because of our knowledge of local intelligence, men of the Amotekun were directed by the governor to join the sister security agencies to ensure that there is no vacuum. “As we talk now, all the correctional centres in the state are being manned by officers and men of the police, the NSCDC and the Amotekun.” Adeleye urged the people of the state not to hesitate to give security agents useful information that could assist in combating criminal activities in the state. “First, we want to give kudos to the people of the state for their support in terms of quality and timely information upon which we respond and act. We are also telling them that security should not be left with the security agencies alone. They should expose the criminals among them and we will continue to treat all information received with utmost confidentiality such that sources of such information will never be disclosed,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com