The residents of Oko communities in Oshimili South Local Government Area of Delta State have appealed to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa over an abandoned Oko communities road project. The abandoned multi-million Naira 3.5 kilometres Asaba/Oko-Amakom/Oko-Obiokpu/Oko-Anala Road project was said to have paralyzed economic activities and posed security threats to residents. Our correspondent, who visited the community, observed the hardship the resident passed through in accessing the area and discovered that the road was first awarded by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in 2018 but was re-awarded in 2021 to Alcon Construction Company, an indigenous contractor. Speaking to our correspondent, residents of the area expressed dissatisfaction over the abandoned project, describing the government’s attitude towards the project as wicked and an act of insincerity having voted for the various successive governments. A community leader, Mr Kelvin Nwabueze, said it was very difficult for them to access the road over decades. He said, “The new contractor only brought a few pieces of equipment and filled less than a kilometre of the road with sharp sand over six months ago and disappeared from the site. “We are appealing to our amiable governor to mandate the contractor back to site before another rainy season comes.” The Youth Chairman of the Oki community, Mr Patrick Nnadinyeli stated, “Over the years, no access road to Oki communities. “During the rainy season, our people usually go through Onitsha, Atani in Anambra State to access our communities using a boat and we were happy when they awarded the road but since then, nothing is done.” Also, the human rights activist in the state, Comrade Victor Ojei, lamented Oko communities which host several natural resources and are located a few kilometres away from Asaba, suffering such lack of access road. “The road project was first awarded by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in 2018 and re-awarded in 2021 to an indigenous contractor. I am appealing to Governor Okowa to immediately address the problem.” Efforts to reach the State Commissioner for Works (Rural Road), Mr Solomon Golley, failed as calls put across to his phone were not responded to as of the time of filing this report. But the State Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu, said that the state government had revoked the contract from the initial company for poor performance. The road which connects several communities that are predominantly farmers and crafts makers are now cut off from Asaba, the state capital. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com