The Association of Resident Doctors, University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital chapter, has commended Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, for funding the commencement of residency training for medical doctors for the first time in state hospitals. Speaking at the January edition of its Ordinary General Meeting and Scientific Conference on Saturday, ARD UITH President, Dr Dele Abdullahi, said the Governor is evidently committed to the growth of the health sector and deserves commendations for his efforts, especially the residency training that has now begun in the state. The residency training followed the first-of-its-kind accreditation of the state’s premier hospital —Ilorin General Hospital — for the training of resident doctors, among other health professionals. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Rafiu Ajakaye, quoted the ARD President as describing Abdulrazaq as “a Governor that listens to us”. Dr Abdullahi said, “We at ARD UITH are very grateful as we have always enjoyed your support. You have supported our outreaches, you listen to us, and you give us the platform to reach for greater heights.” “Under you, the residency training started in Kwara State. This is one huge achievement we cannot push aside. We will keep reaching out to you, we hope that this open-door policy that you have pushed forward as well as your cordiality will always be there. The residency training means that we can now train more doctors in the state and that will impact positively on the sector.” In a short address to the conference, the Governor commended health professionals for their selfless service to humanity and restated the administration’s commitment to the improvement of facilities and workers’ welfare. The Governor said he took part in the zoom meeting to understand the theme of the conference themed ‘Medical Residency Training Act: Interpretation and controversies’, especially because the state had only recently commenced the programme. Meanwhile, Kwara recently approved better remunerations for its health workers, including medical doctors, to halt the former higher rate of attrition. The AbdulRazaq administration had recently secured accreditations from the West Africa College of Surgeons to train Resident Doctors in Obstetrics and Gynaecology and approval from the National Post Graduate Medical College of Nigeria to train Resident Doctors in Family Medicine. Presently, the Ilorin General Hospital is in the process of applying for accreditation in the Paediatric and Ophthalmology Departments because of the huge investments and commitment of the administration to the health sector. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com