The first female Vice Chancellor of the University of Calabar, Prof Florence Obi, speaks with ADA WODU about various issues in the academia, the odds she is surmounting in the course of doing her job and other issues As the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Calabar, what are your primary duties? A Vice-Chancellor is the chief academic, administrative and financial officer of a university. When we talk about chief academic officer, it means the Vice-Chancellor superintends over the academic affairs of the university in conjunction with the institution’s Senate. That means the VC is the chief examiner, reviews curriculum, sees to it that examinations are properly conducted in an enabling environment, and the results are properly released. The VC also ensures that transcripts of students are promptly released. The VC is also responsible for administrative action and is the chief financial officer of the university. When things go wrong financially, the VC is held responsible. Those are the tripartite responsibilities of a vice-chancellor. What is the most complex decision you have taken as the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Calabar? I am not sure if I have taken any complex decision yet. Perhaps, the slight increase we recently introduced to school fees could count as one. It was not easy considering the economic situation in the country. Everyone is hard up, yet the university needs to keep moving along with other contemporary universities. All the good services need to be rendered and provided for the university. Meanwhile, there are dwindling resources coming from the Federal Government. So, one of those most complex decisions I have taken for now is to increase school fees. I knew it would come with a lot of reactions but because I was pursuing it for the good of the university, I had to take the decision. Eventually, I was able to negotiate with my students and we understood one another. You are the first female vice-chancellor of the school. How does that make you feel and what legacy would you like to leave behind? As the first female vice-chancellor of the university, it comes with a lot of responsibility and expectations. Many people want to see what a female vice-chancellor can do. There are also high expectations from people who think the university is too complex for a woman to run. However, there are those who believe the university needs a mother-figure that would carry everybody along, especially from the background we are coming from. They want to see a VC who can carry everybody along, who can work with the students and get them to be more focused. For me though, it is just about doing the normal duties of a vice chancellor. I am happy that I am the first female vice-chancellor and I have said I would work round the clock. It is not just about being a female vice-chancellor; once any woman gets to a position of authority, she must work three times harder than her male counterparts. Did your gender make it harder or easier for you to attain this position? It made it harder because as a woman, one needs to work harder to be reckoned with. Right from the day I joined the university in 1990, I set my mind to standing out in the crowd. I set my mind to having a healthy competition with colleagues and working my way to the top of my profession. I did that despite all the challenges that tend to draw women back. Before I was appointed, I went round, just like other male candidates, consulting people. Many told me that a university is too turbulent for a woman. Many didn’t give me a chance, simply because I’m a woman. You marked your one year anniversary in office in December 2021. What do you consider to be your achievements so far? It was a very difficult first year and I thank God that we survived. I think one of the greatest achievements I would like to be associated with is the peace, unity, oneness and purpose on campus. I derive joy from the fact that people are working in a cordial environment and anybody can have access to the vice-chancellor. I think people are more relaxed working in the university now. There is no tension or harassment of anybody. I came on board at a time when the university was almost crumbled. There was the #EndSARS protest, COVID-19 pandemic and the strike action by the Academic Staff Union of Universities. During the #EndSARS protest, some hostels and offices were vandalised and I had the onerous task of trying to put everything together. God-willing, I was able to rehabilitate four hostels on campus and two hostels outside the campus. By the time I assumed office, there was no electricity for almost one year in the university. There was a windstorm in March (2020) that almost blew off all the roofs and they were left that way until I came on board on December 1, 2020. By January/ February (2021), we tried to replace the roofs that were blown off. Then, we had another windstorm in April. So, it has been quite challenging. I came on board when the morale of the staff was very low. There was a lot of indebtedness and the resources were not there. Members of staff were being owed a lot of honorarium and entitlements. I have said that welfare is the cardinal objective of my administration and I’ve been able to pay some of the debts. Even the cleaners that were owed five month-salary arreas before I came on board have been paid. I have also paid the honoraria of external assessors because nobody wanted to assess professors of the University of Calabar anymore because of huge indebtedness. Those are the things we have done, despite the scarce resources we have. I have also been able to build a better network with supervisory bodies such as the Tertiary Education Trust Fund, Ministry of Education and the National Universities Commission. I came in at a time when TETFUND, which is the foremost funding agency for tertiary institutions in Nigeria, had placed a sanction on the University of Calabar over things I cannot enumerate here. However, I have been able to work very hard to build the confidence of that institution again. We are now working together again. Academically we have done so many things. We have introduced a lot of innovations because one of my cardinal thrusts is academic excellence and quality control of everything we do. I had to rebrand and customise our examination scripts and answer booklets. We change them every semester because academic scripts are supposed to be classified documents. But, they were everywhere on campus; even groundnut sellers were using them to sell their wares. Also, we monitor examinations well. The quality assessment assurance committee and directorate have been working very hard. We came up with Computer Based-Test examination for a course that is taken by all students, which used to be one of the biggest problems and challenges of the university. Students would sit for exams and not get their results. Some of them even graduate, yet they don’t know their status. But, now, as they write the exams, they get their results immediately. What are your short-term and long term plans for the university? The long-term plan I have for the university is for the university to be globally competitive and highly ranked. My short-term plan is to put in place policies and that would make us become a globally competitive university. One of those things we have done is that we have a smart campus now. Our students have access to the Internet, and that will help them improve on their academics. Our academic staff will also improve in terms of carrying out research. They don’t need data (to connect to the Internet). Also, we need to build the core values of our students, change their attitude and perceptions of life. The plan is to make them not just certificate carriers but those who have marketable skills at the end of their programmes. That is why we are working to reposition our Entrepreneurship Development Centre. What were the highlights of your time as the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academic) and how did that prepare you for your current role? Midway into my second term as the dean of the Faculty of Education, I became the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic). The DVC (Academic) oversees academic issues. The VC is the chief academic officer but the DVC (Academic) is the foot soldier who sees and reports to the VC. That position exposed me to everything academics in the university. As DVC, I got to know virtually everything that was happening in practically every department of the university as regards how they function and conduct themselves. I also got to understand more of the academic staff and other staff of the university. I also learnt more about administration. I must give kudos to my predecessor—Prof Zana Akpagu— that I worked with as DVC. When I came on board, he told me that he needed me to do those things I was doing in the Faculty of Education, vis-a-vis quality control, academic excellence and working on the vices in the system. I went everywhere, trying to stop some of the vices (in the system). I wouldn’t say I succeeded because I was the second-in-command but now as VC, I am carrying on with some of the things I proposed as DVC. I had to implement the ideas I sold to that administration. Indeed, that office prepared me for the role I am playing now. You were a candidate for the VC election in 2015. How would you describe that experience? It was a great experience, and it also helped me to be the VC today. Then, I put in my papers on the last day the call for application was closing. It was more like a spur of the moment decision. I got to know that all the candidates were men and I asked myself, ‘Why will I be here and only men are going for VCship? What is wrong with the women? I am going to put in’. I then prepared my papers (credentials) and took them there. They said I was late but they eventually took the papers and I appeared before the panel, and did well. By their ranking, they said I came third, out of about 11 people. Considering that I was not prepared and I still came third, I made up my mind that I was going to prepare for it in 2020. And the rest, as they say, is history. Some people said there is a disconnection between the ‘gown and the town’. How do you think a better relationship can be fostered between the two entities? There is actually a disconnection between the ‘gown and the town’. Meanwhile, the tripartite role of a university is— teaching and learning, research development, and community service. We don’t do research just for sake of it. The result of the research and its application should be for the community. But, we just talk theories. We do our research and they remain on our shelves. Nobody knows about the result of the research because there is a disconnection and lack of synergy between us and the town. We are trying to bridge the gap now. We have a research fair that was started by my predecessor, and I am continuing with it. Some corporate bodies have already shown interest in funding our research efforts. I want to invite industrial gurus and people who are supposed to know what we are doing. They should attend and see what we can do as a university— the services we can render outside teaching and issuing certificates. There is so much we can do. There is nothing stopping the government from declaring that the University of Calabar is in the only remaining rain forest zone— Cross River. We are now setting up the Centre for Climate Change. For example, we have a department that manufactures paint. When I became the VC, I started patronising them. For all the renovations we did in the school, we bought paint from that department. Even before my appointment, I had to parley with stakeholders in Cross River State. I went up to Abuja, Lagos and other places, telling them that we needed to work together. That actually paid off because a number of citizens of the state started supporting us financially and doing things for the school because of that sensitisation. The menace of sex-for-marks has taken an alarming dimension in institutions of higher learning. What do you think can be done to effectively curtail this? We need to make sure that those who are found guilty are punished. Students should also be sensitised to know that they own their bodies and nobody has any right over their bodies. They pay school fees and nobody has the right to blackmail them for sex with marks. I am doing that right now and if you enter the university, you would see a lot of billboards. (sensitisation) flyers have also been given to students. Recently, the students’ union government did a campaign on no-sex-for-grades. That was an initiative of the students and that was because I had sensitised them so much. During orientation activities, I also advised students to speak out if anybody harasses them. And if they speak out, we would treat it with the seriousness it deserves. If the administrative heads of universities have the willpower to punish those who are abusing our children, it (sex-for-marks) will stop. But, if offenders are not punish, it would continue. I always tell students to be smart. Their smartphones are not just to browse (the Internet). They can also use it to record cases of harassment and send to me. I give them all sorts of ideas on what to do. By the time one or two persons are caught (and punished), the rest will sit up. Why did you decide to become a lecturer? I was trained as a teacher. I am a grade two teacher. When I went into the university to study Education, it was to continue teaching. On getting into the university, I discovered some beautiful things I got from my lecturers. As a teacher, one just had to go to class, prepare one’s lesson notes and teach (the students). But on getting to the university, I saw that lecturers who were so passionate and committed (to their jobs). As a matter of fact, one person who influenced me so much was not even a lecturer in the Faculty of Education. He taught us folklore, an aspect of general studies. What do you recall of your time as Commissioner for Women Affairs? It was a beautiful time. I got to learn so much from the then governor, Donald Duke and his wife, Onari. They contributed in making me very committed and hardworking. Working with Onari, one has to be on one’s toes. If one hesitates in doing any assignment she gives one, she would go ahead to do it herself. They (Dukes) were so hard-working. They usually worked all through the night. I still relish the time I spent with them. And, that is who I am. I work all through and I don’t have any dull moment. How would you describe your childhood? My childhood was a good local experience full of happiness. We had a lot of freedom. At night, I would play under the moonlight with my friends, and we had a lot of fun. I also recall that we used to go to the farm in the mornings with our parents. Sometimes one would crying that one does not want to go to the bush, and they would have to drag one there. As I kept growing, I longed to go to a secondary school. Unfortunately, I came from a very poor family that couldn’t afford that, so, I missed out on that experience. As an adult, I attended a teachers’ training college, and from there, I picked up my life. Basically, my childhood experience was fine and beautiful. What were your childhood ambitions? When I was a child, I did not have any role model; neither did I have an ambition. But, when I saw my friends going to secondary school, my greatest ambition was to also attend a secondary school. When I could not achieve that, I went to the teachers’ training college. I then knew about career opportunities because of the guidance counsellors we had. So, my greatest ambition was to be either a historian or to be an actor/ actress.  I was in the dramatic club. I was a beautiful actress. I thought that I would go into that field or become a historian. What changes would you like to see in the area of Special Education in the country? I would like to see the whole country become accessible for disabled people. Accessibility is a big problem in Nigeria and many people with special needs, especially those on wheelchairs, cannot access some places. They cannot access libraries, classrooms and other important places. In many cases, their friends or caregivers have to carry them. Even for those who are deaf, hearing aids could be made available to help them with communication. For those who are blind, they can have ramps everywhere, as well as special materials such as Braille. In the computer era of today, they (disabled people) also need special computers that are easily accessible for them to work with. There should be inclusiveness. I would like to see society change its attitude towards people with special needs. The late Chinua Achebe, who was one of the greatest novelists in Nigeria, became a disabled person at a time and he had to relocate abroad because there, he could fit into the system. He even had a car he was driving. But, how many of our people here can access cars? That is the accessibility I am talking about. Our country is not disability-friendly. Can you recall how you met your husband? Then I was in Ogoja (Cross River) as a young girl, and we were just friends. Sometimes, we used to trek together to school. What qualities endeared him to you? He was a bit caring and nice. How did he propose to you? Nobody talked about proposing to anybody. Somebody (would just) tell you I want to marry you and that is it. He would then go to see one’s parents. It is these days we see proposals with so much drama. They are new to us. We never knew about such things. How have you been able to juggle your career, marriage and family so that none suffers? Every woman must be able to juggle all those and multitask. That is why you would see a woman in the village with a baby on her back, washing clothes and cooking, while also going to the farm. She won’t tell you, ‘Because I’m nursing a baby, I have to sit down’. God has endowed women with the ability to multitask. One should just know how to balance things. One should know the time one would spend for one’s studies, know the time one would spend in the kitchen, and everything else. What is the most romantic gesture your husband has extended to you? Romance? I don’t know. In those days, we did not talk about romance. Did any of your children follow in your footsteps as an academic? Not really, but I’m praying to God for that to happen). My first son actually lectured briefly in the university, then left. I thought he was going to follow my footsteps. However, he still works in an academic institution— NUC. I thought my second son, Hillary, would do very well in academics, but he went into politics. My third child is completely out of the picture. However, she was a lecturer for some time at Base University, Abuja, and taught there for about two years. She then left to face her law career. I hope that one day, one of them would toe my line. How do you relax? I don’t have time for relaxation for now. Before, I used to go to sports clubs, stay with people, share jokes, visit clubs, and go out with friends on different adventures. These days, I don’t even visit people because I don’t have the time. The work is too consuming. I hope that after I must have settled down, things would better. How do you dress? I used to love wearing trousers. These days, I dress more in traditional attire. People visit me almost on a daily basis, and I need to portray the African woman in me. So, I dress more as an African woman. My trousers are now in a box. When I am going for formal assignments, I dress like an African woman that I am. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com