The Chairman of Surulere Local Government Area, Lagos, Mr Bamidele Yusuf, has commended the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, over the projects he initiated and unveiled in the constituency. He said this during the unveiling of 12 road networks in Surulere on Sunday. “Since he assumed office as the Speaker, Surulere has experienced a great turnaround; over 120 roads have been completed so far. We also have mini stadia, six of which have been unveiled. There are also other ongoing projects. Also, a community leader, Mrs Bamidele Hussein, said the people of Surulere had enjoyed quality representation from Gbajabiamila since 2003. She said, “We are smiling because we have seen a miracle in Mr Femi Gbajabiamila. He has done so much for us. It is not just the road networks, he has constructed hospitals and he is still doing more. He has constructed schools and  has given out educational materials to school children. Another community leader, Mr Wemimo Odumosu, said the impacts of the Speaker had been felt by the people of Surulere in the education, ICT, sports and health sectors. Gbajabiamila had on Sunday unveiled 12 road networks in his Surulere I federal constituency. The roads are, Surulere – Mushin boundary road; Mabo – Fashoro – Bishop link road; Shodipe – Akobi – Owokoniran- Laniyan link road; Odejayi Crescent; all 4 roads; Olodeokuta Street; Ramos street; Rosamond street; Iponri Zone A-B road; Mayday road; Bishop Kaale; Bishop Howell; Royal Estate road and Eric Moore Towers road. The Speaker had during the unveiling of the projects said the feats were the real dividends of democracy. “What is my job as a legislator? It is to represent the people; both those who voted me in and those that did not. That is what we’ve been striving to do over the years, even before I became the Speaker,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com