The Chairman of the Governing Council of Osun State University, Osogbo, has appointed a 55-year-old Professor of Plant Physiology, Clement Adebooye, as the 4th substantive Vice-Chancellor of the institution. According to the chairman of the Council, Mallam Yusuf Ali, SAN, the appointment was sequel to the approval of the Visitor to the University, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. A statement made available by the Public Relations Officer of the University, Ademola Adesoji, on Tuesday, said the new UNIOSUN helmsman with an academic career spanning 26 years had served the university at various times as a member of the Governing Council, Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Provost/Dean, Director and Head of Department among others. At the international level, the statement further said Adebooye had served as Ambassador Scientist for the German Government Humboldt Foundation, Secretary-General of the African-German Network Excellence in Science and Regional Project Coordinator for the Government of Canada Projects in West Africa. The statement further read in parts, “He has been Visiting Professor to many universities in Nigeria, Germany, Canada and provided services for the United Nations. He has utilized nine fully funded international research fellowships worldwide including the highly prestigious United Nations University Fellowship, Germany and won 25 research grants with over 100 travel grants.” Unveiling the new Vice-Chancellor, Mallam Ali was quoted by the statement as saying, “I am happy that despite the controversies surrounding the appointment process, the Council was able to exert rigorous efforts and sacrifice in the appointment procedures, which culminated in the appointment of Professor Odunayo Clement Adebooye. “We believe that he possesses the attributes to move the University forward and write a fresh chapter in the journey to achieve the dreams of the founding fathers of the University.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com