Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a 35-year-old man, Eluyera Wasiu, for conniving with his friend, Adeniyi Samuel, to kill his 29-year-old pregnant ex-wife, Bola Taiwo after two attempts of food poisoning. Our correspondent gathered that the suspect who had divorced his wife, married another one, but, later impregnated his former wife after a stage-managed reconciliation. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Monday. Oyeyemi said the suspect was married to Taiwo but got separated due to irreconcilable differences. He added that the suspect later got married to another woman who was presently living with him. According to Oyeyemi, somehow, he met with his former wife and they started going out together again which resulted in pregnancy. He said, “In order not to upset his new wife, Wasiu asked Bola Taiwo to terminate the pregnancy the suggestion that was rejected by Bola Taiwo. “Having tried all he could to abort the pregnancy to no avail, Wasiu Eluyera decided to eliminate the woman and the pregnancy.” The PPRO said the suspect and his accomplice, were arrested following a distress call received by the DPO, Ogijo Divisional Headquarters from concerned members of the public on the 1st of January 2022. Oyeyemi said the two men were engaging themselves in a very serious physical combat at the Oponuwa area of Ogijo, and if they were not quickly arrested, it may lead to bloodshed. “Upon the distress call, the DPO, Ogijo Division, CSP Muhammed Baba, quickly detailed his men to the scene, where the two suspects were promptly arrested,” he added. “It was during interrogation to know the cause of the fight that Adeniyi Samuel opened up and informed the police that Eluyera Wasiu contracted him to kill his pregnant wife, one Bola Taiwo. “He stated further that Eluyera Wasiu promised to give him N10,000 for the job, out of which he had already given him N5,000, to pay the balance on completion of the job. “In his confessional statement, he stated that he had twice bought food for her from one eatery and laced the food with poison, but the lady, by providence, did not eat the food. “It was when all his personal efforts to kill her failed that he contracted Adeniyi Taiwo to help him eliminate her. “He confessed further that, he personally took Adeniyi to the woman’s house, and he gave him her picture for easy identification. “But when he didn’t carry out the assignment as agreed, he demanded the refund of the advance payment he made to him, and his refusal led to the fight which eventually led to their arrest.” The PPRO said the Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole, has ordered a full-scale investigation of the case with the view to arraign the suspect in court as soon as the investigation is concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com