Increasing dollar rate and soaring prices of commodities have worsened economic woes of Nigerians, which impacted negatively on Christmas and New Year celebrations, writes EDIDIONG IKPOTO Between the fear and trepidation occasioned by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus to shortage of cash at the financial institutions, this year’s Yuletide and the New Year did not come without  characteristic nightmare. The year 2020, by any stretch of the imagination, was not business as usual as the global economy took a downward plunge in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Consequently, most retail outlets, which usually enjoy a deluge of+++ sales during this period, had to grapple with the harsh reality of seeing the festive season celebrated in a less flamboyant fashion than conventional. With increased vaccinations and  pharmaceutical interventions  for the COVID-19 gaining increasing currency in 2021, a degree of regularity had returned to the global marketplace, albeit emerging variants of the virus in Delta and Omicron spelt indications that COVID-19 still had a substantial impact on the economy across the board. With the Christmas and New Year festivities in full gear, The PUNCH paid a visit to some retail outlets in the Ojodu area of Lagos State, many of which  lamented poor sales due to reasons varying from the lingering effects of the pandemic as well as soaring food prices. While some of the traders expressed delight at the rate of this year’s sales, others held firm to the notion that business has yet to hit the heights clinched a few years ago before the adverse economic effects of COVID-19 as well as food inflation that had negatively impacted on the spending power of the consumers this year. Esther Gbogi, in a chat with our correspondent, said   sales had been low compared to the pre-pandemic years. She cited an exponential increase in the prices of some of the products in the market as a contributory factor that has affected the spending power of consumers during this year’s yuletide. “It’s low (sales), compared to other years, especially with oil, the increase in the price of oil (vegetable oil) made the demand for it to reduce. People that normally do hamper, gifts, the price of the oil was too much for them, that’s why they could not include oil like they did in the previous years,” she said. “Like beverage for example, the increment was too much that people could not afford it, so the demand reduced compared to previous years. Even during COVID-19 period, sales were even higher than this period.” “Between this year and last year, this year has been better for me, I don’t know about others.” According to her, some of the products have experienced up to 50 per cent price increase over the past 12 months. “The margin is up to 50 per cent, in increment. Oil last year was about N4000 for Nigerian oil, but this year it is more than N6000.” “Raw material is not available in Nigeria. The cost of bringing goods down to Nigeria and clearing them is very high. That is what is causing the increase in the price of commodity. Since we cannot produce most of these products, they should and reduce the import rates on the products.” Similarly, Emeka Dim, a retail outlet owner said this year’s yuletide sales paled in comparison to the preceding years. He credited the pandemic, the sharp increase in prices of commodities as well as other extenuating circumstances as putative reasons why this year’s sales had been significantly poor. “It has not really worked out this year, compared to 2019. Since COVID-19 things have not been the way they used to be during Christmas time. People are not buying as much as they used to.” “Before COVID business was booming. Then you could sell as much as N1.5m, but now we hardly make N300, 000.” “Like Malta Guiness, the money we used to buy ten packs is what we are using to buy five packs. The price has doubled. “They (customers) are complaining that they don’t have money to buy. It’s bad, all the provisions, their prices have doubled. It’s really hard.” “I have never experienced this since I came into this business in 2015. On a Christmas day, people are not buying as they used to. It is very surprising. “It’s our government. If they plan well, people will not be suffering like this. I have stayed in other African countries. I have been to South Africa. I have been to Cameroon before I came. You can use the equivalent of N500 to cook over there, but here, it is very bad.” He blamed insecurity for posing challenges with regard to fluid movement of goods into the country, while also appealing to the government to look into the issue of excessive taxation that is threatening to cripple many businesses. “Our security too, most of the products they used to bring from the neighbouring countries, you cannot go out from Nigeria to bring in goods as before. I’m not talking about smuggling but bringing goods from seaports, you can’t find it easy to get most of the products.” “They should help business people by giving them loans to boost their business like it’s done in other countries; the tax too, we are paying too much taxes. We pay this, we pay that. Mrs Onuegbu, who also spoke to our correspondent, noted that while products had been available at the market this year as against the acute scarcity experienced in 2020, the upward spike in the prices of commodities had made it difficult for buyers to make the level of purchases they have become accustomed to during festive seasons such as the Yuletide. “Sales are not like before this year. They didn’t move like other years. People are not buoyant, so this year’s sales have been poor. During Christmas people didn’t really buy.” “Before COVID-19 sales were very okay. Last year, some products were very scarce. You would have to get in a queue to buy some of the products. Now anywhere you go you’ll see the products, but since COVID-19 things have become expensive.” “Everything has added money. If you buy products today, the next day, they will add money. They don’t even give gap. If you buy anything like Milo, before we were buying Milo N8000 plus, but when you get to the market now, Milo has added money, a carton of it now goes for N14, 000.People are not able to buy because products are adding money too much.” Onuegbu further stated that retail outlets had to bear the brunt of explaining to jaded consumers why prices of commodities had continued to spiral upwards while also appealing to wholesalers to craft a meaningful solution to the challenges that have led to the unceasing spiral of food inflation. “They (wholesalers) can’t really say anything because the situation comes as a surprise to them too. Before, it took like five years before products add money but now nobody can even tell. When you tell them (buyers) the prices of the commodities, people that have the money will buy. If they don’t have, they will go to where they can get cheaper goods.” “They are complaining bitterly, they feel as if we are the ones increasing the prices of goods. But it is the way we buy that is the way we sell. They are adding money for us, then we have to add our own to get our profit.” “The government should help us out because they are at the helm and they know what is going on. They are supposed to help us to clear all those issues that are making things difficult for us.” Despite a unanimous feeling about the impact of the pandemic on businesses, some of the outlets who aired their views on the status quo in comparison to 2020 during the peak of the COVID-19 said 2021, albeit a far cry from the pre-pandemic years has come with a glimmer of hope that yuletide sales would hit the heights experienced during the pre-pandemic years. Oko Eucharia, who noted that although 2021’s sales had not been reflective of what was experienced a few years ago, regretted the inflation that had made common commodities out of the reach of the common man. “It has not been that okay, other years were better than this year. COVID-19 has affected business, but we thank God that it is getting better unlike the first time that there was COVID.” “I can’t really say. It’s how we buy from the market that determines how much we sell. Since COVID things have really been expensive.” Also pitching in on what was a solemn rallying cry by the hamper operators, Precious Nwadike appealed to the government to help business by earnestly addressing the issue of exchange rate that had constituted an albatross for most businesses. According to her, 2020 was a much better year comparatively in terms of sales because the lingering effects of the COVID-19 has left severe economic consequences on the consuming space. “Christmas is always better than normal days. I think last year was better than this year, but 2019 was far better than the past two years. Dollar was not really high then. Things were still cheaper and people were able to afford to buy more, but now prices have gone up, not everybody can afford to buy. As a matter of fact, It is not everybody that is celebrating Christmas.” “I can’t say. Maybe our leaders will be able to explain better why things are so expensive. We went to the market and came back today. Everyday things are topping up money. You’ll buy a product for N1,200, by the time you go back to the market you hear its N1,500. It’s not nice. “They’ll tell you it is dollar. They are saying dollar rate. Some companies are finding it difficult to access raw materials to produce.” “Our customers have been complaining that things are expensive. We tell them that it is not our fault. It’s the way we buy. They complain but at the end of the day they will still come back but it is not easy. I also feel it. I’m also a customer.” “They should look into this issue of importation of goods. They will tell you, before you ship in things, the money spent would have taken everything. So they should look into this issue of dollar rate so that things will be easy for us. That’s what I think is the right thing to do.” Echere Obinna, another hamper operator who spoke to our correspondent noted that with more than half of Nigeria’s revenue derived from oil exports, the country’s economic fortunes had become inextricably tied to the rise and fall of oil prices in the oil market. With the attendant decline in oil prices as well as acute job losses caused by the pandemic, the earning, and ultimately the spending power of Nigerians have taken a nosedive, thereby leading to the poor sales recorded this year. Mr Obinna opined that the mantra of ‘economic diversification’ has to be taken more seriously by the government as the emerging economic reality will continue to push more Nigerians into the poverty threshold. According to him, the current coronavirus pandemic, Nigeria’s monumental debt profile and a declining GDP brings increased urgency to this issue.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com