The World International Economy Group is seeking partnership with the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission to facilitate the migration of large investment to Nigeria. The WIEG National President, Nigeria chapter, Chris Nwanne, said this when he led the team on a courtesy visit to NIPC on Thursday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that WIEG is a business organisation that is multifaceted. It is a humanitarian, economic empowerment, business growth and services as well as investment system. The agenda is to help businesses grow and correct the market, and to also release investors across the world for agriculture, infrastructure and render humanitarian services in general. WIEG is funded by over 3000 strong established systems around the world with the endorsement of the United Nations, Arab Nations and many more. Nwanne said that the investment would cut across infrastructure, agriculture, small scale industries, five star hospitals and other social investments. He said that these investments would help lift Nigerians out of poverty in line with the policy of President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari, and grow the Gross Domestic Product. He added that the partnership would help Nigeria through the commission to see how the people could be empowered especially the youths. He also added that WIEG was bringing partnership proposals to pass through the commission so that the investors would be able to invest and also be protected and secured. According to him, this visit was aimed at seeking more investment information and direction from the commission so that we can jointly deliver on our mandates. “Talking to NIPC first will give us better guidelines to carry out this great assignment. “We are here to create partnership with NIPC and we are inviting investors around the world to come and partner with us since we have an investment hub. WEIG is struggling with how to deal with the investors alone. “We are bringing a team of 50 Investors in WIEG worldwide to invest in Nigeria,” he said. Nwanne noted that WIEG had a target to raise 3,000 to 4,000 entrepreneurs in five years, saying that WIEG as a business organisation does not support laziness. He said that WIEG may not give anyone cash but would support whatever one was doing to help grow in business. “We are bringing these investments that will help Nigeria Youths as well to gain employment as the government cannot provide all these alone. “Labour is important. You cannot depend on the government alone, ” he said. Responding, the Director of Investment Promotion, NIPC, Mr Adesina Emmanuel, said that WIEG was of interest in line with what the commission does. Emmanuel said that the commission was interested in business that would create job opportunities, promote responsible inclusiveness, balance and sustainable investment. According to him, NIPC was created to promote business in Nigeria and image of Nigeria. “So this is more like a complementary thing together with what we do here. “We will always like to work with credible investors and organisations to promote Nigeria. Organisations like this are always welcomed, ” he said. (NAN)