Shehu Sani, immediate past Senator representing the Kaduna Central Senatorial District said with the masses, he will be the next governor of the state after incumbent Nasir El-Rufai in 2023 with or without money. “I don’t have money to share to delegates to vote for me, money politics is what brought the country into the mess under the ruling party. “If the masses decide to vote for me, with or without money, I will win,” he said The activist stated this in a radio interview monitored in Kaduna on Sunday as he indicated interest to join the governorship race in the state, come 2023. Sani is eyeing the governorship seat on the platform of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party. He said he consulted with his loyalists and supporters and that they wanted him to contest the governorship position in order to remove the All Progressives Congress party in the state. The former lawmaker, therefore said, he was soliciting prayers from religious leaders, the physically challenged as well as market women and the youth ahead of the 2023 race. He also appealed to members of the PDP in the state to unite to form a government that would earn the respect of the poor in the state Sani said, “Anyone who insults and embarrasses the people is not worth being in power because respecting human beings is very important in religion. “It’s left for the Peoples Democratic Party to unite its members to ensure that they form a government that will respect the will of the poor in Kaduna. “We sat with my loyalists and supporters and they wanted me to contest the governor of Kaduna state which I will do to remove APC, God willing; to remove anointed candidate of the state governor and to enter Government house where Comrade will be sworn in as the next governor that will bring changes, that will clean all the dirt they brought in the state in the name of development. “I will bring security. This is what my supporters wanted and I trust them. So, I will contest the governorship seat under the PDP. Therefore, I call on the people of Kaduna to support and collaborate with me. “I also solicit for their prayers; I need the prayers of religious leaders, marketers, physically challenged, women and youths. You voted for Malam as Governor what remains now is to have a comrade as a governor so as to see the difference between us.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com