The Lagos State Government says it is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring a seamless relocation of sawmill operators from the waterfront of Okobaba in the Ebute Metta area of the state to their new base of operations Timberville, Owu-Ikosi, Agbowa. A statement quoted the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salako, as saying this during an assessment visit to the new site. He was accompanied on the visit by the Special Adviser on Urban Development, Ganiyu Ayuba; Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Abiola Kosegbe; and Director, Engineering, Public Works Corporation, Olayinka Abdul. The statement, signed by the Deputy Director, Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Mukaila Sanusi, quoted the commissioner as disclosing that the needed facilities were being provided in order to facilitate hitch-free wood processing and sales. Salako noted that the facilities, which include link roads and internal roads, drainage systems, electricity, housing, and display sheds, were meant to enhance the comfort of sawmill operators and their customers. According to him, the state government has resolved the issue of connectivity by providing an alternative link road as a supplement to the main road, thereby making it possible to access Timberville from the Ikorodu-Itoikin road. As of the time of the visit, the 1.265km alternative road was almost completed. This is expected to support unhindered movement from Okobaba to Timberville. “While the main road requires strenuous engineering works, such as the construction of a deck-on-pile among others, the alternative road to the Timberville has attracted the urgent and immediate attention of the state government and would soon be completed in a few weeks time to supplement the major link road, currently under construction, “ the commissioner explained. He said work on the major link road, covering a distance of 2.65km, had progressed significantly with the bridge’s structure work nearing completion. The details of other facilities, according to Salako, include the installation of eight transformers with an estimated total capacity of 500KVA, and the provision of 260 units of two-bedroom bungalows, 100 units of which were released from the Odo-Onosa housing scheme by the Lagos State Government. The 100 units were meant to augment the housing requirements of the sawmill operators in Timberville.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com