The Pan Niger Delta Forum has called on the Nigerian Police not to cover up the killing of a young Nigerian, Toritseju Emmanuel Jackson, who was gruesomely murdered in Abuja on Sunday, 12th September 2021, under disturbing circumstances. PANDEF National Publicity Secretary, Ken Robinson made the call in a statement issued in Port Harcourt on Monday and made available to our correspondent. Robinso said PANDEF condemns the delay and nonchalant manner in which investigations on the matter are being conducted. The statement reads, “The killing of the young man was reportedly carried out in front of a popular hotel in the Wuse Zone 4 area of Abuja on Sunday, 12th September 2021. “Toritseju was said to have been picked up by a friend, one Sani Saleh, from his home; they went out to a couple of places and eventually ended up at the hotel, where he was attacked and killed. “The family was called in the morning of the next day to identify the body of their son, which was abandoned overnight, in front of the Hotel. “About four months after, there has been nothing but excuses and pretexts from the police in Abuja, while those who cut short the life of a promising young Nigerian of Niger Delta extraction are walking freely and perhaps planning their next evil act. The Police has not provided any substantial feedback on the matter to the family, meanwhile, all the parties who were with the deceased at the time of the crime have been arrested, released and rearrested.” He states that the handling of the case reflects the general disposition of the Nigerian Police to cases like this, where people are killed and the perpetrators are never arrested nor brought to book. “PANDEF condemns this attitude of the police, in the strongest terms, and demands that immediate steps should be taken to speed up the investigation and arrest the masterminds behind the murder of our son, Toritseju Emmanuel Jackson. “The danger of this lackadaisical behaviour of the police, in this matter and several others before it, is that it could impel citizens to take matters into their hands since the government and the Police are failing to provide justice. “Situations like this reinforce the demand for restructuring of the country. The nation’s security architecture, like everything else, has become obsolete and outmoded. “How can people raise children, sponsor them through school, only to be killed in the streets of Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, and the police is doing little or nothing about it? Is it because of where he came from or because the parents are not people in the ‘corridors of power’? “The life of every Nigerian, no matter his or her tribe, religion or status, is sacrosanct and should be so esteemed. The Nigeria Police must do everything within its powers, and within the law, to unravel the killers of Toritseju Emmanuel Jackson and bring them to justice. “Who killed Toritseju Emmanuel Jackson? The government and the police must provide the answer. “The deceased, until his death, was a law graduate from Buckingham University, in the United Kingdom, who returned home to attend the Nigerian law school and participate in the mandatory National Youth Service Corps,” the PANDEF spokesperson stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com