AFRICA’S democratic credentials are under a severe test after soldiers seized power again in Burkina Faso on Monday. Claiming to be on a mission to save the West African country from insecurity and poverty, mutinous soldiers toppled the President, Roch Kabore, who was in his second term in office. In a telling irony, the ECOWAS, the United Nations, the European Union, the African Union, the United States, France, and China condemned the coup, but thousands of ordinary Burkinabe trooped to the streets to celebrate it. Regardless of the misguided sentiments of the people, it is another step backwards; a military takeover of a democratic government is an aberration. Classified by the World Bank as a low-income country, Burkina Faso has been plagued by violence for decades. Monday’s coup was preceded by mutiny in several military barracks across the country. Coordinated by the self-styled ‘Patriotic Movement for Safeguarding and Restoration’, and led by Paul-Henri Damiba, a lieutenant colonel, to justify their power grab, the coup plotters accused Kabore, who first won election in 2015, of incompetence, bad governance, inability to curb the rampant violent attacks and neglect of the military. Early prognosis indicates that the coup is nothing but a lunge for power by military adventurists. It is unlikely to bring succour to a country afflicted by deep socioeconomic troubles. Since Thomas Sankara, who had also assumed power via a coup in 1983, was violently deposed as president in 1987, Burkina Faso has continued to witness military rebellion. Blaise Compaore, his successor, transmuted to a democratic ruler in 1991, winning flawed elections four times. But the Burkinabe people grew weary of Compaore. He was toppled in 2014 following street protests. He took refuge in Ivory Coast. Not surprisingly, his ouster did not bring peace or economic progress. Instead, Islamic insurgency and restiveness took root. For a country of 20.9 million people and a GDP of $17.93 billion, inescapably, this points to incessant unrest. Al-Qaeda and ISIS affiliates have exploited the situation to kidnap and slaughter civilians and security agents. In January 2016, an attack on Splendid Hotel and a restaurant in Ouagadougou killed 30 people, most of them Western tourists. Between 132 and 160 people were killed in a June 2021 attack on the Solhan village, deemed the worst attack in the six years to that time. In August 2021, attackers killed 65 civilians and 15 police officers in northern Burkina Faso. Attacks now occur almost daily. All this prepared the ground for the putschists. Unfortunately, Burkina Faso is not alone in the mad rush by the military to hijack power from the civilians in Africa. A study by American researchers, Jonathan Powell and Clayton Thyne of the School of Politics, Security and International Studies, University of Kentucky, identified over 200 coups in Africa since the late 1950s. Five West African countries have had between seven and eight military coups each. Niger and Chad have each recorded seven coups. Nigeria, Guinea Bissau, Mali, and Benin Republic have experienced eight coups apiece since 1952. Burkina Faso has recorded one failed, and eight successful coups, the same with Comoros. Sierra Leone and Ghana have had 10 coups apiece. In the past 18 months, coup-making has returned forcefully to the continent. In West Africa, formerly described as the “coup belt,” the military has taken power in Mali (twice), Guinea and Chad (it failed). There have been attempts in Ethiopia and Central African Republic during the period. This is nothing compared to the situation in Sudan. The North African country has experienced a record 17 coups to date, the last two in September and October 2021. This is a high toll. It makes Africa the most coup-ravaged continent on Earth. The Burkina Faso conundrum replicates itself around Africa. In August 2020 and May 2021, the military, led by Assimi Goïta (a colonel), seized power in Mali, the second time in nine months. His group overthrew the democratically elected Boubacar Keita and the interim president, Bah Ndaw. Guinea suffered the same fate in September 2021 when special forces commander, Mamady Doumbouya (a colonel), overthrew Alpha Conde. All this is a major blight on Africa. Political instability invariably consigns the continent to perpetual economic underdevelopment. Juxtaposed with its population and economic state, Africa remains a backward continent. According to the IMF, Africa’s 2021 GDP of $2.60 trillion or 2.84 per cent of the global figure, is a far cry from Europe’s $23.48 trillion (24.73 per cent), North America’s $26.79 trillion (28.22 per cent) and Asia’s $36.81 trillion (38.78 per cent). Credited with 1.3 billion persons, Africa had the second highest population behind Asia’s 4.6 billion in 2020. Therefore, Africans ought to take their destinies in their own hands and instil an era of democratic order to escape the prevailing despotic governance. ECOWAS, which has mediated in Mali since August 2020 without a tangible outcome, should design fresh measures against the military usurpers, including working with the Western powers to ostracise the coup plotters. Nigeria, a leading member of ECOWAS, should flatly reject the coup in Burkina Faso and put pressure on the invaders to relinquish power to an elected government. Even after leaving office, coup leaders should be prosecuted anywhere they escape to in the world. The AU should wake up. By collaborating with other continental blocs and the UN, the coup plotters should not be allowed to enjoy a day in office through sanctions. They should have their travelling visas revoked. France, the former colonial master of Burkina Faso, should take the lead. This is also a vital lesson for sit-tight rulers in Africa. The African Big Man syndrome prevents institution building and promotes instability. From Cameroon to Gabon, Eswatini to Equatorial Guinea, and Uganda to Congo, the story is the same. This has imposed political turmoil on much of Africa. For the continent to reach its potential, democracy should be allowed to flourish, rescuing Africa from its self-inflicted ignominy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com