Nigerian lawyer and EndSARS activist, Modupe Odele, also known as Moechievous, has refuted rumours that she was arrested by the Kenyan Police for violating immigration laws. Moe, who is currently touring the globe, raised an alarm via her Twitter page that she was being detained at the Spring Valley Police Station, Kenya after calling to report an assault against her on Sunday. “Urgent: I called the Kenyan Police Service to report an assault that happened to me at my hotel and instead they have detained me illegally and conducted an unlawful search on my belongings. I’ve been detained for over four hours with no charge. Spring Valley Police Station,” she wrote. While Nigerian tweeps called for her release, rumours went round that she was arrested for holding an expired visa in violation of the country’s immigration laws. A Twitter user, CBN Gov Akinsola AK, @cbngov_akin claimed Odele’s visa had expired and this led to her arrest by authorities. “Dear @Mochievous, Can you address the issue with your visa? Facts indicate your visa expired 26th Dec, 2021 and this incident happened early hours of today, the 2nd of January, 2022. Your tweet never addressed that. Hope you are not trying to blackmail the Kenyan authorities,” he tweeted. After Moe announced her release earlier on Monday, Akinsola further stated that Odele “was arrested for violating visa laws of Kenya. All charges against her have been dropped as a result of the intervention of the Nigeria Embassy. “Ms Mole (sic) has been asked to write an apology letter to the Kenyan police. She has also been asked to retweet her initial tweet and clarify the issues alleged against the Kenyan police too,” he wrote. In response to the tweet, Moe stated that she was not arrested for violating any visa laws. “Stop spreading these lies for cheap credit that you don’t deserve. I would not address the details of this matter until I am ready to. “Until then anyone can run with any narrative they like, I do not care. Any update that doesn’t come from me is false. The management of the hotel apologised and for now, I’ve put a lid on it,” she continued. According to the statement released by the Nigerian High Commission Nairobi, Kenya, Modupe “Omole” was arrested on the 2nd of January by the Kenyan police and released on the 3rd after intervention by the Commission. “Ms. Omole who was arrested by the Kenyan police on the grounds that she had an expired Visa, which was a violation of the host country’s immigration laws. “With the intervention of the Nigerian High Commission, Ms. Omole’s visa has been extended, and she has since been released by Kenyan Police,” the statement read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com