An Ekiti State High Court sitting in Ado Ekiti has sentenced a 36-year-old former soldier, Olasoji Damilola and 32-year-old Benson Koiki to death by hanging for armed robbery. The court also sentenced Damilola, Koiki and 30-year-old Tunde Ogbesetuyi to life imprisonment for conspiracy and attempted robbery. The three of them were tried and found guilty on four-count bordering on conspiracy, attempted robbery and armed robbery. According to the charge, “The three defendants on 10th March 2016 conspired and attempted to rob a filling station along Ikere Road, Ado Ekiti. “Also on 15th May, 2016, Olasoji Damilola, a soldier who was court-martialed and dismissed during the pendency of the case alongside Benson Koiki conspired and robbed one Oluwadare Adebayo at a filling station in Odo-Ado, Ado Ekiti and carted away a sum of N1,204,750. As of the time of the robbery, they were armed with gun and other offensive weapons. “The offences run contrary to Sections 6(b) and 1 (2) (a) of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provisions) Act, Cap. RII, Vol.14, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004,” it stated. In his testimony, the victim told the court that around 6:30 pm that day, the defendants came to the filling station pretending to buy fuel, forced their way into the station’s bulk room, adding that while begging them, one of them slapped him while the other one hit his head with gun butt following which he became unconscious. According to him, Koiki escaped with the money while Olasoji Damilola was arrested at the scene. To prove his case, the prosecutor Olawale Fapohunda SAN, who is Ekiti State Attorney General, called two witnesses and tendered wallet, two passport photographs, Army identity card and photocopy, statements of the defendants among others as exhibits. In the court judgment on Monday, Justice Lekan Ogunmoye said the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt the elements of offences of conspiracy, attempted robbery and armed robbery against the defendants. He said, “In all, the sole issue for determination is resolved in favour of the prosecution. In count two (armed robbery)  the first and second defendant – Olasoji Damilola and Benson Koiki are sentenced to death by hanging, may God almighty have mercy upon your souls.” “In counts one, three and four, the three defendants are sentenced to life imprisonment for offences of conspiracy and attempted robbery,” the judge pronounced. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com