The management of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko in Ondo State has stated that all students must pay a sum of N20,000 and swear an oath as the school prepares to reopen. Students of the school had protested a policy issued by the management in November 2022, that any student who had not completed the payment of their school fees would not be allowed to sit for the 2020/2021 session first semester examinations. As a result of the protest, the school was shut down indefinitely. However, in a circular signed by the school’s Registrar, Olugbenga Arajulu, all students are required to pay the N20,000 as reparations for damaged school property during the protest. The circular also stated that all students must swear to an oath of good behaviour before a Commissioner of Oath before resumption on January 30th, 2022. The statement further read in part, “All outstanding school fees up to the 1st Semester 2020/2021 Academic Session must be paid by all students before resumption; “All students must be duly registered up to 1st Semester 2020/2021 Academic Session; “Students must swear to an oath of good behaviour before a Commissioner of Oath. Please, visit the University website for the template to be used; “All students must submit a letter of good conduct duly signed by their Parent/Guardian; “Any student who is unable to pay his/her school fees should request for Leave of Absence.” Meanwhile, the AAUA Students’ Union has stated that it would parley with the school management to resolve some of the policies that do not favour the majority of the students. In a statement signed by the SU President, Ogunsanmi Kolade, and the General Secretary, Adeyefa Tolulope, which was made available by the Public Relations Officer, Akinsulure Simbo, the Union expressed hopes that the school management would consider more lenient policies. The statement reads in part, “It very is important to note the leadership of the union agitated for the resumption and it has finally established. “However, we urge the Students’ Community to remain calm, as efforts will immediately be put in top gear to address some policies that are unfriendly to students as we prepare to peacefully return to campus. “We have severally maintained a position that the union, being ideological, will only channel agitations through manners that conforms with the tenents of the 3Cs of Aluta. “We are very much hopeful that the university authority would entertain our positions and reconsider more lenient policies.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com