The Ogun State Government has called for the review of the terms and conditions for accessing counterpart funded projects by international donor agencies by states. According to the government, the current arrangement is no longer in tune with current economic realities in the country. The Commissioner for Finance and Chief Economic Adviser, Mr Dapo Okubadejo, said this during a meeting with a team from the International Economic Relations Department, Federal Ministry of Finance, led by its Director, Hajia Aisha Omar, in his office in Abeokuta. Okubadejo, in a statement signed by his Press Officer, Mr Kunke Sokunbi, said mandating participating states to provide a certain percentage of the counterpart fund as a requirement for accessing loans or grants as a demonstration of their commitment was no longer realistic. He added that most states were contending with numerous financial challenges, suggesting that donor agencies should collaborate with the Federal Ministry of Finance to evaluate the capacity of states seeking such loans or grants before giving approvals. Okubadejo urged development partners to deemphasise the use of level and rate of disbursement, instead of the impact rate of loans to partnering states, as a yardstick for measuring their performance. He said, “Using counterpart funding as a way to determine commitment is no longer popular because resources are scarce. Most states are grappling with wage increases, COVID-19 pandemic, slowdown in economic activities and decrease in internally generated revenue. “All of these have put pressure on the funding capacity of state governments. We would love to do these projects, but because counterpart funding is put as a requirement, a lot of states will be slow in kickstarting the projects. “But if you put in place necessary governance requirements to ensure compliance and implementation, and evaluate the government’s capacity to deliver on the projects, I think we would achieve a lot more.” Okubadejo decried the situation where states were mandated to spend a certain amount of grants and loans on hiring consultants. According to him, Ogun State, due to its huge investment in human capital development by the current administration, has a large pool of in-house experts who have been assisting it with its development plan strategies, thereby making such condition uneconomical and unattractive. He said, “A situation where you say out of about $250m, $50m was meant to be for technical assistance and hiring consultants is not tidy enough. “For us in Ogun State, because of our heavy investment in human capital development, we have a lot of public office holders with good professional requisite skills, experience and capacity to do these things we are expected to hire consultants for.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com