A cleft palate Survivor, Mr Shadrach Ogagaoghene, has stressed the need for awareness on cleft palate in the local communities.The Survivor said this in a statement on Thursday. Shadrach, according to the statement had lived to adult years with a wide gap on his upper lip that had extended to the roof of his mouth (palate). He had endured bullying and all manner of name-calling, which greatly affected his ability to socialise with people, beyond being able to eat and speak properly, the statement said. “I had always wanted to live that life where I would be free to show my teeth. I had this low self-esteem because of my speech impairment, so I seldom associated with people. Even if I did, it got to a point where I just withdrew myself, because people laughed at me or hardly understood what I was saying. I hardly smiled because I really didn’t like how my dental arrangement was,” Ogagaoghene said. Shadrach expressed gratitude to Smile Train and the medical team at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, saying the transformation in his life represented hope, life and purpose for every child born with a cleft. “Life has been more meaningful to me because I can now boldly express myself without the fear of being silenced because people won’t hear what I’m saying clearly. I knew about Smile Train in 2017 after I had my surgery but didn’t know they had sponsored the whole process, which cost me nothing. “They fixed my smile and have now put braces on my teeth to bring them back to form. They have also supported my speech therapy to help me speak more clearly. I feel I have family out there and I’m never hard on myself anymore. It took a long time to realise that all of these were never my doing. I was born this way, and I use my life to encourage more people to bring patients to hospital for surgery,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com