Sammie Okposo started his music career as a soundtrack producer for Nollywood in 1992. He was well-known at that time in the small circle of Nollywood actors and producers. He later began to get more career flashpoints when he started the Sammie Okposo Praise Party, a platform that brought many up-and-coming Nigerian gospel artistes into the scene. The Niger Delta-born music star was known for emboldening the gospel music scene by taking his music away from the quiet confines of the church. Okposo burst into the music scene in the early 2000s. He was relentless in dropping several hit singles and albums which earned him the 2006 Kora Best Gospel Artiste in Africa; the 2014 Crown SABC Best for African Gospel; the 2005 Afro Hollywood UK Best Gospel Artiste, and many others. He is known for his popular Niger Delta-themed  songs such as, ‘Welu Welu’ and ‘Oghene Do’, among others. In a recent interview (Not The PUNCH), when asked whether his affairs contributed to his fame, Okposo stated that he thrived on the negative and positive vibes that his past affairs brought him. But he said he was careful not to be misrepresented by them. Okposo said, “Of course, they did. As I said, everything works together for good. I tell people that in the midst of all the publicity, be it negative or positive, it will eventually make your name known but you have to be able to balance the situation because sometimes, you may be at the wrong place at the wrong time; sometimes, you can be misrepresented and sometimes, it could be your own doing.” His 2004 album, “Addicted”, was a hit that lit many entertainment spaces, as he deployed the unique Niger Delta impressions as well as the energy of a well-versed vocalist  on the songs. It was therefore not much a surprise for music critics when he bagged an endorsement with popular telecoms provider, Globacom. Okposo was also a United Nations Peace Ambassador. Although Okposo was said to have been romantically involved with many ladies, he spoke in a 2012 interview with a national newspaper where he promised his wife that he would never cheat on her. This was at a time when she had not conceived any child for Okposo. The entertainer broke his promise recently when he confessed to having had an affair with a lady in the United States recently. Okposo has performed on many national and international platforms. He is also involved with TMG Records, a reputable US-based records label. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com