Students of the University of Ibadan living at hostels off the campus as well as residents of areas adjoining the university are in fear as armed robbers shot dead a commercial motorcyclist in the area. Scores of armed robbers earlier invaded off-campus hostels at Agbowo community, Batika and Agricola streets in the early hours of Wednesday carting away phones, laptops and other expensive gadgets from the students after they had reportedly shot two persons. Some of the students told our correspondent on Sunday that they were traumatised by the early morning invasion which forced some of the students to flee the area. The fear of the students was heightened as a result of the Saturday night robbery involving an okada rider. One of the students, who identified himself as Gabriel, said he and his colleagues at his hostel could not sleep all through the night as they heard gunshots for hours. Narrating how the incident happened, he said the okada rider was riding with a passenger and the hoodlums stopped him at the junction before the UI second gate and attempted to collect his motorcycle. He said, “The okada rider did not want them to take away the motorcycle and as that was going on the passenger jumped off and fled the scene. Sensing that the okada rider’s resistance might put them in danger, one of them brought out a gun and shot him.” Another resident of the area who declined to give his name said he and his mates did not sleep at all through the night because of gunshots. He said, “The killing happened about 8:05 pm and we all rushed inside. But shortly after that, we heard a siren and gunshots which we believed should be from security agents.” The Police Public Relations Officer in Oyo State Command, Adewale Osifeso, didn’t pick calls from our correspondent. Osifeso did not also respond to the text messages and chats sent to him on the matter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com