A  member of the World Bank Group, the International Finance Corporation, has partnered with Fidson Healthcare Plc to develop Nigeria’s capacity to produce active pharmaceutical ingredients. The effort, according to a statement on Monday was to support Africa’s goal of strengthening its production of medicines and reducing its reliance on imports. “Through the partnership, IFC and Fidson will conduct a feasibility study to assess the level of investment, skills, and regulatory protocols required to develop Nigeria’s manufacturing capabilities for APIs, which are integral to the production of pharmaceuticals. “The results of the feasibility study will inform the strategic and operational direction that Fidson will take as it pursues its longer-term goal of becoming an end-to-end pharmaceutical producer that produces APIs for use in its production process, as well as being a supplier to other pharma-companies. “Africa lags other parts of the world in pharmaceutical ingredient production, leaving it dependent on imports for about 70 percent of the medicines it needs. By contrast, in China and India, drug imports average only about five per cent and 20 per cent, respectively,” the statement partly reads. The Chief Executive Officer of Fidson Healthcare Plc, Dr Fidelis Ayebae, in the statement said, “We sees a strong case for expanding into API production in order to increase the availability of pharmaceuticals and close the gaps caused by supply chain disruption, especially due to the COVID-19 pandemic, across western Africa and the African continent at large. “Our history of commitment to quality as well as our large, finished product footprint presents an ideal fit for backward integration. The project will be transformational and will ultimately result in the stable supply of high-quality, affordable APIs for critical product segments.” The IFC’s Managing Director, Makhtar Diop, in the statement, said it was time to step up investment and efforts to create an enabling environment for Africa’s pharmaceutical manufacturing development so the continent could better respond to its health needs. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com