The first Doctor of Philosophy degree holder from the Taraba State University, Jalingo, Hanawa Rufus, on Sunday, advised the authorities to adopt the combination of English with local languages in teaching Mathematics to enhance understanding and interest in the subject. Rufus, who made history as the first PhD graduate in Mathematics Education during the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th combined convocation of the university held on Saturday, gave the advice in an interview with journalists in Jalingo on Sunday. He said the fear of Mathematics would be removed when the concepts of the subject were explained to students in their local dialects. Rufus stated, “From the research I conducted to earn a PhD, I discovered that teaching Mathematics using the languages of the immediate environment like Hausa combined with English language will help encourage students to improve retention and interest in algebra and Mathematics generally. “The use of English combined with local languages in teaching Mathematics proved very effective as it enhanced understanding by students at all levels. “I want to therefore, advise the relevant authorities to consider adopting the use of English and local languages in teaching Mathematics in order to do away with the phobia regarding the subject.” Rufus commended the Vice-Chancellor, Taraba State University, Prof Vincent Tenebe, and the scholarly efforts of his two supervisors, Prof Solomon Iyekekpolo and Dr John Ajai, an associate Professor of Mathematics Education, in turning out a quality research work for the benefit of society. While encouraging his course mates, who are still carrying out their research not to give up, Rufus thanked his family for standing by him all through the period of study. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com