THE Zamfara State chapter of the All Progressives Congress  has kicked against the Peopls Democratic Party’s call on Governor Bello Matawalle to resign, saying that PDP was behind the banditry in the state. Addressing journalists at the APC state headquarters in Gusau, the Publicity Secretary of the party, Alhaji Yusuf Idris said the PDP was  members  were involved in mining activity which was responsible for banditry. Idris said the mining activity  was the major cause of banditry in the state, which was controlled by the majority of the PDP stalwarts in the state. He said, “General Aliyu Gusau, who is the biological father of Mahdi Aliyu Gusau, the current PDP leader in the state, controlled over 70 per cent of the mining licenses before they were revoked by the Federal Government”. “One will be left with no option but to believe that Aliyu Gusau and other PDP stalwarts were behind banditry in Zamfara because their mining sites were never attacked by bandits. “Similarly, he (Aliyu Gusau) and other PDP members have never come to the state to sympathise with the government and people of the state whenever there was bandits attack. “The reason why the PDP is not happy with the feat being achieved  by the governor and the APC in addressing insecurity in the state is because they are the ones behind the criminals, thus fighting bandits is like fighting the PDP in the state”. Idris stressed that the PDP members were not happy with Matawalle’s defection to the APC, hence their attempt to  intimidate him. “After many open and nocturnal attempts by the PDP in the state to reverse the defection of Governor Matawalle from their party have failed, they now resorted to painting  the governor in bad light on the issue of security,” he alleged. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com