Youssef Msakni sent a COVID-hit Tunisia into the Africa Cup of Nations quarter-finals with a 1-0 victory over Nigeria, who finished the game with 10 men. Tunisia scraped through the group stage and were without head coach Mondher Kebaier and a number of players for the last-16 clash on Sunday after an outbreak of coronavirus in their camp. Nigeria goalkeeper Maduka Okoye, who was rarely tested, failed to save a shot from stand-in captain Msakni from outside the box as the Carthage Eagles ended the three-time African champions bid to win their fourth AFCON title. The Tunisians were without key man and captain Wahbi Khazri from the start and nine others after they all tested for COVID-19. The Super Eagles started the brighter of the two sides as Nantes winger, Moses Simon, tormented the Tunisian defence, who crowded him whenever he had the ball. Nigeria almost took the lead in the 17th minute after Samuel Chukwueze crossed with the outside of his boot but Taiwo Awoniyi couldn’t connect with his flying header. Kelechi Iheanacho was shown the first yellow card of the game by Senegalese referee Maguette Ndiaye in the 20th minute after he was adjudged to have elbowed an opponent. With the West Africans failing to convert their chances, the Carthage Eagles began to get into the game coming forward and almost took the lead in the 25th minute through Youssef Msakni, whose shot beat Okoye but was cleared off the line by Wilfred Ndidi. Hamza Rafia struck another fierce shot in the 39th minute but missed target. Frustration began to set in as Austin Eguavoen’s men, despite their dominance, were unable to break down a resolute Tunisian side as the referee brought the first half to an end. The Tunisians got the second half underway and got the lead just two minutes of the restart. Msakni unleashed a fierce shot after dribbling past Ola Aina with Okoye failing to save the shot. Eguavoen reacted to the setback as he quickly introduced Alex Iwobi and Peter Olayinka in place of Iheanacho and Awoniyi respectively. Nigeria’s misery was compounded after Iwobi was shown a straight red card just a minute after his introduction. Tunisia almost doubled their lead but Okoye acrobatically saved Aissa Laidouni curler to keep Nigeria in the game. Umar almost put Nigeria level in the 90th minute but couldn’t connect well with a fine pass from Aina and missed target by inches. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com