As of Sunday, Nigeria recorded 222 new Lassa fever cases and two new deaths in one week across 15 states and the Federal Capital Territory according to the weekly situation report of the National Centre for Disease Control. Also, in the recent revelation from the centre, about 4,482 cases of the disease were so far reported and confirmed cases were recorded in Edo, Ondo and Taraba states. Similarly the state government, through the Special Adviser to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu on Health, Dr Francis Faduyile, recently said that two people were killed by the disease within a week this year in the state. It was also gathered that over 45 people had been with the disease since its outbreak in the state and cases were recorded in five local governments of Owo, Ose, Akure South, Akure North and Akoko South-West. In the past, Lassa fever killed some people in the state but only two were said to have been lost to the disease in the recent outbreak. Online sources described the disease as an acute viral haemorrhagic illness caused by Lassa virus upon the contamination of household items exposed to infected rats. The NCDC in a Lassa fever “response strategy” signed by the Director General, Dr Ifedayo Adetifa, and made available to Sunday PUNCH stated that while the disease presents itself like any other febrile disease such as malaria, it could show other symptoms such as unexplainable bleeding from the ears, eyes, nose, mouth and other body openings. It indicated, “Lassa fever initially presents like any other febrile disease such as malaria. Its symptoms include fever, headache, sore throat, general body weakness, cough, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, muscle pains, chest pain and in severe cases, unexplainable bleeding from ears, eyes, nose, mouth and other body openings. The time between an infection and appearance of symptoms of the disease is six to 21 days. Early diagnosis and treatment increase the chances of survival.’’ Commenting on the centre’s response to the disease, Adetifa stated that, “Lassa fever alert letters had been sent to states, the National Emergency Operations Centre alert mode has been activated for effective multi-sectoral, multi-disciplinary coordination of Lassa fever response. “State public health emergency operations centre activated in affected states while the seven Lassa fever molecular laboratories in the NCDC network are working at full capacity to ensure that samples are tested and results provided within the shortest turnaround time. Confirmed cases are treated in identified treatment centres across the states. There is also an ongoing distribution of medical response commodities to states and treatment centres.’’ According to him, there is the implementation of the Lassa fever environmental response campaign being conducted in high burden states in conjunction with the Federal Ministry of Environment and deployment of National Rapid Response Teams. He said, “Risk communications and community engagement activities have been scaled up across states using television, radio, print and social media.’’ Communities vigilant Some people in the affected communities in Ondo State spoke to our correspondent on measures being taken to avoid the disease. They stated that they tried to take preventive measures to ensure that the disease did not wreak more havoc in their agrarian communities. According to them, the measure mostly taken is the cleaning of their environment and eradication of rats from the communities. They added that killing and consumption of rodents had been highly discouraged. During a visit to some of the affected communities, our correspondent observed that bushes around the communities had been cleared and burnt as a preventive measure against the disease. A resident of Alayere community in the Akure North Local Government Area of the state identified as Mrs Toyin Akinte, said that the community had been doing everything possible to contain the spread of the disease. The 30-year-old added that Lassa fever disease killed one person in the community and as a result of the development, other residents had been taking precautions to avoid a recurrence. She said, “In Alayere, people now clean the environment to avoid Lassa fever. There is no dump near the community but someone contracted the disease in the community. The issue is that some people do not believe in the existence of the disease. Even they always claim that the disease is caused by evil attacks. But many of us who know that Lassa fever exists have been doing our best towards educating other residents about it. We tell them that Lassa fever is real and not any form of spiritual attack. “The person who had the disease in the community did not survive it. When people are down with it, they also will refuse to go for treatment at the Federal Medical Centre, Owo. They resort to taking concoctions. But we are stepping up sensitisation in the community.’’ Sixty-two-year farmer, Michael Akinjare, from Okeluse in the Ose LGA of the state, said with cases of the disease in some communities in the council, sensitisation and advocacy were in top gear in the community. He said all sick persons were referred to a hospital to ascertain the cause of ill-health. Akinjare said, “You know the Lassa fever is caused by rats and we always record it during the dry season, the rats do find their way home when they can no longer get something to eat in the bush. That is why Lassa fever is always prominent during the dry season. “Since we couldn’t identify infected rats, the government advised us to kill all rats. We also quickly alert health workers if anyone is sick or is down with high temperatures in our community. We have also been talking to one another on the need to maintain proper environmental hygiene. The awareness about Lassa fever is now more than before in our community. We also do tell others that testing and treatment for Lassa fever is free.’’ A trader and farmer from Isuada community in the Owo LGA of the state, Mrs Sarah Musa, said awareness was much in the community and personal and environmental hygiene were handled sloppily. Musa added, “Due to the Lassa fever issue, we don’t joke with environmental hygiene in our community. Whenever we are sick, all we do is to take local herbs and if we discover the sickness persists, the patient will quickly visit a health centre in the community or go to the FMC for treatment. In some families too, we have stopped the handling of rats now.’’ On his part, a resident of the Ayede Ogbese community in the Akure North LGA of the state and coordinator of Lassa fever in the council area, Mr Mike Olonite, said efforts were ongoing to eradicate the disease in the council area. Olonite, who stated that the community recorded cases of the disease, said he and his team had been working hard to end the scourge. He stated, “We always do some sensitisation because according to records, Ayede Ogbese is one of the areas with the highest number of known cases in the state. So the level of follow-up in the Akure North council area is also high. The sensitisation always covers some communities where there are cases. Some health workers came from Abuja to get some rats for research.’’ A civil servant from Owo town, the headquarters of Owo Local Government, Mrs Kehinde Ajayi,  said she learnt about the disease three years ago when her uncle was infected but later survived it. She said since then she had been conscious of it and taking precautions. Ajayi said, “In our street, we have been conscious of the cleanliness of our houses and surroundings because they said the disease is always caused by a dirty environment. I fear the disease because I knew about it three years ago when one of my uncles got infected. He was in isolation for weeks and his family members too were isolated. The entire family was in standstill for many days but later everyone was discharged. Nobody died. Since then, I have been careful about my surroundings. I also listen to radio jingles warning people to keep their environment clean to prevent Lassa.’’ Akoko South-West LGA is one of the councils with reported cases of the disease, the Coordinator of the Primary Health Care of the local government, Dr Abdulateef  Adewale, told our correspondent that they had been making efforts to prevent the disease in the LG. He said, “We started with community engagement. The government is engaging the people and opinion leaders in the community on the signs and symptoms of Lassa fever. We are letting them know the mode of transmission and the control measures so that the people can control the disease in their LG. The Social and Mobilisation Unit of the LGA is also working to do community mobilisation to educate people on how Lassa fever is transmitted to nip the disease in the bud. Also, the team enlightens the people on the preservation of food items so that rats won’t have access to them. Government also went further to distribute rat killers, because it is obvious that rats are the major source of transmission, especially now that bushes are being burnt due to dry season and rats do seek refuge inside the house. Rat killers were distributed.’’ Adewale further said that three months ago, many rats were killed in the LG. He added, “Also, the government is supporting the local government in the area of surveillance and contact tracing. We have contacted the Federal Medical Centre, Owo, and those we suspect of having been infected with the disease are sent to the centre for testing. Whenever the test reads positive, we are immediately notified. And with that, we go on contact tracing by going to the victims’ houses, places of work and we follow it up.” In his comment, the monarch of Umoru town in the Ose LGA of the state, Oba Rotimi Obamuwagun, said the mobilisation and sensitisation were still ongoing in the community to ensure the community was free from the disease. The traditional ruler said, “We are aware that It is the dirty environment that causes the disease. What we are doing in my community is to mobilise people to ensure cleanliness. We also know that even in the urban cities, we still find rats in homes. I bought rat gums and I distributed it to some residents to ensure rats are wiped off totally in the community because we know that the existence of rats is the main cause of that disease. I also asked some of my chiefs in some of the quarters to speak with people about the disease and on the hygiene of the environment. “We also have a basic health centre in the community. I went to the place and asked some of the nurses and health workers there to gather people and enlighten them on a regular basis and urge them to clean their surroundings. We have not had any case of the disease in my community and we are doing everything possible to prevent it.” Commenting on the development, a medical practitioner, Dr Thomas Wilson-Ikebese, said there was the need for stakeholders, particularly the government, to embark on frequent sensitisation on the disease. He said, “I think the government has tried in its little way but it has not tried enough because there is need for continuous sensitisation of the people so that they would not think that Lassa fever is a one-off thing. There is the need to continue telling people not to dry their cassava pills by the roadside and that whenever they want to store their foodstuff, especially garri, it should be stored in a closed container so that rats would not have access to it. “What we observe is that sensitisation is always on whenever there is an outbreak, and when the cases reduce, the sensitisation goes down. No, it shouldn’t be so. Consciousness has to be sustained by the government. They should keep telling the people. They must not hold anything back and the people also should not hold back on activities to prevent Lassa fever. So it is a two-way thing. The government should continue sensitisation, even when we don’t have the outbreak, we should not wait till we have it.’’ On its part, the state government said it was taking steps to remove the name of the Sunshine State from the list of states with cases of the disease in Nigeria. The state Epidemiologist, Dr Stephen Fagbemi, said the government was not relenting on efforts to make the state Lassa fever-free. Fagbemi noted that the issue of Lassa fever was much more difficult than the COVID-19 pandemic because there was yet a drug or vaccine to cure and eradicate the scourge since its existence over 50 years ago. The medical practitioner further said that the Lassa fever was not getting drugs to cure or contain its spread whereas vaccines were being made to combat COVID-19. He noted, “Lassa fever has been with us for more than 50 years and nobody is doing anything about it. The Ondo State government is concerned about it. We have started publicity about it again. We have done many things in the past. It is unfortunate that when COVID-19 came it eroded many of the gains made. You know that when COVID-19 started everybody started talking about it and attention shifted to COVID. People’s attitude towards healthcare began to shift towards COVID. But that notwithstanding, we have started the sensitisation again.’’ He noted that the state had a successful rat eradication campaign last year, adding that it had started another one again. Fagbemi added, “The arrangement is in top gear. We are sensitising the health workers and also looking at the cases actively and partnering with more private hospitals as we did in the past. One of the major problems we have in Ondo State is the problem of waste disposal. But if you notice in the last one month, we don’t have much waste around the places. They have been cleared. If we are able to sort out the issue of waste, the problem would be seriously solved because it is food remnants that attracted rats.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com