The Federal Executive Council, on Wednesday, approved N75.78bn contracts for various projects in the Federal Capital Territory, flood control in the six geo-political zones as well as for the Ministry of Transportation. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, alongside his FCT and Transportation counterparts, Mohammed Bello and Rotimi Amaechi, respectively, disclosed this to State House correspondents after the council’s meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Of all the three, the FCT had the largest share put N56.23 bn. According to the FCT minister, the approvals are for the construction of Kuje 105 highway, access road and car park for Abuja light rail station. He explained, “The council approved two contracts for the FCT including for the Full Scope Development of Federal Capital Territory Highway 105, Kuje Road, from Airport Expressway to Kuje Junction Stage 1, Abuja at the cost of N54,946,009,160.04. “It was awarded to Messrs Arab Contractors O. A. O Nigeria Limited with a completion period of 48 months. The second contract award is for the construction of access road and car park for Abuja Light rail stations – Gbazango Station of the Federal Capital City, Abuja – Lot 7 at the cost of N1,291,568,845.33. “It was awarded in favour of Messrs CBC Global Civil and Building Construction Nigeria Limited with a completion period of 8 months.” Bello also affirmed that efforts are underway to complete the Apo-Karshi road whose implementation he said had been unnecessarily delayed due to lack of funding and design error. He explained, “Apo-Karshi road is a road that should have been completed some time ago. It has faced a lot of challenges, some of which include funding, design error, and a few other issues. “I do know that just before I took my (Covid) break, a team from the relevant departments interfaced with them and they were very clear. I will try as much as possible to get this project over with at the level of my office by making sure that funding is adequately provided.” On his part, the Minister of Information, Mohammed, enumerated the 14 projects approved for the award under the Ecological Fund spanning the six geo-political zones. He explained that two memos were presented on behalf of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), including the one that sought approval for the award of contracts for the 2022 emergency procurement of first and second quarters accelerated soil erosion, flood and pollution control intervention projects. The 14 ecological project contracts were approved for award at the total cost of about N15.1bn. He said “You note that these projects are divided across the six geopolitical zones. Two in the South-East, two in the South-West, two in the South-South; North-East has two, North-West has three, North-Central and the FCT has three. “What I want to add here is that most of these projects, when completed, are handed over to the beneficial committees. But the intervention of the Ecological Office is massive, huge and If we can complete 261 in six years, all that shows is that an average of about 40 or more every year. “The other memo is of equal importance, on behalf of Mr President. It is the memo seeking approval for the award of contract for the provision of various agricultural inputs and equipment for the national youth farmers’ scheme. As you are aware, we have the scheme under the National Agricultural Land Development Authority. Here, four contracts were awarded for the total sum of N1bn, N393m with various completion periods.” Mohammed noted that the present regime had intervened in 291 projects, adding that 263 of the project had been completed and handed over to beneficiary communities and institutions while a total of 28 were till at various stages of completion. In his address, the transport minister, Amaechi said he presented four memos, which were all approved. He said FEC approved a memo for the clearing of equipment for the deep blue project, “which will enable us to site some of these projects in the coastal towns along the coasts,” at the cost N2.7bn to be paid to the clearing agents.” Amaechi also disclosed that the council had approved a contract for the reconstruction of the narrow gauge track from Niger to Baro. He said, “So, there will now be a rail line from Baro to Minna to join the narrow gauge so that when cargoes come to Baro, they can then be evacuated through the narrow gauge.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com