There is always an origin, a beginning for every idea or concept. Just like every individual can be traced to a paternal source, every nation of the world has a man — or group of men — who can be credited with that revered role of founding fathers. But Nigeria has no founding father, just as it is not yet a nation! Yes, thoughts of our ‘founding fathers’ like Awo, Sardauna and Zik may be coming to mind right now. These were men who deserve every reverence that can be accorded to their memories. But I humbly submit that they were never founding fathers of a nation. They were literally outstanding leaders of micro-nations that were disproportionately welded together to become a country called Nigeria. They were eminent personalities who championed the cause of their respective regions — and excellently so — first and above that of a common Nigerian nation. Among them, there was never a consensus about how the country called Nigeria should be morphed into a nation, that is, a blended composite of the micro-nations they respectively led and a place where the legitimate aspirations of each could be nurtured and realised for the collective benefit of all. If one considers the fact that the golden era of those regions was the days under the leadership of these men, you will agree with me that they deserve the honour of being ‘founding fathers’ of their respective regions, politically speaking. When Chief Obafemi Awolowo stated in his 1947 publication, Path to Freedom, that “…Nigeria is not a nation. It is a mere geographical expression…”, he was stating an obvious fact that holds true to date. Prior to becoming Nigeria’s one and only Prime Minister, while contributing at the National Legislative Council in 1948, Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa submitted that “…since the amalgamation of Southern and Northern provinces in 1914, Nigeria has existed as one country only on paper… It is still far from being united. Nigeria’s unity is only a British intention for the country.”  That statement made it to the Hansard, the official record of parliamentary proceedings for that year, and it still describes the painful reality of life in Nigeria now. There is the well-documented and widely-referenced statement of Sir Ahmadu Bello, first Premier of the defunct Northern Region, published in the Parrot Newspaper of October 12, 1960. A dispassionate interpretation of that statement would reveal that as great a leader as he was, Sir Ahmadu Bello was for his ethnicity and region – first and above all. It is a disheartening tale that everyone that has been at the helm of Nigeria’s affairs since the inevitable collapse of the First Republic has continued in that depressing fashion of championing the cause of his micronation/region first and above that of what should be the mega and true nation. From the first military dictatorship to the current democratic dispensation, it has been the painful lot of Nigerians to have leaders who want to make the whole country a personification of their micro-national identity. They appoint people only from their micronation to sensitive positions. They take — or hesitate to take — strategic decisions, first from the perspective of regional suitability and not for the advancement of the country as a whole. They mouth the ‘secularity’ or ‘multi-religiosity’ of Nigeria but you see them display conspicuous affinity with particular religions to the point of letting that affinity influence policy decisions and indecisions. They only go about in attires that project their ethno-regional identities except during election campaigns when they seek to make an impression and win their way into the hearts of would-be voters. Instead of showing statesmanlike foresight, open-mindedness and courage in order to forge a truly progressive and prosperous nation out of the country called Nigeria, what most of these men have done is to continue managing the polity created and bequeathed by the British with all its structural and systemic defects. After 61 years of flag independence, the general state of affairs is still of great concern to all. Where is our own Lee Kwan Yew, who moulded a prosperous Singaporean nation from a motley population of ethnic Chinese (76.2%), indigenous Malays (15.0%), and ethnic Indians (7.4%)? Where is our own Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the founder of modern Turkey, whose clear and complete vision persuaded the Turks, then on the brink of an epic crisis, to forge a modern nation? It was he who turned Turkey away from the path of decline, associated with the Ottoman Empire, and brought it back to the way of modernity, progress, and nationhood. Where are our own Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nayan (Abu Dhabi) and Sheikh Rashid bin Saeed Al Maktoum (Dubai), arrowheads of the creation of the United Arab Emirates, a working federation of seven autonomous emirates? These men showed that with vision, integrity, and resolve, arid deserts can become lush oases; a people once derided as pearl hunters can become people who withdraw gold from the ATM! History is replete with records of men who changed the fortunes of their people and, by a remarkable display of courage and vision, created whole new nations. The United States of America stands atop the pile of examples of such creations of remarkable statesmanship. We have come so far managing this colonial creation called Nigeria.  It is time we moved beyond that base level of territorial identity and existence and go on to a higher level of purposeful living, defined by a shared vision of what a Nigerian nation of the 21st century should be. It is time we moved on to birth a true nation. 2023 is around the corner. Nigerians need to look for a man in the mould of a father — one who can envision and lay the foundation for a new Nigeria. But, who will that man be? Who will sire this nation? Isaiah Kumuyi of the University of Lagos Communication Unit can be reached via 08138488878