Twenty-one-year-old Cecilia Orogbemi is currently down with a mouth tumour causing her discomfort. According to her 25-year-old elder sister, Grace, Cecilia needed financial help to undergo surgery. Grace added that Cecilia, from Akoko Edo Local Government Area of Edo State, suddenly started to bleed from her mouth sometime last year and also had to deal with acute pain since then. She told our correspondent that they were orphans living from hand to mouth, fried garri to survive, adding that the little money they saved was spent on Cecilia’s treatment. She said, “My sister has a tumour in her mouth. We took her to a hospital where they carried out tests and we also did a scan.  It was then they discovered that she had a tumour. She started to bleed last year but now the bleeding is continuous. We were told at the hospital that the surgery will cost N350,000.” The result of the scan from Union Diagnostic Medical Services signed by one Dr Ayo obtained by our correspondent stated that, “there is a large pedunculated soft tissue mass involving the nasal cavity and the maxilla with destruction of the anterior of nasal bones.’’ The result indicated that, “There is hyperostosis and deformity of the maxilla with displacement of the teeth. There are multiple delcification in the mass. There is complete opacification of the down ethmoidal, sphenoid and maxillary sinuses. “ Grace also said that they couldn’t raise the money and plead with well-meaning Nigerians to help them. She added, “We fry garri at home and take it to the market to sell. She also doesn’t leave the house for fear of stigmatisation. Also, people might not want to patronise us if they see her state. My sister is in pain and she is unhappy. I appeal to Nigerians to help her with whatever they can for the surgery to be done quickly.” Donations can be sent to account name: Cecilia Orogbemi, account number: 2266063018 and bank: Zenith Bank.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com