Supporters of Senator Kabiru Marafa’s faction of the All Progressive Congress in Zamfara State have asked Governor Bello Mattawale to stop attacking their members, otherwise they would take action to defend themselves. Addressing a press conference in Gusau on Monday, the spokesperson of the Marafa’s faction, Bello Maradun, said they were tired of persistent attacks, harassment and intimidation from Mattawale simply because they chose to remain with Marafa. He said some members of the Marafa APC faction had on several occasions been attacked by political thugs allegedly belonging to Matawalle’s faction, warning that, “We will not fold our arms to watch these unfortunate events to continue.” He cited an example of the attack on the chairman of Senator Kabiru Social Media Forum, Shamsu Shehu, who was attacked allegedly by political thugs near the Government House, Gusau last Friday. He said, “The Chairman of the social Media Forum of the Sen. Marafa-led faction of APC, Shamsu Shehu, popularly known as Shamsu Kasida was attacked by hoodlums who by all manifestations are political thugs belonging to Matawalle faction. “Specifically, on Friday, January 14, 2022, Kasida was attacked at a point directly opposite the Government House in Gusau, the state capital. “He was injured and his vehicle was vandalised by thugs who later ran into the Government House where they comfortably took refuge.” “On behalf of the Marafa-led APC faction, we condemn in totality, this cowardly and uncivilised act by Matawalle-led APC faction and Zamfara State Government who resort to hiring political thugs to attack their opponents and critics simply because they want to silence anyone having the potential to expose their glaring failures.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com