The Commandant-General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Dr Ahmed Audi, has disbanded the Rivers State anti-vandal unit of the NSCDC for alleged involvement in illegal bunkering. The CG also ordered the suspension of the head of the team pending the outcome of an independent enquiry set up to look into the allegations levelled against the unit. The development followed the allegations by the Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike that the unit was aiding vandals and other criminals in the state. A statement on Saturday by the Director of Public Relations, NSCDC, Olusola Odumosu, said Audi expressed shock and dismay over the allegations. In the statement titled, ‘NSCDC boss disbands the anti-vandal unit of Rivers State Command,’  the CG further directed the acting DCG in charge of investigation and intelligence to summon all the personnel involved to the national headquarters, Abuja, for further investigation. The statement read, “He (Audi) said that the extant rules and regulations guiding the NSCDCl operations and the general ethics of the service requires complete display of total discipline, integrity, incorruptibility, transparency and accountability on the part of every Corps personnel, hence, the reason for this immediate action.” He decried the allegations as not being in tandem with his vision for the Corps, stressing that he would not condone any criminal act or compromise by the personnel. He assured that a thorough investigation would be conducted to ascertain the veracity of the allegations and the roles played by the individuals involved, stressing that anyone found guilty would face the necessary disciplinary actions. “The swift action taken by me is to close any identified gaps in our operations and service to the nation. I will not tolerate any act of indiscipline, compromise or sabotage under any guise; our founding fathers have worked so hard to earn a good name for the service as a noble organization and I will not allow a few bad eggs to spoil our name, image, credibility and integrity. “We will investigate those fingered in the allegations and deal decisively with them if found guilty to serve as a deterrent to others” the CG reportedly said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com