Zamfara State police command has rescued 21 Islamiyya school children kidnapped by bandits along Gusau–Tsafe–Funtuwa Road. Their teacher, Malam Lawali Ibrahim, was however not rescued. Briefing newsmen in Gusau on Saturday, the spokesperson for the command, SP Mohammed Shehu, said, the children included 19 boys and two girls. Shehu said, “The 21 kidnapped children including two female were among the people abducted by suspected armed bandits at Kucheri Village, along Gusau–Funtua Road on December 31, 2021 at about 2300hrs’’. He said, “On December 31, 2021 at about 2300hrs, a distress call was received from Kucheri Village via Tsafe LGA that armed bandits in their large number blocked Gusau–Funtua Federal Highway at Kucheri axis, and abducted unspecified number of commuters in five different vehicles”. “Police Tactical Operatives in conjunction with the military promptly responded to the distress call and moved to the scene, where they engaged the hoodlums in a serious gun battle”. “The police operatives succeeded in rescuing 21 kidnapped children including two females who were coming from Rini Village in Bakura LGA to Katsina State for Almajiri  Islamiyya  school along with their teacher named Lawali Ibrahim”. Acccording to the PPRO, the teacher of the children, Lawali Ibrahim, and the driver of their Hummer Bus vehicle were among the victims that are currently in captivity. He stated that the Commissioner of Police, Ayuba Elkana, had already sent reinforcement of police operatives to complement the efforts of the  joint security operatives currently working to rescue the remaining victims and apprehend the perpetrators. “The command is calling on the general public especially drivers and passengers to desist from night journey. “The night time is the period that is mostly used by the bandits to block roads and kidnap commuters in the state. “On its part, the police command will continue to work assiduously to ensure the safety and security of the citizenry”. Concluded Shehu.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com