Tangale Community Overseas on Friday exonerated security operatives on the recent killing of 12 persons in Billiri Local Government Area of Gombe State and blamed the State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, for allegedly not being proactive. Our correspondent had reported the viral intelligence circulated online which had official stamp of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps. However, the State Commandant, Samson Wabulari, said the corps had no knowledge on any impending attack on the community by suspected Fulani herders, stressing that the command had modes of quelling attacks instead of causing panic. According to a statement titled, ‘What is this bleating of sheep in our ears? Gov. Inuwa Yahaya’s war on the Tangale community’, which was signed by the group’s Secretary, Lamela Lakorok, said the assailants were drawn from outside of the state. The statement partly read, “The Tangale community ushers in the new year with tears as they buried 12 young men whom Fulani herders massacred in their homes. No doubt, the state security agency did its job by providing intelligence early enough to save lives, and we applaud them for that.” While bemoaning the failure of government to confirm or condemn the attack on the community, the group frowned on what it termed as attempt of government to distort fact. Reacting, the Commissioner for Internal Security and Ethical Orientation, Adamu Kupto, said the recent clash was between farmers and herders in Kolok Kwannin and Pandin Kude communities of Tal District in Billiri LGA on December 29, 2021, which claimed eight lives. Denying that it was an attack, Kupto recalled that there was information circulating on a planned attack on Billiri LGA which informed government to take proper security measures. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com