In this piece, TUNDE AJAJA examines the major political events in 2022 and how they present the citizens another opportunity to make better choices in the forthcoming elections The year 2022 will be an interesting one, especially in the political arena. From the pending assent to the all-important Electoral Bill amendment to the long-awaited national convention of the All Progressives Congress, the primaries and governorship elections in Ekiti and Osun states and then the seemingly biggest of them all, the emergence of the presidential candidates across political parties ahead of the 2023 election, the year is evidently laden with political events. Tucked in-between these activities is the March 17 inauguration of Prof Charles Soludo as the governor of Anambra State and the possible drama that might usher the incumbent, Willie Obiano, out of office, since the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission already placed him on its watch list. Meanwhile, it has become customary for the year preceding general elections to be characterised by politicking, which oftentimes is at the expense of good governance. With this heavy line-up and the volume of activities that surround each of them, 2022 will likely not be an exception. Here are some of the events: Electoral Bill amendment One major issue many Nigerians are hopeful would be quickly resolved early in the year is the current political impasse around the Electoral Bill amendment vetoed by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). It is noteworthy that the earlier the amendments become law, the better it is for the Independent National Electoral Commission, so it could begin preparations for the 2023 elections. Apart from the contentious direct primary clause inserted by the National Assembly members, the amended bill contains electronic transmission of results and many other lofty provisions that could engender transparency and credibility of the elections. All eyes are therefore on the National Assembly to act in the best interest of Nigerians, and speedily too as soon as they resume in January. The Senate resumes on January 18. APC Convention The ruling All Progressives Congress has reportedly fixed February for its national convention, but there are apprehensions even among members of the party that the event might not hold as planned. This is due partly to the internal crisis in the state chapters, the plethora of court cases against the party, part of which was to challenge the legitimacy of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee and the validity of the decisions taken by the committee since its inauguration on June 25, 2020, and conflicting interests. The President had last week underscored the importance of a credible convention or the party would be defeated by the PDP. However, if the convention holds as planned, it might be a new beginning for the party and show its direction as regard where its presidential candidate would come from. Already, the APC governors, scheduled to meet today, want the convention held before the primary, which emphasises the need to get the convention right. It is expected that the new National Working Committee would unite aggrieved party members and make the party better. Meanwhile, with about 11 strong aspirants jostling for the chairmanship seat, the coming weeks would be accompanied by some interesting events. Ekiti governorship election The June 18 governorship election in Ekiti State is another event that would generate huge interest. This is because the incumbent, Dr Kayode Fayemi, would soon serve out his second and final term. Expectedly, the governor and his party, APC, are determined to make sure the party wins, while the former ruling party, Peoples Democratic Party, sees this as an opportunity to return to the Government House. INEC has fixed June 18 for the election, and January 4 to 29 for party primaries. It said withdrawal and replacement of candidates won’t exceed February 25. The party primaries will no doubt be an interesting episode, amid clamours for zoning the coveted seat to the southern senatorial district and reports of Fayemi’s preference for his erstwhile Secretary to the State Government, Biodun Oyebamiji. Other aspirants like Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, who was the director-general of Fayemi’s campaign council for his re-election in 2018, are also counting on the governor’s support and a transparent primary to clinch the party’s ticket. PDP aspirants are also jostling for their party’s ticket. Until October 16 when Fayemi would quit and a new governor would be inaugurated, Ekiti State would be a place of interest.  Osun governorship election Similarly, in Osun State, the run-up to the July 16 governorship election will generate broader interest. The incumbent governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, will be recontesting for a second term, having declared on Thursday. The silent rift between him and his former principal and predecessor, Rauf Aregbesola, who is the current Minister of Interior, will likely play a role in the primary, though many people believe Oyetola would win the primary – it’s rare for sitting governors to lose primary. Already, some members of the state House of Assembly have reportedly sought the intervention of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, in the crisis. There are other aspirants, including a former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, Yusuf Lasun, who are equally hopeful of winning the ticket. On the other hand, the PDP is also warming up to give the governor a run for his money. The race to the Osogbo government house will generate huge interest in the coming weeks and months until the November 27 inauguration. Presidential primaries From the ruling APC to the 17 opposition political parties, 2023 is definitely a year of great significance in Nigeria. Parties are already strategising on how to win the February 18, 2023 presidential election and a crucial part of the process is making sure the candidate with the best chance of defeating the other parties wins their ticket. There have been clamour for the coveted seat to be zoned to the south, but there are strong indications that parties might, in addition to that, consider ethnic and religious sentiments. In the APC for example, the party’s candidate may emerge from the South, given that Buhari, a northerner, has served for eight years, thus the party might have no justification to retain the seat in the region. Already, most of the aspirants for the party’s chairmanship position are from the North, which presupposes that the south would produce the presidential candidate. Interestingly, only the Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, has made a formal declaration, while the others, mostly southerners, are still being projected by their supporters. The list includes the Vice-President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo; Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State; Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, among others. In the PDP, the list is also growing and it would seem the party intends to make it open to all. A chieftain of the party, Chief Raymond Dokpesi said on Wednesday that stakeholders in 24 states already endorsed former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar (North) for the position, while persons like Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State (North); Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State (North); Dr Bukola Saraki (North); former Senate President, Pius Anyim (South); and a former chairman of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group, Mr Sam Ohuabunwa (South) are said to be interested in contesting. Anyim and Ohuabunwa have since declared their interest. The President in an interview with Channels Television on Wednesday declined commenting on his preferred candidate for the 2023 presidential election. Regardless, there are heightened expectations over the presidential election as many Nigerians complain of unprecedented hardship under the current regime, worsened by high inflation rate, forex scarcity, rising insecurity, rise in unemployment and even high cost of food items, among other poor socioeconomic indices. Governorship primaries In 2023, there will be governorship election in about 29 states. Seven states, including Bayelsa, Edo, Ondo, Anambra, Ekiti, Osun and Kogi, are exempted because they hold off-season elections. In some of the 29 states, however, the governors would likely recontest while those in their second term might be eyeing the senate and might go to any length to ensure their preferred candidate succeeds them. Meanwhile, with the many political activities lined up for the year, it is instructive to note that 2022 presents Nigerians an opportunity to ruminate on how to make better choices in electing better leaders into office. That is also in addition to the time available to mobilise more people to register for elections. Many Nigerians have described as disturbing the rate at which leaders abandon their primary assignment for politicking. Before now, a number of governors, especially those deeply involved in party politics and those eyeing the presidency, had been on pilgrimage to the Federal Capital Territory, while their states and even the state chapter of their party yearn for quality leadership and attention. Speaking to this disturbing trend of abandoning governance for politics, Lagos-based lawyer and public affairs analyst, Mr Jiti Ogunye, explained that even at the best of times, poor governance had been the order of the day and that it only gets worse when the general election is in the offing given the way leaders and the led get immersed in politicking. “It ought not to be the case that governance as poor as it is takes the back seat when the general election is in the offing,” he said. “This is because election in a representative democracy is but a vehicle for the periodic renewal of mandate, and it ought not to stand in the way of the running of the society. “For example, if you are to travel from Lagos to Abuja for an assignment, how can the preparation and elaborateness for your trip stand in the way of that mission? The trip is only a facilitator, so governance ought to be the focus always. “We have to change our political conduct, meaning the citizens through pressure must demand accountability from elected public office holders. Given the level of confounding and embarrassing indolence and incompetence we see in government, how do we expect somebody who has not been performing to suddenly wake up because the end of tenure is near. The solution lies with the people. “The duty is for the citizens to demand accountability and it must be said that when leaders fail to do what they promised, it means they obtained power by false pretenses, which is a variant of 419 and they are no better than yahoo boys using false pretenses to obtain money or material benefits illegally.” On how to make the best of the electioneering in this pre-election year, he said people must be willing to come together through their civic groups, interfaith associations, ethnic groupings, social groups, trade unions and professional associations to forge a national conversation and set a non-partisan and non-affiliated agenda for growth and development. He explained that ethnic, religious and age considerations should not be prioritised above competence, capacity, vision and philosophy of the candidate, noting that poor governance was noticeable across ethnic and age divides. “Late Chief Obafemi Awolowo contested his last election in 1983 when he was 74, yet people were clamouring for him to govern this country because of his ideas, mental magnitude, philosophy, ideology and programmes. We need to forge a conversation and set an agenda, like a people’s manifesto, and then use that to identify who can deliver on those agenda. It would be like a social contract,” he added. Ogunye warned that if people do not have a direction and their agenda, they would get immersed in politicians’ struggle for power and be carried away with slogans. He added, “In the past, we looked for persons and cared less about their programmes, promises. This time round, we should come up with the people’s manifesto and use that to select who qualifies. That is how employers of labour recruit people who can add value to their work. As it is in the labour and employment sphere, it must be in the political sphere. “People may say it’s not realistic but if we want to get out of the woods, we must pay attention to that. We shouldn’t start from the person to the qualification and capacity, else we would start rationalising their inadequacies. That is what we have been doing all along and I think there must be a paradigm shift.” He explained that between 1999 and now, Nigerians had tested all kinds of leaders, ranging from an ex-military leader thought to be a non-nonsense man, to a university graduate who was not brash, a PhD holder and another ex-military ruler said to be a no-nonsense man, ascetic and frugal but had found that their aspirations were not met. He added, “It shows there is no messiah outside the one people designed for themselves by their clear choices, rational political decisions, their sagacity and acting in their own best interest and all these are within the powers of people and not be carried away by the political season. When they get disappointed again, they would start saying ‘it’s only God that can fix this country’.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com