Popular cryptocurrency exchange platform, Binance, has come under fire by Nigerians for a perceived targeted restriction of their accounts. Using the hashtag #BinanceStopScamming on Twitter, many Nigerian cryptocurrency holders slammed the platform for indiscriminately freezing accounts for several months without providing solutions. Several Twitter users posted pictures of their chat with the company’s customer care which simply cited security and risk control as reasons for blocking the said accounts. In an announcement posted on their Twitter page, the crypto exchange platform acknowledged the complaints and assured that swift solutions will be provided. “Dear Nigeria Binancians,” the statement read, “It has been brought to our attention that some #Binance users’ accounts have been restricted. Please be rest assured the Binance team is working on it. “User security remains our top priority. If you are still experiencing issues with accessing your account, please fill out this form. We will further investigate and provide solutions swiftly. We apologize for any inconvenience caused.” This did not, however, pacify Nigerian who claimed to have filled the same form in the past without seeing any suitable results. Reacting to the announcement, @wfthomsy tweeted, “Filling form is useless. We’ve done this times without number #BinanceStopScamming #BinanceStealingCrypto” “I filled this form last year A friend of mine brought it to me last September in which I filled it. This is not the solution, unlock our accounts and stop scamming us,” @iamdanny_mike tweeted. Demezy also tweeted, “I have filled this for over four months ago. Binance keeps telling me it’s risk management. #binancestopscamming.” “This the second time you guys are telling us to fill a form, the first time I filled a form and submitted sometime last year, it was completely void, nothing at all, that’s why I’m still here #binancestopscamming,” Akukalia Precious Kuli wrote on Twitter. In a circular released in February 2021, the Central of Nigeria prohibited all cryptocurrency transactions in the country, and also ordered banks and financial institutions to close accounts involved in such transactions. However, as reported by The PUNCH in August, Nigeria was named the 6th leading country in the world, in terms of cryptocurrency adoption by the Chainalysis’ 2021 Global Crypto Adoption Index. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com