The Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN, has accused the Nigerian Army of inducing steps towards jailbreaks in Ondo State. This is as he condemned, in strong terms, the withdrawal of soldiers of the Nigerian Army from the correctional centres across the state. Akeredolu expressed displeasure at the move after he was briefed on the situation by the state Commissioner of Police, Oyediran Oyeyemi. In a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Richard Olatunde, Akeredolu wondered why soldiers will be withdrawn from correctional centres which belong to the Federal Government. The statement was titled ‘Withdrawal of Soldiers From Correctional Centers In Ondo: Action Is To Induce Jail Breaks, Akeredolu raises alarm.’ The statement read in part, “Last night, Governor Akeredolu received reports from the Commissioner of Police in the state that soldiers attached to the correctional centres in the state have all been withdrawn. “This development came as a surprise, considering the fact that both the Nigerian Army and the Nigerian Correctional Centers belong to the Federal Government. “The Governor was more bothered about the overflow effect of the soldiers withdrawal on the security situation in the state. More so that such action could easily encourage jailbreaks across the state. “It is, however, pertinent to alert members of the public and the Federal Government of this unwholesome situation. Findings into the remote cause of this action have only revealed that it was an order from above without corresponding details. “Proactive efforts have been made to secure these centres so as not to allow premeditated jailbreaks as whoever gave the order to withdraw those soldiers was in the process of encouraging such.” The statement said Akeredolu has met with other security heads in the state, particularly the Police, and charged them to take over their responsibility of internal security in the state. “While we believe that the Federal Government has a duty to protect the prisons, we are more concerned about the security of our people across the state. A jailbreak will not only threaten the peaceful atmosphere we are enjoying in the state, it will pose serious danger to our people. “Governor Akeredolu has met with the security heads and the Police has since last night taken up their responsibility of internal security by deploying armed Police officers to these correctional centres. “Similarly, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, whose main assignment is to secure Federal Government facilities, has also deployed armed officers to the correctional facilities. “Governor Akeredolu has also directed the deployment of men of the State Security Network (Amotekun) to complement the Police and the NSCDC. This is to ensure that any premeditated action is tamed and resisted with commensurate force,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com