My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian daughters, I began an interesting and highly impacting series on January 1 which would help you succeed this year! Please Google and read my last four articles 2022: A phenomenal year of shining for the sexually-pure (1 & 2) Girls, manifest your dreams in 2022 and shine like a star (1 & 2) Story continued from last week! “I had always wanted to run a medical professional course (medicine or nursing precisely), so after my third failed attempt which I told my boyfriend about, he bluntly told me to accept any lower course I’m  given. Only then did I start realising something was terribly wrong somewhere! I knew somewhere deep inside of me that what I needed was even if I needed it at all-someone that will bring out the best in me and not someone that will kill the light in me! Then began my fourth admission trial. My guardians who loved education so dearly decided to sort my admission out painstakingly and were struggling and working towards paying N360,000 for my admission in school as I got admitted to study combined social science at the University of Nigeria not nursing, medicine, biochemistry, dentistry etc. I was devastated  and when I told him about the new development, Mr Man said I should accept it and move on with my life that certificate doesn’t speak again in this country (most times when he talks like this I wondered if he is indeed a graduate as he claimed yet I was lost in him). I still made up my mind to fight again and then BOOM I realised I had missed my period for three months. I thought it was an infection and before I knew it I was four months getting to five months then I began feeling movement in my tummy and I noticed my lower abdomen was strong so I decided to seek medical help. I thought I was smart but was really shocked when the doctor told me I was pregnant. I was in disbelief , I couldn’t stop crying and all of a sudden the eye patch that I had on me all this while fell off as I kept asking myself how I got to that point.  My family and everyone around me were shocked beyond words. I appeared as a leper and traitor before them. The disgrace and disappointment was nothing to be compared with, then I contemplated suicide. I drank a poisonous substance but after a while I vomited it. I guess God didn’t want me to die yet. The baby in me went through hell like she was the cause of my stupidity. It was painful as I did all manner of things which I would rather not discuss. I later went through a D & C at seven months (the pain, the risk and the death I saw with my eyes was and is still the beginning of wisdom).  And lo and behold, the man who promised heaven and earth then, disappeared till date…even after helping him out with my hard-earned money for upkeep. I later went back to my heart-broken widowed mother who amidst the shame and disappointment I gave her accepted me back but grounded me for a year from anything school and that was when I reconciled with God. I then decided there and then to walk a disciplined life if not for God, for the pain I went through at 21. I also took up a teaching job in a school to while away the time.  Each time I looked at my mum I saw the pain and disappointment in her and I prayed to God to help me heal her as I didn’t want her to die as I had seen in my dreams. Trust me when I say God is good-He accepted me irrespective of my filth and made me whole.  I prayed to him to guide me in my next Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination and give me the institution He desires for me. I passed the UTME and He also revealed the institution beforehand. I even told Him to turn my story back to a testimony at least the one that will make my family receive me back a little and forget some of the pain I caused them. He did exactly that for me! And then the devil reared its ugly head again. One of my colleagues back when I was teaching came with his marriage proposal. He wanted a marriage without courtship. He was way older, bossy and manipulative. To be continued. I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com