Gunmen on Tuesday evening reportedly killed the Enugu State Youth Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Kelvin Ezeoha, and one other person. The gunmen, who were said to have attacked a meeting being held by members of the Ward 3 Obeagu Awkunanaw, Enugu South Local Government chapter of the party also kidnapped one other person whose identity was yet to be ascertained. According to sources, the meeting was being held to reconcile members from the two factions of the party when the gun-wielding men numbering over seven stormed the venue, killing the two party members instantly before whisking away one other person. Enugu State chapter of the APC had been in crisis over leadership of the party for years now. However, all hopes to resolve the crisis during the ward, local and state congresses failed as two parallel leadership emerged at the end of the exercise. While former State Commissioner for Works, Ugochukwu Agbala emerged chairman for the faction led by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama; Adolphus Ude emerged factional chairman of group led by the former Chairman, Dr Ben Nwoye. However, a chieftain of the party, Mr Sunday Olinya, who confirmed the incident to The PUNCH on Wednesday morning, said, “Some gunmen invaded the Enugu South LGA APC meeting on Tuesday evening while their meeting was in progress and opened fire on the party members. “They killed the immediate past Enugu South Local Government Chairman of the party, now the incumbent state youth leader, Mr. Kelvin Ezeoha, and one other person, while a party member was kidnapped.” Efforts to speak with the State Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Daniel Ndukwe, on the development were unsuccessful as he did not take his calls. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com