My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian daughters, In the last three weeks, I have been discussing how you can make the most of this year and paint life as beautiful as you want it to be. No matter how dark and uncertain these days are and how hard the economy is- may I announce to you that you have so much power- too much power resident inside of you to live the best life ever! If I were you, I’d Google and read the last three articles in these series- 2022: A phenomenal year of shining for the sexually-pure (1 & 2) Girls, manifest your dreams in 2022 and shine like a star! (1) However, before concluding this article, I thought to share a lady’s story especially with girls who carry boyfriends on their heads like it’s the oxygen they need to breathe! In one of the articles above, I advised you to separate yourself from relationships which could set your life backwards and pitch you against God! This lady’s story is what an average young lady is dealing with. What a waste of time and unnecessary exposure to failure and torture. Isn’t there time for everything? May God help you all. Dear Aunty Temilolu, You can choose to hide my identity and you can choose not to hide it but at the end of the day I want to achieve a particular thing and it is to pass a message to my fellow irreplaceable queens out there. I carefully went through one of your posts and one of our girls was lamenting on how she has stays chaste and it seems nothing good is coming her way while the promiscuous ones seem to have a better life going on for them. Please let me tell you a little story about me. I graduated from secondary school as a virgin at age 18 without going having any relationship. Most of my classmates had cute guys and I was really envious of them as they made it seem so enticing to be in their shoes! After secondary school I got into a relationship that seemed heavenly to me. The guy was cute, handsome, looked mature (as I had always promised myself not to date an immature guy). He looked like everything I wished for. I always visited him at his place but each day I left there my conscience wasn’t just right with me. I was always disturbed in my heart. The day he made a pass to sleep with me, I told him I was a virgin and he was so shocked, he then promised not to go all the way and I stupidly agreed to it. It continued for days, although I was still disturbed in my heart,  at some point I started feeling I should be a little exposed  and at least free myself  but I did maintain my stance on keeping one boyfriend! I was losing focus on my studies gradually, he rarely advised me on anything concerning my future. Did I mention he smokes anything he can smoke and drinks all sorts which I hated badly? At some point I prayed against it because I kept having this daydream that we were going to end up together how stupid I was! Our relationship continued until his ex whom I later found out is also a street girl (smokes, drinks etc.) started threatening to pour acid on me if I didn’t leave her boyfriend! I can’t explain till today how God saved me from her attacks. I would have been disfigured for life but God helped me. Did I leave my boyfriend? NO! The young man kept promising me unimaginable heaven on earth. I hid this perfectly from my guardians and as this was happening, I had yet to gain admission (Two years had gone just like that) because I refused to redirect my steps and focus on my current life! You can imagine I was dragging nonsense with people with misplaced priorities, I forgot my home training. I was given a golden opportunity by God to take post UTME into one of the universities and also received two prophecies on going astray from His plans for me and getting badly burnt. But I couldn’t understand what they were saying because it was in parables. That same year I lost an admission and had to start all over again. It was stressful. I was frustrated, stressed and depressed. It was not as if I was not doing well but I was not doing enough and my so-called ex couldn’t advise me on anything positive. He was more of a plague in my life but I was not seeing it. After each trial, I would pick my pieces and try to move on, my mates and juniors were getting into school and coming back each semester. I always felt ashamed seeing them but yet I was not getting my senses intact as this man had encroached my brain. To be continued I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com