in an early start to the 2023 general elections, political parties are busy making permutations and potential presidential candidates are forming alliances. A quick look at the top contenders in the All Progressive Congress will reveal that if nobody backs down, the ruling party would have a keenly contested presidential primary. So far, the two most notable persons who are believed to be eyeing the position are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and an APC chieftain and former Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu. Though the latter has declared his ambition, Osinbajo is there to do so though support groups keep springing up every day, ‘begging’ the Vice President to throw his hat in the ring. Meanwhile, there has been no shortage of controversy since Tinubu declared his intention. Some believe that he would have a looming presence over the process due majorly to his stupendous wealth. Some have also stated that the uncertainties surrounding his age and place of birth should make people weary of trusting him. On the other hand, the effectiveness of Yemi Osinbajo has become a topic of debate for many. Some are of the opinion that the regime in which he plays a key role has failed to live up to the expectations of Nigerians. This is even as some fans of the pastor and professor of law have been trying very hard to separate Osinbajo from the failures of the Buhari presidency. They claim he has been sidelined in the scheme of things and is practically a ceremonial figure. Yet, some feel that Osinbajo should step down for his former boss. As governor of Lagos, Tinubu appointed Osinbajo as the state’s Attorney General. He was also said to have been the one who nominated Osinbajo to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), though many have come out to dispute that claim. However, as the APC national convention beckons on February 26, many are waiting to see with bated breath to see the steps the party will take which will impact on the presidential race. Personally, I believe the battle has just begun as there would be lots of incredible intrigues and dramas as the year unfolds. It is, however, pertinent to note that with the political alliances that are going on in the APC and People’s Democratic Party, the ultimate question remains, ‘Which of these unions are formed with the interests of the masses at heart’? Gbenga Oloniniran Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com