A former Big Brother Naija housemate, Princess, has said that the platform the reality show gave her got her endorsement deals, and not her beauty. On whether her beauty was a factor in her getting endorsement deals after the show, Princess said, “Certainly not. Big Brother gave me a platform and getting deals is one of the many benefits, which I am grateful for.” She also stated that she didn’t believe it was possible to have an ‘ideal relationship’. She told Sunday Scoop, “I think there is no such thing as an ideal relationship. If there are five attributes you want from a relationship and you get three, I think you should go for it. There are always obstacles both parties need to work on together.” Speaking on the kind of man she wants, she said, “The kind of man I want is someone who is God-fearing, a good communicator, ambitious and has huge respect for women. People always have options about certain things but I can only speak for myself. I don’t need to impress anyone. Life is good and I appreciate my baby steps. There is no pressure at all to live my life in a certain way to impress others.” Princess added that she did not expect people to take her seriously when she said that God should give her a man that she can willingly pound yam for. She said, “It was just a random statement and I wasn’t expecting people to take it seriously. I have been in a relationship where my efforts were not reciprocated.” She also stated that although she once had a crush on Cross in the BBN house, she no longer feels the same way after leaving the house. On the changes in her life after BBN, she said, “A lot has really changed. I get recognised wherever I go and I have my fans who love me dearly. “I have a passion for driving and I learnt how to drive while I was in secondary school. Coming into the taxi business, I realised there is a lot I can do and given the platform that I have. I wanted to see if I could create a taxi app. My team and I are currently having sleepless nights over it. It is a work in progress.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com