Kwara State House of Assembly on Wednesday stopped a suspended member, Raheem Agboola, representing Ilorin South Constituency, from sittings for 14 legislative days. Agboola is the only elected member of the Peoples Democratic Party. The decision followed the adoption of the report of House Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petition entitled “Contempt and breach of privilege by Raheem Agboola” which was presented by the Chairman, Abdulganiyu Salau, representing Omupo Constituency. Salau said the committee recommended Agboola’s reprimand because he featured on a radio programme where he was allegedly instigating the public against state government and the state Assembly. Salau explained that Agboola is also being reprimanded for forcefully attending the Assembly plenary last week Wednesday during the presentation of the 2022 Appropriation Bill by the state governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq. This, he said, was against the House’s rules. Reading the resolutions of the House, the Speaker, Yakubu Salihu-Danladi, said Agboola has been receiving all his entitlements when he was under investigation. The Speaker directed Agboola to tender written apology to the Assembly. He said, “In line with Order 10, Rule 61, Subsections 4 and 11 of the House Rules, the House hereby reprimands Jimoh Raheem Agboola (Ilorin South) to abstain from the service of the House for 14 legislative days and tender unreserved written apology to the House without which the abstention will not be waived.” In his reaction, Agboola who is the only opposition in the 24-member Assembly told our correspondent that he is still consulting with his party over the incident. “I will come out with a definite position after meeting with my party,” he said. The Assembly had on July 13, 2021 suspended Agboola over alleged contempt and abuse of privileges.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com