AMID reports that the All Progressives Congress leader, Bola Tinubu, would be picking a Muslim running mate if he emerged the APC Presidential flag-bearer, his spokesman, Mr Tunde Rahman has said it was too early for such speculations. Rahman said this in a text message to our correspondent on Thursday, when asked to respond to reports that Tinubu, a Muslim, would be picking a northern Muslim as his running mate. The Director-General of the Tinubu Support Group, Abdulmumin Jibrin, had said during an interview on Channels television that it did not matter if Tinubu picked a Muslim as his running mate, adding that Nigerians would choose competence over ethnic and religious considerations. Jibrin argued that the Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; and the Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, are both Muslims, while in the 6th and 7th Senate, Senator David Mark and Ike Ekweremadu, who are both Christians, were the Senate President and Deputy Senate President, respectively. He said, “For me, it doesn’t matter. If you bring a Christian-Christian presidency or a Muslim-Muslim presidency; for me, personally, it doesn’t matter. Even within the party and my TSG, we have had this conversation.” But in a chat with The PUNCH, Tinubu’s spokesman said it would be premature to discuss the issue of running mate when the former Lagos State governor had not publicly declared his intention to contest. He said, “His Excellency, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is yet to formally declare for the presidential race because, as he said a few weeks ago in Abuja, he is at present engaging in intense consultations and deliberations with the various stakeholders. “I think we should not jump the gun. When he makes that declaration, other things will follow. Until he does that I will advise that we don’t speculate on his presidential pairing. To do that will be tantamount to putting the cart before the horse.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com