The National Coordinator, All Progressives Grand Alliance Media Warriors Forum, Mr Chinedu Obigwe, tells IKENNA OBIANERI that there is nothing wrong with the 80-man Anambra State transition committee set up to usher in the incoming governor The governor-elect in Anambra State, Prof Charles Soludo, came under serious criticism by a major opposition political party over the number of persons in his transition committee but your party tried to defend it. Why do you have such a high number? What I can say is that Ndi Anambra voted for Soludo and they voted for him among those that contested in that election because they believe he was capable. Having done so, they have to trust his judgment. So, we trust Soludo’s judgment, we trust his decisions and the best way to support him is not by opposing his decisions. Now, if you look at that committee and the personalities involved, you will know that he really means business. The people in the committee are not using Anambra money; they are rendering selfless service because if he is to pay them, Anambra cannot afford to pay them. Dr Oby Ezekwesili is a former employee of the World Bank. Where will Anambra get the money to pay such a person? What about Olisa Agbakoba or any other person? To be honest with you, if it is to pay them for the services they are coming to render, Anambra State cannot afford it. So, the good aspect of it is that majority of them are from Anambra State. Now, the reason Soludo included some other prominent people from across the zones is because APGA is a national party and there is something that he is looking at that he wants to achieve. There is no cause for alarm; all those people criticising the number of persons in the transition committee are just playing senseless opposition politics. But some already think the incoming governor, with an 80-man transition committee, has shown that he would not be able to manage the meagre resources of the state. Those talking like that really don’t know the man called Soludo. People that know him around the world know that he is a man who has distinguished himself in public service when you put the previous assignments he had handled into consideration. Soludo is not somebody that can mismanage funds or resources; he is not someone that can spend money carelessly. Soludo’s cabinet will not be large. He will even reduce the number of his appointees; he is going to bring a lot of changes and when he starts doing so, a lot of people will feel bad. That is the truth and that is why I said it earlier that he would step on toes. Soludo has seen the challenges, and to him the challenges are enormous and he knows that the people have high expectation. Soludo will do anything worth doing for him to meet up with people’s high expectation. I will not be the one to say this will be the number of people in his cabinet, no, but he will reduce the number of political appointees. Forget what armchair critics are saying. They certainly don’t know the mindset of Soludo, but they would see him in action when he assumes duty on March 17. Don’t you think a 15- or 20-man committee would have been enough to usher in the governor-elect? I don’t know what the business of the opposition is with what we are doing. For me, they are interlopers; it is none of their business if the transition committee members are 80, which we already know. How does it concern them? They lost elections and they started blackmailing APGA and the incumbent governor to see if Ndi Anambra will listen to them but the people are saying no. They prefer the party in power and again, the candidate of the party in power is the best. So, we will be on the side of the best. I don’t see their business in the affairs of the party that is in power, it is none of their business. Sometimes, there is an inertia when people get into positions and they find it difficult to begin on a good note. Are you optimistic that the governor-elect would hit the ground running? Soludo is already starting on a good note. The only problem is that there is still so much work to do in Anambra State. The work is enormous. Yes, Obiano did his best; we can point at some legacy projects that were instituted by the governor. The good ones the incumbent governor is doing, Soludo will maintain them and he will also want to do his own. Now, what Obiano did which must be commended is taking a decision not to be a disturbance to Soludo in any way and he has started implementing that decision. Many people have been going to him to lobby for appointments in Soludo’s cabinet, but Obiano is telling them he will not do that. He will allow Soludo to do his work. Obiano is not recommending anybody to Soludo for appointment and it is a good one. Soludo has always said it that he did not enter into any political agreement with Obiano, so Obiano will give him a freehand to do his work. Some of the things that do disturb governance, especially in Anambra is the issue of a past governor trying to influence the programmes and activities of a current governor. However, in the case of Soludo, Obiano has assured him that he would not interfere in his government. When Obiano leaves office, he won’t be coming to the Government House to give Soludo any headache, and Soludo will concentrate on the work he wants to do. Soludo is starting on a solid footing. The only challenge Soludo may have is how to manage the foot soldiers and Obiano has said that none of them should run to him when they run into problem with Soludo. Another thing that makes a governor not to start on a good note is when his successor leaves office, he still wants to be in control of government, thereby distracting the current government. But such will not happen between Obiano and Soludo. Some people in Anambra State and elsewhere have said it is not APGA’s government’s performance in the state that has been giving it victory at the polls, but the love the masses have for the late Chukwuemeka Ojukwu. How would you react to this? Ojukwu was a father figure in APGA and Ndi Anambra respect him a lot. APGA respects him a lot. But the truth is that it is only the opposition that will tell you APGA is not performing in Anambra State. Starting from Peter Obi, APGA did well. Obiano continued Obi’s good work and he did well. As far as we are concerned as a party, Obiano did marvellously well if you look at the economic indices when Obiano took over office in the state. Under Obiano, there were so many challenges like two recessions, COVID-19 pandemic, #EndSARS protest; from one problem to the other, but the governor was committed and he ensured that Ndi Anambra came out of recession without feeling the impact of that recession. When Obiano took over office, Ndi Anambra have been facing some challenges, but he tackled them and ensured success in that regard. There are so many things Obiano did that deserve commendation. So, anybody saying they did not vote for APGA because of APGA’s performance is not saying the truth and I call that self-deception. APGA did well when compared to the neighbouring states. Other states borrowed to complete their airport projects, but Obiano did not borrow. That airport has been a project of over 30 years, but Obiano came and completed it. There are a lot of projects he did for Anambra people, even the International Conference Centre has been completed and would soon be inaugurated before the incoming governor is sworn in.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com