A former Chairman of Leventis Group, Dr Joseph Oke, speaks to GODFREY GEORGE about the highlights of his 80-year journey on earth and suggests ways by which Nigeria can overcome its challenges You recently turned 80. How do you feel joining the class of octogenarians? (Sighs) I think it is by the grace of God that I have lived to be 80. After all, the scripture tells us that our age is three scores and 10, which is 70 years. So, when one is 70, it is believed that one has fulfilled the scripture and life’s ambition. So, for one to live to be 80 can only be by the grace of God. That I am 80 and still here in the world, I thank the great Jehovah. What do you consider as the highlights of your journey in life over the last 80 years? In a nutshell, I would say my greatest achievement is my contentment. It doesn’t matter what you have; if you don’t have that spirit of contentment, which gives you so much grace, then you have nothing. It is that contentment that has driven my life and I could look back now in reminiscence and be grateful to God. This is because without contentment, I could have been a politician. I had all the opportunities. When I studied abroad and came back, Nigeria was not the way it is today. I had so many offers even from some of the ‘big men’ that made Nigeria what it is today. For instance, the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo wanted me to come and work for the Western Region government but I said no. I had already had five offers from which I was trying to choose one. I had never planned to work for the government. Why did you prefer the private sector to government work? I had always wanted to work in the private sector. I felt that was where my worth could be proved. When I was in secondary school, I had a hero – not my mentor – but someone I admired. In our days, there was a type of music they called Kokoma, which came before Highlife. It was a fusion of Sierra Leonean-mid-western Nigerian tunes. They used to play it at functions then. One day, I was going to school on foot, as we did in our days, and I saw this guy in a mechanic uniform. He used to be the leader of one of these Kokoma groups, which we nicknamed Almazoro. He was an apprentice mechanic with Mandilas, which had just come to Nigeria at that time and had a workshop at Ebute Metta. When I saw this guy – I must have been in Form Four – I said to myself, “I am going to be a mechanic!” I really loved to work like that fellow. For him to have decided to go learn a skill at his age, I thought it was a great thing. That was the point when I decided that whatever happened, I was going to be a mechanical engineer. I am glad that that was the path I followed. At the time I finished secondary school, Nigeria had only one university, the University of Ibadan. If you didn’t attend that one, you would have to go to Sierra Leone or the United Kingdom. I began to apply to polytechnics and universities and suddenly I got an offer from a company where they assembled Rolls Royce. They were based in the northern part of England. They wrote to me that they would like to take me on as an apprentice motor mechanic in their assembly plant. They arranged to send me a letter, and in those days, we didn’t need a visa to travel to the UK. They fixed an interview date for me, so I left Nigeria for the UK. On arriving in the UK, I stayed with a friend for about a week. While in his house, my friend asked me if I would love to work for Royal Mail and I said, “But I have this interview!” He insisted that it didn’t matter, so I applied. Within two days, there was an invitation for me to come for the exam at Royal Mail, which I did. The good thing at that time was that the result of that exam was published the same day. We were about 20 candidates and the HR person came out and said, “Mr Oak!” so I got up and he announced I came first in the exam. So, I was called in for an interview. Afterwards, I was sent to the Royal Mail Training School. And this is why I say contentment can lead you to greater things. At that time, I had to choose between the company assembling Rolls Royce, which was outside London, and taking up Royal Mail’s offer. They offered me a lot of opportunities, which made it possible for me to be working and schooling at the same time. I was even below 21, so I had some days off to go to college – I had to work two times a week and went to school two times a week. The first polytechnic I attended, where I studied Mechanical Engineering, has now become the University of East London. I feel that with contentment, I have not had to struggle for anything. I chose my path and didn’t deviate from it because I knew that whatever I wished God would give to me. So, for me to have come back to Nigeria after five years and then go to work for the government, I never gave it any consideration. Even when I was coming back and had applied to so many companies, it never crossed my mind (to work for government). I had also applied to work for UAC, which was a popular company in Nigeria. I sat the exam in England and was posted to work in UAC Nigeria. The day I went for an interview at their Niger House office in Lagos, I saw A.G. Leventis at Idowu. I asked the taxi to stop and take me to the office because I remembered they were one of the companies I had written to work for when I was in England and they had told me to see one Mr David whenever I was in Nigeria. When I got to Leventis, I made up my mind there and then that I was going to join the Leventis Group, where I worked till I retired as chairman of the company. This is why I say one must have a set goals coupled with planning and contentment to achieve success. After I studied Mechanical Engineering, I branched again and studied Business Administration, so within five years, I had three degrees. Then, I had some of my friends pushing me to join them in the United States. So we applied just before I came back to Nigeria. I got an offer from UCLA to come to do Business Administration, but I told them I couldn’t go to the US because I had got jobs waiting for me in Nigeria. If I had gone to the US then, I was sure I would never come back to Nigeria. At the time, my old mother was still alive and there was a military coup in Nigeria in 1966. I was sure I wanted to return to Nigeria because I had a bargain with my God. I wasn’t daunted at all because it was something that I felt had been designed by God. What was Nigeria like on your return in 1966? I returned amid the civil war. At the airport, there were soldiers everywhere. Two weeks later, I started work and had a car and all that. Lagos was not directly affected (by the war) but you could see the signs of war and feel the tension in the air, but we still went to work. After working in Lagos for about a year, I was sent to Ibadan to open a branch of my company and it was in Ibadan that I really felt the civil war going on in the sense that I had a lot of friends, whom I grew up with in Lagos, relocating to the East. There were also some staff members of my company in Ibadan who had to leave for the East because of the war. So, a lot of companies were scantily occupied by staff because most had left. Apart from that, I can tell you that the Nigeria during the civil war is far different from the Nigeria of today because there is a cold war going on today. At that time, you could still move freely and buy things at very fair prices. Life was safe too. Apart from the fact that there was a war going on, you wouldn’t go out and be afraid that someone was going to attack you and all that. Unless you were directly at the war front, life was safer than what we are experiencing today. To me, life then was safer then, honestly. In Ibadan then, we attended clubs and left at 12 midnight and nobody would attack or confront us, despite that a war was going on. Having experienced better days in Nigeria’s political and socio-economic history, where exactly do you think the country got it wrong? That is a loaded question because I have tried as much as possible not to get involved in politics. If I had that power, I probably would have done it differently. Our founding fathers –  the late Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe, the Sardauna of Sokoto, Chief Obafemi Awolowo and others behind them then like Amino Kano, Michael Okpara, Dennis Osadebey and others – I believe, meant well for Nigeria because they wanted to be independent from the colonial masters. I think deliberately from the amalgamation, the colonialists actually divided Nigeria for their own benefit. They did not want to leave and find cooperation among all the ethnic groups in Nigeria. I can tell you that up to today, they are still in charge of Nigeria indirectly. I had read papers that say the amalgamation was done by three or five people – all that is untrue. The amalgamation was done by one single person, Lord Lugard, with his subordinates. In his management of the two protectorates, he discovered that one region was doing better and growing faster than the other. In fact, he would have to take monies from the South to fund projects in the northern region because they didn’t grow as fast as the South. This was why he looked for a way to bridge this gap by doing a merger of both protectorates for their own benefit. Having done all that, they still didn’t leave Nigeria alone because they didn’t want to give independence. The unfortunate thing is this North-South dichotomy. This is what brought all the problems because our development was not at the same speed. The North, because of their culture and/or religion, didn’t grow as fast as the other region. The average northerner is content with whatever you give him, but down here we are overambitious. A kid here would tell you how he wants to go to university, work, ride a car and all that. It is not like that in the North as they are more content than the South and so cannot work at the same speed. I think that is fundamentally what the problem is. It was there that politics crept in. That was how the problem in the Western Region started. Then, the government declared a state of emergency, and the military, being young chaps, had to do something. Of course, the founding fathers too were young. Awolowo was about 30 or so; Anthony Enahoro was in his early 20s; Ahmadu Bello, who was the oldest, was only 42 or so. But now, you would see an 80-year-old man wanting to remain in power forever. Another issue is that the military men themselves became politicians and corruption crept in. Do you think the country can be salvaged or Nigeria has gone beyond redemption? It is like saying a child who has not been doing well in school is irredeemable. No, I don’t agree. Even when we have missed the way, I believe there is always redemption. One of the major problems Nigeria has is the size and the political structure. Unfortunately, we have not managed our economy properly. I used to refer to some old economists in those days as pocket economists. You cannot sit here and compare Nigeria with the US and China. It took the US hundreds of years to build that economy. That fundamentally is what our so-called economists are doing. In 1970 in Lagos, we had so many companies. What happened to them? They all left in droves because of bad economic policies of the government. That started from the military government, which overnight came out to tell us that naira was overvalued and should be devalued. That was why I said earlier that the colonial masters have not left. They are still here with us. I remember then in 1974, one naira exchanged for 1.10 pounds or something like that. A dollar was 65 kobo. Somebody just woke up and said naira was overvalued. No country has ever devalued its currency like that. The US is one of the largest debtors in this world; have you ever heard that they devalued their currency? Of course, not. They then put it at N1 to $9. Do you know the effect of that single action on companies? I was in the midst of it. Then, another government came and banned a lot of imports. We just woke up to hear the speech from the “throne” and the man said, “You will not bring this and that into Nigeria anymore!” So, organisations had to be running helter-skelter. How do we keep our working populace if all these things are banned? We had to begin to establish and upgrade factories and do so many things which we succeeded in doing during a period of three years. When Shagari came in 1979 and lifted the ban the factories began to suffer, as traders rushed abroad for cheaper options. When you are producing for one country, how do you compete with China which was producing for the world? These are part of the economic problems that we have. This is why I said our economy is not run by practical economists but pocket economists. In the group where I worked, we had 32 companies. We had five major companies and other subsidiaries. We were into construction, farming and all that. Everything fizzled out. The big ones are still there but all the smaller ones died a natural death because government policies did not encourage these companies to remain. The governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria has been trying so hard to wave some magic wand to salvage the situation, but he hasn’t succeeded. All these theories haven’t worked. We need good economists and finance experts if you want to really push this country up. I think that we still have an opportunity. I have noticed that our politicians will not listen to anybody. They want to do whatever they want to do forgetting that even if you have the best policies, you have to sell it to the people. Here, what government does is ‘take-it-or-leave-it!’ That is what it is. But for you to lift this country out of the woods, we need the people – the youths. What are they doing to encourage young people? Is it with the N20,000 and N30,000 schemes they put out every now and then? Is this what the leaders of tomorrow would lead by? I just feel Nigeria is still surviving because of its size and its potential. What is it that we cannot produce in Nigeria? It is just to get the proper management of our resources and we are good to go. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com