THE Enugu State chapter of All Progressives Congress has said described as a good development the reconciliation between the former state commissioner for Lands and Urban Development, Dr Victor Nnam and Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. The state chairman of the party, Adolphus Ude, who stated this while addressing journalists on Wednesday, said that by receiving Nnam at the Government House, Enugu, during the New Year celebrations, the governor showed that there was no enmity between him and his former appointee. However, APC enjoined the governor to ensure that the grave issues raised by the former commissioner in his resignation letter are properly investigated and addressed, stressing that the accusation of land grabbing in the state was real and have far-reaching implications, especially in the areas of ease of doing business. The party maintained that the land ministry in Enugu State reeks of monumental corruption, adding that the governor should be forthcoming on the issue of corruption and land grabbing by making a categorical statement about the cabal that frustrated the establishment of the Geographic Information System as alleged by Nnam. “Whereas we welcome the spirit of reconciliation, as a progressive party that stands against official corruption, we charge Governor Ugwuanyi to ensure the recovery of all illegally acquired plots of land in the state and other dubious transactions in the land registry. “Since Enugu is in the hands of the Almighty God, the land scandal, which had gone viral cannot be swept under the carpet; as God frowns at fraud. The Ugwuanyi administration should come clean before APC opens Pandora’s box,” the party stated. The APC chairman regretted that Ugwuanyi while receiving Nnam, who came in the company of his friends, family members and well-wishers, behaved as if the good people of Enugu State were not defrauded of their valuable lands as he talked of true forgiveness. “It is painful that the governor chose to ignore the crucial need for restitution but promised to sustain the tempo of peace and good governance in the state and to improve the living standard of the people as the true heroes of democracy,” Ude stated. The Enugu State APC chairman disclosed that the people of the state were waiting eagerly for the second phase of the rapprochement “where the governor makes  full disclosure on land grabbing, which has become a household narrative in Enugu State,” adding that unless that is done, APC would be forced to open ‘Pandora’s box.’  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com