Troops of Operation Hadin Kai have killed no fewer than five terrorists during a fresh attempt to infiltrate Biu community in Borno State, Army authorities have said. The terrorists had on Friday invaded the research institute belonging to the Nigerian Army University, Biu, chasing away the troops manning the institution. The Islamic State of West Africa Province later released a video of the attack. In the video, the insurgents were seen pulling down and setting fire to Nigeria’s national flag and the flags of the Nigerian Army and the institution. The Director, Army Publication Relations, Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, in a statement on Sunday said the terrorists made desperate efforts to overrun the community but were repelled by the troops. He said gun truck and rocket propelled grenade bomb among others were recovered from them, adding that efforts were ongoing to arrest others. The statement was titled, ‘Operation Hadin Kai: Decisive blow, as troops neutralise BHT/ISWAP terrorists in Biu attempted infiltration.’ It read, “Troops of Sector 2 Joint Task Force, North East, Operation Hadin Kai have dealt decisively with Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa Province terrorists, who made frantic attempt to infiltrate the ancient town of Biu, Borno State. “The criminal elements met their waterloo when the gallant troops of 231 Battalion and 331 Artillery Regiment swiftly routed them in a failed incursion at Maina Hari village in Biu on Saturday, January 15, 2022. “In the intense battle, troops unleashed superior fire power on the terrorists, neutralising five BH/ISWAP terrorists, compelling others to withdraw in disarray. “The troops also captured from the terrorists, one gun truck, one Deshka M anti -aircraft gun, one HK 21 machine gun, one rocket propelled grenade bomb, 137 rounds of 12.7mm anti-aircraft rounds amongst others. Troops are currently in pursuit of the fleeing terrorists.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com