The Nigerian Bar Association on Monday said it has started the process of filing petitions against seven lawyers, including a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, who allegedly played some roles in conflicting court orders issued by some judges recently. The conflicting court orders, the NBA said, concerned especially political matters. The organisation said it took the decision to drag them before the Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee over judicial misconduct to restore confidence in the judiciary sector. The LPDC is a statutory body put in place to take disciplinary action against lawyers accused of professional misconduct. On its part, the NBA serves as the prosecution in any trial before its panel. The association’s President, Olumide Akpata, disclosed these at a press conference to herald the Justice Sector Summit slated for Tuesday in Abuja with the theme “Devising practical solutions towards improved performance, enhanced accountability.” He said, “Some lawyers have been identified to have played roles in conflicting decisions that emanated from different courts recently. They are seven in number, including a Senior Advocate of Nigeria. “We are in the process of filing a petition against them before the LPDC. “This is based on our determination to ensure that the system is protected, irrespective of those involved.” The National Judicial Council had stopped three High Court Judges from being promoted for periods ranging from two to five years after the body found them guilty of issuing conflicting ex-parte orders. Meanwhile, the NBA has expressed the need for a review of the process for appointing judges, saying the current selection process is flawed. Akpata said, “We have sent our recommendation to the NJC regarding how we think that the process should be structured to become better and more efficient. “The process needs to be standardised. While some states subject candidates to examinations, others don’t. “We have passed the era when someone will sit down in the comfort of his chamber and decide who should be appointed as a judge. “There must be a clearly defined process of selecting those that should be appointed as judges. “This is why the issue of judicial appointment is one of the things that will be discussed at the summit.” He said the Justice Sector Summit 2022 was organised by the NBA and the Justice Research Institute in collaboration with The Konrad Adenauer Foundation, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, and the Justice Reform Project. Akpata said Justice Amina Augie of the Supreme Court will deliver a keynote address at the summit which will feature technical sessions where leading industry experts will lead the discuss on the critical questions of judicial appointments/selection: current practices and challenges; rethinking judicial administration in terms of budgeting, funding, and accountability; and accelerating the speed of justice delivery in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com