FBNQuest Asset Management has said it is important for individuals to discuss financial positions and adjust investment portfolios, among other steps, to recover from financial challenges brought by the COVID-19 pandemic. The company said this in a statement titled ‘Take control of your financial future – FBNQuest’. It said, “If you feel blindsided by a decline in your real income, rising inflation or a fall in the value of assets you own, here are a few practical steps to get back on track: First, schedule time to discuss your financial position with financial advisors and family. “Discussions with family will help members adjust spending habits, deflate potential conflicts related to spending, and inspire collaboration. Professional advisors provide vital information on available resources and can help chart a path through challenging times. “You should also be pragmatic about the outlook for your income and investments. Recognise a decline in income and adjust your spending accordingly. Actively monitor and control your budget. The current environment has been characterised by rising inflation, which is an increase in the cost of goods and services. Be more intentional about planning your expenses as prices change.” The company said in some cases, it might be prudent to sell unproductive assets, adding, “This can unlock cash that can be diverted to assets that are likely to rise as the economy recovers.” “The stock market, for example, often presents a mix of businesses that are resilient in a recession and others that struggle for a long time. You are better off knowing the difference and reallocating your investment portfolio accordingly,” it said. FBNQuest urged Nigerians to be intentional about exposing their minds to information that could be used to boost their incomes and advance their careers. “Networking and skill acquisition are often neglected when financial pressures surface but these are some of the things that can help you get ahead. Increase your value by acquiring new skills and pay attention to your physical and mental wellbeing,” it said. According to the company, an economic downturn like the one that was characterised by the COVID-19 pandemic is invariably followed by a recovery or boom period. It said while the economy had rebounded quickly, the impact of the slowdown on finances and investment goals could linger. “We offer a range of products that can match short and long-term investment objectives and put a person back on track to meet his goals,” FBNQuest added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com