The African Union’s Economic Social and Cultural Council on Thursday appealed to the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress to annul the party’s primary in Ekiti State over alleged irregularities. The primary held Thursday across the state despite protest by seven of the eight aspirants jostling for the APC governorship ticket, who called for the suspension of the exercise over allegation that the local government committee members to serve as electoral members were campaigners and supporters of a particular aspirant. The Nigerian representative of AU- ECOSSOC, John Asaolu, said it was disappointing that the APC, which ought to be a shining light in Africa could conduct a primary that could aptly be described as a sham. Asaolu said, “We are disappointed that Ekiti State is far behind in politics of this nation. This AU body came to monitor this primary but the guidelines are not being followed. The AU charters on conduct of elections not followed. In any election, there should be respect for human rights and all interested parties should be carried along. “If the aspirants agreed that the election should be cancelled, majority must be allowed to carry the day and anything short of this is irregularity. The party must respect their opinions and listen to them. Their rights should not be violated”. Also, the convener of Concerned APC Youth, Bello Ibraheem, said it was undemocratic for Badaru to allow an aspirant to hijack the process, saying this could destroy the party’s unity. Ibraheem said, “How can you expect Governor Fayemi’s loyalists to be conducting party’s primary across the 177 wards? Where is fairness and justice in such a charade primary election aimed at forcibly foisting an aspirant on party members without recourse to democratic ethos, credibility and decency? “To further worsen the situation, thousands of political thugs were brought into the state by top government functionaries. We, therefore, call on the national leadership of our party to annul the process of primary before it leads to another round of embarrassment to the party in courtroom,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com