The Nigeria Union of Journalists (FCT Council) has apologised to Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State over its claims that he was responsible for the arrest and detention of an Abuja-based journalist, Nelson Omonu. The NUJ said its findings revealed that the Vice-Chancellor, Federal University, Dutsin-ma, Katsina State, Prof. Armayau Hamisu-Bichi, was responsible for the disgraceful and reprehensible manner in which Omonu was taken from Abuja. The NUJ in a statement issued on Sunday evening signed by its chairman, Emmanuel Ogbeche and Secretary, Ochiaka Ugwu said it was misled on who was responsible for the gestapo-like arrest of Omonu, a Reporter with Summit Post Newspapers, from his residence in Abuja on Saturday December 1, 2021. The NUJ said, “We express our regrets to His Excellency Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina state over our earlier statement alleging he is responsible for the ordeal of our colleague, Nelson Omonu. “The confusion arose from information made available by family members; therefore, it is not the intention of the NUJ (FCT) to embarrass the governor and Government of Katsina State. We sincerely apologies to Governor Masari and appeal to him to accept this as one of the frailties of human endeavours. “It is surprising that an academic will descend into the arena of Area Boyism and use state apparatus in such a reckless and abhorrent manner to arrest a journalist and citizen for that matter. “We think the Vice Chancellor will do well by directing the instrument of his office towards promoting excellence in his University and promote the rule of law and decency.
We urge the VC to direct his energy towards addressing issues of cultism and infrastructural development in the University rather than resort to such primitive tactics and impunity. “If the VC feels too strongly on the alleged story on sex for marks and admission racketeering on the University, he should have gone to Court and not act in a manner that is crass and anti-media. “We urge Prof. Hamisu-Bichi to order for the immediate release of Omonu or charge him to court without further delay and wish to state that the NUJ will hold him wholly responsible if anything untoward happens to Omonu while in Katsina.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com