I receive several emails and to everyone who has over the years sent me an email to encourage this column week in and week out, sometimes from my sick bed, I say thank you.  As a result of some of the questions that I am asked, I decided to write this column. I got aware recently that not everyone knows what sickle cell is.  As you can imagine, I was rather surprised and told myself that I do need from time to time to not only talk about the life and hard times people with sickle cell go through, but it is also important to remember to define sickle to people. According to the Sickle Cell Society, Sickle cell is a disorder of the haemoglobin in the red blood cells.  Haemoglobin is the substance in red blood cells that is responsible for the colour of the cell and for carrying oxygen around the body. People with sickle cell disorder are born with the condition, it is not contagious. It can only be inherited from both parents, each having passed on the gene for sickle cell. The main symptoms of sickle cell disorder are anaemia and episodes of severe pain. The pain occurs when the cells change shape after oxygen has been released. The red blood cells then stick together, causing blockages in the small blood vessels. These painful episodes are referred to as sickle cell crisis. They are treated with strong painkillers such as morphine to control the pain.  People with sickle cell are at risk of complications such as stroke, acute chest syndrome, blindness, bone damage and priapism (a persistent, painful erection of the penis). Over time people with sickle cell can experience damage to organs such as the liver, kidney, lungs, heart, and spleen. Death can also result from complications of the disorder. Treatment of sickle cell mostly focuses on preventing and treating complications. The only possible cure for the disorder is bone marrow transplant but this is only possible for a limited number of affected individuals who have a suitable donor. A medicine called Hydroxyurea can significantly reduce the number of painful crises. Another area that people ask me questions on is how we take care of ourselves living with sickle cell.  This is a question that I get hundreds of emails from and I guess people are concerned about looking after themselves and their children well. Anyone who is living with sickle cell needs to drink a minimum of two to four litres of water daily.  When you drink that much water, then the blood cell will flow freely in your body and not stick or clot together.  And it is the sticking or clotting that usually results in a crisis.  Try and make sure you take water every 30 minutes to an hour.  Yes, water is bland.  But you can add, lemon, lime, orange, ginger into your water to give it some taste. In terms of diet, someone living with sickle cell also needs to eat plenty of fruits daily, as well as vegetables.  Vegetables are easy to incorporate with your food.  As regarding fruits, eat fruits that you like and that are in season. Iron is a crucial component found in haemoglobin.  Iron is a type of protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen from your lungs to all parts of your body. Without enough iron, there are not enough red blood cells in your body to carry oxygen and this causes fatigue.  My point is, it is essential that anyone living with sickle cell eats plenty of food rich in iron.  For example: beans, all leafy greens, okra, nuts, beef, beef or chicken liver, seafood, sardines, and vegetables. Anyone living with sickle cell needs to avoid getting an infection. It is crucial for such a person to take antibiotics prescribed by the doctor; daily, weekly, or monthly. You will also be recommended vaccinations to take as these will prevent more serious infections.  People living with sickle cell are more prone to infection and if they get an infection and it’s not treated quickly, it can result in a sickle cell crisis. People living with sickle cell need to take folic acid daily because we have a deficiency of vitamin B12.  Red blood cells carry oxygen around the body.  Vitamin B or folate deficiency anaemia occurs when a lack of either of these vitamins affects the body’s ability to produce fully functioning red blood cells. Another question that I am often asked is if it is okay for two people who know they are AS to marry.  I always find it farcical when I am asked this particular question because it seems as if whoever sent me the email has been told no but wants validation from me.  This year, can anyone who has sickle cell trait volunteer their time at their local sickle cell organisation, NGO, support group or forum?  I believe that if you do so for a period of three to six months, you will have your answer in terms of if you should marry someone who has sickle cell trait or not.  My other suggestion is to speak to your haematology doctor or consultant or a counsellor you know. People also ask me medical questions that I refuse to answer as I am not a doctor.  In my posts, I have never claimed to be a medical doctor. I am someone who happens to live with sickle cell and who has lived well over 55 years on earth.  I believe that my age has given me the ability to write about this subject matter: sickle cell from a place of lived experience. Sickle cell is such an annoying disease because it can lead to complications. This is the reason why it is important to take good care of yourself, both physically and medically.  Despite taking care of yourself, there are complications that will occur with sickle cell. For example, vascular necrosis which is a degeneration of the bone. And most people living with sickle cell will experience this at some point in their lives. If you would like to get in touch with me about this article or about sickle cell, do so, via email: t.dehinde@yahoo.com and do visit my blog: www.howtolivewithsicklecell.co.uk.   The e-copy of my book on sickle cell– How To Live With Sickle Cell is available for purchase on www.toladehinde.com and if you want to purchase a paperback version, it is available on Amazon. Source: www.sicklecellsociety.org; www.nhs.uk;  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com