THE National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic  Party, Iyorchia Ayu, has declared that the PDP would produce the next governor of Ogun State in 2023. Ayu said considering the record, which according to him, shows that the PDP had produced the first PDP president in 1999 who hails from Ogun State, the state remains a PDP state. Ayu said this on Saturday while addressing a large crowd of PDP members at the party secretariat in Abeokuta. Ayu, who was flanked by members of the National Working Committee, former governors, the leader of Ogun PDP, Oladipupo Adebutu, the State Chairman, Sikirullahi Ogundele, among others told the state  Governor, Dapo Abiodun and the All Progressives Congress to prepare to leave the government for the PDP in 2023. The chairman said the APC governments both at the Federal and the states have made lives difficult for Nigerians, adding that it was time to vote the party out of power. Ayu, who earlier held a private meeting with former President Olusegun Obasanjo, said he would be returning to Ogun to mobilise PDP members across all levels, as part of efforts to unseat the APC in 2023. He said, “I only came to greet my boss and our father, President Obasanjo. I didn’t know that all my people are here. I will come back to mobilise the people of Ogun State in every ward, in every local government because in 2023 we shall produce a PDP governor in Ogun State after which we shall produce a PDP president who will make things better for you.” In his remarks, Adebutu, who is a PDP governorship aspirant, reiterated his commitment to the development of Ogun State. He said, “I am sacrificing my comfort for you not because I need something to eat but I want to create a better tomorrow for you. I will continue to sacrifice for you and I bring to you this sacrifice and this solution. Let us be together. Do you agree with me?” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com