The Proprietor, Oak Business School (Monotechnic), Dr Lance Elakama, has appealed to stakeholders in the education sector to train learners to become employers of labour and not job seekers. Elakama maintained that the nation’s education system was too academic, saying it prepares graduates for jobs instead of grooming them to become employers of labour. He said, “Sound technical education is required for national development and the nation’s education system is too theoretical and should be modified to make it more practical to build capacity of the country, youths must be properly trained.” He revealed that Oak Business School was set to commence academic activities for the 2021/2022 academic session in January, he added that Already licensed by the National Board for Technical Education had licensed the school while accredited had be done by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board. “Our students are also trained in various vocational skills to make them versatile, employers of labour and self-reliant after their course, which had been made possible through our entrepreneurship centre. Our aim is to take Nigeria, and up-coming generations to the next level. “The school has secured accreditation in five courses, namely Marketing, Accountancy, Business Administration, Banking and Finance as well as Computer Science,” he said. Elakama, a former Deputy Director-General, Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE), also said the school was equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, including modern laboratory, ICT, e-library, air-conditioned lecture rooms with highly qualified lecturers and hostel facilities to make teaching and learning interesting. Elakama said, “We have competent and qualified lecturers on ground, we want to give our students practical exposure, opening them up to our businesses and software during internships. We want to groom them as entrepreneurs.” He said the school, which has its main campus at Isheri-North on Lagos-Ibadan expressway, would commence academic activities on January 17 at its temporary campus in Ogba, Lagos. One of the lecturers, Ogbonnna Young, said the school would run both full time and part-time, he also assured of uninterrupted academic session. ”Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com