Her tiny voice was almost drowned in the frenzy of commercial bus drivers and conductors scrambling for passengers at Berger bus stop that Tuesday afternoon. In spite of the deafening honks and boisterous passersby shuffling through the crowded park, 13-year-old Kikelomo was resolute, painstakingly straining her voice to market bundles of face masks stuffed in her right hand. She meandered through the crowd, making frantic appeals to woo buyers. At intervals, the little girl would retire to a corner dovetailing to the pedestrian bridge in the area to have a momentary rest often interrupted by potential customers. Within 10 minutes, the longest of the three short rests Kikelomo had lasted about 30 seconds. That was after she unsuccessfully ran after three different promising buyers. Tepidly, she leaned her shoulder on the railings of the bridge as she and another girl later identified as her elder sister looked keenly for the next customers. In a split second, they both surged towards our correspondent who signaled at them. “How many should I bring?” Kikelomo asked, seemingly concluding that her new customer would buy at least a piece of face mask, which neither she nor her sister wore. “We have been here since 8am,” she added calmly, wiping beads of sweat on her brow. That day, January 11, made it a week the Commissioner for Education in the state, Folasade Adefisayo, directed schools in the state to resume for the second term of the 2021/2022 academic session. “We will resume next week Monday (January 17),” Kikelomo retorted curtly when asked why they were not in school about 1pm that day but was reluctant to speak further. After assurance that a face mask would be bought from them each, they became more friendly and opened up to our correspondent. “I am in JSS 2. We know the school has resumed since last week but we are trying to help our mum. She feeds us with the sales we make and pay our school charges.’’ The elder sister, Abosede, revealed that they hawked from morning to evening and realised between N2,000 and N2,500, to cater to the family’s feeding and other sundry needs. “We resumed here around 8am and usually go home around 5pm or a little earlier if we are lucky to finish selling our items on time,” the 16-year-old SS 2 pupil, who attends the same Lagos school as her sibling, stated. “Yesterday (Monday), I made N2,500 sales. I spent N200 for lunch and another N200 as transport fare back home. I delivered N2,100 to my mum. Our dad is a mechanic,” she added, beaming with smiles. “They are my children and they sell the items for me,” the kids’ mum, who gave her name as Romoke Anikan, told Saturday PUNCH when called on a phone number provided by her children. “They will resume school next week Monday (January 17),” the mother affirmed, despite admitting it was wrong to indulge the girls in hawking especially during school hours. “As soon as they resume, they don’t hawk on school days; they only do on weekends. I also sell petty items at home to support whatever they realise. We are poor; they are doing it to support the family,” she said with an air of confidence. Worryingly, Kikelomo and Abosede fit into the growing number of minors daily exposed to child labour such as hawking by parents and guardians with the attendant hazards. The exploitative practice has festered across the country in gross violation of international conventions and local laws, including Nigeria’s Child Rights Act 2003, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child. Though a global phenomenon with 168 million children involved in child labour worldwide according to a 2020 report by the International Labour Organisation, it has assumed a disturbing trend in the Sub-Saharan Africa and Nigeria in particular. Of these figures, ILO states that 59 million children are from Sub-Saharan Africa and staggering 15 million minors in Nigeria – including Kikelomo and Abosede who toil under the scorching sun – enmeshed in child labour. ILO’s report reveals that Nigeria’s record represents 43 per cent of the total population of minors and the highest recorded rate of child labour in West Africa. “The impact of child labour is multi-facets,” said Ann Ironsi, the team lead (gender) and psyco-socio support officer of a Lagos-based non-governmental organisation, People Awareness on Health Foundation in Nigeria. “It affects their development and makes some to see themselves as outcasts.” She added, “The girl child could be defiled in the process and for the boys they end up joining gangs and begin to drink all sorts of alcohol. The children with time would turn to vagabonds. They are survivors but along the line, they become criminals.” Plight of children ‘breadwinners’ The Child Rights Act and the African Children’s Charter define a child as a person below 18 years. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, to which Nigeria is a signatory, makes it an offence to involve children in any activity that impacts negatively on their being. Article 32 of the convention specifically notes that “States Parties recognise the right of the child to be protected from economic exploitation and from performing any work that is likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the child’s education, or to be harmful to the child’s health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development.” Sadly, weak enforcement of the Child Rights Act domesticated in Lagos and 24 other states has hampered progress in curbing child labour in Nigeria. Worse still, 11 states, comprising Jigawa, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Sokoto, Zamfara, Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe and Yobe have yet to pass the Act. Notably the Lagos State Government in 2008 banned street hawking by children particularly during school hours and in 2016 prohibited street trading. However, many parents and guardians blame poverty to perpetually subject their wards to child labour. The poor enforcement perhaps accounts for why Tosin still manoeuvres hectic traffic in Oshodi – one of Lagos’ ever busy centres – to hawk bottled and sachet water. Aged 15, some of his peers are already in the latter part of their secondary school education. “I stopped going to school after primary education,” he said grudgingly in an encounter with our correspondent. “I help my mum to sell water. She wanted me to learn mechanical work but I told her I don’t like it.’’ Tosin abruptly disrupted the conversation to go after a moving bus where a passenger shouted ‘water, water.’ Short but agile, he struggled for balance as he held the water load on his head with a hand and scurried towards the bus in a desperate attempt to beat another teenage girl hawker to the sale. “I make N3,000 to N4,000 every day for my mum,” he said panting for breath after returning from the chase. “I hawk from morning to evening.” Tosin, whose father reportedly lives in Ifo, Ogun State, declined our correspondent’s request to meet with them or speak to them on the phone, saying he dreaded the possible consequences. In less than a year he relocated to Lagos from Ibadan, Oyo State, hawking has led 13-year-old Ridwan to every nook and cranny of Ebute-Meta. Even after returning from school, the primary five pupil hawks pepper into the evening to the detriment of his school assignments. The only day he escapes a long, tedious walk around the expansive community is when his mother doesn’t have pepper. “I didn’t hawk today (Tuesday, January 11) because we don’t have pepper,” he told our correspondent, who was led to his mother’s shanty by a neighbour. He said, “I don’t like hawking but I have to do my mother’s wish. When I come back from school, I hawk from 4pm to 6pm. I go to Otto (a neighbouring area) and other places. “On weekends, I hawk twice; from 8am to 10am and then, 2pm to 4pm. I make about N3,000 per trip. I also hawk throughout the holidays.” Ridwan’s mother, Bolanle Balogun, was not around during the visit but she confirmed her son’s account in a telephone interview. She stated, “He hawks pepper every day. That is what we live on. For nine years now, I haven’t seen his father. He used to attend an Arabic class in Ibadan, Oyo State. I brought him to Lagos two years ago because he didn’t get good care there. He stopped schooling some years ago. “Last year while he was hawking, he said some people challenged him for not going to school. I took him back to school this session to start at Primary five. When he comes back from school, he hawks. He also hawks on weekends. The only time he doesn’t hawk is when I don’t have ‘market.’” For eight-year-old Bimpe and her co-hawkers along College Road, Lagos, trading commences in the evening as traffic builds up on the highway. “We hawk till 8pm or as so long as there is traffic,” Bimpe, who sells groundnut, remarked subtly before rushing to advertise the item to a driver stuck in the gridlock. She fixed her eyes firmly on the tinted window of the car, trying to gain the driver’s attention. “We have been running after vehicles since 6pm, yet I have only made N300. We are getting tired but we won’t leave until we make good sales,” 10-year-old Bashiru said as he joined two other tired-looking kids sitting on the pavement. Until November 2020 when she was rescued from a couple in the Igando area of Lagos, Mercy’s daily experience revolved round snacks hawking and assault. A 12-year-old orphan, she was trafficked to Lagos from the eastern part of the country under the false pretences that she would be enrolled in a school. “As if that was not enough, she was abused by the same man that brought her to Lagos; he defiled her,” Ironsi, the psycho-social support officer of PAHFIN which rescued the minor, explained. When she could no longer endure the beating, Mercy ran to a park where she was rescued and taken into protective custody.  “The man has been arrested,” she added. Other worrisome forms of child labour Besides hawking, child trafficking which manifests in forcing of minors into domestic labour and commercial sex work and indulging them in artisanal mining, factory work, agriculture and street begging are among numerous forms of abuse and exploitation millions of children contend with. A 16-year-old girl, Abigail, who dropped out at SS1 due to financial constraint, had narrated to Saturday PUNCH how one Aunty Bright brought her from Calabar, Cross River State, sometime in November 2020 to work with one Madam Nelly in the Itele area of Ogun State as a salesgirl so she could raise money to return to school. To her dismay, Nelly changed her real name to Abigail and turned her into a sex slave in a brothel, collecting proceeds of prostitution – N500 per client for short time (brief sex) and N1,000 for an all-night romp – from her on a daily basis. Appeals that she was tired and wanted to return home fell on deaf ears as Nelly denied her access to a mobile phone. Although police eventually busted the brothel, Nelly, the prime suspect, is still on the run. “We also have a similar case of a 17-year-old girl that is HIV positive after being used as a teenage prostitute,” Ironsi revealed. “It is really worrisome.” Subjecting children to street begging is another rampant, dehumanising practice that holds sway in Nigeria especially in the North. And with an influx of displaced, poor families relocating to Lagos on a regular basis, the menace is gaining more grounds in the country’s economic capital and neighbouring Ogun State. In bustling Lagos neighbourhoods such as Oshodi, Agege, Berger, Mushin, Ijora, Ketu, Obalende, Ikorodu, Yaba and border communities in Ogun, it is common to see children as little as five running after vehicles and ‘decent-looking’ passersby to beg for money and food. Disturbed by the development, the Lagos State Government in August last year announced that street begging had been outlawed in the state and a special team set up to enforce the ban. “Street begging is a social vice that we cannot afford to watch attain an uncontrollable level before we act. Otherwise, all the good plans to transform our state will be adversely affected; the same goes for street hawking,” the Commissioner for the Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Olusegun Dawodu, said while announcing the ban. He added, “The task we are undertaking is not only to sanitise our society, but also to restore the dignity of these people who have been sent to the streets for alms begging and hawking.” But five months later, the practice is still prevalent in the state. For instance, a mother of six, identified simply as Aisha, still operates freely with her kids, including a set of twins, in Oshodi. Two of the children, aged six and eight, ran after our correspondent for alms during a recent visit. “The enforcement is on,” the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, said in reaction to the enquiry regarding poor sanctions. “Now, we will be going after those who are sending these kids out. Some people have seen it as big business. They send those children out and collect whatever they bring from them,” he added. Omotoso hinted that the overwhelming influx into the state overshadowed the government’s enforcement efforts. He said, “We are doing enforcement but people come to Lagos in their numbers every day and most of them come without having anything to do. They just see Lagos as the land of opportunities they need to explore. “If these people are here hawking and begging and the government does advocacy that it is not right, arrests them, bring them before mobile courts, seize their wares and yet they do not stop, that means there is a fundamental problem. There is a problem of insecurity in many other states and people from there come into Lagos every day.” Holistic approach to curbing child labour Fundamentally, the raging incident of child labour is blamed on poverty, poor national education system, cultural traditions and weak enforcement of laws. Invariably, tackling it requires coming up with policies and actionable plans across the highlighted segments simultaneously. “The enforcement has not been channelled appropriately; when perpetrators are arrested, they are released without being prosecuted,” the Coordinator, Advocates for Children and Vulnerable Persons Network, Ebenezer Omejalile, submitted, noting that “If some people are used as scapegoats, it will deter others.” “There are a lot of laws readily available to protect children but they are not enforced in the appropriate way because there is so much sentiment to it,” he added. While maintaining that poverty is not enough reason to engage children in hard labour, Omejalile urged the government to come up with poverty alleviation schemes with proper monitoring to ensure the dividends reach the poor at the grass-roots. He said, “There is so much poverty in the land worsened by the COVID-19 pandemic. You see parents sending out children to hawk and endangering them. However, poverty is not enough reason to put the lives of these children on the line. Parents should work harder. They should face the reality of life instead of depending on the children.” Also, Ironsi observed that injustice, not absence of laws, fuelled child labour and urged the government not to spare the rod on the perpetrators. She said, “The perpetrators know people in the authorities and they will be pushing for settlement. But if this issue is given the seriousness it deserves and justice prevails, there will be a change. “Publicity is also a problem. Publicity on child trafficking is low. Poverty shouldn’t be an excuse to engage children in child labour. At the end of the day, such families end up being more impoverished than they were. For instance if the girl child hawking on the street is raped and gets pregnant without anyone ready to claim responsibility, the situation becomes much worse because the family now has double dependants.” The co-founder, D Family_Tutour, Remi Thompson, posited that “the alarming statistics on child labour” would worsen poverty in the land except swift actions were taken. According to her, the more educated and enlightened children are, the brighter their future, “but if they are not educated, we are going backward and the implication will destroy the economy and cost the children their mental health.” She said, “Children need to go back to school; many parents are not even interested. Awareness needs to be created. Some parents think education does not bring money immediately but it eventually pays off. Once you bring a child to this world, you are supposed to take the responsibility for that child until they reach adulthood to take charge. You don’t bring children into the world and leave them to start selling or begging for you. “Most times, children are forced into this hard labour. The mother will flog the child to hawk so that the family won’t go hungry. The children don’t really enjoy what they are doing. There should be a regulatory body. The government needs to look into it. Nothing is done in terms of enforcement. It’s so sad. It’s a lot of work and the government needs to sit up.” A sociologist at the University of Ibadan, Oyo State, Dr Omobowale Ayokunle, warned that “children breadwinners” is an unfortunate social problem and a potential time bomb, lamenting that many children – like Tosin, bottled water hawker – work without being given the opportunity to go to school. “That makes it a complex situation,” Ayokunle bemoaned. “Such children, if care is not taken, may become useless to themselves and society in the near future. They are not learning the skills they are supposed to learn; that is where the danger lies. They are just on the street, hawking.” He urged the current administrations to toe the path of the first republic government which ran compulsory, free education and sanctioned parents who denied their wards access to literacy. He added, “There must be a prompt government intervention to capture kids who are on the street to give them the necessary skills. It could be education or vocational centres so that they will be useful to themselves later in life. If they continue like this, it’s a potential time bomb. Those who cannot perform well in school can be taken through some practical training.” Omotoso claimed that the Office of the Civic Engagement in Lagos established training centres for the jobless and trained them in agriculture, fashion and other vocations, with equipment provided for them after training. However, despite overwhelming complaints over enrolment, PTA and teaching material fees collected in Lagos public schools, the commissioner insisted that education is free in the state. He said, “The Commissioner for Education goes around and she also has a team to check this kind of thing. If any person is asked to pay any money in any Lagos State school, such person should report to the Ministry of Education and disciplinary actions will be applied. “Nobody should pay for anything. All the schools get running costs and it has even been increased by the governor because he wants no complaints and wants quality education for the children. “If you say your children should hawk goods instead of going to school that is free, such parents lack proper knowledge of what education is all about and can’t see into the future.” Asked of efforts by the Federal Government to tackle child labour and high number of out-of-school children, a spokesperson for the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Rhoda Iliya, referred our correspondent to the Alternate School Programme inaugurated last year. At the fourth meeting of the ASP National Steering Committee held in October 2021 in Abuja, the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Farouq, said the programme was set up to improve access to education for all Nigerian children in alignment with Sustainable Development Goals Number 4. She said, “This meeting is important as it provides the first opportunity for the Technical Working Group of the Alternative School Programme Committee to present their plan for the implementation of this ambitious scheme across the 36 States of the Federation, including the Federal Capital Territory. “The Federal Government is committed to ensuring that all necessary things are done to facilitate the actualisation of the programme that will benefit millions of Out-of-School Children across the country.” The Country Representative of the United Nations Children Education Fund in Nigeria, Mr Peter Hawkins, demanded commitment to fulfilling the obligations of the Child Rights Act, calling on the 11 states yet to implement the act to give its application top priority. Hawkings said, “We would much prefer that all states would have domesticated it by now but what we don’t want is a state domesticating the Child Rights Act, 2003, and not have the mechanisms in place or the commitment to fulfill the obligations in it because children’s rights are all about obligations; obligations of local governments, structures to ensure they protect the child’s right at every stage. It is also about trying to give an environment for children to be able to express some of their concerns and where we can provide a solution to the problems.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com