The Lagos State government has announced that Marine Bridge will be partially closed to allow the Federal Government carry out routine maintenance works on the bridge. The closure will be from Monday, January 17 to Saturday, April 2, 2022. This is according to the state Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, who said the temporary closure of the bridge will be in two phases, Apapa Outbound, which will be repaired between January 17 and March 19, 2022, and the Apapa Inbound section of the bridge will be done between March 10 and April 2, 2022. Traffic outbound Apapa will be diverted to give way for contraflow of traffic between RRS point and Total Bridge while motorists using lighter vehicles will be diverted to Marine Beach by Mobil Filling Station to connect Ijora Bridge or make use of the Service Lane by Leventis to connect Naval Dockyard to link Total Under Bridge and continue their journeys. The Commissioner said for the inbound Apapa motorists during the second phase of the rehabilitation works, traffic will be diverted to allow contraflow of traffic between Total Bridge and RRS Point. Oladeinde added that motorists using lighter vehicles will be allowed to descend towards Total Under Bridge and make use of Fire Service Road to connect Marine Beach by Mobil Filling Station, while those heading towards Apapa will make a detour and connect Area B through NAGAFF using Mobil Filling Station Service Lane. While assuring that palliative repair works have been carried out on all the aforementioned alternative routes to ameliorate the effect of the traffic situation and deployment of Lagos State Traffic Management personnel to manage the diversion plan, the Commissioner implored motorists to be cautious during the repair works as the project is aimed at providing quality and safe road infrastructure for everyone in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com