The erstwhile Executive Assistant on Communications to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, Dr Fred Oghenesivbe, who was sacked last week over insubordination, has begged the governor for forgiveness. Latimore Oghenesivbe stated in an open letter of plea for forgiveness despatched to the governor on Sunday that he refrained from contesting his sack “to enable the governor to look into my plight and not to engage in the media war, and from public reactions”. The sacked Governor’s aide affirmed the reasons given for relieving him of the post just as he acknowledged that his approach to the issues at stake had “directly or indirectly amounted to an act of inappropriate official conduct, more particularly the content and the grave error that occurred while distributing one of the messages to few government officials”. “It fell into the hands of one of my core detractors and before it could be deleted, he went virile with it on social media”, he lamented. Oghenesivbe stated, “I know for sure that millions of people across the state and beyond were surprised that I did not react negatively to my removal as EAC to H.E. the Governor of Delta State, and did not provoke media uprising. “My candid intention was to enable the governor look into my plight and not to engage in media war, and from public reactions it became glaring that my approach directly or indirectly amounted to an act of inappropriate official conduct, more particularly the content and the grave error that occurred while distributing one of the messages to few government officials. It fell into the hands of one of my core detractors and before it could be deleted, he went virile with it on social media. “Consequently, I wish to use this medium to publicly apologise to H.E. the Governor and the state government over any embarrassment or inconveniences my unintentional act may have caused. “I pledge my loyalty to the Governor as a financial member of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and as a Party Chieftain. “I thank God Almighty that the termination of my appointment was not based on gross incompetence and negligence of duty. I gave my all to the Governor and this administration from April 3, 2017, till 29th December 2021, and in the process made so many enemies for myself. I am a one-way traffic loyalist.” “Let me state clearly that I will never in any form go against my former boss, the governor of Delta State, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa, or this administration either now or in the future. “I urge Deltans and party faithful to continue to give our amiable Governor and this administration the needed support and prayers to finish strong in 2023. He is the father to all Deltans and I remain his loyal subject.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com