The Federal Ministry of Defence has directed teachers, who retired from its schools but have applied for the elongation of their service, to remain in office pending the determination of their applications. The directive was contained in a circular marked MOD/HRM/AP/S.I/1 and signed by the ministry’s Human Resource Manager, K. M. Ojirobe, on behalf of the minister. A copy of the circular was obtained by one of our correspondents on Sunday. The failure by the retired teachers seeking service elongation to vacate their offices has been causing disaffection in the affected schools, hence the need for the ministry’s clarification. The circular read, “I am directed to inform you that the controversy generated as a result of retired teachers not vacating office due to the fact that they have applied for elongation of service has got to the hearing of the management. “In view of the above, the management has intervened and has directed that they be allowed to remain on their seats i.e. status quo remains, pending the determination of their applications.” The spokesman for the Ministry of Education, Ben Goong, did not take his calls when one of our correspondents attempted to get updates on the issue. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Union of Teachers has said the Federal Government is slow in implementing the new teacher retirement age and salary scale. Speaking in an interview with The PUNCH, the Secretary-General, NUT, Dr Mike Ike-Ene, said the union was surprised that the last World Teachers’ Day (October 5, 2021) was celebrated without the implementation of the policy. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had during the 2020 World Teachers’ Day announced some incentives for teachers, including a new salary scale and raising their retirement age from 60 to 65 years. Ike-Ene, however, attributed the delay to some bureaucratic bottlenecks on the part of the Federal Government, adding that the President had not given a nod for the implementation. He stated, “For the salary scale, they are still working on it. The problem the government has is bureaucracy. At the last meeting, the House of Representatives had finished working on the bill and sent it to the Senate. I will go to the National Assembly on Monday to find out if the Senate has concurred and sent it to the President for him to sign the bill on the retirement age. “If he doesn’t sign it, the governors can send teachers packing when they are 60 years and insist that that is what their laws say and that’s why we are insisting on it passing through the legislature. It is still hanging. The President has not given a final nod. “So many people are involved in working on the packages. We got all the packages for all states and brought them to the table for stakeholders to be involved. We didn’t know we would go to the last World Teachers’ Day without all these things. The NUT is worried about the idea of slowing it down. We are equally appealing to everyone who is concerned.” While speaking on Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria’s insistence that only registered and licensed teachers would be considered for the salary review and retirement age adjustment, Ike-Ene said the NUT was in support of the move. He stated, “The policy establishing that board or commission makes it mandatory that for you to be a real teacher and not a quack, you should be registered and licensed by the TRCN. “As far as the NUT is concerned, the TRCN shouldn’t be begging for it. If you are not registered and licensed, you cannot be a teacher; you are a quack. The TRCN is right and the NUT is in support. We are not begging them, because every teacher in public schools and well-established private schools should know that they are expected to be registered and licensed.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com