Kwara State Government and a former President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki, who is the leader of the Peoples Democratic Party in the state have engaged in a war of words over their contributions to the development of the state. While the present administration led by Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq said it has elevated health care, education, water supply and social investment programme which Saraki and Abdulfattah Ahmed’s administrations allegedly neglected, Saraki’s media office told the governor to concentrate on governance. The Head, Abubakar Bukola Saraki Media Office, Yusuph Olaniyonu, in a statement made available to journalists, asked Abdulrazaq’s media aide to stop making Saraki an issue in the state politics as he will never contest election as the governor of the state again. Olaniyonu said, “The Media Office noted that Governor Abdulrazaq has continued to display the attitude of a man suffering from inferiority complex and that is why he would always talk about Saraki who left the Office of Governor of Kwara State over a decade ago. “The Media Office of Abubakar Bukola Saraki noted the ‘long essay’ written by Rafiu Ajakaye, the Press Secretary to Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq which was drifting with the name of Saraki from the headline to the last sentence. “Ordinarily, one would ignore the piece as another diversionary gimmick being employed by a governor and a government now reputed for failure to deliver on the numerous promises made to the people during elections. “However, we consider it important to let the governor and his spin doctors know that the people have seen through their deception and thus, they should now direct their efforts towards delivering good governance to the good people of Kwara State. “It is important for Abdulrazaq and his cohorts to be reminded that Saraki can never be governor again. He is not going to be on the ballot for the governorship in 2023. So, why do the governor and his government talk about Saraki every time? They should know that 2023 will be a verdict on whether he (the governor) had measured up to expectation as a competent and efficient administrator. “The Kwara State governor should also know that 2023 will be a referendum on whether the promises he made to the people have been fulfilled. The election will not be about how many times he abused Saraki and what he did to antagonise the Saraki family.” The Chief Press Secretary to the State Governor, Rafiu Ajakaye, had earlier claimed in a statement that the present administration had corrected the lapses created by the past administrations in health care, education, water supply and social investment programme for the people of the state. Ajakaye said, “For the former senator and his followers, what unseated the dynasty was propaganda. This claim, in itself, is an unforgivable crime against the people who lived the grim realities and indignities of his iron fisted rule.” Nobody got anything in Kwara except through and from them. “As Sarakites bade public office farewell in 2019, data from the National Primary Health Care Development Agency DHIS2 platform showed that maternal mortality ratio in Kwara was 1,404.4 per 100,000 deaths. “That was the second highest in Nigeria after the insurgence-wracked Borno State. Given the situation of Borno, it is only fair to say Kwara actually wore the ignoble crown. “At the end of 2020, maternal mortality ratio for Kwara came down to 20.7 per 100,000 live births, the second lowest in the country after Ekiti.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com