Delta State Police Command has confirmed the death of three persons, two female children and a woman, in the church building collapse which occurred on Tuesday evening in Okpanam community, near Asaba, in Oshimili North Local Government Area of the State. This was contained in an official statement issued on the incident by the Police Public Relations Officer of the Command, Bright Edafe, made available to journalists in Warri on Wednesday. The police statement read in part, “Rescue operation is over. 18 persons were rescued initially, four persons discharged, 11 persons still receiving treatment, three deaths recorded which include two female children and one woman. Their names are unknown for now. Kindly debunk the rumors making rounds that ten people died”. Meanwhile, the Okpanam community is in mourning following the collapse of the building housing Salvation Ministry and other offices, whilst church service was going on. Witnesses said that the building collapsed at about 5:55pm during Tuesday’s evening service. PUNCH Metro gathered that the collapsed building was originally owned by a businessman who sold it to another merchant amidst an economic downturn. It was further gathered that following the ownership transfer, the occupants of the building were pressurized to vacate as the new owner embarked on a planned renovation. However, it was hinted that the Salvation Ministry could not move as it still has over two years subsisting rent paid to the former owner. But the new owner, in the desperation to convert the building for maximum economic gain, reportedly continued with the massive reconstruction work without due consideration of the strength of the structure and danger it poses to occupants, sources further alleged. Our correspondent gathered that the contractor in charge of the ongoing reconstruction of the building was on site busy supervising workers just as over 150 worshippers of the Salvation Ministry were waiting to take holy communion at the day’s service when the building collapse occurred. The site engineer was said to have taken to his heels leaving his car behind when the unfortunate incident happened. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com