The board of directors of Premium Pension Limited has approved the reappointment of Mr Umar Mairami as the managing director/chief executive officer of the company for another term, effective from January 2, 2022. A statement from the firm said Mairami was first appointed in January 2018 for a term of four years, adding that the National Pension Commission had approved the reappointment. It said during his first tenure in office, the company recorded some achievements including the attainment of assets under management of over N880bn, the number of clients increased to over 750 thousand, deployment of a multi-channel mobile application that is reputed to be one of the best in the industry and 2 ISO Certifications. The statement said, “Mairami is a seasoned banker. He began his career with the then Habib Nigeria Bank Limited as a Trainee Officer. He later joined the then Intercity Bank Plc in 1999 where he served as an executive assistant to the managing director. “He acquired inestimable robust experience having traversed and headed major strategic core banking operations which comprised corporate planning; corporate promotions; credit administration; training and other aspects of banking covering credit management, relationship and branch management as well as branch coordination.” Following the banking reforms of 2004, which led to the merger of Intercity Bank with eight other banks to form Unity Bank, Mairami was appointed as the bank’s pioneer head of human capital management. He voluntarily retired from the bank to join the then Legacy Pension Limited as an executive director in 2011, the statement said. Commenting on the new development, Mairami said, “We will stay close to our customers and do everything possible to serve them properly; our customers will be at the beginning, the middle and end of our strategy.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com