Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has declared 19 persons wanted for allegedly operating illegal crude oil refining sites responsible for the black soot in the state. The governor has also directed the Rivers State Head of Service to query a director in the Ministry of Energy, Mr Temple Amakiri, and hand him over to the police for investigation and possible prosecution for allegedly abetting bunkering activities. Wike, in a broadcast on Sunday, said the government had resolved to tackle the soot by closing down all identified illegal crude oil refining sites in the state. This was contained in a statement issued by the Governor’s media aide, Kelvin Ebiri, and made available to journalists in Port Harcourt. The statement read, “The following persons who have been identified as kingpins of bunkering and illegal crude oil refining activities in their communities have been declared wanted and directed to report themselves to the State Police Command, to whom we have already passed their details to. “They are Mr Azubike Amadi, OSPAC Commander, Ogbogoro community and Chairman of Akpor Central OSPAC; Mr India, of Rumuolumeni community and Chairman of Oil Bunkering Association in Akpor kingdom; Mr. Okey who is in charge of oil bunkering in Rumupareli; Mr Anderson, who is in charge of oil bunkering activities in Ogbogoro community; Amadi Gift of Ogbogoro community; Azeruowa of Ogbogoro community; and Kingsley Egbula, also of Ogbogoro community. “Also declared wanted are the following persons who are alleged to be in charge of oil bunkering activities in Isiokpo community: Mr Kemkom Azubike, Mr Mezu Wabali, Mr Chigozi Amadi, Mr Opurum Owhondah, Mr Bakasi Obodo ,Mr Opus, Mr Galaxi Mas, Mr Chioma, Mr Ogondah, Mr Soldier, Mr Chefo, and Nkasi. “We have also identified those behind illegal bunkering activities in Okrika communities, Port Harcourt Township, Rivers South-East and Rivers South-West Senatorial Districts and their names would soon be published and they will be declared wanted if they fail to voluntarily report to the police.” Wike also reaffirmed the ban on the use of motorcycles in Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt councils, which was necessitated by the threat they posed to the security of lives and property. “Any person or corporate entity that requires the use of motorcycle for any lawful purposes must therefore, first apply to the Office of the Governor for permit and proper documentation of the operational details and particulars of both the motorcycle and designated rider(s). “Against this background, we are hereby issuing final warning to all those operating motorcycles shuttles and or hawking foreign exchange along Birabi Street, Hotel Presidential, GRA junction by Zenith Bank up to Tombia Street to immediately leave or be arrested and prosecuted,” he stated.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com