Olusola Dehinsilu, who graduated with first class honours from Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ogun State and is currently studying on scholarship for PhD at the University of Texas, USA, speaks to GODFREY GEORGE how he achieved the feats You graduated with first class honours in Mathematics from the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ogun State. Did you see it coming? I was actually the pioneer first class graduate of Mathematics from OOU, Ogun State since the institution was founded in 1982. I also graduated with distinction in my master’s from the same university in 2021 and I am currently a PhD student in the University of Texas, USA. In all these, I would say God Almighty has been my major motivation. I’ve simply enjoyed the grace of God. Although, I played my part, the Bible says, “Except the Lord builds the house, they labour in vain who build it. Except the Lord keeps the city, the watchman waketh but in vain.” So, it has all been by the grace of God. What was your experience like during your undergraduate days? I must say it was really tough, especially in terms of finance. I never believed I could become a graduate judging from my family background, especially with the fact that I lost my father immediately after I gained admission. This was a very serious setback for me, but in all, we thank God. God used a lot of people to raise me to this level, especially, my pastor, Professor Agbolade, my foster mother, Mrs Onitilo (Iya Subomi), Dr Abass Taiwo. I must also appreciate Dr. T. O. Olatayo, he is a good father and mentor. What informed your decision to study Mathematics? Well, just like almost everybody else, I also hated Mathematics with a passion in my secondary school days. That was the case until I met with one man in my SS2, Mr Iyowu, who was our Mathematics/Further Maths teacher then. I fell in love with his style of teaching because he always demonstrated by gesticulating as if he was preaching in church. This got me attracted to him and I always wanted to be in his class, even when we didn’t have Mathematics on the class timetable. Sometimes, during our free periods, I’d quickly go and call him to teach us because I wanted to see him demonstrate. Then, I found out that I began to fall in love with Mathematics gradually. And then, I began to attend some tutorial sessions which later propelled my sustained interests in the subject. So, it (studying Mathematics) eventually became my dream even before I gained admission into the university. Was there any study pattern you adopted that helped you to graduate at the top of your class? I am not a fan of studying at some specific or fixed time. I always made sure I studied whenever I felt like. Some people believe in studying for certain number of hours on a daily basis, but as for me, that is not my style. I study only when I naturally feel like studying. For instance, I did not have a schedule or timetable for studying but anytime I found myself available to study, I did, and I did so extensively and this is still part of my lifestyle till date. It is common for females to gravitate towards a brilliant male classmate but some people see it as a distraction. Was that your experience in this regard? (Laughs) Females can never be a distraction. They were created to always be a support system. Hence, I won’t say they distracted me, but I was cautious of many. How did you approach or prepare for exams? Usually, I started preparing for exams right from the beginning of the semester. Was there any moment you would describe as most challenging for you in postgraduate school? Except for the stress of combining my job as a lecturer with studying, I’d say all other challenges in the PG school were nothing extraordinary because God surrounded me with lovely and friendly people to work with. For instance, my supervisors, Professor O. A. Adesina and Dr. O. S. Odetunde, were so kind and friendly. They were always ready to answer my questions regarding my dissertation, even sometimes, at midnight. My Head of Department, Dr. M. A. Usman, was also an exemplary man as he never toyed with his allocated assignments. Many other exceptional beings like that made my stay as a student/lecturer in the department enjoyable. The pandemic period posed a lot of challenges to my PG programme. If not for the COVID-19 lockdown, I’d have completed my programme in 2020; but all is still fine. Tell us a bit about your childhood. I grew up in Ago-Iwoye, Ijebu North (Ogun State). I had my primary, secondary and tertiary education at Ago-Iwoye. I attended a public high school, Abobi Comprehensive High School. Growing up, I would say my family was nothing closer to average, but all thanks to God Almighty. My mother was a petty trader and my father, of blessed memory, was a bricklayer. Would you say your childhood prepared you for the challenges ahead? All I would just say is that my childhood prepared me to lean on God because of the kind of training my mother gave me. She pointed me in the direction to go and I’m still following that path till date. But as per education, let’s not talk about that. It’s only by God’s grace. Many people don’t like Mathematics. What do you think is responsible for that and what do you think should be done? Yes, you are right and it is because many believe Mathematics is complicated, which is actually true. Indeed, if one is not so determined, the focus will not be there, and once focus is lost, there comes deformation and the aftermath of that is not being interested in Mathematics. At times, the kind of teachers assigned to teach Mathematics also has an impact on the students’ interest in the subject, like the example I cited above. Above all, I’d recommend that Mathematics teachers should learn to crack some simple jokes while in class just to arouse the interest of the students, if not, the class might be boring to a lot of them. Schools should also endeavor to always allocate the subject only to the experts in the field. You are currently pursuing PhD in Mathematics. What is your ultimate goal? I want to continue to develop humanity, contribute positively to the universe, and eventually become a professor of Mathematics. Many people believe Mathematics graduates would end up being teachers. Is this the case? Not at all; that’s absolutely wrong. Teaching is not a bad profession, but as a mathematician, depending on your area of concentration, you can work anywhere. It’s only when there is not enough work that one feels he should take up any opportunity. I’ve seen mathematicians practising their professions at hospitals, some work with teams of engineers, even in banks. As a mathematician, you can work with NASA, AMAZON, and many other big organisations. Did you win prizes at graduation? Yes, I won a lot of prizes and awards. I was generously offered a lecturing appointment and that also made me set another record as the “youngest lecturer in OOU” as of then, because I took up the appointment in my early 20s. This has also opened many doors for me, up to the international level. As a graduate assistant at your alma mater, what was the experience like? Firstly, I would love to thank the current Vice-Chancellor of Olabisi Onabanjo University, Prof. Ganiyu Olatunji Olatunde, who generously, without knowing me from anywhere, approved my appointment in 2018. Serving as a graduate assistant was very interesting to me, and it was very funny too, because I was so young (laughs). So, you could hardly differentiate me from my students because of my height. But I really enjoyed the experience. Were you able to motivate any student in the course of your teaching to have the kind of passion you have for Mathematics? Many students under my tutelage have also bagged first class honours both in Mathematics, which is my major course, and others courses. Before your admission into the University of Texas, did you have any rejection? Sincerely speaking, I had over 30 rejections before University of Texas, USA gave me this offer. What do you think you failed to do right at those times? Well, I was just thinking that maybe only graduates of federal universities get scholarship opportunities. But thanks to my mentors like Dr Ahmed Ijaola, Mr Tunde Falola, Mr Olajide Vincent, Dr Peter Ogunyinka, Prof. O. A. Adesina, Prof. D. A. Agunbiade, Chinonso Odeabutu, Samuel Adeleye, Gift Chukwunonye and many others for their tireless encouragement. Would you like to come back home after studies or would you rather remain abroad? Well, I would wish to keep that to myself. Thanks. Do you feel Nigerian students get enough support from the government? I would like the government to improve their commitment to education, especially students’ welfare. What life philosophy do you live by? Anyone with God is in the majority.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com