Most successful marriages are built on friendship which gives couples the opportunity to treat each other with love and respect. One of the biggest problems in many marriages today is lack of care which has led many spouses feeling loneliness, stressed and terrified of their spouse and trapped in their marriages. The situation has become so normal that some couples have continued to live together under the same roof but separately due to fear of separation or divorce. Neglect is an emotional abuse in marriage which indicates that there is a crisis you both need to resolve before it destroys your marriage.Understanding the importance of self-love this new year will take you to the point of honesty so that you can recognize what is best for you and why you do not deserve to go through this pain again. Be honest with self first When your marriage is at breaking point because you feel undermined by your spouse, it is important to re-evaluate your true intentions when you set out on this marital journey together. Marriage is for two mature minds who have the capacity to form and nurture a healthy relationship through honesty which determines their ability to understand and respect each other. Perhaps you are still living in a fearful and controlling marriage, be honest with yourself this new year and take yourself away from this pitch of fear with the power of self-love and determination to confront the situation and set yourself free. Accept your own mistakes The fear of speaking up to challenge the hostile situations in a marriage can continue to impact negatively on your mental and physical health and wellbeing if you are not prepared to take responsibility for your own weaknesses. Nobody enters a marriage to become vulnerable, but circumstances can change the cause of events making you lose your sense of reasoning due to fear of accepting the fact that you have made a mistake, but you are not the mistake. Enough is enough, you cannot continue to blame yourself and sweep the matter under the carpet because your spouse is not interested in a solution. It is not the truth that destroys a marriage, it is the lack of honesty to uphold the truth and face the outcome that comes along either good or bad. Be purposeful It is not impossible to experience true happiness when you share your life with a spouse you can truly love and trust. But happiness also comes to those who are bold and honest enough to face their marital issues when their happiness is at stake. Self-love is knowing who you are and what you want out of your life and your marriage; strongly believing in yourself as well as understanding that lack of contentment in certain aspects of your marriage can put your marriage to test and make you vulnerable too. A great way to feel a great sense of love is by finding the balance between your marriage and things that make you happy and not allow loneliness to dominate your life again. Surround yourself with people who truly matter, spend quality times with friends and families and focus on your positive qualities and those characters that once made you stand out and shine like the star you truly are.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com