ND Western Limited, an indigenous oil and gas company, and its partners have built a state-of-the-art medical diagnostic facility in Ogunu, Warri, Delta State. The medical facility, called DeltaPlus Diagnostics, is a Corporate Social Responsibility initiative of the Independent Petroleum Producers Group, ND Western, and the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, according to a statement. It described the laboratory as a well-equipped facility designed to provide “the most convenient, friendliest COVID-19 and blood testing services to hospitals, health management organisations, and individuals in Delta and its neighbouring state”. The Chief Executive officer of ND Western, Mr Eberechukwu Oji, said DeltaPlus Diagnostics, through its collaborative partnership, engaged the Federal Government to proffer a practical solution to the COVID-19 pandemic by building a fully equipped molecular diagnostics laboratory in RA Shell Housing Estate Ogunu, Warri, Delta State. He said, “The diagnostics centre aims to provide reliable testing processes and other critical medical diagnostic services to the medical community, corporations, HMOs, and individuals in Delta State and beyond. “The laboratory is equipped to support the medical research community in the South-South and the neighboring states as well as reduce the need to travel for long distances to access critical diagnostic services such as the facility provides.” According to the statement, services to be provided at the laboratory include PCR Test (COVID-19), tumor markers/cancer screening test; HIV detection, HIV viral load, HBV detection, HPV detection, STD panel, respiratory panel, hepatitis B test, tuberculosis test, gene expression, miRNA profiling, copy number variation, protein thermal shift, high-resolution melt, SNP genotype, and DNA Test. It said to ensure its optimal functionality and efficient operations, the donors had appointed Katchey Laboratories Limited to manage the facility. “COVID 19 pandemic is a challenge that requires special thinking. The peculiarities of this disease require a laboratory that can provide constant monitoring, to avoid the spread of the disease to unsuspecting colleagues. Therefore, it is imperative to have a diagnostics laboratory with the capacity to routinely carry out serologic and biologic molecular tests specifically for COVID-19,” Katchey Laboratories was quoted as saying. The inauguration of the facility is scheduled for the first quarter of 2022, according to the statement.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com