The absence of Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano state has again stalled the peace process initiated by the All Progressives Congress to reconcile the two warring factions of the party in Kano state. A source at the State APC headquarters in Kano who spoke on condition of anonymity said that the absence of the governor last week stalled the peace process as the Abdullahi Ganduje’s faction at the meeting led by Senator Kabiru Gaya told the meeting that the governor did not gave them mandate for any commitment to whatever was discussed at the meeting, hence the reason why another meeting was scheduled for Tuesday. However, reacting to the issue, the factional Chairman of the APC in Kano state, Abdullahi Abbas, said that the absence of Governor Ganduje at the party’s reconciliation meeting in Abuja on Tuesday was not deliberate. Recall that the absence of Governor Ganduje at Tuesday’s meeting has for the second time stalled the peace process aimed at reconciling the two warring factions of the party in Kano state. Abbas told an online Newspaper, Daily Telescope on Tuesday that Ganduje was preoccupied with some important official engagements in Kano state, hence the reason behind his absence at the meeting in Abuja. He said, “Everybody is aware that the governor has today, Tuesday, hosted some important personalities in the state for the official inauguration of Gerawa Rice Mill. “The Governor of the Central Bank, Godwin Emefele, Governor of Kebbi state his Jigawa counterpart, Muhammad Badaru Abubakar were all in Kano yesterday for the inauguration of Gerawa Rice Mill.” According to Abbas, it will be unfair for the governor to abandon this important event in order to attend the meeting. He continued, “Of course, the meeting is equally important to the governor, but it is obvious that inauguration of the rice mill supersedes the meeting. This is something that will bring Job opportunities to our teeming youth, of course, you cannot compare it with a political meeting. “However, as we keep on saying, we are ready for genuine reconciliation, I am sure the governor will avail himself for this important meeting. He is willing and ready to reconcile with the Shekarau-led faction of the APC.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com