The Chief Executive Officer of Biola Brentwood Fashion, Abiola Adeneye, tells  BLESSING ENENAITE about her career, achievements and other issues Tell us about your academic and professional background. I am the Creative Director and Chief Executive Officer of Biola Brentwood Fashion. I studied at College Lasalle, Montreal, Canada, to be a fashion designer; and Image Consulting at George Brown College, Toronto, Canada. I then moved on to Melanie Lyne and The Bay, both in Toronto, where I worked for three years as a wardrobe stylist for a women’s luxury wear brand. Currently, I direct the creative process of the Biola Brentwood brand. What influenced your decision to become a fashion designer? (I decided to become a fashion designer) in search of who I am, what to do for the rest of my life without getting bored, and how to add value to people. I prayed to God, and He helped me to discover my talent and purpose, which I decided to pursue with everything at my disposal. How did you come about the name, Biola Brentwood? It is a blend of my first name and business name for a global appeal. How would you describe your experience in the fashion industry so far? My experience has been quite encouraging. By God’s grace, we are penetrating the Nigerian market slowly but steadily. That is because we are not a cheap brand and anyone that comes for our brand is buying quality and durability. So far, we have had quite a lot of women wearing our products and they become consistent customers. Also, people have come to us via referrals by just seeing our products on other women. What do you consider to be your biggest achievements? We participated in the African Fashion Week Toronto in September 2021, and it was a huge success. It was far beyond my expectations. The response was massive and people loved it. I remember being a little agitated as we prepared for the show but I thank God that everything went well. The fashion show made me see again how much African fashion is making a statement all over the world. What bold steps have you taken for the growth of your career? My decision to be a fashion designer is a bold step on its own. In the course of my career, I relocated from Canada to Lagos because I realised that if I was going to promote African brands and ‘Made In Nigeria’, I had to come back home to do that. Leaving everything behind in Canada, including the comfort and certainty of my salary, to start a business from the scratch, was my first bold step. My second bold step was participating in the last African Fashion Week in Toronto (Canada) in September 2021. Another bold step is my decision to participate in the Paris Fashion Week. It was a bit scary but nonetheless, I decided to take the bold step. I am excited and I believe we are going to make Nigeria proud. Did you deliberately decide to create only African styles? Yes, I did. I personally believe that African fashion is beautiful and distinct, and has a Nigerian (touch). I would rather channel my creative energy into producing what represents our beautiful culture and tradition. How would you describe the reception of your brand outside Nigeria? I have come to realise that people outside Nigeria tend to value African fashion more than even we in Nigeria. Foreigners love our brand and when they see Nigerians and Africans wearing our products, they literally drool over them. This makes more Nigerians to clamour for it. There is barely a week that goes by that one person outside the country does not order for our products. They really love them. What are the challenges you face in the fashion industry? Like any other start-up that one has to build up, it is not like one fully understands the environment one is operating in. However, we respond adequately  to whatever challenges we have. On a daily basis, we face different kinds of challenges but all the same, we have been able to handle them effectively. Have you ever felt like giving up? Giving up has never been an option for me. I face challenges often, such as blending family together with business. At every crossroad, I always look for ways to do things better. I am determined and it always helps me to find a way around my challenges. You would be showcasing your brand at the Paris Fashion Week. What does this mean to you? So far, the Biola Brentwood brand has been known for excellence and I look forward to scaling this even further. My dream is to take African fashion to the world and retell the story of Nigeria from that of negativity to positivity. I want people to hear our name and think of Nigeria and excellence in the same vein. People should expect remarkable fashion from us. Who are your mentors in the fashion industry? I have lots of mentors in the industry, who I have closely followed and admired their work and contributions to the development of local brands.  They include House of Maufechi, Rose of Sharon, Deola Sagoe of Tiffany Amber, and Nike Ogunlesi of Ruff & Tumble, Donna Karan and Michael Kors. Which brands are you looking forward to partnering with? I would love to collaborate with Banke Meshida (owner of BMPRO make-up) as well as Folake Olowofoyeku. I see them as women of excellence who are putting Nigeria in the spotlight and representing us well. That is something my brand identifies with and I look forward to a collaboration. What is the most challenging outfit you have ever made? I do more of ready-to-wear and custom-made clothes. We face challenges everyday because the human body differs greatly. I cannot pin-point the challenges in particular. Regardless, there is always something to be proud of. By the grace of God, we will always come through. What makes your company distinct from others? We are distinct because our goal is to make a woman look graceful and grandeur in our collections. We have been able to achieve that by having a good knowledge of who our customers are, what they wants and a great understanding of their body types. Doing that has given our customers immense satisfaction. It has made us to stand out among others. In what ways can the government encourage the fashion industry? I think the major challenge every fashion designer is facing in Nigeria now is power generation. If electricity supply can be stable, it will reduce the cost of generating power (with generator, inverter, solar panels etc) by oneself. That would also reduce the cost of production and make it more affordable for the people, and profitable for the designers. What changes would you like to see in the Nigerian fashion industry? To the best of my knowledge, Nigeria is doing great and designers are constantly coming out to showcase the creativity we have right now. I think the government should create a more enabling environment that will make the job more profitable, so that the younger ones coming into the industry would find it easier than we did. The current regime has often talked about ‘Buying Naija to grow the Naira’. Do Nigerians actually patronise Nigerian designers enough or do you think it is just mere rhetoric? I don’t think it is mere rhetoric because I am very proud of Nigerian women, both home and abroad. If you don’t regularly wear ‘Made in Nigeria’ outfits, you encourage other nationals to do the same, especially when celebrating special occasions such as weddings and birthdays. Nigerians abroad, no matter what they are celebrating, always want to wear ‘Made in Nigeria’ attire. Have you ever like you did not put in enough effort to make any particular outfit? As a creative person, even when one is working on any collection, before one completes that particular project, one is likely to be dissatisfied with it. This helps one to continually improve on oneself. So, it is not true that I am always satisfied with a project. Before the product is finished at times, I always feel I could have done it in a better way. How do you handle tough clients? I think empathy has helped us. We try as much as possible to see things from the customer’s perspective. What elements make one a good fashion designer? The first element of a good fashion designer is passion. Then, a good understanding of raw materials, customers’ lifestyles and body types. One must also be hardworking, patient and of course, understand business management. How do you handle setbacks? I have come to realise that in the pursuit of one’s purpose life, setbacks are sometimes part of the package that is needed to help one make better decisions on the journey of success. How do you bring out the best in your employees? I appreciate them for their contributions and this has been keeping them motivated. Patience is another thing because when someone comes on the team to work, they may not initially understand the job. But with patience, time and training, we have been able to bring out the best in them. We also try to give our employees a sense of ownership, and get them involved at every stage of production. What notion would you like to correct about fashion designers? Some people feel the job of designers is not important or is not intellectually challenging. Hence, it is underrated. Designing clothes takes a lot of thinking, hard work and creativity. Being a fashion designer is not less intellectually challenging than other careers. There is a belief that our job is glamorous and one is automatically rich. However, it takes a lot of resources— energy and time— to succeed as a fashion designer. It is also believed that fashion designers charge exorbitantly, but that is not always true. Being a designer manufacturing materials for people to look good requires a lot of overhead costs. If you were not a fashion designer, what would you have become? I would have been somewhere in the creative sector, teaching or cooking. How do you handle work and family? I handle work and family by placing family first, then business. Also, it is about setting priorities right. When the curtains are drawn at the end of the day, one would always need one’s loved ones to go back to. Who are your biggest cheerleaders? My biggest cheerleaders are primarily my customers. Anytime my customers are satisfied with my outfits, I feel encouraged. My family has also been my pillar, especially my husband. He gives me all his support and I appreciate his effort. My children believe in me and they are also supportive. My aunt, Mrs Abiola Famuyiwa; my friend in Canada, Mrs Lanre Ojelabi, are also my cheerleaders. What are your hobbies? I love reading, listening to inspiring music and cooking. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com