An Ekiti State High Court sitting in Ado Ekiti has ordered that a 17-year-old boy be detained at the Juvenile Centre, Ado Ekiti. The teenager, according to the charge, “on May 30, 2020 at Osi Ekiti, within the jurisdiction of the court, did rape a three-year-old girl, contrary to Section 31(2) of the Child’s Right Law, Cap.C7, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012.” In her testimony before the court, the victim’s mother, Elizabeth, who said, she went to hawk fish on that day, and returned around 5 pm, said, “I discovered that my daughter’s movement was unstable. “While checking her underwear inside the room, I discovered bloodstain and semen on her laps. When I enquired, the girl pointed and mentioned the suspect’s name.” According to her, some people in the neighbourhood testified that they saw the three-year-old girl playing around with the suspect, adding, “He initially denied the offence but later confessed to the police at Ido Ekiti.” The defendant’s counsel, Paul Ayantoyinbo, prayed the court to consider the defendant’s age which was 15 years at the time of committing the offence and temper justice with mercy. To prove his case, the prosecutor, SBJ Bamise, called two witnesses, including a medical doctor and tendered defendant’s statements, his birth certificate and medical report among others as exhibits. The defendant spoke in his own defence and called no witness. In his judgment, Justice Adekunle Adeleye, said, “On the whole, the prosecution has established beyond reasonable doubt that the defendant raped the minor. “The defendant, as prayed by his counsel, has not attained the age of maturity at the time the offence of rape was committed. On this premise, I hereby order that the defendant be detained at the Juvenile Centre, Ado Ekiti at the pleasure of the governor.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com