The chieftaincy institution is one, which structures and regulates the activity of local chieftains (or monarchs) in the society, state or nation. Hence, the Nigerian Chieftaincy System is native to Nigeria entailing everything from the country’s monarchs to its titled family elders. Notably, the chieftaincy structure as a whole is one of the oldest continuously existing institutions in Nigeria, which is legally recognised by the government. The laws regulating the activities of the traditional institution in the state have, however, been a source of concern for many, among whom are royal fathers, who for quite some time, have agitated for some form of review, with a view to reflecting present social and modern realities. As a matter of fact, various controversies, including selection, qualification, requirements and burial among others, have bedevilled the operations of the traditional institution around the country; thereby prompting a barrage of needless crises and avertable predicaments, most of which are expected to be properly addressed with the review of relevant legislation. Ogun State, in July 2021, held a public hearing on the chiefs’ law. At the hearing, the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Olakunle Olumo, assured stakeholders that their views would be harmonised to arrive at an all-encompassing bill. He also underscored the essence of government’s authority on the installation of any category of traditional rulers; that same authority enabled the assembly to enact relevant laws to regulate the revered institution. Stakeholders that joined discussions leading to the passing of the bill, included the representative of the Traditional Council and Towulade of Akinale Kingdom, Oba Olufemi Ogunleye; Prof. Kamaldeen Balogun, representing League of Imams and Alfas; Christian Association of Nigeria; representatives of the traditional worshipers’ group, Fagbemi Ifakorede from Ota, and the State Secretary of Ifa worshippers, Faniyi Awoyemi. Signing the Chiefs’ Bill into law will enhance the stability and functionality of traditional institutions. Describing the institution, Governor Dapo Abiodun affirmed that traditional rulers are the closest and oldest form of administration at the grassroots and government needs to collaborate with them, to deepen development at the grassroots. History was made on Monday, January 10, 2022, when the governor signed the Chiefs’ Bill into law. This will ensure proper processing of how traditional rulers and chiefs are to be selected, appointed, recognised and buried, heralding the beginning of a new phase in the annals of the administration and running of traditional institutions across the state. Apparently, the bill, christened “A Bill for a Law to provide for an approved method for the selection, appointment and recognition of Obas and Chiefs in Ogun State and for Other Related Matters,” will seek to redefine the traditional institution to reflect current realities. The law offered preservation, protection and exercise of traditional rulers’ fundamental rights to be buried according to their religion or belief and for other related matters. It also addressed the selection and recognition of monarchs and chiefs in the state. Before a village chief (Baale) can be upgraded to coronet Oba, for example, he must have spent 15 years on the throne; with physical development strides like public schools, health centre, market to show, while the monarch who has spent 10 years, can be upgraded to part II traditional stool. Many agreed with the viewpoint of the governor that this law is unique and will guide the proper selection of monarchs in the state. “I believe that one of the unique things about this law, besides the fact that it is set out to improve the method for the selection of Obas and Chiefs, is the clarity that this law provides as it relates to the passage of our Kabiyesis,” the governor affirmed. “This law seeks to improve on the previous existing Western Nigeria laws where there had been ambiguity as it relates to how kabiyesis will be buried. It states emphatically that the families of the respective Obas should have a say on how they are buried henceforth, of course, without prejudice to the traditional rites that are meant to be performed by the customary laws.” Moreover, the new law, restricts “monarchs (Obas) from giving or conferring on any person an honorary title, which had previously been conferred by the Oba or his predecessor on any living person, where an Oba confers such a title the first time will be valid.” Also, part seven, which is the general provisions relating to other parts of the law actually spelt out many conveniences for the monarchs and part eight gives Obas the right to the preservation of tradition. It prohibits human rituals as part of the installation or burial rites of an Oba or chief as well as preservation of the right of an Oba or chief not to be compelled to join any society or cult against his wishes, religion or belief.” Though at the onset of the proposition of the legislation, traditionalists had opposed the law and declared that it was an attempt to push cultural practices into extinction, yet the Christian and Muslim communities described the bill as ‘’a welcome development.” Before the bill’s passage, the State House of Assembly had arranged a stakeholders’ forum, where divergent views were tendered for consideration before the House came up with some form of harmonisation, acceptable to the majority of the citizenry. The passage of the bill into law, therefore, represents a major step in the social spectrum towards “Building Our Future Together,” going by the governor’s assertion that the state would continue to blaze the trail on laws that are in tandem with modern times and socio-economic development. For him, “laws that are antique, and contravene what the state stands for, would be reviewed from time to time, to foster necessary development.” Regardless of the processes that led to the signing of this bill, many remain uneasy about its provisions. But as affirmed by the State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Hon. Afolabi Afuape, in one of his many conversations about this all-important legislation, “This bill does not in any way, stop traditional rites activities performed when a monarch is to be installed on, nor pass on but only seeks opportunities for family members to have a say in the way the corpse will be buried as they so desire.” While the Speaker averred that the law chose to modernise what was inherited from the Western Region Law and put it in tandem with modern-day reality and the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria as amended. This bill is no doubt a watershed in the history of the state. First, it is one of those legislations that generated a high degree of passion and agitation, driven by strong convictions and persuasions on all sides. Secondly, it serves to reflect the entrenchment of fundamental rights, along with the embedding of human dignity within an institution known for clandestineness and great secrecy. Little wonder the bill which passed through the toughest proceedings in the history of the State House has generated a lot of issues from members of the public. The revolutionary bill was signed into law in the presence of the Olu of Ilaro, Oba Kehinde Olugbenle; the Akarigbo of Remoland, Oba Babatunde Ajayi, and the Awujale of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Adetona. Also present were the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Olakunle Oluomo; Deputy Speaker, Akeem Balogun and some State Executive Council members.