The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control has expressed worry over the increasing number of Lassa fever deaths and cases in the country. The centre also disclosed that the country had reported a total of 86 deaths, 30 health workers infections and no fewer than 1,995 suspected cases so far in 2022. Sunday PUNCH reports that the disease control body in January 2022 had activated a Level 3 EOC for the monitor of Lassa fever in the country. According to medical experts, Lassa fever which is also known as Lassa haemorrhage is an endemic disease to Nigeria. Reports have also proven that the disease occurs majorly during the dry season. Since the last outbreak of the disease in 2016, the NCDC noted that there had been an increase in the number of recurring cases. In 2019, the centre noted that a total of 796 cases were reported, while in 2020, a total of 1,165 cases were confirmed during the height of the pandemic. The NCDC also confirmed a total of 4,632 suspected cases in 2021. In its latest situation report which was obtained by our correspondent in Abuja, the centre said, “There is a gradual increase in the number of Lassa fever cases reported weekly. The centre noted that the 86 deaths were confirmed across 74 local government areas in 21 states. It also added that, “of all confirmed cases, 73 percent are from Ondo, Edo and Bauchi”. “The number of suspected cases has increased compared to that reported around the same period in 2021”, the centre added. For health workers, the centre noted that 30 health workers had so far been infected in 2022, 829 individuals were under follow up”. The NCDC however added that, “The Federal Ministry of Environment is also implementing a Lassa fever environmental response campaign in high burden states.” It added, “Lassa fever presents initially like any other febrile illness such as malaria. Its symptoms include fever, headache, sore throat, general body weakness, cough, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, muscle pains, chest pain, and in severe cases, unexplainable bleeding from ears, eyes, nose, mouth and other body openings. “The time between infection and the appearance of symptoms of the disease is three to 21 days. Early treatment and diagnosis increase the chances of survival.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com