Hopes that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), would assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill continued to diminish as 23 civil rights organizations on Friday, expressed fear that the same fate that befell previous attempts to amend Nigeria’s election law awaits this latest version. Their fears came about three days to the deadline for the Independent National Electoral Commission to release the Notice of Election for the 2023 general elections. The CSOs recalled that since 2018 President Buhari had refused to sign the proposed amendments to the nation’s electoral laws on five occasions; and till now, has not hinted at any possibility of giving his assent to the electoral bill since he received the newest form of the document transmitted to him by the National Assembly on January 31, 2022. During a press conference in Abuja on the imperative of a timely assent to the Electoral Bill 2022, the civil society groups warned that any further delay on the part of the President to give assent to the Bill would certainly occasion logistical, financial, and programmatic difficulties that could threaten the integrity of the off-cycle elections in Ekiti, Osun and the 2023 general election. The CSOs included Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room, Yiaga Africa, Partners for Electoral Reform, International Press Centre, Institute for Media and Society, Nigerian Women Trust Fund, The Albino Foundation, Centre for Citizens with Disability, Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism, Transition Monitoring Group, CLEEN Foundation, and Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre. Others were the Labour Civil Society Coalition, Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre, Nigeria Network of Non-Governmental Organizations, Inclusive Friends Association, Enough is Enough, The Electoral Hub, Centre for Liberty, Take Back Nigeria Movement, International Peace and Civic Responsibility Centre, 100 Women Lobby Group, and Women in Politics Forum. The 23 CSOs in their recommendations said, “We call on President Buhari to, upon return from Brussels, sign the Electoral Bill into law on or before 22nd February 2022 to enable INEC to issue Notice of Election and release the timetable and schedule of activities for the 2023 general election. “Further amendments to the Electoral Bill 2022 can be proposed after assent has been granted. It is within the President’s prerogative to propose amendments after signing the bill as he did in the case of the Petroleum Industry Bill and 2022 Appropriation bill, an act that attracted commendation. “The National Assembly should ensure gazetted copies of the Electoral Act 2022 are available to citizens as soon as the bill is signed into law.” As of the time of this report, the CSOs have commenced an emergency meeting which, according to a source, would lead to mass protest. “We can’t rule out mass protest because we have exhausted every mechanism, including lobbying. We’re frustrated, we’ll communicate the media the next line of action”, a member of the CSOs said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com