The Senate has approved the establishment of Oxygen plant in the Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Abeokuta to meet the demands of medical services. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Ibrahim Oloriegbe said this while speaking at the inauguration of capital projects at the psychiatric hospital. The capital projects that were commissioned included the newly expanded general medical practice clinic theatre room, rehabilitated network of roads within the hospital; the out-patient clinic building as well as the Infectious Disease Control and Treatment Center Building. Others were the two male wards, two female wards; molecular laboratory building; ten bedded Intensive Care Unit building; refurbished laundry building, refurbished and newly constructed industrial boreholes. Oloriegbe who promised that the Oxygen plant would be ready for use before next year, stated that the National Assembly had allocated funds for the oxygen plant in the 2022 budget. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, added that the establishment of the oxygen plant was part of the Senate’s commitment to ensure adequate health delivery in the neuropsychiatric hospital. Oloriegbe said the 2020/2021 budget had assisted about 61 per cent of hospitals across the country to develop its infrastructure. “The National Assembly Health on Committee has about five sub-committees on health and I’m privileged to be the chairman of the joint committee. We will continue to do all we can to ensure that the bricks of the hospital management towards improving lives of patients and members of staff become a reality. “As part of our effort, using the opportunity of COVID-19, we were able to expand infrastructure in many hospitals across the country. “About 61 per cent of hospitals benefited through the 2020/2021 budget to be able to do several more infrastructure and specifically for this hospital, the National Assembly provided in the 2022 budget for the construction of oxygen plant in this institution. “In addition to the regular budget that the hospital received, this is a special addition that we are able to provide for this to be able to support it in its ability to deliver general medical services. Because with the hospital having an intensive care unit, there will be a need for oxygen supply and as such we are able to provide that in the current 2022 budget, I am sure that by this time next year, this institution will have an oxygen plant.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com