A former student of the Delta State University, Abraka, Mr Thaddeus Ifeanyi, has dragged the institution before the National Human Rights Commission over the low grade awarded to him at the completion of his academic programme. In a letter addressed to the Coordinator, National Human Rights Commission, Asaba, Delta State, the ex-student alleged irregularities in the computing of his results. Ifeanyi, a 31-year-old graduate of Sociology with matriculation number FSS/10/11/183959 told our correspondent on Monday that the varsity robbed him of his marks. He said, “I graduated in the 2013/2014 academic session. The university claimed that I graduated with less than 3.0 CGPA (Cumulative Grade Point Average), which is Second Class Lower, but I strongly believe that I graduated with Second Class Upper. “My grouse with the university is that I strongly believe that there was an error in the computation of my CGPA. I am not convinced that the result they gave me is correct; but all my efforts to get it corrected have proved abortive. “I have followed and observed due process enough; I am filing a suit in court against the university. I want to seek judiciary intervention. The petition to the human rights commission will not be the last. After this, if I do not get justice, I will drag them to court. “I have told a team of lawyers to prepare the suit against the university. I am waiting for human rights commission to conclude its intervention. “Sometime in January 2020 before the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, my uncle accompanied me to the school to possibly see how the issue could be resolved. “First, we approached Sociology Department and requested to see the marked 400-level scripts in question and the HOD, Sociology Department, said the immediate past vice chancellor took my scripts away. “The vice chancellor, on the receipt of my protest letter, ordered for my scripts, together with the marking guide and sent them for re-marking. After the re-marking was over, the university didn’t communicate me on the outcome. “I have written to the school, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Speaker of the Delta State House Assembly, but nothing was done to correct the injustice done to me.” The Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Andy Egwunyenga, had told our correspondent that he was not aware of the matter. He said, “An issue of a student’s results is an internal matter of the university; it is not a public matter. I have not received any petition. When I do, I will forward it to the senate of the institution.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com