Civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, has advanced reasons why the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, and Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, must sheathe their swords to douse brewing tension in Osun. The group explained that the call became necessary to prevent the breakdown of law and order ahead of Saturday’s All Progressives Congress governorship primary in the South-West state. This was contained in a statement signed by HURIWA National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, on Tuesday, titled, ‘APC Primary: Urgent need to halt brewing political thuggery in Osun’. According to him, there is the need for security agents to quickly halt the unfolding political thuggery in Osun State. He also called on the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, to mobilise mobile policemen and anti-riot operatives for the forthcoming APC primary in the state. “The Monday shooting is only a precursor to greater danger looming in the state this political season. Security agents must be at alert and rein in on mischief-makers and political thugs no matter whose camp they belong. “Political officeholders whether at the state or federal levels must desist from using elections as a show of might and to cause breach of public peace. “While HURIWA is not concerned about the rivalry between Aregbesola and Oyetola factions within the APC, it is important to call on the APC leaders at the centre including President Muhammadu Buhari to call Aregbesola, Oyetola and other warring factions to order ahead of Saturday’s governorship primary. “Politics thrive in the absence of tension, intimidation and threat to life. Members of the APC in Osun should go peacefully to the ballot this Saturday and elect their candidate. “Oyetola, Aregbesola and other factional leaders in Osun APC should be made to sign a peace pact before February 19, 2022. Both Oyetola and Aregbesola should be held accountable for any breach of public peace arising from the governorship primary election this Saturday.” Aregbesola, a former Osun state governor from 2010 to 2018, and Oyetola, who is seeking reelection, had been at loggerheads for sometimes over the control of the APC organs in the state. Both politicians belong to the same ruling APC. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com