The Minister of State for Health, Dr Olorunnimbe Mamora, on Thursday, said the Federal Government was doing its best to revamp the nation’s health sector and reduce medical tourism. The minister stated this during the commissioning of major projects at the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Aro in Abeokuta. A statement released by the office of the minister quoted Mamora to have said, “Let me assure you that the Federal government is doing its best to revamp the health sector in such a manner as to improve the quality of facilities in our hospitals, increase capabilities for emergency preparedness during health emergencies and restore the confidence of the citizenry in the Nigerian healthcare system so as to reduce medical tourism. “I encourage you all to support the government in her resolve to achieve these objectives by contributing your own quota through diligent service, undaunted professionalism and responsible citizenship. Working together with the government, we will ensure affordable, accessible and equitable healthcare for every citizen. “I cannot conclude my remarks without commending the cordiality between the Board and Management of this institution. I equally salute the various unions for the peaceful conduct of their affairs to guarantee industrial peace and harmony. There cannot be growth and development in an atmosphere devoid of peace. “I must also emphasize the need for structured and sustainable maintenance culture for infrastructure and equipment in this institution. Maintenance culture regarding infrastructure and equipment will guarantee sustainable healthcare services for our people.” The statement also indicated some of the projects commissioned included an isolation centre, General Medical Practice unit, two male wards, two female wards, one molecular laboratory building, a ten bedded Intensive Care Unit building, refurbished laundry building, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com