A Kaduna State governorship candidate in 2019 on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Hon Isa Kudan Ashiru, has said he is still vibrant to re-contest in the 2023 governorship election in the state to provide dividends of democracy to his constituents. He stated this during a breakfast interactive meeting with some of his political associates in the state on Thursday. Ashiru who said he won the 2019 governorship election, but was rigged out, said in the 2023 contest he would leave nothing to chance and follow due processes proactively to succeed He stressed that his aspiration to govern Kaduna State on the PDP platform is still intact. “I intend to pursue it until success is achieved,” he said. Recall that Ashiru served in the Kaduna State House of Assembly for two terms from where he proceeded to the House of Representatives where he also served another two terms. He had contested against Governor Nasir el-Rufai on the platform of the All Progressives Congress in 2015 and lost in the primaries before returning to the PDP prior to the 2019 general elections. He became the candidate of the PDP but was defeated by El-Rufai. Ashiru said, “It has been very interesting. In politics, when you lose the first time, it is not a loss. “This game is not about me, but about my people. I have a vision which I believe if given the opportunity, I will transform the lives of my people for the better. “So, I am not in politics to serve myself but to serve my people. Things have changed. I feel I have something better to offer to improve the economic and social condition of our people that is why I am going to run again.” The gubernatorial hopeful promised to make his campaign committee all-inclusive while making wide consultation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com