SPANISH LaLiga giants Sevilla have activated the process of signing Nigeria international Sadiq Umar ahead of the 2022/23 season. The Rojiblancos are currently second in the Spanish topflight and will be playing in the UEFA Champions League if they maintain their current position. While preparations for the busy schedule have started in Seville, the club have identified Umar as a key transfer target and have entered the race to sign the Almeria star striker, who has also been linked with a move to Barcelona. Umar joined Almeria from Partizan Belgrade in October 2020, and since then has become a key figure at the club. Last season, the 25-year-old was one of the most prolific strikers in Spain, with 20 goals in 38 LaLiga Segunda appearances. Unfortunately, his goals were not enough to guide them to the Spanish Primera division. Umar has not shown any signs of slowing down this season and has netted 10 times already in 22 league appearances. His brilliant performance, according to Les Transfert as per Estadio Deportivo media, has earned him attention from Sevilla, who have activated his transfer already. “Second in the La Liga championship, the formation of FC Seville would already be looking at the next summer transfer window with in particular the arrival of a new striker,” the website wrote. “According to information from the Estadio Deportivo media, a track has been activated in the Spanish second division. “Indeed, the Andalusian club would be very interested in Umar Sadiq. Aged 25, the latter is currently playing under the colours of Almeria where he is linked until June 2025. Estimated at €18m on the transfer market, the native of Kaduna has scored eleven goals this season and delivered eight assists in 24 games.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com