The Ogiyan of Ejigbo, Oba Omowonuola Oyeyode, on Monday asked Osun State governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, to upgrade to a university status, College of Agriculture of Osun State University, located in the town. Speaking in his palace in Ejigbo, while receiving Oyetola and his entourage, who were on the tour of Ede Federal Constituency, Oba Oyeyode also decried the existence of two monarchs in some towns in the area. The royal father, who called for the governor’s intervention in resolving chieftaincy disputes in the affected communities, also urged Oyetola to provide vehicle for the fire station in the town, as well as personnel for Ejigbo General Hospital. This is as he commended Oyetola for rehabilitation of Ejigbo/Osogbo Road. He said, “I have many things to say. The road from Ejigbo to Iwo, the person that promised to do it could not do it. You did it for us. The Ejigbo campus of UNIOSUN, I want you to turn into the University of Agriculture. “I thank you for the hospital you built for us. We want personnel there. Those that are there have been posted to where they have power. I want you to use your power to bring workers to the hospital. “We want vehicle for the fire service you gave us. Let us have drugs in our hospitals. We now want you to focus on the repair of our districts so that farm inputs could be moved to the town easily. “There is vacant stool in Ejigboland like Masifa. The towns have settled for a candidate, help us approve it. We have many places where we have two kings and it is only one that is supposed to be there. Help us remove the person that is not worth being there. “Some people have mortgaged our lands and we didn’t see what they used the money for. They are blaming C of O. We don’t want trouble because it almost caused chaos. If it is C of O that will cause trouble, please give them C of O of their fathers land.” In his remarks, while receiving some defectors into the party in Awo, Oyetola lauded them for taking a bold step in joining the ruling party and assured them of equal opportunity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com