Some residents of Elite Road, Oke-Lantoro, in the Abeokuta-South Local Government Area of Ogun State, on Tuesday, mistook a mentally-ill man in the neighbourhood for a kidnapper and beat him to a pulp. PUNCH Metro gathered that the victim was sighted loitering around some school children around 8am on Tuesday, which made some residents to pounce on him. The residents reportedly accused him of attempting to kidnap the schoolchildren, an allegation he could not deny. Our correspondent learnt that the victim was about to be set ablaze when the police arrived at the scene and saved him. A passerby, Nasir Alabi, who spoke to our correspondent, said, “I got there when he was about to be beaten; he didn’t look like a mad man. I think those who beat him didn’t pay attention to his sanity. “It was a pathetic case because people who didn’t know what his offence was also joined the mob for no just reason. I felt sorry for him because it took the insistence of the police to take him away from the scene where he had already been tied as some youths were insisting on setting him ablaze.” Another eyewitness, who identified himself as Habib, said the victim initially responded well to questions, adding that the torture might have affected his sanity. Habib said, “I was shocked because he wasn’t like that when people started beating him. When the police were taking him away from that place, I really felt like crying. Our people are fond of jungle justice. If not for the police, he might have been set on fire and killed.” The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident, adding that the victim was mentally unstable. He warned residents of the state to desist from jungle justice, saying anyone caught in the act would face the law. He said “Jungle justice is returning to Ogun State and we have been warning our people. Recently, we all saw what happened in the Oja-Odan area of the state, where two suspects were set ablaze. Anyone caught in such an act will not go unpunished.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com