A Socio-cultural group, Arewa Progressives Front, has condemned a comment made by the former Governor of Jigawa State, Mallam Sule Lamido, suggesting that former President Goodluck Jonathan might no longer be a member of the Peoples Democratic Party. In a statement signed by APF’s national coordinator, Mohammed Umar, the group accused Lamido of consistently making negative comments about Jonathan with “the intention of casting a slur on the former President’s hard-earned reputation”. In the statement issued in Abuja, the group said, “APF read with some sense of concern, the latest statement credited to the former governor of Jigawa State, Mallam Sule Lamido, where he questioned the membership of former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, in the Peoples Democratic Party. “While one shouldn’t be worried, about the timing of Mallam Sule Lamido’s concern, we find it imperative to respond, understanding that this is just another attempt, to blame his sinking fortune in the party and the trouble he and people like him are causing in the PDP on former President Jonathan, especially as Lamido and others, are presently engaged in the battle for the hijack of the soul of the PDP. “We are surprised that Mallam Lamido should arrogate to himself the power of determining who is and who is no more in the party. As a former governor, he has access to the former president and could have easily reached out to him if he wasn’t playing his consistent card of mischief. “It should be noted, that at a time that people like Mallam Sule Lamido, were evasive during the challenging days of the PDP, not only was President Goodluck Jonathan available to save the soul of the party, he also provided leadership, even to the detriment of his personal ambition, to remain as Nigeria’s President.” It noted that even as President of Nigeria and the then leader of the PDP, Lamido have “always been negative, consistently negative, about Dr Goodluck Jonathan.” “Dr Goodluck Jonathan has continued to do his best to protect and strengthen democracy and promote peace in Nigeria and beyond. He deserves all the accolades that he has received from both Nigerians and the international community for this and not petty condemnation from Sule Lamido, and his ilk. We are not unaware that certain persons and interest groups may not be happy that his profile has further risen, but they do Nigeria gross disservice when they act so unpatriotically.
“Finally, we want to appeal to the public to be wary of such reckless tactics now on display, which forms the substance of an odd, malicious campaign targeted at Dr Goodluck Jonathan.”