Women Association of Quantity Surveyors in Nigeria, a national body under the Nigerian Institute Of Quantity Surveyors, has charged women professionals to improve on their dynamic capabilities as opposed to core competence if they are to survive competition in the building/construction industry. A statement by the group quoted the Rivers State Head of Bureau for Special Projects, George Kelly Alabo, as making the recommendation during a seminar and investiture of the 7th chairperson of WAQSN, with the theme, “Shaping a leading culture in the dynamically emerging future work.” Alabo, while giving the keynote lecture said, “When working in a competitive environment there are other skills which quantity surveyors need to draw on especially at the stage of digitization to be relevant. “Surveyors must understand the market and the business of the client as well as the whole lifecycle costing to be taken seriously,” he said Also speaking, the President, NIQS, Olayemi Shonubi, admonished women professionals surveyors to approach the profession with renewed vigour, new skill and competencies. He was quoted as saying, “The task of maintaining high professionals and ethical standards is what we all need to set for ourselves individually and we must take the bold step to move on with renewed drive.” In her speech, the Chairperson, WAQSN, Priscilla Akabudike, reiterated her commitment to lead the association to the best of her ability. She was quoted as saying, “We will continue to build on the wealth of knowledge laid down by our predecessors and trusting the support of all stakeholders which will bring out new hopes among the Women members of the institute.” Aside from the investiture of the Akabudike as the seventh chairperson of WAQSN, the event also witnessed the inauguration of the 2021-2023 executive committee of the association.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com