The family of slain Master’s student of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Timothy Adegoke, has hired human rights lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN), to get justice for the family over the gruesome death of their son. In a letter dated February 3 and co-signed by the deceased’s father, Moses; the deceased’s brother, Olugbade; and the deceased’s wife, Victoria, the family insisted that the killers of Timothy must be brought to book. The letter titled, ‘Appointment as our family lawyer’, partly read, “We the family of Moses Adegoke have decided to appoint you as our family lawyer, to demand justice on our late son, Timothy Adegoke, who was murdered at Hilton Hotel and Resorts, Ile Ife. “We have full confidence in your expertise and professionalism and hope to get justice on the case.” Reacting, Falana of Falana and Falana’s Chamber, said, “We have accepted the instructions of the bereaved Adegoke Family. “We shall handle the case pro bono publico and ensure that justice is served.” The PUNCH had earlier reported that the student died in controversial circumstances where he lodged at Hiltons Hotels and Resorts, Ile-Ife, to sit for an examination. He was subsequently buried by the hotel management in a shallow grave without the knowledge of his family or the police. The Nigeria Police Force has since charged the owner of the hotel, Rahmon Adedoyin, and six others before an Abuja High Court over the murder of Timothy, who died at the hotel on November 6, 2021. Adedoyin is being charged with the offence of unlawful interference with a dead body, while the other six accused persons are charged with various offences, including murder, conspiracy, altering receipt and others. According to the case summary and proof of evidence filed by the police, Adedoyin is being charged with illegally disposing of Adegoke’s body, altering and cancelling his payment receipt and removal of the hotel’s CCTV cameras with intent to destroy evidence. Others charged with the educationist are Adedeji Adesola, 23; Magdalene Chiefuna, 24; Adeniyi Aderogba, 37; Oluwale Lawrence, 37; Oyetunde Kazeem, 38; Adebayo Kunle, 35, and others still at large. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com