The Kano State Government has said it was targeting the vaccination of one million cattle herds against diseases in 2022. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje disclosed this on Saturday, at the formal launch of the statewide Mass Cattle and Small Ruminants Vaccination at Kadawa, Garun-Mallam Local Government Area of the state. He revealed that the exercise, which was being supported by the Kano State Government, Islamic Development Bank and Lives and Livelihoods Funds, would be implemented simultaneously across the 44 LGAs of the state. In 2021, “we vaccinated 703,000 cattle, and also vaccinated 664 sheep and goats. We recorded tremendous success in 2021, that is why we have not received any reports of infectious diseases outbreaks. “Over 1 million cattle would be vaccinated this year,” he said. The governor urged pastoralists to continue to cooperate with the administration, to have healthy animals for the production of quality meat, milk and leather products, which would enhance their lives and the overall socio-economic development of the state. He also said that the government employed 220 Community Animals Health Workers across the state to provide services to pastoralists. ”They will be provided with drugs and equipment, going round to offer services. They will charge you some token for the services they have rendered to you,” he said. Ganduje also explained that the state government would provide free artificial insemination services at the centre. He also said that the government created the Ruga settlement at Dansoshiya forest, to enhance the lives of pastoralists, including the construction of 200 houses, an earth dam, schools, health facility, market and police outpost, among others. Ganduje, therefore, warned herdsmen against engaging in acts of banditry and kidnapping. “For banditry, it is life imprisonment, while kidnapping is death sentence,” he said. The state Deputy Governor, who is also the state Commissioner for Agriculture, Dr Nasiru Yusuf-Gawuna, said that N10 billion was budgeted for projects under the KSADP in 2022. He said that the project would assist the government to ensure food security, reduce poverty and create jobs for the people.
Yusuf-Gawuna added that 40 out of the 200 Milk Collection Centres would also be constructed. (NAN)