The Federal Government on Wednesday announced that Air Peace and Emirates Airlines were now free to resume scheduled passenger flights between the United Arab Emirates and Nigeria. Both carriers had suspended flight operations into the two nations, following diplomatic scuffles between the governments of Nigeria and the UAE as touching issues around the management of COVID-19. But the Federal Government announced on Wednesday that it had approved the re-instatement of Emirates Airlines winter schedule with immediate effect, as Nigeria and the UAE had resolved their differences. It announced this through the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, Capt. Musa Nuhu, who stated that the resumption of scheduled passenger flights between Nigeria and the UAE had received the required approval. Nuhu disclosed this in a statement that was made available to journalists in Abuja by the Director, Public Affairs, Federal Ministry of Aviation, James Odaudu. The statement read in part, “Following the review and acceptance of the ‘Safety Decision 2021-02 Issue 24’ as released by United Arab Emirates General Civil Aviation Authority, the Minister of Aviation has approved the re-instatement of Emirates Airlines winter schedule with immediate effect. “All parties have been informed accordingly. Consequently, Air peace and Emirates Airlines are liberty to resume scheduled passenger flights between Nigeria and the UAE under the terms and conditions of the Bilateral Air Services Agreement between the two countries.” It added, “All parties must ensure strict compliance with the COVID-19 travel protocols of both countries.” The Federal Government reassured the traveling public that it would continue to ensure the provision of air services while protecting national interests at all times. Meanwhile, an Air Peace official, who requested not to be named due to lack of authorisation, told our correspondent that “the airline will announce in due time the resumption of its UAE operations.” This came as Emirates announced that it would restart flights from Dubai to Nigeria from February 5, 2022. It said the carrier would operate to and from Abuja and Lagos with daily flights, providing enhanced connectivity for travellers connecting to Dubai and over 120 destinations. The airline said all passengers travelling from Nigeria with Dubai as their final destination would require a 48-hour PCR test.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com