The Indigenous People of Biafra has warned the former Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, to desist from using IPOB for campaign remarks. The group described as “laughable, disgraceful and unguarded” the former governor’s claims on how IPOB operates and convinced youths in the region. In a statement on Wednesday, its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, said Okorocha was one of the most “unfortunate” things that had happened to Imo State, adding that his infamous administration as Imo governor was better forgotten. The statement read in part, “Okorocha started this ranting during the jamboree declaration he did in Abuja and mentioned IPOB to appeal to his gullible audience. Since he has decided to use IPOB as a campaign slogan, let him prepare well! “Okorocha arrested our women in Imo State thinking he can break the spirit of IPOB followers. The present administration in Imo State collected people’s lands he took from them by force and handed back to the owners since then Okorocha hasn’t been himself. He started sponsoring unknown gunmen and cannibalism in the entire region but we will soon expose him. “Nigerians know him for whom he is: a hypocrite and selfish political fraudster. He should not play his evil politics close to IPOB. “He tried everything he could as governor of Imo State to stop IPOB in which he failed and now he has started including IPOB in his infamous statement he was using to deceive the gullible minds in the state thinking he can be allowed to use IPOB for political gains. “His atrocities in Imo State are pursuing him and his families, including his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, because he could not advise his father-in-law to allow people their ancestral lands and homes. These will continue to hunt them till eternity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com