In this interview with NIKE POPOOLA, the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of a local company with presence in some African countries, Topgy Systems and Management Consultants, Mr Tokunbo Oshinyemi, speaks on the prospects and challenges of the fixed asset management industry in Nigeria How developed is the fixed asset management industry in the country? Today, l can confidently say that the fixed asset management industry is fully developed but there is still a lot to be done. When we launched the automated method of managing fixed asset in Nigeria two decades ago, there was just a few number of consultants that were doing similar businesses in Nigeria. They were managing their clients’ fixed assets until our company came up with the novel innovation of managing fixed assets electronically. But today, we have thousands of consultants doing similar businesses. However, we remain the foremost and leading company in Nigeria. Is the business capital intensive? The fixed asset management business is not capital intensive but it is more complex to execute than many consultants think. A project can take months to be executed because there is a lot of validation to be done. For instance, when you complete a verification exercise, you need your client to review your reports and certify it okay before you can commence the tagging exercise. Also, a reconciliation exercise can take so many weeks before the reconciliation report can be accepted by the clients because most organisations’ asset records or register are the bulk of the assets and it will only take a core professional to handle such. That is why we have many failed projects across the country; many consultants have abandoned fixed asset projects, leaving them unfinished. How easy is it for companies to access capital for expansion purposes in Nigeria? It is actually difficult for many consulting firms to access capital for expansion because we are not manufacturing or telecom firms that manufacture or provide goods to end users. We offer services so it is more difficult for us to access capital, even to execute projects when we secure some from our clients. Our experience with the financial institution on project financing is not encouraging at all. Forex scarcity has been biting deep on the economy. How has this affected the industry? It has affected our industry negatively as it normally takes months to access forex through the SME Window of the CBN from commercial banks. Meanwhile, when you secure a project your, client expects you to deplore resources to site immediately; so we are handicapped on many occasions. How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected the fixed asset management industry? We are among the most affected industries because our services require us to work on clients’ sites and most organisations work at home virtually since March, 2020. So, we lost a lot of businesses and we were seriously affected by the pandemic. How conducive is the business environment in Nigeria, compared to other countries where you have subsidiaries? Each country has its peculiarity in terms of the advantages of doing businesses in each. No doubt, Nigeria is a big market compared to other countries where we operate in Africa. However, the challenges of doing business in Nigeria are enormous. Top on the list is the cost of providing energy that takes bulk of our weekly expenses, double taxes, lack of access to funds to expand the business, among others. What are the challenges you have encountered in the business since inception? The challenges are enormous. First, we have to work vigorously to let Nigerian markets accept technology. I could remember most organisations we visited to introduce our services were always in love with our tagging solution (indelible permanent mark) but none were buying until we had a breakthrough with one of the biggest FMNG firms in Nigeria, then another foremost distiller firm in Ota, followed by a  multinational firm (a leading global brewery) based in Ikeja. Another challenge is sustainability, most organisations are willing to buy into our fixed asset management solutions but their fear is about where Topgy would be in the years to come to support the solutions being proposed to them. I remember our experience with a multinational manufacturing company with head office based in Ilupeju and factory in Agbara. The finance director specifically said “what is the assurance that if his organisation buys our solution, we will still be there to support it after some years?.” I told him that we would remain in business for as long as his company remained in business. He was highly impressed with my response and confident and he approved the project. The good news is that we have been supporting the multinational firm in the past 17 years. So, the challenges are numerous but we are able to surmount them due to our business strategies, perseverance and focus, by sticking to our vision and mission to be the foremost and leading fixed asset management in Africa. Many businesses have come and gone over the years. What has kept you going? It will interest you to know that we started business in 2001 from my uncle’s car garage at Ojota, then to my house where l turned my living room to office before we were able to afford to rent an office space in 2005 at Ikeja. I am not an average Nigerian business person that will start living flamboyant lifestyle at the expense of the business. We are very prudent and we don’t follow the crowd, we consistently pursue our mission and vision to be the leading fixed asset management company in Nigeria and we were able to achieve our goal. The next goal we set for ourselves is to be the leading fixed assets management company in Africa, and that we have been able to achieve as well. We have presence in about 12 Africa countries as at today. Topgy became an international company in 2008 when one of the multinational firms we have been working for in Nigeria since 2002 recommended our services to another multinational firm in Ghana and we moved to Ghana to handle the project which was done successfully. Then, we decided to set up business in Ghana and as at today we are the leading fixed asset management company in Ghana. So what has kept us going over the years is that Topgy ensures we make all our team members (senior and junior staff) stakeholders in the business so there is team work and everyone has a sense of belonging and the end result is the value added benefits our clients are getting year in year out. Many businesses are now doing the same thing you do. How have you been able to maintain a competitive edge in the sector? At Topgy, we value and cherish all our clients, whether smaller or bigger organisations, we give all our projects the same professionalism and the attention they deserve. We are not fulfilled until our clients are satisfied and get value for the investment made on the projects given to us. And that is why many of our clients that have been patronising us for so many years now, some five years, others 10 years, and we have clients that have been patronising us for over 15 years. So our edge in Topgy is that we have consistently improved on our services and solutions. For instant, we are the first to develop a locally-made fixed asset management software in Nigeria that many reputable firms are using today. We first started with a desktop application in 2009, then two years ago, we launched our mobile apps, and in October 2021, we launched our web application to the Nigeria market. Our software’s are IFRS and IPSAS compliant. They support depreciation, impairment, valuation, componentisation, disposal, asset financial, electronic audit, check-in/check-out of assets facility, asset tracking and barcode/QRcode tracking. Beyond that, we have expanded our services to spare parts audit, stock count audit, liquid fuel audit, valuation exercise, asset certification, among others. What is Topgy’s plan after its two decades of existence? Our plans are to continue to add value to our clients, develop more solutions that will assist them to better manage their fixed assets knowing for sure that fixed assets problem is a global problem and once the problem is solved, then our clients will be able to focus on their core services. This will make them to be more efficient and productive and this will make them to grow their businesses to much greater height. We also plan to continue to expand our business to other African countries and be a global player in the industry as the leading fixed management company. What can the government do help Nigeria’s businesses to be more competitive amid the African Continental Free Trade Agreement? They should create an enabling environment for businesses to thrive most especially the manufacturing firms, otherwise we will not be able to compete favourably. It will make Nigeria to become a dumping ground for all sort of goods. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com