The Inspector General of Police,  Usman Baba,  has ordered the posting of Assistant Inspector-General of Police, AIG Bala Zama Senchi,  as Acting DIG Department of Operations, Force Headquarters, Abuja and DIG representing North-West Geo-political zone. The IGP also ordered the redeployment of AIG Aji Ali Janga, AIG Bala Ciroma, and AIG Ndatsu  Mohammed to AIG Police Mobile Force, AIG Federal Operations, and AIG Zone 7 Abuja, respectively. In a statement on Saturday, the Force Spokesperson, Muyiwa Adejobi, said the redeployment of the senior officers was due to the recent vacuum caused by the retirement of some officers. DIG Zaki Ahmed, the DIG representing the North-West Geo-political zone and immediate past DIG in-charge of Operations, and AIG John Abang, AIG PMF. The statement partly read, “The new Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Operations, Ag. DIG Bala Zama Senchi, a consummate police officer, holds a BA in History. He was the Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of Community Policing, Force Headquarters, Abuja. AIG Ali Aji Janga, psc, mni, who takes charge of the mantle of leadership of the Police Mobile Force, holds a Bachelor of Laws Degree from the University of Maiduguri.  Until his recent posting as the AIG in charge of Police Mobile Force, he was the AIG in charge of the Department of ICT, Force Headquarters, Abuja. In the same vein, AIG Bala Ciroma, who takes over the duties and responsibilities of the office of AIG FEDOPS, Department of Operations, Force Headquarters Abuja. Prior to his posting as AIG FEDOPS, he was the AIG Zone 7, Abuja. AIG Ndatsu Aliyu Mohammed, who has been redeployed to supervise police activities in Zone 7, Abuja. Until his recent posting as the AIG Zone 7, Abuja, he was the AIG in charge of FEDOPS, Force Headquarters, Abuja.” He said the redeployments were with immediate effect. Adejobi said the Inspector-General of Police charged the senior officers to bring their vast experiences and professionalism to bear in the leadership of their respective Departments/Command so as to enhance the ongoing drive at repositioning the Force for improved service delivery. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com