Jennifer, one of the wives of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, has claimed that her life was threatened after requesting to divorce her husband. She noted the threat made her leave Nigeria, adding that she had to exit her law firm and sell assets in Nigeria. Jeninifer, who made this known in a statement, also confirmed her divorce to the former presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party. According to the lawyer, her phone calls were also monitored by suspected aides of the former VP. She said, “Since this incident, I fear for my safety and that of my kids. His Excellency’s security operatives especially Ibro and others have been making threats and calling my relatives, friends, and staff and searching for my assets to seize and monitoring my phone calls and those of friends and relatives. For that reason, I have exited my law firm and sold all my assets, and moved abroad until peace reigns. “I have done nothing wrong except to ask for a divorce and it pains me that I have to use this medium to address thorny issues but fear that at this point, I would have to put my side of the story on record. It is obvious that a campaign of calumny to total discredit and put me in bad light has begun. “Despite all that has happened, I reiterate that I asked for a quiet divorce which had if it had been granted, we would not be where we are today. Divorce is never an easy process for both parties. I reiterate that I hope we can settle our issues privately and I would remain at His Excellency’s service should he need my help, anytime.” Jennifer explained that “the core reason for the divorce was disagreement over my continued stay in the United Kingdom” among other “long-standing issues”. She also claimed that Atiku has requested to collect an asset previously given to her, adding that the property in Dubai is a subject of litigation. Atiku has yet to make any public statement on the issue as of the time of filing this report. Also, efforts to get his aides to react to the claims made by Jennifer failed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com