A former Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charge of operations, Abdulmajid Ali (retd.), has charged security agencies to curb criminal elements kidnapping and killing residents in various communities in Niger State. The DIG, in a statement released by his media consultant, Mohammad Ali, said the bombardments on the terrorist camps in Zamfara and Katsina States led to the mass movement of terrorists and bandits into Kotangora and some part of Niger State. He added that the situation led to widespread kidnapping and killings in Bobi, Mariga, Beri, Bangi, Ibeto, and other communities in the state. The statement read in part, “DIG Abdulmajid Ali (retd.), has tasked security agencies currently engaged in the fight against banditry and terrorism in the North-East and North-West regions of the country to control the influx of criminal elements into Kotangora and Shiroro axes of Niger State. “The retired DIG empathised that sadly, the terrorists and bandits, who have emigrated in their thousands, now enjoy free reigns in Kotangora, Niger State, operating daily and casting fear upon the good people of Kotangora. “Being a concerned Nigerian and indigene of Kontangora, Ali has appealed to the Federal Government and the Niger State government to come to the aid of the people of Kotangora and Shiroro, specifically. “He also appealed to disaster management responders like the National Emergency Management Agency and other relevant agencies, Red Cross Society, and NGOs to come to the rescue and aid of more than 10,000 internally displaced persons. “The IDP persons have flooded Kotangora and struggling to survive, as their uncoordinated stay, clustering, and activities may cause health-related complications, moral decadence and security breach.” The retired DIG assured the governments at all levels of his readiness to embark on sensitization and all-inclusive community engagement programs to incorporate his kinsmen and the people of the affected areas in Niger State in boosting the general security network of Niger State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com