The President of the African Insurance Organisation, Mr Tope Smart, has expressed concerns over the drop in insurance penetration from 2.78 per cent in 2019 to two per cent in 2020. A statement said Smart spoke at the insurance retreat for Africa organised by the government of Zanzibar at Madinat el Bahr, Zanzibar recently. “In 2019, while the global average penetration rate was 7.20 per cent, that of Africa was 2.78 per cent.  In year 2020, while the global average went up to 7.40 per cent, that of Africa came down significantly to about two per cent.  This should be of great concern to us as a region,” he said. He attributed the low insurance penetration on the continent to low income, low awareness level, failure to embrace digital technology, high level of financial exclusion, lack of infrastructural and distribution channels, lack of domestic skills, shortage of data, and the challenge of brain drain facing insurers. The AIO president said regulators were not keeping pace with innovation, adding that timing and implementation of regulatory changes needed to be looked into. He said lack of consumer trust as presence of weak companies eroded trust, pricing and other market related issues, cultural related issues, fragmentation and over-competition were hindrances to the insurance penetration on the continent. He urged relevant stakeholders to address these barriers to raise insurance sector in Africa to a level comparable to other regions in the world. Smart said, “If the issues highlighted are critically addressed, the result will lead to a significant growth of the insurance sector. “It is also important to mention that the underlying economic growth forms the most important catalyst for growth, and good enough, the outlook for GDP growth is strong across markets.” According to him, the African Continental Free Trade Area, an initiative of African Union, is a game-changer for the insurance sector. He said, “Since insurance plays a major role in the economic development of the continent, the expected increase in intra-African trade through AFCFTA would lead to higher insurance penetration across the region. “The potential to increase life insurance growth is noteworthy. In many markets apart from South Africa, non-life represents at least 65 per cent of total premium income, with even some up to 85 per cent (Tanzania and Uganda).  Given this scenario, the potential opportunity to expand life insurance is very great.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com