The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, has said that Nigeria will triumph over the menace of killings, kidnappings, banditry and other social evils afflicting it easily if citizens can demonstrate the spirits of unity, love and patriotism. Oba Ogunwusi said, “No challenge can overwhelm a nation, state or town, where the citizens consider unity, love and patriotism as a strength. I pray that God will help us to checkmate insecurity in Nigeria. We can also help ourselves by showing love and unity to be able to achieve this”. Oba Ogunwusi, represented by the Obalufe of Ile Ife, Oba Idowu Adediwura, spoke in Ejiyan Ekiti, Ijero Council area of Ekiti State, on Saturday, during the first coronation anniversary of the Obalaaye of Ejiyan Ekiti, Oba Adekunle Adepoju. The occasion witnessed conferment of chieftaincy and honourary titles on eminent Nigerians and fundraising for the construction of ultra modern Obalaaye Palace. The Ooni said, “The spirit I am seeing today is a good example of how to develop a town. I can see that love has taken charge in this town, Ekiti and Nigeria.” He also appealed to the people to sustain their cooperation with their monarch “to propel development in Ejiyan”. The Obalaaye, Oba Adepoju, who appreciated Governor Kayode Fayemi for granting the town autonomy from the old Ipoti Ekiti, which he said had served as impetus for rapid development in the town, assured that the town would partner with his government to fasttrack development in the community and as well cohabit peacefully with other towns to entrench peace in the axis. The traditional ruler said the community, through his people’s support, had been complementing government efforts in areas including “renovation of our market, provision of uniforms for indigent students of Ejiyan Community Primary School, renovation of our old palace, provision of electricity, extension of network of feeder roads and completion of an hospital complex here in Ejiyan”. He, however, appealed to Fayemi, to tar Ejiyan-Odo Owa, Ejiyan-Isanlu and and Ejiyan-Iloro roads for rapid development and opening up of the town to socio-economic prosperity. The Coronation Anniversary Chairman, Olakunle Olajide, said the town aimed at going higher in achieving the dreams of its founding fathers, as he appreciated those whose contributions had propelled realisation of the developmental projects focused on by the indigenes. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com