Registrar, The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board Prof. Is’haq Oloyede, has said if the system of education is right, every aspect of the nation will also be all right. Speaking at the 71st birthday lecture of Prof. Peter Okebukola, Oloyede lamented that there is a huge disconnection between policy formulation and implementation in the education sector. The birthday lecture which was organised by mentees of Okebukola was titled, ‘Synchronising Cacophony: Interrogating Some Issues of Concepts and Perception in the Nigerian Higher Education Topology.’ “It goes without saying that if education is right, the nation will be all right and if education sneezes, the entire country must catch a cold as being witnessed in Nigeria. One strategic contribution this lecture has made in this direction, therefore, is that of interrogating some lingering but common issues in Nigeria with a specific focus on concepts and policies that have been a source of cacophonies in the sector. “These cacophonies border on the scope, landscape, mandates and regulatory agencies of tertiary education in Nigeria. They also include the unnecessary furore on the UTME cut-off marks and qualifications for admission into tertiary institutions as well as the dynamics of rewards for achievements, funding and institutional autonomy of tertiary institutions.” He recommended that the Ministry of Education and other agencies under it should be revamped. “There is the need for structural reorganisation of the current Ministry of Education as well as some agencies within its supervision as a way of revamping higher education in Nigeria and repositioning the country for excellence in the critical education sector. “Proper articulation of the mission, vision and goals of higher education in Nigeria and the consistent implementation of the current Ministerial Strategic Plan are essential for the realisation of the highly required development of Nigeria. This would be achievable only when the cacophonies in the system are properly snychronised.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com