The West African Examinations Council has announced the immediate release of withheld results of West African Senior School Certificate Examination 2020 and 2021 candidates. In a communique at the end of the 72nd meeting of the Nigeria Examinations Committee, WAEC said only results of candidates exonerated of exam malpractices are released. The examination body also authorised the cancellation of results of candidates proven to have been involved in malpractice cases. Part of the communique signed by WAEC’s Acting Head, Moyosola Adeyegbe, on behalf of Head of National Office read in part, “At the 72nd Meeting, the Committee received reports on irregularity, special and clemency cases arising from the conduct of WASSCE for Private Candidates, 2020 – Second Series and WASSCE for Private Candidates, 2021- First Series earlier considered at the 71st Meeting of the Committee. “In the course of considering the various reported cases of malpractice, the committee, after diligent deliberations, approved appropriate sanctions in all established cases of malpractice, as prescribed by the Rules and Regulations governing the conduct of the Council’s examinations. “It authorised that the entire results of candidates proven to have been involved in malpractice cases which attract the penalty of Cancellation of Entire Results be cancelled, while subject results of candidates proven to have been involved in malpractice cases which attract the penalty of Cancellation of Subject Results (CSR) be similarly cancelled. “Furthermore, some candidates will also suffer other sanctions such as being barred from sitting for the Council’s examinations for two years. Some schools will be de-recognised for a specified number of years or have their recognition completely withdrawn. “Some Supervisors that were found wanting in the discharge of their examination duties will be formally reported to their employers and blacklisted while some invigilators will also be reported to the appropriate authorities for disciplinary action. “The resolutions of the Committee will be implemented without delay and the affected candidates and schools duly informed by the council. However, the results of candidates who were exonerated by the Committee will be released without further delay.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com