The Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, has said that the leadership direction of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), alongside that of All Progressives Congress, would determine the party’s chances during the 2023 general elections. Zulum stated this on Friday when he received in audience the Progressive Consolidation Group in support of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo ahead of the 2023 presidential election. According to a statement titled, ‘2023: Pro-Osinbajo group visits Zulum to seek support’, and shared on the State Government official Facebook page, the governor told the group that the party’s chances may be affected without members following Buhari and APC direction for the election. Zulum said ahead of the 2023 elections, the most paramount to all stakeholders should be the unity of the party because success can only be achieved through a united and stronger front. He urged all leaders to work for the unity of the Party and the stability of the country. Zulum noted that with Buhari being the party’s leader, it was necessary to follow the President’s leadership direction ahead of the 2023 election. Furthermore, he assured that Borno State is welcoming to supporters of all leaders of the APC with aspirations, noting that the party is one family. Speaking earlier, the PCG National Chairman, Dr. Aliyu Kurfi, said that the members were in Maiduguri to highlight why Osinbajo should be the APC’s flag bearer in the 2023 presidential election. According to him, the vice president is the most easily sellable person to electorates, given his intellect and experience. Kurfi explained that aside from his performance as vice president, the brief occasions Osinbajo acted as President, gave an indication of his capacity and high potential as Buhari’s worthy successor. Meanwhile, the PCG group visit to the Government House in Maiduguri was coming weeks after a pro-Tinubu group held an event in Maiduguri which was attended by top government officials serving under the Zulum administration. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com