Recent kidnappings in some parts of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway are taking a toll on commercial activities at Onigarri, a popular roadside market said to have been established some 46 years ago, writes Afeez Hanafi who visited the market The driver and some passengers familiar with the recent abductions on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway looked askance at the mention of Onigarri as our correspondent made to disembark from the 14-passenger bus. On the other side of the expressway inwards Lagos, Onigarri market, a melting pot for travellers and traders embarking on brisk commerce, sat unusually quiet on Thursday noon. But for a few expectant traders present in their stands and wearing long faces; poor patronage had forced many to abandon their wares and idle around the market. Now seen as a black spot for kidnapping, several commuters, who patronise the popular market, have avoided it like a plague in recent times following Onigarri abductions along the route. “What do you want to buy?” A middle-aged woman asked vehemently as our correspondent approached the market. “I have garri, yam, rice, palm oil,” another high-spirited trader beckoned, tailing our correspondent to her stand. While jostling for customers is a normal scenario at the market, the chase has become unusually competitive lately due to the dwindling number of travellers stopping by to buy food items. A 46-year-old market established by accident Lying about 500-metre long, Onigaari market comprises about 50 single and multiple stands either made of thatched dried fronds, roofing sheets or umbrellas pitched in clusters. At the rear, a makeshift serving as the assembly point for the market leaders stands next to the shop of Mrs Magbagbeade Ayinde, one of the founding members and the market’s women head well known as Iyaloja. Narrating how the market was reportedly established in 1976, Ayinde – flanked by two other market leaders–said she and some traders were waiting along the then bumpy road first constructed in 1978 for commercial vehicles to convey them and baskets of maize to Lagos for sale. As they stood by, motorists pulled over one after the other and bought the food items from them until everything was sold, Ayinde, now in her late 60s, said as she took a trip down memory lane. She recalled, “It was the following day that we started the market. We were initially selling maize. Later, we started selling plantain. After some time, customers were asking for garri. The first person who sold garri here took it to one market but didn’t sell it. She passed through this market while she was returning home and a truck driver stopped to buy from her. “Another person soon joined the woman in selling garri and it continued to expand. That was how this place was named Onigarri, even though we trade in other foodstuffs. I sell yams, garri, yam flour, plantain, ofada rice and so on. “This expressway had not been constructed when we started this market 46 years ago. We resume here at 7am and close at 7pm every day. People prefer to buy garri from us because of the quality.” Interestingly, all the traders at Onigarri are from Imolisa village, in the Obafemi Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State. Old but energetic, Mrs Morili Soyinka, also one of the founders of the market, corroborated Ayinde’s account, giving graphic details of a bevy of stranded women lined by the side of the road with farm produce ready to be transported to Lagos. “I was part of those who founded this market,” Soyinka, told Sunday PUNCH, grinning broadly and willing to let it all out. She said, “The construction of the expressway had just begun then and we used to help our husbands to sell their farm produce. We would stand by the roadside for vehicles travelling to Lagos. We sold all our items by the roadside one day and decided to put up shops here. That was how the market gradually expanded. At some points some men wanted to take over this market from us but we didn’t allow them. We stood our ground.” Until the recent kidnap cases that have disrupted the business flow in the market, Onigaari used to be a busy driveway for travellers stopping by in quick succession to buy edibles at relatively low prices compared to what obtains in city centres. Bustling marketplace threatened by kidnapping Sunday PUNCH had reported mounting fears among drivers and commuters over recent attacks by kidnappers in the Ogun and Oyo states axes of the expressway, with three reported cases recorded between January 8 and 17. Some travellers who regularly ply the route had shared their worries with our correspondents over the incidents which according to them became rampant in December 2021. On Saturday, January 8, a Toyota Sienna bus heading for Lagos from Ibadan was reportedly attacked by kidnappers who suddenly emerged from the bush in the area and started shooting repeatedly. A commercial driver, identified as Oluwatosin Aruwajoye, was killed in the process and five passengers abducted, while another victim, one Ibrahim Tiamiyu, was shot in the thigh. The following Saturday, January 15, a Nollywood actress, Bimpe Akintunde, shared how she and her daughter had a close shave with kidnappers along the same axis on their way to Lagos from Ibadan. Commenting on Akintunde’s post on Instagram, one kashamadupeadelawal disclosed that his friend was also kidnapped at oni-gaari on New Year day and shot dead in the bush. An actor, Adeniyi Johnson, equally wrote about the prevailing insecurity on the expressway on his Twitter handle, @AdeniyijohnsonO. In multiple slides he shared on Instagram, the actor complained that the attacks had impinged on his livelihood. On Sunday, January 16, gunmen donning military uniform also abducted seven wedding guests at the Isara, Ogun State end of the expressway. The victims had attended a wedding in Ibadan the previous day and were returning to their base in Lagos when one of the vehicles conveying them broke down on the road. One of the victims, Folahan Akinsola, said they were attempting to tow the faulty vehicle when the kidnappers struck in the morning, adding that the abductors demanded N60m ransom for four of them held hostage. He also stated that the victims were released two days later after payment of N7.5m ransom. “Our challenge now is this issue of kidnapping,” Ayinde said grimly. “The incident is not happening here but because Onigarri is popular, everybody mentions it. It actually happens within the Oyo State border but it is affecting our business. Everybody keeps mentioning Onigarri. For three weeks now, we have been almost idle due to low patronage.” The iyaloja said drivers were now afraid to pull over at the market, lamenting that it was difficult to convince them that the vicinity was safe. “We have been trying to convince one or two customers who manage to stop by and beg them to tell others that this place is safe. We have also been calling some of them on the phone to inform them there is no cause for alarm,” she added. For about two hours on Thursday, January 27, just four vehicles – two trucks, a jeep and a car – stopped by at the once busy marketplace. The customers, scared of being ambushed by kidnappers, were also in a hurry to leave. Prior to the incident, Salimotu Abodude, the Iyalode of Onigarri, said no fewer than 30 vehicles would have pulled over within the same period. “Kidnapping has really affected our business,” Abodude bemoaned, casting worried looks at bowlfuls of food items dotting her stand. “Customers are scared to stop by even though the abductions don’t occur here. We have security men who watch over the market and we pay them.” In his 35 years at the market, the Babaloja of Onigarri, Isiaka Akamo said, the effect of the kidnappings was one of the critical moments he was at his wit’s end. The only man dealing in foodstuffs at the market together with his wife, the past three weeks had been particularly troubling for the couple as many customers commuting along the expressway now flinched at the sight of their goods. He stated, “Nobody was abducted in Onigarri; people only used this place to describe the scene of the incidents because it is well known. Many motorists who used to patronise us no longer stop by and it is affecting sales seriously. “There was a customer who wanted to buy garri worth N150,000 from my wife about two weeks ago but he said he couldn’t wait for fear of being kidnapped. We did all we could to convince him to no avail. It was painful.” Generations of traders Over the years, Imolisa residents have sustained trading at Onigarri, raising children with the proceeds and handing down the skill to budding generations. Now the Iyalaje of Onigarri, Mrs Shakirat Akamo was in school when she started following her late mum to the market some 40 years ago. She grew up, in time, on the job and is currently one of the market leaders with feats to signpost her hard work. “To the glory of God, this is what I do to send my children to school up to the university level, build my own house and do a number of things,” she said proudly, flashing a broad smile. She said, “My children also know about the business. They assist me to get new customers from different parts of the country. I now do delivery to Abuja, Ikoyi, Ajah and Apapa (in Lagos). I also have customers who buy garri and take it abroad. “We are about 35 elders in this market apart from the younger ones. The market is mainly for women but we have men who support us. We have Babaloja and some mechanics.” Also reflecting on the bright side of what is now a communal business, Abodude, who belongs to the second generation of traders in the market as Shakirat, said they tried to strike a balance between business and their responsibilities as wives and mothers at home. She said, “Despite the fact that we resume early and close in the evening, we don’t allow the business to affect our homes. We always take care of our family before we leave home in the morning. My responsibility in this market is to ensure that it continues to grow. We sometimes disagree over customers because we all want to sell but we always resolve our differences instantly.” Iyaloja’s daughter, Mrs Abosede Lawal, is also among the second generation of traders in the market with over two decades experience as an independent businesswoman having spent many years under her mother’s tutelage. She stated, “I have been here with my mum since childhood. I started my own business 25 years ago. I sell yams, pepper, plantain and drinks. I supply food items to Lagos, Ibadan, Abuja and some other places. The business is slowing down due to the kidnapping cases but we hope things will pick up with time.” At 25, Anuoluwapo Ayodele, has mastered trading, an art she learned from her late mother. But for the setback caused by the recent kidnappings, the young woman, one of the third generation of traders at Onigarri, had recorded a steady growth in the foodstuff business. She said, “I inherited this shop from my late mum and I have been here for three years. Business was going on smoothly until recently when the kidnapping issue scared our customers. We are trying to let them realise that this place is safe but there is little we can do to convince many of them. Things are gradually picking up. Police, Amotekun and soldiers have been patrolling here.” Mrs Taiye Jolaoso also grew up as a trader’s daughter at Onigarri and has spent 10 years at the market running her own business. Save for the recent ugly development which has hindered sales considerably, she plies her trade seamlessly, smiling home at dusk with cool cash. She added, “This is my only means of livelihood but it has been threatened since this abduction issue started. Customers have been avoiding us and even when we call some of them that we know, they would say they can’t wait. We are appealing to them not to panic. The market is safe.” Rising to the challenge Meanwhile, police and the South-West Security Network known as Amotekun in Ogun and Oyo states have promised to embark on regular patrols of black spots on the expressway to prevent a recurrence. The Field Commander of Amotekun in Ogun State, David Akinremi, said the corps was working with its Oyo State counterpart on joint border patrol of the troubled spots. He had said, “We have our men inside the bush there because of the intelligence we received. The Amotekun Commander in Oyo and I are meeting at the border end as part of the joint border patrol efforts put in place by the Amotekun commanders in the South-West. “Whoever they (the kidnappers) might be, we are putting all security strategies in place. We may end up blocking roads to check these things. People might be inconvenienced; there is no doubt about that, but it is to ensure their safety.  As I speak with you, I am almost at the meeting point where both commanders are going to meet and further strategise and reinforce the security architecture of that axis.” Similarly, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, said the command had put in place a robust security arrangement in conjunction with the Oyo State Police Command, adding that both state Commissioners of Police had carried out on-the-spot assessment. He stated, “We have our Safer Highway Team there, the Federal Highway Team and a team of the anti-kidnapping unit. They will be patrolling the road from time to time to ensure that such ugly incident does not happen again. We are after those hoodlums and we won’t rest until we get all of them arrested. Two of them were gunned down about two months ago and two AK-47 rifles recovered from them.” Oyeyemi however said the police had yet to establish the claim that the assailants were terrorists who fled from military offensive in the North. He added, “We cannot say for now until we are able to get them. Whatever insinuations or suspicions people have, we are not ruling anything out. We are investigating every claim. The important thing is to ensure that our people are travelling along that road without any hindrance.” The police spokesperson in Oyo State, DSP Adewale Osifeso, had in a statement said the command led by CP Ngozi Onadeko, would leave no stone unturned in ridding the state and its environs of criminal elements. The statement read in part, “Furthermore, in a bid to forestall future abduction incidents along Onigarri axis of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and other adjoining routes, the Commissioner of Police has emplaced proactive security measures to ensure that the nefarious activities of these hoodlums are nipped in the bud in coordinated corporation with adjoining state commands.” The command enjoined members of the public “not to panic,” adding that adequate tactical and operational assets would be deployed in the area and there would be joint surveillance, aggressive patrols with adjoining states and combing of forests alongside hunters and vigilantes.” A former official of the Nigerian Bar Association, Mr Douglas Ogbankwa, urged the Federal Government to explore both local intelligence and high-tech security system in tackling kidnapping and related crimes. Ogbakwa, a former Publicity Secretary of the NBA, Benin branch, spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria following the abduction of three lawyers and a driver on the Benin-Auchi Road. The lawyers were said to be on their way from Warri, Delta State, to Sabo-Gidda Ora High Court, when they were attacked at Ehor. He said, “The spate of such an ill is highly condemnable, and this calls for enhanced security architecture to protect the lives and property of citizens. Safety of Nigerians should be properly guaranteed in this light by a security network that is largely technology-driven. “We must be willing and ready to deploy technology to tackle such a crime. Some of these criminals are high-tech, using night vision, network disruptors, turai phones and walkie-talkies. I, therefore, recommend that there should be a corresponding deployment of tech security outfits, such as drones, armoured personnel carriers, helicopter gun, ships, bullet-proof vests and other modern crime-fighting equipment. “It is also important to use local intelligence to out-smart these criminals, as they operate within a local environment.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com