A real estate development company, RevolutionPlus, has reiterated its commitment to serving its clients with integrity and transparency, and ensuring that all subscribers to its estates are treated with fairness. A statement quoted the management of the company as saying this while reacting to a complaint by one of its clients on social media. The company said it would not take the investments of its subscribers for granted, adding that integrity and trust had remained its mode of operation over the years. “We wish to state that as it is with every business entity, there will always be a few dissatisfied customers but issues are better resolved when grievances are directed to proper channels for prompt attention,” it said. It, however, pointed out that there could be delays in subscribers getting their allocations due to factors such as default in payment or when a number of fully paid allocations to be sent to the surveyor for processing as a batch had not been completed. It added the inability of the subscriber to pay up within the agreed period of three to 18 months, and without any request for a payment extension, could make such a client to go out of contract and consequently be asked to either move to another estate, with all previous payments transferred to the new estate. Alternatively, it said the client could request for a refund with a 40 per cent deduction as clearly stated in the contract signed at the commencement of the transaction. RevolutionPlus stated that the allocations in its over 40 estates located in Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Rivers states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja were done in batches and that between 2020 and now, it has done over 40 batches of allocations in 26 of the 40 estates. This, according to the firm, includes 14 estates in Lagos, three in Ibadan and Abuja as well as four in Abeokuta. The statement further exonerated the company’s brand ambassadors Odunlade Adekola, Toyin Abrahams and Broda Shaggy of any wrongdoings in declaring that the management of RevolutionPlus led by Bamidele and Tolulope Onalaja are committed Rotarians and people of proven integrity. According to the firm, Bamidele is the chairman of the Lagos State chapter of the Real Estate Development Association of Nigeria.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com