Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, has said that contrary to insinuations in some quarters, he does not hate the Irigwe ethnic nationality in Bassa Local Government Area of the state. The Irigwe had suffered several attacks in their communities by gunmen leading to the killing of many residents and destruction of property but the governor has yet to visit the affected communities, fuelling speculations that he hates the people. But speaking in Jos on Monday during the commemoration of “Forgiveness Day,” Lalong  noted that since his assumption of office, the goal of his administration had been to restore the state to its solid foundations of peace, justice, equality, tolerance and hospitality. Lalong said, “We have 53 ethnic groups in Plateau. Only a few states have that. Some people say I don’t like the Irigwe (ethnic group). For me, I like everybody in Plateau State. “Anybody that is peaceful, I will die for that peaceful person. But if you are a criminal, you are my enemy. “From now on, I don’t want to hear further killings on Irigwe land.” The governor lamented that two decades of recurring violent conflicts in various parts of the state had done unimaginable damage to the collective psyche of the people and fractured age-long peaceful intra and inter group coexistence. This, he said, had resulted in deep-seated mutual distrust, suspicion and hate that characterised social relations between people of different ethno-religious groups across the state. Calling on the people to put the past behind them and learn to forgive one another, the governor added, “I am personally convinced that forgiveness is not an attribute of the weak, but the very character of the strong who love God and are willing to walk in his ways. “Forgiveness as a Godly virtue does not erase the hurt and pains we have inflicted on one another, but a tonic that is needed to take us to the future where we shall no longer loose loved ones and valuable property over issues we can sit together and resolve. “As government, we are fully aware that it is within the power of individuals to choose to either forgive or not to forgive. But we also realise that we have a responsibility to show the society the road that will take us to a better future.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com