The National Coordinator, Media Warriors Forum of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, Evangelist Chinedu Obigwe, has told the governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress, Senator Andy Uba, to stop seeking what it described as “kangaroo” court judgment. Obigwe accused Uba of resorting to tactics of buying “Kangaroo” judgement in courts in order to desperately salvage his political ambition of governing Anambra State.” Obigwe was reacting to a media report that a High Court in Awka had purportedly upheld the contentious June 26, 2021, primary election conducted by the APC. Speaking to journalists in Awka, on Friday, the APGA chieftain said the Abuja Federal High Court judgement delivered against Uba, in a case filed by George Moghalu, had nailed him politically and that is the reason he is now running from pillar to post to salvage the situation. He, therefore, added that only the Court of Appeal could upturn the Abuja Federal High Court judgement that stripped Uba of the eligibility to contest the November 6, 2021, governorship election and not any lower court. He described the report that a Federal High Court in Awka, had delivered a judgement in Uba’s favour as baseless and mischievous, aimed at deceiving the public. He said, “The Abuja Federal High Court judgement delivered against Uba in a case filed by George Moghalu nailed him politically and that is the reason he is now running from pillar to post to salvage the situation. “That judgement stripped him of locus standi to challenge the November 6, 2021, governorship election outcome. Uba is drowning politically, hence the reason he is in a desperate bid to hold onto a straw for survival. “The report that a Federal High Court in Awka delivered a judgement in his favour, in a case that was obviously filed by his sponsored surrogate, is medicine after death. “Our reason for saying this is because the Federal High Court, Awka, cannot overrule the decision of the Abuja Federal High Court. The Abuja Federal High Court judgement was delivered first, hence the reason the Court order delivered in favour of George Moghalu is superior to that of the ‘Kangaroo Court’ order that was allegedly delivered in favour of Andy Uba recently. “The Court of Appeal has finished hearing in Uba’s appeal against the Abuja Federal High Court judgement that is in favour of George Moghalu and they reserved judgement on a date that will be communicated to both parties in the case. “So, it is only the Court of Appeal that can upturn the Abuja Federal High Court judgement. What it means is that whatever Uba and his group did at any High Court is an inconsequential naked dance of shame that should be ignored by sane minds.” He explained that Ndi Anambra knew very well that Uba stole the APC ticket to contest the last November 6, 2021, governorship election in broad daylight, and whatever he is doing to cover such evil act up cannot salvage him. “Uba and his group do not have shame at all, hence the reason they are defending his broad daylight robbery of APC ticket,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com