Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has said the complicity of security agencies is the reason why the Federal Government can’t rein in those engaged in illegal oil bunkering and refining. He said the Federal Government had refused to end the menace brought about by the devastating impact of illegal oil bunkering on the national economy and artisanal refining on the State’s environment He said this same lack of steadfast leadership committed to national development is responsible for Nigeria’s seeming endless woes. Wike stated this when the participants of the Strategic Management and Policy Studies Course 4/2021 of the Nigeria Army Resource Centre, Abuja, led by Major General James. G.K. Myam, paid him a courtesy call at the Government House, Port Harcourt, on Tuesday. Special Assistant to the Governor on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday. “Go and see what we have done. It’s to show leadership. The Federal Government could not stop oil bunkering here because security men were involved. Police was involved, Civil Defence was involved, Army was involved, Navy was involved. So, nobody would be able to stand firm to end it. “Look at the sabotage of the national economy of Nigeria through illegal oil bunkering. Look at the soot. Rivers people were dying but we said no we will not allow this again and we took the bull by the horns,” Wike said. He said he demonstrated that his administration will not condone the activities of those endangering the health of residents of the State and sabotaging the national economy when he personally visited some illegal oil bunkering sites. Lamenting that the Federal Government is reluctant to deal with those engaged in such activities, Wike pointed out that
people working in the oil industry are also part of the cartel involved in illegal oil bunkering and artisanal refining. Wike warned that except the Federal Government tackles the nagging problem of insecurity, it will never be able to address the economic challenges facing the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com