THE National leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola  Tinubu,  has disclosed that he told the President, Major-General  Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), he wanted to step into his shoes and not on his toes . Tinubu said this on Saturday while speaking at  the  palace of the Alake and paramount ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, in Abeokuta when he paid the monarch a visit to seek his royal blessings on his presidential ambition . Tinubu  had during his visit to Buhari at the Aso Villa in January declared his ambition to succeed Buhari in 2023. The former governor of Lagos State, who arrived at the palace of  the Alake at 4.35pm, went straight into a private meeting with the monarch. He had earlier paid a similar visit to the Awujale of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Adetona, at his Ijebu-Ode palace. Addressing  the monarch, Tinubu said he decided to express his intention to Buhari following calls from his supporters and friends to run for President. Tinubu said he did not  want his ambition to create bad blood between him and Buhari, saying he did not want to offend the president  by “pulling the carpet from his feet”. He said, “I  told the President I want to replace you and I don’t want to offend you. I told the President that I want to step into his shoes, but not step on his toes. “I told him as the number one citizen, I should start my presidential bid by informing you first, and he (Buhari) told me to inform the whole world, and I have done that.” Tinubu said he had served as a Senator at a young age, as a governor and he was actively involved in Nigeria’s return to civil rule, but his aim is to become the President of Nigeria. He said, “I call this visit a courtesy call. I contested with the support of the people for the Senate and I won at the youngest age ever. I have been governor; I clocked 50 on the seat of governor. “I have done crusades to return Nigeria to democracy rule, before I started hearing the voices of the people that I should contest for President. I have thought about it deeply, but I cannot think about it alone. “The people said this time around, I should run for the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I told them that we have elected someone there and I don’t want to pull the carpet from his feet.” Explaining the reason for his visit, Tinubu said, “I want to seek the permission of the kabiyesi, I want to seek his blessings and his prayers and seek the blessings of other chiefs. “I’m here to tell you (Alake) that I want your prayers and I want to inform you that I want to become the President.” Fielding questions from journalists after the meeting, Tinubu urged Nigerians not to despair. He said, “My message to all Nigerians is that there will always be difficult times, there will be times for joy. “We are navigating Nigeria, it is a very difficult period, we will survive it, we will be happy, we will hold onto the hope that Nigeria will be united, prosperous and be sufficient. That is my message to the people, we will make Nigerians happy.” In his remarks, the Alake lauded the politician for the visit and prayed for the success of his presidential ambition. The monarch expressed optimism that if Tinubu becomes the President, Nigeria would be better for it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com