The Federal Government on Thursday in Abuja launched the first national eye health policy to increase accessibility to eye care services for Nigerians. The National Eye Health policy is Nigeria’s first comprehensive National Eye Health Policy which scales up existing eye health services and ensures that no one is left behind through approaches that ensure equitable access to quality eye care services. It was gathered that this document has been adopted by the States and the Federal Capital Territory during the 64th meeting of the National Council on Health and it was believed that with this launch, adoption of the policy in the various states will begin. The Minister of State for Health, Dr Olorunimbe Mamora, at the launch, on Thursday, in Abuja reiterated the importance of vision to the socio-economic development of the people. Mamora disclosed that Nigeria with other member states at the United Nations General Assembly recently adopted the vision for everyone which formed accelerating action to achieve the sustainable development goals resolution, aimed at committing the international community to eye health for the 1.1 billion people living with preventable sight loss by 2030. Mamora further maintained that It has been established that the avoidance of blindness is key to the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals (SDG 1; no poverty) as vision loss alone costs the globe a whopping $411 billion annually. Mamora said, “Following successful cataract surgery, the income bracket of 46 per cent of households moved up the economic ladder thus contributing to eliminating the zero hunger in SDG 1. “This document directs the policy thrusts of the government and shows how it intends to ensure that Nigerians have a country where no one is needlessly blind. “Thus enshrining this document as part of our governance structure ensures that the majority of Nigerians have the potential to reduce the burden of blindness which would ultimately lead to an increase in the Gross Domestic Product and further enhance the economic growth of this great nation. “The document further puts in place a framework for best practices and enhances competence-based leadership in all strata of eye health encompassing optical, optometric, medical and surgical ophthalmology as well as allied health services. “It also aims at ensuring that there is patient-centered inclusive eye health where access to quality eye care at the primary, secondary, and tertiary levels of eye care without neglecting the rehabilitation of those who are already irreversibly blind.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com