The Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, has observed that the current challenges confronting developing nations are compelling them to start looking inwards on how to strengthen their economic and commercial ties. At a meeting between members of the Kano Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture and members of Gambian business community at Banjul, The Gambia, yesterday, the monarch, said: ”we have to do all that it takes to develop South-South cooperation, particularly within our West African sub-region. According to a press statement, issued by the Emir’s Palace Public Affairs section, the Emir noted that the various protocols within the ECOWAS have given a common platform, which could be utilised for both countries’ common good. Also, the monarch urged the participants to look beyond the horizon and explore all areas of comparative advantage, so as to create a mutually beneficial relationship that could boost our respective economies. Similarly, he explained that this can create a range of opportunities that could bring about sustained economic growth to our two nations and overall benefit of our people. However, he urged them to remain resolute and work towards establishing an enviable business relationship, stressing that one of the fastest ways of creating such relationships is through commerce. “On a final note, the Emir assured our Gambian brothers and sisters that we have brought members of our Chamber of Commerce to your doorsteps, so as to take advantage of the opportunities and possibilities waiting to be tapped and harnessed and we are ready to take same from you.” The Emir thanked the Gambian authorities and all those who worked tirelessly, including the High Commissioner, Ambassador Muhammad Manu for their foresight and support for the meeting. Prominent among dignitaries, who accompanied the Emir, include, Ambassador Ahmed Umar, Dan Malikin Kani, Isa Sanusi, and members of the business community, led by President of the Kano Chamber of Commerce, Alhaji Dalhatu Abubakar, who is also the Chairman of Alhamsad Rice Mill, the Managing Director of a trading and manufacturing MAZAF Nigeria, Alhaji Munzali Zakari and Alhaji Umar Sani Marshall, who is the Managing Director of Marshall Biscuits and Marshall Hotel Apartments, Marshall Haulage. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com