In this interview with ENIOLA AKINKUOTU, a former Deputy National Chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change, Saliu Mustapha, the Turaki of Ilorin Emirate, reveals why he wants to be the next national chairman of the All Progressives Congress How prepared are you for the APC national convention that comes up in two weeks? I’m very well prepared for it and we are waiting for the modalities and the zoning arrangement because we expect there to be a zoning formula. We don’t expect that the national chairmanship will be open. For strategic party administration you must look at how to balance interests and positions in the party. For example where position A goes to one region, position B should go to another region etc until all or a majority of interests are balanced. This way, you will be able to give every section of the country a sense of belonging. Also with zoning, you are able to avoid rancor and acrimony that may arise from candidates wasting hard earned resources on campaigns that may lead to nowhere. So, we are waiting anxiously for the modus operandi from the party. Forms haven’t been released and zoning hasn’t been announced but we know everything will be put in place soon. I’m sure the caretaker committee will choose the best approach that will give everyone a sense of belonging. Is it true that the party is reaching out to all aspirants with a view to choosing a consensus chairmanship candidate? I don’t know about that. Nobody has reached out to me and none of my co-contestants has called me. But these are wishes by concerned members of the party but we have not reached that stage yet. That is why I said we are still waiting for these directives on how the process will take place. If the idea for consensus is presented, would you support it? First, whatever mode of primaries the leadership and stakeholders of the party decide to adopt, my team and I are ready for it. We have said it times without number that as loyal party people, we will abide by the party’s decision. This presupposes that if it is the consensus arrangement that the party finds most suitable at this time, we are going to welcome and respect it, with the hope that by every available standard and parameters, I am the most fitting into the consensus option on the basis of my age, exposure, experience in party administration, network between generations and strata in the party, and above all, credibility. Do you think the convention will hold this month? Yes, of course. If you talk about the sale of forms for instance, it will not take time. It is not everyone in the country that will buy forms. We are a selected few. We are not even up to 15. So, if the sale of forms begins today and it closes this week, anyone who is serious will take the form immediately. But of course, we are expecting that zoning would be announced before the sale of forms because if you announce that the chairmanship seat is zoned to North-Central, maybe we would not be more than five that would be vying for it. But almost everyone who is contesting is from the North-Central. Doesn’t it mean there is already zoning? No, former Governor Abdul’Aziz Yari is not from the North-Central. He is from the North-West. Distinguished Senator Ali Modu Sheriff is from the North-East. Also, Chief Sylvester Moniedafe is from Adamawa state which is also in the North-East. Ex Governor Isa Yuguda is from the North-East. Also, Senator Danjuma Goje is among those believed to be in the race. So, out of all of us, there are about five that are not from the North-Central. The APC set up a reconciliation committee led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu to look into grievances in the states but there is still a crisis in all these states. Don’t you see this affecting the success of the national convention? You see, in every political arrangement, there are bound to be dissenting voices. It is how we manage them that matters. That’s why as part of our own agenda, we said we would adopt preventive diplomacy in crisis management. This method allows you to detect crises before they rear their heads. With my experience in party administration, I should know that there are certain triggers of crisis in politics. My goal will be to ensure that these triggers are so managed that they’re unable to manifest. But if they ever manifest, they’re not allowed to germinate into a full blown crisis before they’re nipped in the bud.  As for the reconciliation committee, I am privy to the fact that the committee has achieved quite a lot within the short period of their operations. There is a difference between what the public reads in the papers and what is actually on the ground. But by and large, reconciliation efforts are always a continuous process. In politics, there’s no time that the window of reconciliation is closed. What do you hope to achieve in the APC if you become chairman? Like I said in my slogan, I have said that I want to do things differently. First and foremost, I want to help to bring about a rancour-free party where everyone will have a sense of belonging. I also want to make sure that I lead the APC to another victory at the polls next year so that the party can consolidate on the good works so far recorded by this administration. It is when the APC is able to produce another government that it would be able to sustain the legacy of President Muhammadu Buhari. We will ensure that popular candidates emerge at the primaries so that you can scale hurdles that could arise in marketing them during elections. We will also enthrone party discipline and party supremacy so that we can have a uniform approach to governance in all our states. We want people that will subscribe to the party’s manifesto. We need ministers, senators and governors that will promote the party’s ideology. I also plan to set up an institute for the APC known as the Progressives Institute of Nigeria which would help mould ideas and give the party a proper ideology. The institute will help to advance good governance, party democracy and leadership through research, training and mentorship. This was something that the last APC leadership promised but was not able to bring to fruition. It will be like the National Democratic Institute that has helped many countries’ democracies successfully. What would you say to those who say you don’t have the clout of the other contestants who are ex-governors? This contest is not about clout or title. It is about service; it is about the content of my ideas and the values that I bring to the table. On the other hand, my understanding of ‘clout’ in a contest like this one is experience in party administration and the political network that can guarantee a win. And I beat my chest boldly that of all the contestants, I have the most experience in progressive party administration. I have been a progressive all my life and I have risen through the ranks to be a national deputy chairman of a national party in recent history. Not one among my co-contestants beat these records. I was the National Organising Secretary of the Conference of Nigerian Political Parties. So, in actual fact, I am not new to politics.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com