The Enugu State Government on Friday banned the operations of Tricycle, Motorcycle, and Tipper-Truck in all the communities in Nkanu East and Nkanu West local government areas of the state. The ban also extended to the neighbouring communities of Amechi Uno, Amechi Awkunanaw, Amechi Uwani, Obeagu Main, Obeagu Uno, Centenary City/Obunagu, Obeagu, One day, Garki, Akwuke, Ugwuaji, Ndiagu Onunyo, Maryland, and Ikiriki, all in Enugu South Local Government Area. The PUNCH gathered that the ban was sequel to the emergency security meeting with chairmen and major stakeholders including traditional rulers and Presidents General of the communities in five local government areas of Enugu South, Enugu East, Enugu North, Nkanu East and Nkanu West LGAs. A statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Simon Ortuanya, titled ‘public service announcement’, said that the ban was the outcome of an emergency Security Council meeting held at the Government House, on Thursday, February 24, 2022, following the upsurge of insecurity in the state capital and it environs since this year. The statement partly read, “following an emergency Security Council meeting held in Enugu State Government House today, Thursday, 24th February 2022 on the heels of the recent spike in insecurity in parts of the State and Executive Order No.1: 2022 dated 24th February 2022, the operation of Tricycle popularly called Keke, Motorcycle, otherwise known as Okada, and Tipper Truck have been banned forthwith in the following areas in the State: “All communities in Nkanu East, Nkanu West local government areas and following communities/ neighborhoods in Enugu South LGA – Amechi Uno, Amechi Awkunanaw, Amechi Uwani, Obeagu Main, Obeagu Uno, Centenary City/ Obunagu, Obeagu, One day, Garki, Akwuke, Ugwuaji, Ndiagu Onunyo, Maryland and Ikiriki.” The statement, however, enjoined members of the public to comply with the order and directed the security agencies in the state to enforce it to the latter. The PUNCH reported that no fewer than 15 persons including security operatives have been killed in the state in less than two weeks. Incidences of kidnapping without trace have also increased in the state with little help from the security agencies since November 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com