A coalition of Christians of Northern extraction in the All Progressive Congress, besides, the group under the aegis body of Christians in APC on Tuesday demanded that the 2023 presidential ticket should have a Christian President or Vice President from the North. While demanding adherence to the party’s procedures in the election of its national officers, they also called for religious consideration in the micro zoning of party positions. The APC National Convention comes up on 26th February 2022, where a new leadership that will direct the affairs of the party is expected to emerge. The CiAPC said these in a communique issued at the end of its meeting which discussed the political affairs of the party, national convention and the political atmosphere of Nigeria, signed by Chairman, Communique Drafting Committee, Prof. Doknan Sheni and Senator John Danboyi. According to them, such zoning considerations would help foster national unity. The communique reads, “The Christians in the 19 Northern States within APC met at the International Conference Centre, Abuja on February 13, 2022, to discuss the political affairs of the APC party, the upcoming party convention and the political atmosphere of the nation. “The meeting was pleased that the APC was finally able to fix a date for the convention for February 26, 2022. “The meeting recommended that the presidential ticket should have a Christian President or Vice President from the North. “The meeting recommended that the party should choose a Christian from the North as party National Chairman or Deputy National Chairman, (North). “The meeting recommended that the composition of the National Working Committee and the National Executive Committee should significantly reflect the presence of Christians in order to reflect its national character. “The meeting recommended that the party procedures of electing officers into various offices should be adhered to.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com