The Aguiyi Ironsi International Market Association, Ladipo, has called for the assistance of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, as goods worth billions of naira were lost in the fire disaster that engulfed some sections of the market. Chairman of the association, Emmanuel Mbamara, in an interview with newsmen on Sunday in Lagos, also commended the government for identifying with them over the inferno. According to him, the efforts of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency helped in preventing the fire from escalating to other buildings. Mbamara said,“I want to use this medium to thank Lagos State for their full support during this fire outbreak. “And that of the Fire Service. Honestly, these people are great. They did a very nice job. “I want to also thank the governor who has been a huge assistant and is sending his men to come and commiserate with us.” He said that the Mushin Local Government Chairman had also been very supportive since the unfortunate incident. “He is truly a father, a friend and a brother. He has been here. He even sent the vice-chairman to the market to see things for himself,” he said. Mbamara said that the market lost billions of naira to the inferno. He said that many of the traders lost everything they had laboured, adding that some lost two or three shops. Mbamara explained that some of the car engines lost to the inferno were sold for N500,000, N450,000 and N200,000 each; depending on grade and model. He said one of the traders lost an entire shop with car stereos that went for two million naira each. “So, we lost a lot. The number of shops that we are looking at is about 200 or more shops that got burnt. Two buildings were seriously affected,” Mbamara said. The chairman said that going forward, the market association would be working with LASEMA to establish an emergency response unit in the market. The association would ensure that all shops were equipped with fire extinguishers and more access roads created in the market, in case of any emergencies. (NAN)