Ijaw Youths Council has commended Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, for extending infrastructural development to the riverine area, especially the Ijaw communities of the State. Western Zone Secretary of the IYC,
Omaghomi OluDerimon, who stated this in a statement on Sunday said the people were excited with the development, noting that this has been the demands of the Ijaw people from successive governments of the State. The IYC scribe stressed that the recent construction of the Ajoki/Ikpako Road project and the proposed modern health center at Gelegele is a pointer to the fact that the government has finally yielded to their demand. He said, “The Ijaw Youth Council is not a political party but a social cultural organisation with a clear mandate to speak for Ijaw people and by extension, the Niger Delta. “The IYC Western Zone has constantly called on Governor Obaseki to give adequate attention to the riverine communities and extend the good work he is doing in the city to these areas. “Just recently, we saw the governor flag-off the Ajoki/Ikpako Road and we are aware of the proposed modern health centre and the road being constructed in Gelegele and environs. “While we are appreciative of this development, we want to quickly appeal that the Governor should not go back on his promise on the Udo/Inikorogha/ Ofunama road and other riverine communities. “Like we have always maintained, the governor is doing a lot and we expect him to extend or replicate this infrastructural development to the riverine terrain which has a lot of economic potential to move the state forward.” OluDerimon noted this by calling on the governor to kick start the Maritime academy in one of the riverine communities to complement the seaport project and the marine police headquarters in Gelegele. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com