Members of the All Progressives Congress faction of the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, in Kwara state otherwise known as ‘APC Loyal’ on Wednesday organised a prayer session for the party and the President, Major General Mohammadu Buhari (retd.) to seek the face of God to choose the right and credible candidates as the Chairman and Presidential candidate for the party in the 2023 election. The prayer session held at the open field of the Lower Niger River Basin Development Authority, Ilorin was conducted according to the tenets of both Islam and Christian religions. The stakeholders stated that the war of attrition rocking the party is also capable of leading to mass defection of members to other parties in the state. They, therefore, urged the national leadership of APC to urgently intervene and salvage the situation. Speaking on behalf of the ward chairmen, Abdulrasheed Abdulrauf said, “I am delighted to present to you our elders and critical stakeholders our position, after carefully studying the situations in our party. “We observe that since our party won the 2019 general elections in the state, there has been no peace in the party, following the desire of Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq to divide the party, which he successfully achieved by forming and funding a group called ‘AA’. “This, we believe, was not in the best interest of the party and not in line with the party’s constitution. “We have lodged complaints several times with our various Local government party Chairmen, our senatorial chairmen as well as taking the complaints to the state chairman of the party against this illegality by the governor who is supposed to be the leader of the party.” In his response to the complaints by the members, the factional chairman, Bashir Bolarinwa, assured them that he would transmit their grievances to the right quarters in the party. He said, “We will take all your complaints to their doorsteps. We hope this time around they will listen to us.I have the feelings and I pray for them that Almighty God will open their eyes and make them realize that those of us in the ‘APC loyal’ are the true members of the party in the state. “If APC must make any meaningful impact in the state, then Abuja must listen to our pleas. They must look into our matter and they must do something positive. “I hope they will listen, because I am confident that they definitely will not want to lose us. “Having said that, I want to appeal to all of us once again and I want to tell us that by the grace of God we will have cause to laugh at the end of the day. “Secondly, we have also prayed for President Muhammadu Buhari as the leader of our party as well as the number one man in Nigeria. There is no way our party can be talking of a successor without his important input. We asked God to guide and give him the required wisdom to be able lead the party in choosing a good successor that will keep the flag of the party flying.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com