Nigeria said on Monday that caretaker coach Augustine Eguavoen will still be in charge of the Super Eagles for next month’s 2022 World Cup play-off against Ghana. The federation also appointed former Nigeria World Cup star and former U-20 Boys’ Head Coach, Emmanuel Amuneke, as immediate assistant to Eguavoen. Former international and Barcelona winger Amuneke led Tanzania to qualification for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. The former African Footballer of the Year is also a member of both the FIFA and CAF Technical Study Groups. The announcement finally laid to rest plans to hire Portuguese coach Jose Peseiro to lead the country’s team after the recent Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. “We acknowledge and appreciate the interest that Mr Jose Peseiro has shown in Nigeria Football during our very cordial discussions and have absolutely no doubt about his capacity,” NFF General Secretary Mohammed Sanusi said. “We believe that perhaps in the future, there could be an opportunity to work with him. “However, in view of the positive performance of the Super Eagles at the just-concluded Africa Cup of Nations, which has given hope to Nigerians and boosted our confidence in the present coaching crew to qualify us for the World Cup in Qatar, we have decided to accept the recommendation of the Technical and Development Committee to retain the Eguavoen-led coaching crew and strengthen it with the addition of Emmanuel Amuneke.” Nigeria will face arch-rivals Ghana home and away on March 23 and 29 for a place at this year’s World Cup in Qatar. NEW SUPER EAGLES COACHING CREW Augustine Eguavoen – Technical Director/Technical Adviser (interim)
Emmanuel Amuneke – Chief Coach/1st Assistant
Salisu Yusuf – 2nd Assistant/Chief Coach, CHAN
Joseph Yobo – 3rd Assistant
Aloysius Agu – Goalkeepers’ Trainer Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com