Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a randy pastor, Mathew Oladapo, for forcibly having carnal knowledge of a 19-year-old member of his church (name withheld). The pastor, who was in charge of Life and Power Bible Church Ogijo, Sagamu in Ogun State, was arrested after he reportedly raped the teenager during a “total deliverance” session in the church. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident in a statement on Wednesday. Oyeyemi said the victim got annoyed over the incident and reported the matter to policemen at the Ogijo Divisional Headquarters. According to Oyeyemi, the victim said while attending the church service on the 20th of February 2022, the pastor told her that he saw a vision that she has a spiritual husband which she needed to be delivered of. Oyeyemi explained, “She stated further that the pastor told her she will undergo three nights of fasting and prayer in the church for total deliverance. “In addition, she was asked to come to the church with N1,000 note and anointing oil. “But on the first night of the fasting and prayer, she was taken to a room within the church where the pastor ordered her to pull off her clothes and undies and lay down on a piece of cloth on the floor which she obeyed. “While lying on the floor, the pastor started rubbing the anointing oil on her body and inserted his finger into her private part. “When she protested, the pastor pinned her down, covered her mouth and forcefully had sex with her with the claim that it is the only way to break the bond between her and the spirit husband. “Upon the report, the DPO, Ogijo Division, CSP Onatufe Umoh, quickly detailed his detectives to the scene where the randy pastor was promptly arrested. “On interrogation, the suspect confessed to the crime but claimed to have been overwhelmed by spirit.” The PPRO, however, said the Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to anti human trafficking and child labour unit of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and diligent prosecution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com