Binatone has introduced a wave of excitement with their recent release of new top-of-the-line entries focusing on the Nigerian consumer and market. This Rechargeable and battery operated energy efficient fans and cost effective blenders are available all around the country –addressing cogent individual needs and fulfilling one of the cornerstones of Binatone’s currently ongoing outreach campaign theme: Built for you. These Products are the RCF – 1855 standing fan, the BLG 412 and 410 Blenders, and the SI – 1830 Steam irons. The RCF – 1855 rechargeable standing fan is a high quality fan designed to run on battery for up to 5 hours on high speed, and up to 10 hours on low speed with up to Nine speed controls and a timer that can run for up to 9 hours. The RCF – 1855 is really an energy efficient solution to the power problems mostly found in the Nigerian household. The BLG – 410 and BLG – 412 blenders are also the newest entries into the affordable range of top quality of blenders in the appliance market, providing that high quality Binatone assurance along with the comfort of affordability and accessibility. They are built with overheat protection technology along with a 300-Watt Long Life turbo motor which is sure to ensure you get the best value for your money. These blender jugs come with Binatone s proprietary Unbreakable jugs.  Don’t forget the SI – 1830 Steam iron with Non-Stick ceramic base for easy gliding over fabric, with a variable steam burst to protect your fabric and provide the most hands-on ironing experience. The SI – 1830 Steam iron truly is an Iron made for the vibrant fashion aesthetic of Nigeria and Nigerians.  Hurry and don’t miss out on these new products, they are HOT HOT. Visit any Binatone partner store near you or your nearest electronic market to find the best available product for you, or contact a Binatone rep through: Facebook, Whatsapp or Instagram and you will be personally attended to regarding all your enquiries. Hurry Now! All Binatone products come with the assurance of a two-year warranty from date of purchase. Find a list of all available partner stores here. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com