Veritasi Homes and Properties, a real estate and property development company in Nigeria, says it has signed a learning partnership with the Lagos Business School, the graduate business school of Pan-Atlantic University. A statement said a three-day conference for realtors jointly organised by Veritasi Homes and Properties and the LBS would hold this month. Partner and Head, Marketing and Communications, Tobi Yusuff, said that the conference was organised to help realtors flourish in the real estate industry. He said, “This is a first of its kind, and through this partnership, we are looking at educating realtors on real estate-focused modules and other industry best practices. “The conference we are hosting as a follow-up to this partnership will have lecturers and other experts in the industry share their knowledge and experience with participants. It will be a free event, and we are working with the Lagos Business School to ensure that every selected participant gets maximum value from this conference. “We believe realtors should be well trained and have the requisite knowledge to help them become more efficient in their trade. I am very optimistic that this would greatly help them.” The Director, Executive Education, LBS, Mr Victor Banjo, said, “The real estate sector has in no small way contributed to this nation’s economic growth, and we thought of better equipping the realtors who happen to be major role players in the industry. “Our collaboration with Veritasi Homes is sure to yield the desired results.” Also present at the signing was a senior lecturer, strategy and international business, Dr Nkemdilim Iheanachor. The statement said he shared some of the learning highlights of the conference, such as relationship marketing, brand building and development, negotiation skills, and managing commercial real estate.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com