Two weeks ago, precisely on January 26, 2022, I wrote on this page about Nigeria’s tearful education sector. Arising from that, I got invited by TOS Television, Abuja to discuss how to reset Nigeria’s education system. Again, last Wednesday and Thursday, I was a participant at a two-day national education summit organised by an NGO, Human Development Initiatives. Most of the participants at the national dialogue were drawn from the education sector and it was humbling and quite revealing the extent of the rot in Nigeria’s education sector and the imperative of fixing it. There is no gainsaying that education is the cornerstone of knowledge. According to a great philosopher, Aristotle, “Education is the best provision for old age” while another philosopher, Plato (428 – 348 B.C), says “The direction in which education starts a man, will determine his future.”  A scholar, G.K Chesterton, opined that “Education is simply the soul of a society as it passes from one generation to another.” Lastly, the fiery American civil rights activist, Reverend Martin Luther King, characterised education in these glowing words: “I dreamt of a new role in which every man or woman could reach his or her full potential, irrespective of the colour of their skin, only by recognising education as a powerful weapon against poverty and injustice.” It is because of the importance of education to every society that made me decide to weigh in again to expose some of the corrupt practices, which now permeates the sector. It is important to note that corruption is more than stealing or collecting bribe. According to Transparency International, corruption is the abuse of entrusted power for private gain. This manifests a lot in Nigeria’s education sector. I recently watched a drama skit in which a school headmaster negotiated with a photographer to come and take passport photographs for pupils of his primary school. The agreed sum was N150 per child. However, the headmaster informed the class teacher to ask each child to bring N200, the class teacher in turn informed the pupils to bring N250, the child on getting home told the mother that he was asked to bring N300 for the passport photograph while the mother in turn notified her husband that their son has been asked to bring N350 unfailingly the next day for passport photograph. Imagine how corruption festers on an item! It is important to note that cheating in an exam is corruption. This is an age-long practice. Students writing on their bodies, some smuggling prepared answers on a sheet of paper into the exams hall, some even buy questions from some of the administrative staff, who are in charge of typing and packaging the questions, while some hire ‘mercenaries’ to impersonate and write the exams on their behalf. I know for a fact that there are agents who recruit these ‘mercenaries’ from tertiary institutions and deploy them to helping willing students who can afford to pay to write the examinations. There are also those who bribe invigilators to allow them cheat in exams. It is an open secret that there are a lot of corruption in the admission of pupils and students to some of the much sought after schools, be they primary, secondary or tertiary institutions. This phenomenon known as admission racketeering is very pervasive so much so that many qualified students have been denied admission to schools because of the heinous activities of this racketeers who sell admission slots to the highest bidder and not necessarily to the most qualified applicants. Another corrupt practice in Nigeria’s education sector is the sex-for-admission as well as sex-for-marks and grade phenomena. Recall that on February 20, 2020, an Ikeja High Court sentenced a former part-time lecturer in the University of Lagos, Akin Baruwa, to 21 years’ imprisonment for raping an 18-year-old admission seeker. In a similar fashion, a Federal High Court sitting in Osogbo on December 17, 2018 sentenced a former lecturer of Obafemi Awolowo University, Professor Richard Akindele, to two years in prison. Justice Maurine Onyetenu sentenced Professor Akindele at the end of his trial for demanding sex in exchange for marks from one of his students, Miss Monica Osagie. Despite the stiff punishments meted to these two scapegoats, there are still many sacred cows in Nigeria’s education system, exploiting their pupils and students. In the years gone by, scholarships were given to brilliant students from poor families; these days, it is the sons and daughters of the rich and those willing to pay to be on the list of beneficiaries that now get the scholarships. Only a sprinkle of students gets scholarships on merit nowadays. On many school campuses ‘sorting’ is a slang used as euphemism for bribing of lecturers. Students individually or as a group now contribute money to give their teachers and lecturers so that they can pass their exams. Some lecturers have also debased themselves on the altar of making money to negotiating with their students on a fee in order to enable them to help such willing students to write their long essays, dissertations or thesis. Can you beat that? Another ugly phenomenon in Nigeria’s education sector is certificate forgery. I have seen situation where some of the students who procured forged West Africa Secondary School Examination certificates in order to get admission to tertiary institutions were expelled from their schools after the verification exercise of the certificates at the West Africa Examination Council or National Examination Council offices. It’s not just petty or retail corruption that takes place in our academic institutions, there are also mega corruption. Take for instance the case of former Vice Chancellor of Federal University, Gusau, Zamfara State, Prof. Magaji Garba, who last October was arraigned in court on a five counts of fraud including obtaining money by false pretence and forgery. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission dragged the former VC before a judge of the Federal Capital Territory High Court, Jabi, Abuja, Maryam Hassan-Aliyu. Prof Garba was accused of extorting about N260 million from a contractor on the pretext of awarding him a N3 billion contract for the perimeter wall fencing of the university. Garba is not alone, several school administrators from headmasters of primary schools, principals of secondary schools, provosts of colleges of education, rectors of polytechnics and Vice-Chancellors of universities are all in the game of mismanaging the funds of their institutions. The list of corrupt practices in Nigeria’s education sector is endless. However, what are the implications of these malaise? One is a lack of trust in Nigeria’s academic institution’s certificates. Many Nigerians wanting to study or work abroad are made to write rigorous qualifying examinations because those institutions do not believe that the Nigerian graduates genuinely earn their certificates. The situation has also led to ‘unemployability’ of many Nigerian graduates, especially by the organised private sector. Imagine, graduates of tertiary institutions with woeful oral and written English; graduates who could not write job application and cannot defend the certificates they parade. The situation is dire for Nigeria’s future. How will the nation replace the aging and retiring workforce if those who are being recruited to take over are low skilled? This is the reason why many engineering graduates, even of polytechnics and technical colleges cannot repair anything; this is why many of our young professionals like medical doctors, architects, builders constitute dangers to their professions. Indeed, it is high time Nigeria’s education authorities reset the sector by weeding it of this litany of corrupt practices. It portrays the sector as being mercantilist, ‘cash ‘n’ carry’ where scruples count for nothing.  A stitch in time, saves nine! – Twitter @jideojong Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com