The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, on Wednesday, asked all tertiary institutions in Nigeria to make drug integrity test an institutional policy for both new and returning students, as part of the efforts to fight the menace of drug abuse among Nigerian youths. The agency also called for a partnership with the University communities that would ensure the setting up of outposts on campuses to further strengthen the authorities in fighting the scourge. Marwa made the requests at the University of Abuja while launching the ‘Drug-free University Campaign.’ He said, “Part of the measures to reduce drug use in the university is the proposed introduction of the drug integrity test for both new and returning students. The drug integrity test is anticipated to metamorphose into an anti-drug policy for all higher institutions of learning in Nigeria. “It is expected that the University of Abuja, being the ‘University of National Unity’, will be the first public University in Nigeria to adopt the drug integrity test for fresh and returning students of the institution. The Drug Integrity Test is not a punitive measure; rather it is an early detection tool to ascertain an individual’s drug use status for appropriate intervention, and timely treatment and care. “This will also entail that the university will develop a drug policy and make such available to each student. Equally important is the need to create an NDLEA outpost on the campus where we’ll deploy our men to assist the authorities, deter drug dealers and users within the University.” While commending the management of the University of Abuja for collaborating with NDLEA to organise the launch, he said the theme: ‘Drug-Free University and Tertiary Institutions’, was apt and timely as there was no better time than now to combat the drug challenge in the university community and among students. Marwa said the menace of drug use in the country was of worrisome dimension, especially among the youth population. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com