“There are over 11 inspections between importation and fuel stations. These are at the importation level and when the product arrives in Nigeria. For this (the contaminated fuel importation scandal) to happen, it means the system is completely compromised” — Hon. Aliyu Magaji (APC, Jigawa) Thursday, February 10, 2022. Nigeria is a country trapped in disorder and dysfunction. It wobbles from one impasse to another without seemingly learning from any of them. Thanks to weak governance, the state has been turned into a resource on which rotating cliques of visionless power holders stage a never-ending feast at the nation’s expense. In this unhappy context, the toxic fuel saga, presumably but likely not an accident, has now dovetailed into a full-blown fuel supply crisis whereby several cities are carrying on without supply while the black market is booming in view of an artificial price hike. No matter how you think of it, as some political scientists theorised, disorder has been instrumentalised to the extent that elite groups deliberately create crises in order to feather their own nests, not giving a damn for the sufferings of the hapless majority. Given that the fuel supply chain is central to economic activities, the minutest of disruption in that chain begets a multiplier effect leading to serial reactions with harmful consequences to a one-legged economy. In several other countries, including the developed democracies, politicians and leaders who occasion “pain at the pump” are not normally allowed a second chance as they instantly drop in public esteem. But here, we hold the distinction of recycling, even extolling, politicians and technocrats who run the country aground and come back to ask for our votes and support. The opening quote, sourced from an outraged discussion at the House of Representatives last week, says it all. It is hard to believe that contaminated fuel with high methanol content could escape the rigorous quality reassurance both at the source, in this case, Belgium, and here in Nigeria where all the marketing companies reportedly have their own vetting mechanisms. The statement by the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mele Kyari, naming four companies as the source of the problem read like an afterthought and lame justification in a context where the NNPC is the sole importer of petroleum, a fact pointed out to it by three of the companies named. The so-called explanation also begs several questions and issues, especially the one concerning how Premium Motor Spirit that is so badly contaminated circumvented all the inspection procedures that are meant to discover and ferret out toxicity. It is difficult to believe that what is playing out is not planned chaos to achieve some deliberate objectives such as ensuring that the government backtracks on its policy of upholding fuel subsidy for 18 more months. That may not be the only reason but in some other climes, heads would have rolled at the NNPC with sanctions, including blacklisting, meted out to the companies concerned. In that wise, all the excuses and apologetics of the NNPC officials, including the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority, would have been offered after they had been suspended from their positions. In like manner, such an action would have granted credibility to the so-called “major investigation” announced by the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources of Nigeria, Timipre Sylva, in the wake of the embarrassing event. In corporate cultures as well as enlightened governance settings, high level officials who lead their organisations and countries to disasters or breakdowns offer to resign in order to preserve the corporate ethos and to allow for unfettered investigations. It is unthinkable, to give an example, that a British minister who has presided over the kind of bedlam elicited by the fuel importation saga will remain in office offering one excuse after another to justify his conduct. It is the lack of ethical underpinning in our democratic system that sets us back so vividly in that there is a disconnect between misdemeanour, official negligence and sanctions. Indeed, it is bizarre that in what looks like an apology, a statement credited to the presidency was issued a couple of days back saying that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had not instructed that anybody should be queried over the contaminated fuel imbroglio. The way we carry on sadly suggests that those who goof are often given more leeway to make costlier mistakes and display more brazen incompetence, given that there are no value-setting procedures for sanitising a thoroughly rotten polity. Nobody knows how long the current nightmare of fuel shortage and scarcity will persist since nobody up there has shown interest in the identity of the culprits beyond the assurance of a major investigation, whatever that means. For all you care to know, the so-called major investigation may be no more than a time-buying ploy to bury the matter in bureaucratic abracadabra. So, if you are still wondering why the nation does not improve, especially in governance matters, while other nations are galloping forward and occupying the cutting edge, the answer is simple. Public officials are free to turn their offices into sites of dubious experiments and gaping incompetence, even turn the nation upside down because no one will call them to account. Of course, no corporate organisation run this way ever stands the test of time and it is a mystery, as a former Head of State once said, that given the comprehensive disorder prevalent, the country has not collapsed. The government could have taken the initiative and seized the moment by relieving the errant or absentee officials of their positions. Having failed to do this is sad enough but it can still amend the error, if it is willing to pick up the ball, by doing just that if only, as remarked earlier, to avoid chasing shadows in the name of major investigation. Remarkably in the successive crises that have bedevilled the country, the legislature, especially the Lower House, has shown more sensitivity to the suffering of the people, often speaking forthrightly to the issue at hand. Unfortunately, its adroit interventions and many committees of inquiry have had so little effect because it cannot do the work of the executive, whose business it is to implement suggestions and resolutions from the legislature. Let it be known that the woes of Nigerians which include insecurity cascading upwards, abysmal shortage of electricity, scarily high inflation illustrated by the upward climbing of food prices, unemployment figures hitting the roof have been compounded by the current downturn in the oil supply chain. Days after the NNPC insisted that it had augmented fuel supply, the queues are lengthening improbably and the de facto pump price has trebled, or at least doubled, in some of our major cities. Hopefully, this too will pass, even if for now uncertainty and confusion rule the roost. As the country inches forward to another major election, it should think soberly on ways of changing the governance culture so that a country so wonderfully resourced does not stay at the bottom league of achievement or be perpetually referred to as the sick man of Africa. Obviously, Nigeria can do much better if its leaders can muster the political will to reverse the squalid Unfortunately so far, this is the road not taken. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com