The Nigeria Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Agency has suspended the operations of four filling stations in Anambra over suspected delivery of bad Premium Motor Spirit (petrol) at the outlets. The Operations Controller, NMDPRA in Anambra, Mr Victor Orjiakor, said this in Awka on Wednesday. Orjiakor said the proactive surveillance checks suggested that the products delivered to the filling stations might have been lifted from the depots that received the “methanol-contaminated” PMS consignment that came into the country last month. He said samples had been collected from the outlets for laboratory testing and that in the meantime, they would not be allowed to sell the suspected unwholesome product to customers. He said, “We track every truck coming into the state. We don’t have any NNPC depot facilities in Anambra; we crosscheck every product coming in through Enugu and Aba depots and with that, we were able to discover four stations that received suspected adulterated PMS.” Orjiakor condemned the increase in the price of PMS, saying teams of the agency were on surveillance across the state to ensure marketers sold at the industry approved range of N162 and N165 per litre. He said there was no official increase in the price of products at the depots and that marketers who flouted the price regulation and compromised their pumps would be made to face the law. He, however, said that product supply in Anambra was satisfactory in spite the prevailing inadequacies in general supply, adding that the agency was working to ensure that there was no scarcity. According to Orjiakor, the NMDPRA is the only agency established by law to regulate the petroleum industry. The operations controller said, “We are the only regulator in Nigeria and we are doing it diligently, round the clock; no other organisation is authorised by law to regulate anything; anybody doing so is on illegal duty and is not acceptable to us and can never be. “Part of our strategy is that we enlighten marketers that we are the only organisation that regulates their activities and also tells them to stand up and tell these people that they don’t have the right when they come to their outlets. However, in the course of activities, we may have to call for their services but we must lead the team; nobody should threaten marketers. “We are managing price control and product availability, pending when the current supply gap is bridged and we are doing that with a blend of advocacy and enforcement.” Orjiakor said NMDPRA was serious about ensuring that marketers operated within the industry rules by using the right pumps and putting in place standard safety precautions with well-trained staff.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com