A witness of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Rukkayat Ibrahim, on Wednesday in Abuja admitted that the offences for which a former chairman of the Pension Reform Task Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, was tried and imprisoned were committed between 2011 and 2017. According to her, a former Head of Service of the Federation, Stephen Orasanye, retired in November 2010 before Maina’s offences were committed. She made the clarifications during a cross-examination by Orosanye’s counsel, Ade Inneh (SAN), during the ongoing trial of the erstwhile HoSF. The EFCC had on Tuesday tendered in evidence, a copy of the judgment of Justice Okon Abang of a Federal High Court in Abuja, which convicted and sentenced Maina to eight years imprisonment. But the defence lawyers held that the judgment had no probative value to the case since Orosanye could not have made approvals from retirement. Answering questions, the 20th witness admitted that Count One of the charge upon which Maina was convicted covered a period between 2011 and 2017 whereas, Oronsaye left service in 2010. She also said the offences contained in Counts Two and Three of the charge were committed between 2011 and 2017, while in Count Four, Maina, she said,  committed the offence between 2015 and 2018 as well as other counts. When asked whether Orosanye was in office when all these offences were committed by Maina, the judge interrupted, saying, “it is a matter of address by counsel in the matter.” On the over N131 million that was transferred to the State House’s account, the witness insisted that due process was not followed because according to her, the money was meant for pension fund. Since the money was appropriated, the witness said it was only through virement that such an amount could have been moved from one department to the other. When a letter (exhibit CL5B) dated June 17, 2010 written by Oronsanye to former President Goodluck Jonathan, pertaining to contingency account was shown to her, the witness said, “I cannot confirm the authenticity of this letter.” However, she confirmed it was an approval from the presidency. Trial continues on February 3 before Justice Inyang Ekwo.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com