A travel educational consultancy that helps graduates secure admission abroad to study for PHD, masters and PGD has continuously taking upon them to send followers on social media on an all expense paid trip to different countries. Aside helping graduates gain admission into any country of choice and that with full or partial scholarships, Vantage Migration and Allied Consult is so committed to organizing contest that gives her followers the chance to win an all expense paid trip abroad. This has been one of the many ways she appreciate them for creating awareness for the company through the contest. Dr Linda Iheme, the CEO of Vantage Migration and Allied Consult has single handedly sponsored followers to countries like Rwanda, Dubai, Benin Republic, Ghana, Kenya and during the month of November, Dr Linda sponsored a follower to Dubai yet again. The winner, Elizabeth Chioma Ofunwa, a native of Mgbidi in Oru-West local government, Imo State who is a financial Control specialist in a Mortgage Bank in Lagos was selected after a rigorous contest. Chioma who had her first travel experience courtesy Vantage Migration and Allied Consult shares her experience at Dubai, “Sure, I had great fun. After I was declared the winner at 11pm thereabouts, I got a call from the CEO and also added to a group where I was introduced to the Vantage team. I sent in my International Passport as requested and that was it. All the visa, ticket and hotel reservation processing were all done for me, all I did was confirm all personal information. The day of my flight, I got calls and messages from the team to wish me well, confirm my departure time and ensure I had no issues although my immigration process upon my boarding and take off.  We went for the Dubai Expo 2020. There we had access to over 150 countries exhibition space, we were given the Expo yellow passport so we could get stamps from the different countries we were able to visit as there were long queues in some popular country’s space. I also had the fun of dancing with the street moving dancer as they were called. It was so much fun to learn the culture of different countries through visual means all in one day Then, we had the most thrilling fun at the Safari desert where we took the desert ride and took nice pictures, after which we were hosted to the BBQ dinner. The dinner was a cool evening fun with different dance presentations and the fireman making the night so amazing Then come the day we visited the most impactful place for me on tour which was “The View at the Palms”. Here, I learnt so much and was marveled at how a man can dream Big and how such massive dream came to being. The most beautiful sight to behold in Dubai, the estate that built on water and in the shape of a palm tree such that all streets representing the branches were surrounded by water. The Documentary of how it all begun, the cost and the few years it took for the completion was a wonder. So interesting and educational. We lasted visited the IMG World of Adventure, it was truly adventurous I would advise all graduates of all grades (whether good or considered bad ) to follow Dr. Linda iheme or vantage migration on all social media platforms to partake and enjoy rich insight from a stream of wealth of Accurate information and also win so many goodies as a follower just like myself. You will do yourself and your generation well by following dr. Linda iheme and also participate in the contests and all other instruction/information on the platform.  I would like to say Thank You to Vantage Migration and Allied Consult for the privilege given me to such an amazing experience and knowledge. Also, I want to say Weldone for the amazing works and lives you touch and transform by different means and platforms by which you do all you do. God bless you, continue to promote and spread your fame all over the world. Vantage Migration and Allied Consult trains graduates who have dreams of travelling abroad, also help graduates secure scholarships and other fully funded opportunities abroad. Click on the free webinar link http://www.vantagemigration.ca to get started.