The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission has announced plans to launch a power outage reporting application to improve electricity supply in Nigeria. NERC said the application would ease and fast-track the process of reporting and addressing complaints on power outage across the country. The Vice-Chairman, NERC, Dr Musiliu Oseni, disclosed this on Wednesday at the inauguration of Ogun Complaints Forum Office in Abeokuta. Oseni said the application would be integrated into the systems of the various electricity distribution companies. According to him, the app will trigger alerts immediately power outage complaints are made by customers. Oseni said, “This is part of our efforts at leveraging technology to address complaints on power outage. Already, the app is on and can be downloaded through Google Play or Apple Store. “The pilot scheme will start and be rolled out for Abuja customers in the next few weeks and it will thereafter be rolled out nationwide.” According to Oseni, the new Ogun forum office is the 31st office established across the country. He added that NERC planned to establish at least one forum office in each state of the country to enable electricity consumers to lodge their complaints to the commission. He said, “The electricity sector is still fraught with a lot of challenges and some of them are beyond the control of the utility providers. “Some are systemic problems that require strong efforts and commitment on the parts of the policy makers, regulators and well-meaning Nigerians. The commission wants to ensure that it performs its oversight function rooted in international best practices and without discrimination. “It is part of efforts to realise this aspiration that this forum office is being unveiled. A five-member panel has been carefully selected from local communities in the state to adjudicate on any complaints brought to the forum. “The panel will consider each case based on already established rules and laws in tune with the Nigerian constitution and then deliver its ruling on the matter.” He, however, explained that the first point of call for lodgment and resolution of complaints should be the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company, the distribution company in charge of the state. “Only when complaints are not resolved or satisfactorily attended to within two weeks are customers expected to escalate to the NERC forum office,” he said. The Chief Operating Officer of IBEDC, John Ayodele, in his address, noted that the development was a demonstration of NERC’s commitment to putting the customers first. Ayodele, represented by Chief Commercial Officer, IBEDC, Deolu Ijose, said the forum was in line with the firm’s goal of taking service delivery to higher heights through “customer-centric initiatives.” He encouraged IBEDC customers in Ogun to take advantage of various platforms created by the firm and the NERC to get their complaints resolved.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com