The National Youth Council, Anambra State chapter, has called for the revival of the Igbo apprenticeship system known as ‘Igba-Boi’ as a form of youth empowerment to reduce the current rate of insecurity in the South-East. The NYC state Chairman, Samuel Egwuatu, stated this at a Youth interactive forum, organised by the Justice Development and Peace Caritas in collaboration with the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office, in Awka, on Saturday. Egwuatu described the ‘Igba Boi’ apprenticeship system as a process where youths were trained, mentored, and empowered in entrepreneurship by successful businessmen and women. He said many highly successful businessmen and entrepreneurs in the region went through the apprenticeship system. Egwuatu lamented that the dearth of such youth empowerment schemes had contributed to the high rate of kidnapping, violent protest, killings, cult activities and other forms of insecurity in the South-East. He frowned on the current situation where youths prefer to ride tricycles or motorcycles to earn a living, saying that such income was not sustainable. He said, “An idle mind, is the devil’s workshop. It is very unfortunate that many of our youths no longer believe in hard work as they now resort to ‘get rich quick’ methods. They get bought over to go commit crimes for money. “They want to become rich like many successful men and women but they forget that these men and women went through hard work to become successful. “So, we are calling for the revival of the Igba-Boi apprenticeship system. That system is a reminder and a boost to the courage, resilience, hard work, and persistent nature of Nigeria’s young men and women. “We also called for more investment in vocational training schools to empower our youths to get them empowered, busy and responsible in the society.” Egwuatu also lamented the flagrant display of money at events and on social media by celebrities, saying that such act influences the youths negatively and it is also an abuse of the country’s currency. “Our youth see these things and it is making them get involved in ritual killings to get rich quick. We urged authorities, such as the National Orientation Agency to intensify awareness on the dangers of ‘get-rich-quick’ methods and abuse of the naira. The Deputy Director, NOA, Anambra State, Joseph Uchendu, urged the government to dialogue with the youths to end insecurity in the South East. Uchendu, therefore, urged the youths to be agents of positive change in society and appealed to them to cooperate with the agency as it embarked on a community campaign against drug abuse in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com