The Governor of Niger State and Chairman North Central States Governors’ Forum, Abubakar Sani Bello, has urged the Military to intensify efforts in their operations in the state as directed by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mary Noel-Berje, said the plea followed the incessant and sporadic increase in attacks by the terrorists in Shiroro, Munya, Rafi and Paikoro Local Government Areas of the state recently. Noel-Berje said, “The Governor decried and lamented the constant attacks on many communities and consequential loss of lives and property, including military bases in Allawa and Galadiman Kogo. “He expressed displeasure over the heightened nefarious activities of the terrorists, noting that the criminality is carried out with reckless abandon in a manner that undermines the efforts of the security agencies drafted to the area.” Governor Bello was quoted as saying, “With these recent attacks, the terrorists are daring the capability and capacity of the military, hence we must demonstrate our military might through the approved coordinated Air and ground assault to flush out the miscreants from our forests, their hideout.” “If we must win this battle against the terrorists, which we will, we must increase and sustain military operations to comb the forests. This is expedient because our people are dying and the living are becoming more agitated and hopeless,” the Governor added. While appreciating the efforts of the Joint Security Taskforce stationed in the embattled communities, the Governor renewed his call to the people to assist the security agencies with credible intelligence that will enhance effective operations against the terrorists. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com