A member of the Lagos Motor Boat Club, Babajide Coker, on Thursday sought an order of the Court of Appeal in Lagos reversing a lower court judgment that struck out his suit seeking to sack the trustees of the club over an alleged exclusion from the club’s 2020 election. Coker had in 2021 dragged the club’s trustees to court over his expulsion and commuted suspension from the club. In the suit he filed on June 16, 2021, Coker stated that his wrongful expulsion which was later converted to six months suspension robbed him of the opportunity to vie for the post of duty officer in the club’s 2020 election. The respondents in the suit are the registered trustees of club, Dr Dapo Majekodunmi, Mr Babajide Balogun, Babashola Alokolaro, Ladi Ani-Mumuney, Francis Awogboro and the Corporate Affairs Commission. Coker, in the suit filed by his counsel, Kemi Pinheiro, (SAN), sought a nullification and/or setting aside the October 5, 2020 election of the club; nullification and/or setting aside his expulsion or suspension from the club and relisting his name as a validly nominated and qualified candidate for election to serve as a duty officer of the committee of the first defendant. However, Justice Lewis Allagoa of the Federal High Court, Lagos, in his judgment of February 21, 2022, held, among others, that Coker had no locus standi to have brought the action according to Section 839(2) & (3) of the Companies and Allied Matters Act. Dissatisfied with the decision of the lower court, Coker through his counsel filed an appeal in suit FHC/L/CS/578/2021, stating that the lower court erred in law. He prayed for four reliefs, including an order allowing the appeal and another reversing Justice Allagoa’s judgment. He also urged the court to enter judgment in his favour “as per the reliefs sought on the face of the substantive Originating Summons by invoking its amplitude of powers under Section 15 of the Court of Appeal Act 2004.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com