The Indigenous People of Biafra has taken sides with statements credited to Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe that its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, never ordered the sit-at-home home currently being observed in the South-East. Abaribe, had last week told a section of the media, after meeting with Kanu, that the IPOB leader told him, he never gave instruction for any sit-at-home home in the region. In a statement on Thursday, IPOB’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, said, “It is true, statements from Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, because we stated it before now that our leader, Nnamdi Kanu, through his lawyers had asked IPOB members and leadership precisely, the DOS, to stop Monday sit-at-home order. “Those enforcing the non-existent Monday sit-at-home order killing and burning down properties belonging to Biafrans will incur the wrath of IPOB in due cause.” The group expressed its worry that the Monday sit-at-home is still being observed in the South-East, despite its cancellation. It, therefore, dissociated itself from those enforcing what it termed, “non-existent Monday sit-at-home order”, saying they were not members of IPOB. The group urged the people of the region to ignore such people and go about their normal business, claiming that they are enemies and traitors in the “freedom struggle”. It added, “We are watching them because soon their cups will be full and overflow. If you know you are truly for Biafra freedom don’t fall into these liars and deceivers because the truth will soon emerge. “They will soon regret their actions because they are not IPOB members and don’t know or understand what IPOB is capable of doing. They must regret what they are doing in our land. Their actions are detestable both to God and to man. Such people have nothing in common with IPOB. “This recent information and statement from Senator Abaribe has vindicated our legal team and DOS who obliged the information from our lawyers who indicated how our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, instructed us to stop Monday sit-at-home.” The statement continues, “Those in America and some parts of Europe, issuing fake orders to blackmail IPOB and its operational leadership that the lawyers lied should be ready to embrace what is to come against them. It’s better everybody hears Senator Abaribe, but those claiming to be Nnamdi Kanu disciples and using it to change IPOB strategy will regret their actions. “Again, it has come to the knowledge of great family of IPOB that they are now peddling lies against IPOB and our leader that he sidetracked the people of Ebonyi State in the leadership of IPOB. Such tissue of lies do not merit any response as doing so will amount to dignifying it. “The truth is that the entire Biafraland is fully represented in the leadership of IPOB. The gullible minds are following the gimmicks and antics these ‘confusionists’ are using to deceive them. IPOB is one family today, tomorrow and forever and nothing will change that strategy which is holding us together till eternity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com