Borehole drillers in Ondo State under the auspices of the Association of Water Well Drilling Rig Owners and Practitioners have expressed displeasure over the activities of some non-professional drillers in the state. The association called on the state Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, to set up a task force to curb the activities of the quacks. The National Vice Chairman of the association, Mr Dayo Opeyemi, made the call at a meeting with the officials of the state Ministry of Environment in Akure, the state capital, on Tuesday. He warned that the activities of the quacks, if not checked, would affect the environment in the nearest future. Opeyemi said, “The system has already been bastardised with the activities of quacks within the system.  We want the government to regulate the system. So, we are here in order to have a synergy with the government. “There are lots of infiltration within our system. There are lots of quacks who are foreigners, who don’t even know the geophysical survey of the state; they all come here to do the work unprofessionally. Their own is just to make money and go. That is why we want the government to come in.” In his remarks, the state Commissioner for Environment, Mr Sunday Akinwalere, said the government would set up a task force to deal with the activities of illegal borehole drillers as part of the efforts to protect the environment. Akinwalere said the state was already making arrangements to send a bill to the state House of Assembly for environmental protection. He explained that the bill would contain everything about the protection of the environment in the state. He said, “The government of Akeredolu is very committed to the protection of the environment and the people in this state. The state has allowed us to partner with any well-meaning organisation like this association. The bill is there to ensure our environment is protected. “On the issue of quackery, part of the deliberation is for them to register; that is when we can deal with the quacks among them. We will make sure that if you have not registered with the state government, you won’t be allowed to practise, even if you are a professional.” The commissioner also said the task force would be set up for enforcement in the next two weeks. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com