GOXI Micro Insurance Company has said it took its campaign, tagged ‘We Dey Ur Back’, to Lagos markets to make its products and services easily accessible, and create awareness on insurance. The company said in a statement that during the sensitisation at Oke Arin market, Lagos Island, traders were delighted when its representatives introduced the ‘GOXI Ma Business’ to them. It said the campaign had gone round various markets in different local governments in Lagos State, such as Balogun, Tejuosho, Iyana Ipaja, Igando, Ikorodu, Ikeja and Agege markets. The Business Development Manager, GOXI Micro Insurance, Mr Efe Isiorho, said traders could have their goods insured with as low as N500 under the ‘GOXI Ma Business’ insurance package. “GOXI Ma Business is an insurance plan developed to help traders insure their wares. The insurance plan helps to provide funds whenever goods get damaged following the occurrence of burglary, theft or fire. It also provides alternative shop for the business,” he said. Efe also introduced other products such as the GOXI Microloan Protection, which, according to him, helps with the repayment of loans or debts following the occurrence of unforeseen events like loss of job or untimely death. According to the statement, others are GOXI Agric Loan Protection, targeted at farmers to support them in repaying agric loans following the occurrence of unforeseen events like flood or damage of crops or farm produce; and GOXI Welfare, a plan designed for staffs, family, and association members to have access to medical treatments in the event of accident or permanent disability. The Chairman, GOXI Micro Insurance, Dr Godwin Ehigiamusoe, described the campaign as one of the ways the company planned to help Nigerians create a sustainable future for their businesses and families. “We are poised to deliver responsive insurance policies through our flexible and innovative structures,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com