The Nigerian Bar Association, Warri and Benin branches, have decried the level of insecurity in the country after three lawyers and their driver were abducted along the Benin-Auchi Road, Edo State. PUNCH Metro gathered that the four men – Fred Aburu, Isreal Unurierume, Eda Gbejule, and Kome Esike (driver) – were kidnapped on Wednesday on their way to court. The Publicity Secretary of the NBA, Benin, Ogaga Emoghwanre, in a statement, expressed concern that the kidnapping of lawyers along the Benin-Auchi Road had become a recurring decimal. The statement said, “In what has become a recurring decimal, the kidnappers struck again in the early hours of today, February 2, 2022, shooting sporadically. While at it, they kidnapped three lawyers and their driver to wit: Mr Fred Aburu, Mr Israel Unurierume, Mr Eda Gbejule and Mr Kome Esike, the driver. “It was revealed that the affected lawyers, who are members of the Warri branch of the NBA (The Radioactive Bar), were on their way from Warri to Sabo-Gida Ora High Court when they were attacked at the Ehor axis of the expressway. “The question now is: if lawyers who spend most of their lives fighting for the oppressed can be kidnapped, does it not automatically mean that no one in this country is safe? “The bitter truth is that the rising incidence of kidnapping in Edo State is mindboggling and the NBA Benin branch cannot, and will not sit back and allow this to linger within our turf.” The Chairman, NBA, Warri, Chief Emmanuel Uti, said the development was disturbing. “This kidnap incident once again brings to the fore the challenges associated with our profession. “While we await further information from security agencies, we are enjoined to remember our colleagues in our prayers for their safe release,” he added. The Edo State Police Command on Wednesday claimed that many of the kidnappers terrorising the Benin-Auchi Road had been neutralised. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com