The Board of Directors of Creditville Group Limited has appointed Ikechukwu Iheanacho as the new managing director of Redwood Asset Management Limited, one of its subsidiaries. Ikechukwu, according to a statement on Tuesday, possesses extensive experience in banking, investment analysis and fund management. It said, “He started his career with Stanbic IBTC where he was first a credit origination analyst and then crossed over to the investment research team where he provided research coverage with investment recommendations on several sectors including banking, consumers, industrials, oil and gas, and agriculture in Nigeria, Ghana, and Kenya. “Ikechukwu is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Economists of Nigeria, and an associate member of the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investments, with further certification in sustainable and responsible investing from the institute. He is currently pursuing a Master’s in Business Administration at the Edinburgh Business School of Heriot-Watt University, United Kingdom.” Prior to his appointment, Iheanacho was at Quantum Zenith Asset Management and Investments Limited, according to the statement. Edtech firm selected as semifinalist in global competition A Nigerian edtech firm, Teesas, has been selected to the Elite 200, the list of semifinalists in the GSV Cup, the world’s largest pitch competition for edtech startups. According to a statement, companies selected to the Elite 200 represent the top pre-seed and seed-stage startups in digital learning across the “Pre-K to Gray” space. It said Teesas would now compete for up to $1m in cash and prizes in San Diego this April at the ASU+GSV Summit, the annual education technology event hosted by Arizona State University and GSV Ventures, a venture capital firm. The statement said Teesas was selected from a global applicant pool of over 750 companies. It said more than 175 judges from leading venture capital firms and strategic partners in digital learning like Accel, General Atlantic, Reach Capital, and Owl Ventures, used rigorous criteria to determine the 200 most promising companies. The founder and Chief Executive Officer, Teesas, Osayi Izedonmwen, said, “We are elated that we’ve been selected as one of The Elite 200, just a few months after we closed a $1.6m pre-seed round. All of us at Teesas feel like winners already. We thank GSV Ventures for the recognition and their commitment to uplifting edtech startups globally.” “We’re at a critical and exciting time for the future of society,” said the Managing Partner of GSV Ventures, Deborah Quazzo. “We’ve always imagined a new era in which ALL people have equal access to the future, and this year’s Elite 200 companies are emblematic of that vision. We’re proud to name the 200 semifinalists in the GSV Cup competition and look forward to having them pitch live at the ASU+GSV Sumit.” The GSV Cup is powered by Google Cloud, HubSpot for Startups, HolonIQ, and GSV Ventures, according to the statement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com