Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel, has opened up on why he has chosen his commissioner of lands, Umo Eno, as the preferred candidate to succeed him in office in 2023, saying that his decision was based on the fact that he meant well for the State. He claimed that he waited for God to reveal to him the one who would continue with the development strides recorded in the state in the last six years. Eno was unveiled on Sunday by Elders and Stakeholders of the People’s Democratic party and religious leaders at a meeting held at the government house lodge, Uyo. Speaking on Monday while fielding questions from journalists during the commissioning of Spectrum Television, the State’s first privately owned cable television station, owned and operated by TAF Media Group, the governor said his choice is based on the love he has for the state. He said “Let me say this emphatically, I mean well for this State, that is why I waited for God to show me the man who would continue with the pace of developmental strides we have started in the last six-plus years and then move the needle even further” He described his anointed successor as a God-fearing, humble and a successful entrepreneur. Emmanuel said, “Pastor Umo Eno is a highly respected person; he has enormous capacity, is an epitome of humility, and is blessed with the common touch, a compelling story and is God-fearing. “He is a successful entrepreneur who has employed our people, lifted thousands from poverty to prosperity. “He will be coming to the office of Governor with an economic blueprint that will further guarantee employment, development, and economic prosperity for our people. “He is a man of peace and will ensure that the peace and security of life we have enjoyed in the last six plus years will be maintained. His life story resonates with the story of most ordinary Akwa Ibom people. “He came from the Police barracks, where, as he said during his Thanksgiving Service last year, life was dreary and hope seemed a distant ingredient. “Through hard work, he summoned hope and overcame his early difficulties and ended up as one the biggest employers of labour in our State. “His story is a testament to our Dakkada philosophy; one that will inspire and motivate our youths” The Governor said that he never looked for a surrogate to do a third term but rather was looking for a man of exceptional capacity, of peace and humility and enjoined all peace-loving and progress-minded Akwa Ibomites to rally round and support God’s choice. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com