The Provost, Federal College of Education (Technical), Asaba, Delta State, Dr. Josephine Anene-Okeakwa, has denied any wrongdoings in the ongoing investigation on certificate forgery and age falsification involving of the institution’s staff. Aside from allegations of certificate forgery and age falsification, the provost also clarified that contrary to claims in several media reports, she was not involved in any financial misappropriation. This is as she also called on online media to always verify their report, ensure accurate and balanced reports before publishing. Anene-Okeakwa stated these on Wednesday while speaking with our correspondent over allegation of corruption in the institution published by online media. She said, “I cannot destroyed a house I built. I suffered and contributed towards the development of this institution years back. “As a young corps member then, serving in the institution, I founded the Home-Economics department and worked assiduously to the development of the school. “I cannot cover up for any certificate forgery and age falsification or any corruption as a matter of fact. I have written to National Commission for College of Education to carry out verification exercise in the institution. “The issue we are having now is not certificate forgery but cadre issue. I was not here when the said young man was recruited but during our investigation, we find out that the man was recruited as computer analyst. “He was moved to another department because as at then, there was no computer in the school and so, now I have moved him to his appropriate department to go and teach students computer. “I set up panel on the matter, and the reports of the panel is yet to come out, some frivolous petitioners started alleging that I’m covering up with the lecturer. On the issue of running another bank account, the Provost said, “When I resumed as the provost of the institution, I find out that the lesson money paid by the parents of primary and secondary pupils cause confusion. “So, I ordered to reactivate the fidelity bank account that had gone dormant. The College runs Primary and Secondary school, and the lesson fees paid into the account, at the end of the term, the principal pay the teachers their money without any confusion. “The College runs Treasury Single Account so as to avoid corruption, the teachers money go into TSA, and that account was reactivated.” Anene-Okeakwa said that she never covered up for any lecturer and would not be deterred by the propagandists, adding that she was committed to the mandate of moving the institution to the next level. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com