Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) has reiterated the need for Nigerians to showcase several talents across the creative, and other sectors to the world. The VP also said film-makers have very strong weapons to bring about social change. Emphasising the need to pay more attention to the country’s human resources, Osinbajo noted that Nigeria’s creative sector was one of the most vibrant anywhere. Osinbajo made the call on Wednesday night when he received Kannywood stars delegation at Presidential Villa. This was contained in a statement signed by his spokesman, Laolu Akande, and titled, ‘Osinbajo & Baba Buhari, We Have Come With the Song Again – Kannywood Stars’. Osinbajo said, “When you look at our country, here is a fantastic country, with talents from every corner, but it can also be a place where people are just fighting, quarrelling over nothing; whereas we can bring, with the power of what you are doing, we can bring people together, we can bring all our people together. “If you look at sports, if you look at entertainment, they can bring people together. And we must use it to bring our people together, we must use this talent to bring our people together. “I like the film industry. I enjoy comedy, I enjoy songs in whatever language, and I’m sure there are so many who are interested. Even sometimes looking at a video when you don’t even speak the language, you look at a video you’ll laugh because you know that it is funny. “So, sometimes it does not matter the language in which it is delivered, people will laugh so long as it is funny. I think that you have a very strong weapon – the creative industry, has a very strong weapon – drama, music, comedy, these are very powerful and you can use them to do so many things and we must use it to do so many things. “The usefulness of your talent is not just for a small set of people, but it is for everybody because your contributions are very important.” Speaking through their spokesman, Yakubu Mohammed, the Kannywood stars restated their commitment to the Buhari administration, adding that they would continue to support the government. They also solicited government assistance in helping to address some of the challenges the industry was facing especially in the area of financial enablement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com