Retired workers of the Lagos State Television have appealed to the state government to restore the TV station’s monthly subvention of N17m to enhance its operations. They lamented that the subvention was reduced to less than N3m, despite the growing competition occasioned by the proliferation of broadcast organisations in the state. Speaking at the launch of a book written by the Nigerian Union of Pension, LTV branch, and titled, ‘History of Lagos Television, the branch chairman, Mr Gabriel Fadeyi, said the broadcast outfit should be well-funded since it was not established for commercial purposes. He also urged the state government to fully expand the TV station to take care of the five divisions, including Epe, Badagry, and Ijanikin. “We, LTV pensioners, are, therefore, appealing to our amiable governor, our legislator, and commissioners, to please restore LTV’s monthly subvention of N17m. In fact, we plead that the monthly subvention to LTV should be increased to N20m monthly. LTV had its mandates when it was established and it is still operating on those mandates,” Fadeyi said. The chairman said the idea of the book was conceptualised in March, 2018, to chronicle the creation of the TV, its challenges and achievements. “The writers also touched on the LTV’s initial major challenges, especially the politics of TV channel allocation, the mysterious fire incident of 1985, the relocation of LTV to its present position, the period of doldrum, the politics of the exit of Mr Taiwo Alimi, and, of course, the gradual official interference in the affairs of LTV’s management,” Fadeyi added. In her remark, the Commissioner for Establishments, Training and Pension, Ajibola Ponle, who described the book as thoughtful, said it would give readers an insight into the history of the broadcaster. Ponle also said the state government would continue to meet its obligations to pensioners. Also speaking, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, who was represented by the Director of Information, Mr Olumide Shogunle, said the book would be a reference point for the TV station and media practitioners.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com