The past one and a half years have been extremely trying for a journalist and public relations specialist, Tunde Eso, as he struggles to fight his way out of brain tumour. Having spent about N12m on scans, drugs and a surgery, 44-year-old Eso, who is also an author, is now required to undergo another surgery at a hospital in India. The treatment and travel costs were estimated at N18m. Eso said he sold his house, car and land to raise part of the N12m he had spent so far and appealed to well-meaning Nigerians to come to his aid as he had become completely broke. He told City Round that the ailment started after he was given recommended eyes glasses by a doctor who reportedly diagnosed him with glaucoma in June 2020. He said he had sleepless nights for two months and consequently lost his left eye on August 13, 2020, adding that when his condition did not improve, a neurologist at a private hospital directed him to run a magnetic resonance imaging scan on his brain. The report signed by Dr. G.K Beria and Dr. O.O Odafe-Oyibotia, revealed he has brain tumor measuring “28x23x29mm,” noting that “appearances are possibly of left cavernous sinus meningioma.” Eso, who said he bought expensive drugs for six months, stated that between December 2020 and January 2021, he was rushed to the hospital more than three times and asked to run another MIR scan which revealed the brain tumor had increased to 71cm. He said, “I went for brain surgery in February 2021 and was happy that it was one of the best neurosurgeons in Nigeria that did the surgery for me. The doctor told me a week after that the tumour still remains because it is close to my brain and if he removed it, it can lead to death. I had to do radiotherapy at LUTH (Lagos University Teaching Hospital). I was in a wheelchair for one month. I have sold my house, car and land. Some passionate people assisted me to cure this health challenge. I have spent N12m in over one year on drugs, brain surgery, consultancy, feeding, accommodation and 10 different scans. “After all is done, the tumor has started increasing again with pains all over my body. I need another surgery urgently at Max Hospital, Gurgaon, India, and the cost of treatment, travelling together with an assistant, accommodation, feeding, drugs, among others is N18m.” Donations to Eso can be sent to his UBA bank account with the name, Babatunde Eso and account number 2085740884 (naira) and 2239281003 (dollar).  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com