The Nigerian Railway Corporation says vandalism, track theft and erosion are frustrating its operations in the South-East. While decrying the continued vandalisation of the railway lines in the region, it stressed that the development had hindered rail operation in the eastern corridor. The Eastern District Manager, NRC, Mr. Olusoji Osidipe, who disclosed this in a chat on Tuesday, said all efforts to ensure that trains start operating in the East have not been yielding the desired result because of the challenges. According to Osindipe, the efforts of the NRC internal security outfit and security agencies have not been able to stop hoodlums from carting away with the rail tracks. Olusoji said, “I don’t know what else to say.  Journalists have been asking what’s preventing the operation of trains in the East and I have always told them that the activities of vandals have been the problem. “If you go out, you will see how the rails have been vandalised apart from erosion that has been attacking the rails also. “We have been working with security agencies to ensure that the vandalisation of the NRC property stopped, but it has not worked.  But you can see that the vandalism is crippling rail transport in the East.  I suggest that the traditional rulers and community heads where the rails passed should do something about securing the rail lines,” he said. When his attention was drawn to the fact that trains were operating in Lagos and Abuja where vandals also attack rail lines, Olusoji said it was not as heavy as the situation in the South-East. “They vandalise the rails there also but it is not to this extent.  Virtually all the rail lines have been vandalised down here and if this is not checked, it will take time for trains to operate here.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com