The Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, has said the state is matching forward while celebrating the 46th anniversary of its creation. In a post on his official Facebook page, Uzodinma expressed delight in how the state has been able to survive economic and security challenges. He said this was possible due to the unifying spirit and courage summoned by the patriotic sons and daughters of the state. He wrote, “Since the creation of Imo State from the then East Central States, we have sustained the development of a master plan bequeathed to us by our founding fathers. “Unfortunately my administration inherited series of challenges on account of the deviation from the legacies of our founding fathers. From deplorable infrastructure, to economic hardship occasioned by the global pandemic (COVID-19), we also saw our common patrimony colonised by those we entrusted with the sacred duty of leadership. “Thankfully, we also survived the insecurity that had attempted crippling the State. The unifying spirit and courage summoned by our patriotic sons and daughters enabled us to surmount the obstacles. “Today, by the grace of God, we have reclaimed our dear State from the locusts that had eaten deep into our commonwealth. We are now marching forward, committed to the progress of every sector that guarantees the economic growth of our people. “We have instituted reforms that are sanitizing our systems from the Civil Service, which serves as the engine room of Government, to the administrative restructuring of our various Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). “I am pleased to note that the rejuvenation of staff welfare packages has improved the motivation and commitment of civil servants to the excellent performance of their duties. “At the moment, we are combining the overhaul of infrastructural development to complement our economic growth drive. These measures are targeted at uplifting every home in Imo State and giving our people, the front roll attention that they deserve. Our partnership with governmental and non-governmental agencies have improved our chances to success especially with the diversification of our economy to include more footprints in Agriculture and industrialization. “As we commemorate the creation of our dear Imo State, we remain resolute to the sustenance of the ideals and values that propelled our founding fathers to building the Imo State of Our dream. I, therefore, urge you, our beloved Imolites, to continue to strive for and remain committed to the best of Imo State.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com