The immediate past Director-General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum, Dr Salihu Lukman, has said that contrary to popular opinion, the All Progressives Congress is not in a crisis but only has internal contestations that are typical of every party. This is as he accused the Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of repeatedly disregarding agreed dates for the national convention, insisting that the February 26 date must be honoured; else, the CECPC must step down. Lukman made the call in a statement he signed on Sunday titled ‘APC vs PDP: a comparative review of performances in government’. The former DG who described himself as a “Freelance APC Campaigner” said, “Is APC in crisis? It depends on what you call a crisis. It depends! APC is not in crisis. We are having an internal contest. The contest is no doubt very sharp. “Some people don’t want the contest to be resolved. And my position is simple. So long as due process is going to be followed, this contest will be resolved in favour of the emergence of new leadership.” On the delays buffetting the February 26 convention, he said, “What we need is a party that can meet, make decisions, and let leaders be honest to implement decisions. This is lacking. “This is the problem the caretaker committee has created. Decisions have been taken. First, a convention was to take place on December 28, 2021. As of November, no preparations happened. “Consultations took place. A new decision was taken on February 5. Nothing happened! Now, there is a decision for February 26. A few days ago, forms were supposed to be sold. They said forms could not be sold on zoning issues that have been resolved. “Who is responsible for sorting out zoning? Is it Buhari? Why do we have the leadership of the party? If Buhari is supposed to be involved, we don’t need a Secretariat. The CECPC is to facilitates every decision. Today committees have not been announced. “As far as I’m concerned, between now and February 26, this must be resolved. And this caretaker committee must go. That is my position.” Chiding the People’s Democratic Party for giving an unrealistic view of the Buhari-led regime, the former PGF boss blamed the Buni-led committee for failing to mobilise party stakeholders and members to front the right narrative. “Looking at all the evidence of the economy, poverty, and challenges of insecurity, PDP is only able to speak out and make all the wild goose allegations of failure against the APC led government of the President Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) because APC leaders decided to mute themselves at a time when they should be mobilising Nigerians to review progress and challenges of delivering on campaign promises made since 2015. “Instead of taking steps to mobilise Nigerians to review progress and challenges as part of preparations for 2023, APC leaders and members are being held captive by Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee,” he said. Lukman urged every committed party leader and member to rise to the challenge of compelling Buni and “his team of undertakers” to hands off the party by ensuring that February 26, 2022, National Convention is successful. He said Party leaders and members must put behind all the uncertainty created by Buni around the convention so that the business of preparing for the 2023 electoral contest can earnestly begin in APC. “As a party, APC needs to put itself in the roadmap for the 2023 electoral contest to be able to properly showcase all the achievements of President Buhari’s led APC government,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com