The Joint National Association of Persons with Disabilities, Anambra State, has appealed to the incoming-governor Prof. Charles Soludo, to include them as members of his political appointees. The Chairman of the group, Ugochukwu Okeke, made the appeal when he received members of the Justice Development and Peace Caritas and the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office, in Awka, on Sunday. Okeke said such inclusion would help them to effectively contribute their quota to the development of the state. He appreciated the current governor, Willie Obianoz for establishing the disability commission and also employing about 250 of them in the civil service. He said, “We want this gesture to continue which is why we came up with a charter of demands for the incoming administration. We appeal to Prof. Soludo to consider PWDs as some of his political appointees. “When we have some of us in government, they are in the best position to understand the needs of people like us and push for policies that will better our lives. “We also want his administration to consider having data of PWDs in the state, continuous employment of PWDs, introduction of social protection programmes, housing schemes, scholarships, and improved healthcare.” Okeke also urged political parties to prioritise total inclusion of PWDs to help them contest during elections and fully participate in political activities. The Manager, JDPC Onitsha/FCDO project, Mr Alphonsus Nwoye, said the exercise was aimed at generating development issues to be used in engaging the incoming administration. Nwoye said such engagement would deepen inclusive and good governance for sustainable development in Anambra. He called for more partnership towards voter and civic education to encourage PWDs to participate in politics ahead of the 2023 general elections. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com