Pastor Olayide Babatunde of the Glorious and Divine Calling Ministry in Ayobo, Lagos, has stressed the need for social media regulations in order to reduce the rate of divorce in Nigeria. Mr Babatunde made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria on Sunday in Lagos. According to him, the government should take stringent steps in regulating social media content in order to lessen marriage breakups in Nigerian homes. “Social media have really contributed immensely in scattering marriages in this generation because there is lack of communication. “Before the advent of social media, there was togetherness in the sense that after a long day at work, families look forward to rushing home, eating, and watching soap opera with their loved ones. “The advent of social media has made everyone to stay on their own, whereby you see a husband and wife backing each other and pressing their phones, even the children do not relate with their parents because everyone has someone on social media they are talking to. “If they are not talking to someone, the social media contents have been created in a way that once you’re scrolling, you always want to scroll more because you will always see things that will entice you and this has been a core problem in the family circle. “Families spend quality time together when they are together but social media have actually taken that away in the sense that everybody is now solely dependant on what they see on social media. “For instance, a young celebrity lady who recently divorced her husband, started dishing advice to married couples on how to keep their homes on Instagram. “It amazes me! I mean how can you teach a course that you failed? You can’t give what you don’t have. “The social media platforms have done more harm than foster love in the home,” he said. Speaking on feminism as another cause of marriage break-ups, Mr. Babatunde said most married couples use its misconceptions as their watchwords. According to him, feminism stands for equality of man and woman in terms of labour. “For instance, if there is an establishment with 50 per cent male, feminism says there should also be 50 per cent female. “Feminism says a woman can contest for president, win contracts, study in the university without sexual harassment from lecturers. “However, its misconception has turned couples into unnecessary rivals at home. “God said we are helpers to each other but not at the detriment of leaving your duties as a wife for your husband to take over. “For instance, nowadays, a career woman who receives higher salary than her husband believes the husband should take care of the home while she brings home the money. “All these misconceptions kill man’s ego because naturally, man has ego and when it’s tampered with, it mostly leads to divorce,” Babatunde said. NAN