The management of the Delta State Polytechnic, Ogwashi-Uku in Aniocha South Local Government Area, has embarked on strict enforcement of dress code among students and staff. The enforcement commenced after hundreds of students, particularly females, who did not wear bras and underwear were turned back from the campus on Friday. The management also extended enforcement of the ‘war against indecent dressing’ among staff who wear torn trousers and braless clothes. PUNCH Metro gathered that the Polytechnic management had warned repeatedly against indecent dressing and had even pasted posters warning against low waist, spaghetti, open chest, torn jeans, short skirt, bump shorts and the likes. Consequently, the management directed its security department to monitor students and staff members who would not put on underwear to give the school a bad name. In enforcing the directive on Friday, the management prevented some students caught violating the rule from attending lectures. Confirming the report, the Assistant Director, Public Relations of the Polytechnic, Manfred Oyibogbeye, told journalists that the institution is only carrying out sensitisation to discourage indecent dressing. “It is not a policy of no bra, no entry. The school is only carrying out sensitisation to discourage indecent dressing. Later, there will be a measure to sanction those that go against the rules”, he said. Meanwhile, some recalcitrant students have reportedly kicked against the policy which they described as an infringement on their rights as students. “How would the school management know those who put on underwear and those who do not? To me, it is an insult and the school authority should stop the move immediately,” one off-campus student stated. However, some other students expressed support for the school’s management on the dress code implementation. A worried student who craved anonymity said, “I’m against such negative dressing trending on the campus and distracting students, teaching and non-teaching staff. “It is not the right kind of dressing at all. How can a mature girl wear such clothes? Some are even transparent, without underwear. That is why men rape them. They even distract lecturers and others. I am not sure they are here to study. Well, they belong to the class of ‘Yahoo girls’.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com