THE re-emergence of long queues at petrol filling stations last week was a rude national embarrassment. The mess was completely avoidable. The importation of Premium Motor Spirit (petrol) containing high methanol roiled the fuels market, and its consequences are still reverberating across the country, a week after news about imported dirty fuel broke. Many individuals have suffered losses, having purchased the off-spec petrol from some petrol filling stations; businesses have also witnessed disruption caused by the ensuing supply shortages. Nigerians are paying dearly for the misbehaviour of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company, which as the sole importer of petrol brought this mess upon the country. Its incompetence in running four refineries aground forced Nigeria to be dependent on imported petrol in the first place. It has compounded it by opaque, fraud-prone import practices. Unfazed by its latest scandalous behaviour, insiders suggest it may need a whopping N201 billion to remove its dirty petrol from the market! Nigeria has tolerated this errant national oil company for too long. Last Tuesday, the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority, one of the two regulatory entities created from the defunct Department of Petroleum Resources, said a “limited quantity” of PMS with methanol quantities above Nigeria’s specification was discovered in the supply chain. Describing methanol as a regular additive in petrol that is usually blended in an acceptable quantity, the NMDPRA said the product had been isolated and withdrawn from the market. “The source supplier has been identified and further commercial and appropriate actions shall be taken by the authority and NNPC Ltd,” it added, but failed to name the supplier. Unfolding events suggest that the agency likely understated the magnitude of the problem. For over four years now, the NNPC has been solely responsible for the importation of petrol, which it does through its Direct Sale (of crude oil) and Direct Purchase of refined petroleum products arrangement. Under the DSDP arrangement, selected overseas refiners, trading companies and indigenous companies are allocated crude supplies in exchange for the delivery of an equal value of petroleum products of Nigerian standard specification to the NNPC. The NNPC Group Managing Director, Mele Kyari, said last Wednesday that the national oil firm received on January 20, 2022 a report from its quality inspector on the presence of emulsion particles in PMS cargoes shipped to Nigeria from Antwerp, Belgium. He said investigations revealed the presence of methanol in four PMS cargoes imported by its DSDP suppliers namely MRS, Emadeb/Hyde/AY Maikifi/Brittania-U Consortium, Oando and Duke Oil. MRS Oil Nigeria Plc had in a press statement on Tuesday said that Duke Oil, a trading arm of the NNPC, supplied a cargo of PMS through a vessel that delivered a total of 36,958 metric tonnes in Apapa between January 24 and 30. It said a product analysis revealed that the product had 20 percent methanol. Eerily, all the other companies, apart from Duke Oil, named by Kyari have denied importing the off-spec petrol into the country. This is double embarrassment. The scandal has further exposed the massive rot and corruption in the Nigerian oil and gas sector. The situation is intolerable; it verges on deliberate, systemic fraud. It is also clearly a failure of regulation. The culprits must be exposed quickly and punished. Heads have to roll to deter other erring operators and would-be offenders. The NNPC has no hiding place; it is primarily to blame for this scandal. So too is the NMDPRA, the regulator, which like the NNPC, failed woefully to detect, isolate, and prevent the filthy consignment from entering the market. The Federal Government should take the matter more seriously. Beyond the investigation ordered by the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), by now, the NNPC bosses should have been asked to step aside. The head of Duke Oil and others involved in the importation of the bad fuel should also be suspended to allow for unimpeded investigation. A criminal investigation should be opened. Anti-graft agencies need not wait before launching discreet investigations. British police are not waiting for the outcome of the parliamentary probe into Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s ‘Partygate’ affair but have begun an independent investigation. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission should move in to ensure that the perpetrators are identified and punished for the tremendous pain and shame they brought upon the country. Many vehicles are said to have been damaged having taken in the bad fuel before the moves to recall it. The government should take a cue from other countries where public service delivery is taken seriously. In April 2017, a United States federal judge slammed a $2.8 billion criminal fine on Volkswagen for “rigging diesel-powered vehicles to cheat on government emissions tests.” Volkswagen further agreed to civil settlements worth about $17 billion for US consumers and dealers who owned the automaker’s diesel vehicles. Just last week, the Ghana’s government slapped a fine of $6 million on Maxam Corp, the Spanish company in charge of a truck that exploded, killed 13 people and injured many last month. Ghana’s Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources said it established regulatory breaches on the part of Maxam in respect to the manufacture, storage, and transportation of explosives. Clearly, the dirty fuel imports scandal reinforces the need for the Federal Government to quickly privatise the NNPC refineries, depots and pipelines and focus solely on regulation. It is sickening that the country, Africa’s largest crude producer, has continued to rely heavily on imports to meet its refined fuel needs for many years. An international resource watchdog group, Stakeholder Democracy Network, said in a 2020 report that Nigeria was having dirty fuel from Europe dumped on it that could not be sold to other countries with higher and better implemented standards. It said the net result “is that Nigeria has some of the worst air pollution in the world, with dense clouds of choking soot hanging over gridlocked cities leading to a rise in serious health conditions as well as damaged vehicles.” This is appalling. In 2016, a report by Public Eye, an NGO, exposed how European trading companies were exploiting the weak regulatory standards in West African countries, allowing for the exportation of fuels with sulphur levels up to 300 times higher than was permitted in Europe. It is high time Nigeria liberalised its refining sector. Buhari should identify and sack the officials responsible. In addition, they should be prosecuted, and the companies indicted slapped with heavy fines. Complicit foreign companies should be blacklisted and sued for damages. Vehicle owners who suffered damages can file civil suits against NNPC, regulators and marketers. Most importantly, NNPC’s opaque, corruption-prone processes should be reformed and the company restructured. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com