The House of Representatives has resolved to investigate the Nigerian Correctional Service over the dilapidated state of its facilities and poor welfare of inmates at its centres, despite budgets of N165bn in two years. At the plenary on Wednesday, the Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu, moved a motion of urgent public importance to call for an investigation of the correctional service and the allocations to it. The motion was titled, ‘Urgent need to investigate the deplorable state of inmates and the unwholesome working conditions of officers and men of the Nigeria Correctional Service despite huge budgetary allocations with attendant adverse effects on security of custodial facilities and the new mandate of the service’. Elumelu said based on the enactment of the Nigerian Correctional Service Act, 2019, the nation joined most countries of the world in adopting the modern correctional alternatives to incarceration or imprisonment, including non-custodial measures. The Act, he stated, situated the workforce of the service as the single most important resource available to the correctional system and thus prioritised the welfare of the officers and men of the NCoS in line with international best practices to propel them to optimal performance. Elumelu stated, “The House is disturbed that despite this Act and the increase in budgetary allocations to the Nigerian Correctional Service to drive its renewed mandate, the tempo and quality of the correctional service have remained the same, if not retrogressing. “The House is worried that the working conditions of staff members and inmates’ welfare have deteriorated, notwithstanding the over N165bn budget allocations to the service in two years. “The House has observed that the Arms Squad unit of the NCoS still parades obsolete and substandard weapons, despite the over N1bn budget provision for prison biometrics, arms and ammunition in the 2020/2021 capital budget, thus impeding its ability to deter, prevent or respond effectively to both internal and external threats. “The House is aware of the deaths of correctional officers and men across the country, following attacks either on the escort vehicles or custodial facilities. “The House also observed that the members of staff still buy or make their uniform till date regardless of the huge budget allocations provided for this purpose. The provision of uniform for inmates is non-existent in most custodial centres.” The lawmaker also stated that in addition to the allegations of non-utilisation of budget allocations in the manner prescribed by the National Assembly and the administrative incompetence of the drivers of change in the rebranded service, there were also claims of “unscrupulous staff promotion, denial of rights and benefits, including hazard and duty tour allowances, levelled against the management of the service.” Elumelu added, “The House is concerned that the demoralising effects of these allegations, given the increasing evidence of susceptibility of some officers and men compromising the security of custodial facilities, might worsen the violations of these facilities and current security challenges in the country. “The House is also concerned that the appalling state of custodial facilities and general welfare of inmates, after the NCS Act, is worrisome and requires immediate attention.” Adopting the motion, the House mandated the Committee on Reformatory Institutions to investigate the allegations and report in 12 weeks for further legislative action. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com