Dear Ma, I started reading your column in Saturday PUNCH in 2014 when I was in S.S.2. Your words and warnings always boomed in my ears throughout my undergraduate study. I was able to connect with God and serve Him wholeheartedly. Not only did I graduate as a virgin, I also passed out with a second class upper division from the University of Ibadan, Oyo State. Looking back now, I can’t help but be grateful for the seed you sowed in my life that was further nurtured by God. You’re a gift to our generation, ma. Kenny Dear mother of a million girls, I don’t know how to thank you enough. I am here to thank you. Truly you have changed my life! I was someone who once believed in virginity and I still envy and admire those who are. I am 23 years old and what I want to tell you happened when I was 20. On April 21 2019, a day I can’t forget and I pray God gives me the grace to completely forget and give me a good man as a husband so that I can feel no guilt anymore. I went to a man’s house without any intention of sleeping with him. I told him and he said no problems however I didn’t know he had plans to steal one of my three covenants with God which are as follows: I cried deeply the day I broke my first covenant with God out of stupidity and I felt empty. I immediately started disconnecting myself from the guy that lured me to it yet I was still empty. To worsen matters, I ended up with another guy- this time craving for sex always and feeling guilty afterwards until I saw your article on secondary virginity. I began following you since then and I decided I was going to be that. To the glory of God, for one year now and counting I have started filling myself with a lot of God’s words and I have made a promise to him that I will keep myself until marriage. By his sufficient grace I graduated last December. Mummy million girls/angels, thanks and God bless you massively for turning lives with your positive words. Ronke My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly-celebrated Nigerian daughters, Can you imagine knowing all the questions you have to attempt during your examinations even before the time-table is set? Can you imagine knowing the pitfalls the devil has designed to make you fail in life or stop you in your tracks from going forward? Can you imagine knowing the trouble awaiting you as a result of the next action you want to take? Can you imagine knowing what someone really thinks about you? Can you imagine receiving instructions all the world’s G.O. ‘s put together cannot give you to conquer a battle that has made you wish you were never born? I am writing from experience! Girls…girls…girls, take it or leave it, if you want to stand out among your peers, if you want to be extraordinarily intelligent and be super-successful in life, your greatest weapon yet is your sexual purity now! It can fetch you just about anything! It is what you need to lay a solid foundation for a most beautiful future! BUT WHY THE HURRY TO HAVE SEX? In the first instance, when you have no time for boyfriends in your teens, you are not distracted and you have all the time and all your energy focused on your studies/getting good grades not wondering if your boyfriend is dating another girl, not worrying about the effects of contraceptives on your body, STDs, getting pregnant etc. On the other hand, I can tell you for a fact and from experience that sexual purity sharpens your spiritual perception! It makes you spiritually intelligent and gives so much unsolicited information. By being sexually-pure and leading a life of holiness, the Holy Spirit submerges your life and you know all things, you know all things, you know all things my sweeties! 1 John 2:20 KJV And by the time God is done with you you’d be smoking hot, you’d have fire in your bones and on your heels even your swag will be different. The best of eligible bachelors won’t be able to take their eyes or mind off you! Your aura will magnetise the best people and the best things in life. May you experience all of these and much more in Jesus name! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin. You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com