Members of the State Houses of Assembly across the country elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress have endorsed the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, for President in 2023. The endorsement was contained in a communiqué issued after the extraordinary meeting of the forum of APC State Legislators of the Federation held in Abuja, on Monday. The 365 legislators who attended the programme across the country also passed a vote of confidence in the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for his performance and cohesive leadership qualities. Similarly, the lawmakers passed a vote of confidence in the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee for positively repositioning the party. The communiqué read, “We, the State Assembly Legislators of the Federation, pass a vote of confidence in the President of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari, for his sterling and cohesive leadership of Nigeria through thick and thin and urge him to be relentless in ensuring that he leaves Nigeria in 2023 a better place. “We pass a vote of confidence in the Governor Mai Mala Buni Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee for its positive aggressive repositioning of our great party, the All Progressives Congress and thank the Committee for its purposeful leadership, which has attracted men and women of goodwill into the party. We, the members, further urge the Committee to do more. “The State Assembly Legislators of the Federation endorse and state their unalloyed and unshaken support for the aspiration of the young and ebullient Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Adoza Bello, who has against all odds decided to take the bull by the horn, by aspiring to the office of the President of Nigeria come 2023.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com