After Cameroon’s semi-final defeat to Egypt at the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon, violence erupted on the streets of Olembe, Yaounde, which almost escalated into physical brawls amongst fans of the hosts side, Saturday PUNCH reports. The Pharaohs booked their place in Sunday’s final against Senegal after goalkeeper Mohamed Abou Gabal made two crucial saves during the penalty shoot-out to knock out hosts Cameroon after full and extra time ended 0-0. Mohanad Lasheen, Mohamed Abdelmonem and Zizo all scored for the Pharaohs, while Harold Moukoudi and James Lea Siliki saw their kicks saved by Gabal. Clinton Njie skied his penalty wide, with only striker Vincent Aboubakar converting for the Indomitable Lions. Egypt are in the AFCON final for a record 10th time and it is also their second final in the last three editions. While rival fans celebrated and lamented after the nervy encounter, it also saw brought to the fore the ugly side of some fans based in Yaounde, who went on rampage after the agonising defeat of their team. The fans wielded sticks, running helter-skelter, while some others hurled stones on the streets, destroying valuables on the roadsides of the Stade Olembe, as other fans, who came to watch the match, scampered for safety. A Cameroonian doctor Misse Geraldine expressed disappointment at the attitude of the home fans. “It’s disappointing to see these people carrying sticks and threatening people after a game,” Geraldine told Saturday PUNCH. “They have added another bad tag to the tournament after a stampede at the same venue left eight people dead and many injured.” Geraldine advised that more security personnel be deployed to the streets before and after the third-place match between Cameroon and Burkina Faso, to avoid another occurrence. A driver Emmanuel Akoni lamented the exit of the Indomitable Lions. “Losing three penalties made me sad. Our team played as if they never practiced penalties,” Akoni said. “It was a balanced game and we had some chances to score but failed to convert them.” Mariam Kwaponu, a supporter, who painted her face in the colours of the Cameroonian flag during the encounter, also rued the team’s exit through penalties. “We didn’t deserve to exit the tournament like this,” the hotelier said. “It was not what we hoped for because we all backed them until the last kick, but it was never to be. “I hope they can pick themselves up on Saturday (today) to give the fans something to cheer in the third-place game.” Cameroon will hope to end their tournament on a high when they take on Burkina Faso for the bronze medal at the Ahmadou Ahidjo Stadium in Yaounde. The Stallions, on their part, will be hoping to replicate their third-place finish in 2017 by defeating the hosts. The Lions claimed a 2-1 victory when both sides met earlier in the tournament opener.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com