The Catholic Archbishop of the Abuja Archdiocese, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama on Sunday warned Nigerians, especially the youths, against violence and any form of electoral malpractice in the forthcoming 2023 general elections. He gave the warning in his homily at St. Louis-Marie de Montfort’s Pastoral Area Kubwa, Abuja. The cleric said, “Dear young people, this is the time when leaders pursuing their selfish political interests use young people negatively. Don’t allow yourselves to be used even in the midst of social lack. “Participate actively and honestly in politics and perform your civic responsibility with great courage and conviction in the spirit of patriotism, with the hope that the conscience of political leaders will be touched and they will be able to sacrifice their comfort, and temper their greed with mercy, to provide for you and your future.
Keep the light of faith aglow and don’t relent in praying and working for peace and progress.” He also urged those in power to seek the values of forgiveness and dialogue for the country to overcome the rising political tensions and the spate of unprovoked attacks on innocent communities across the country. “Today, we must regain the values of forgiveness and dialogue which seem to have lost popular appeal. Remember that to forgive is not an act of weakness but strength. We need this virtue to overcome in our country the brewing political tensions and unprovoked attacks. “The call to love our enemies is not a call to passivity in the face of wrongs and evils, but it is the most eloquent moral response that can be given. Two wrongs never make one right. Reprisal attacks or revenge may hurt one even more than it will hurt one’s offender”, he said. Kaigama also said that King David like, Jesus Christ, showed godliness by forgiven their enemies. “By refusing to kill his enemy (Saul), David who became the greatest of the kings of Israel is presented as a figure to help us understand the person of Jesus. He refused to harm Saul because as king, Saul was God’s anointed. “Jesus calls you to reject any recourse to violence, because violence dehumanizes us, especially when we hunt, maim, capture and kill fellow human beings. The call to love our enemies is not a call to passivity in the face of wrongs and evils, but it is the most eloquent moral response that can be given. “While it is quite difficult, to love those who hate us and to pray for those who persecute us, two wrongs never make one right. Reprisal attacks or revenge may hurt one even more than it will hurt one’s offender”, he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com