All Progressives Congress’ stakeholders in Ekiti State have set up a reconciliation committee headed by the state Deputy Governor, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, to bring back all aggrieved members of the party to ensure victory in the June 18 governorship election. According to a communiqué issued at the end of a meeting of the stakeholders’ in Ado Ekiti, the state capital, signed by a three-member committee chaired by Segun Dipe, the committee “is to woo and reconcile all aggrieved aspirants and their followers within the party.” Speaking during the meeting, the party’s state Chairman, Paul Omotoso, urged all stakeholders and party faithful “to work in unison in the overall best interest of the party.” The PUNCH reports that seven out of the eight contestants for the APC governorship ticket had earlier kicked against the outcome of the primary election. However, about three of the seven aggrieved former aspirants had pledged to work for the party’s success in the poll. The party’s stakeholders that set up the reconciliation committee at their meeting on Saturday, in the light of the fallout of the January 27 primary election, said the reconciliatory move “would be replicated at both the local government and ward levels.” Stakeholders at the meeting included Governor Kayode Fayemi; his deputy, Egbeyemi; former Deputy Governor, Chief Abiodun Aluko; Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Funminiyi Afuye; Deputy Speaker, Hakeem Jamiu; state Chairman, Omotoso; and South West APC Publicity Secretary, Karounwi Oladapo, who reviewed the governorship primary and adjudged it as “successful, peaceful and without any bloodletting.” According to the communique, stakeholders resolved that “the glory of the Ekiti State governorship primary was attributed to sportsmanship of all the aspirants, especially those who have openly accepted the result and pledged to support the candidacy of the flag bearer.” The stakeholders, who urged all party members to see the election as their personal project “for the good of our people and Ekiti State in general,” said Fayemi’s performance “is the impetus for the party’s campaign while marketing the party’s candidate, Biodun Oyebanji, for the governorship election.” They also urged members to see the ongoing voters’ registration as an opportunity to boost the voters’ strength in their different communities by encouraging and motivating people to register.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com