Ahead of 2023 general elections, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has urged young Nigerians to avoid being tempted by divisive sentiments and elements using tribe and religion. The President also emphasised the importance of nation building and unity in diversity, adding that bitter politics could erode the gains of democracy in Nigeria. Buhari, who was represented by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, stated this on Saturday at the combined convocation ceremony of the Federal University, Wukari, in Taraba State. This was contained in a statement signed on Sunday by Osinbajo’s spokesman, Laolu Akande, titled, ‘Young Nigerians Are Undaunted, Belong to Most Globalised Generation Ever – Buhari’. According to the President, nation building is a continuous process, it involves all of us, it is not just about doing well at our jobs or innovation, or brick and mortar; it is about building bridges of brotherhood and unity.
 
“Let it be your generation that will bury those prejudices, heal those wounds and build a great society of brothers and sisters of all tribes and tongues.
 
“You belong to a generation of Nigerians ordained by momentous historical circumstances to play on a grander stage. You belong to the most globalized generation ever to walk this earth and your field of competition is not local, but global. You have come of age in the era of a worldwide marketplace of opportunity.
 
“Refuse to be consumed by the petty prejudices and biases that predispose you to mutual antagonism with your fellow citizens. You must refuse to be prisoners of history and commit to encountering the world with an open mind,” he told the youths. He also assured that his regime will continue to offer and support initiatives that would create wealth, jobs and opportunities for young Nigerians. The President urged the youths to acquire knowledge and skills to innovate, create, be productive and contribute value so as to build their future and better the lot of the country.
 
Furthermore, Buhari encouraged Nigerian youths “to see the various challenges in our environment as opportunities for the creation of solutions, as we are a nation with a rapidly expanding population with attendant human sustenance needs.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com