Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency have taken an Indian man, Vyapak Nutal, into custody for interrogation over the smuggling of 134,700 bottles of Codeine syrup into the country through the land border between Nigeria and the Niger Republic in Sokoto State. According to the NDLEA, the suspect had loaded the consignment into trucks in Cotonou, Benin Republic and drove through the land borders via the Niger Republic before entering Sokoto State at the Illela border. “Settled in a hotel in Sokoto state, credible intelligence reveals that Nutal began to look for buyers for the controlled drug. While operatives were on his trail, officers of the Department of State Security were able to apprehend him and swiftly handed him over to NDLEA on Wednesday 10th February 2022,” the Agency said in a statement signed by its spokesman, Femi Babafemi, on Sunday. The statement continued, “In a related development, attempts by drug traffickers to export large quantities of Heroin, Methamphetamine, Khat, Tramadol and Cannabis through the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, MMIA as well as three courier companies in Lagos have been frustrated by narcotic officers who intercepted the illicit consignments. “At the Lagos airport, operatives on Tuesday 8th Feb arrested one Felix Rotimi Eshemokhai with 1.75kg heroin while trying to board Royal Air Maroc to Casablanca, Morocco while another trafficker, Okafor Emmanuel Onuzuruike was also nabbed same day during his bid to travel on RwandAir to Dubai with 2.2kg of Cannabis concealed in foodstuff. “No less than 25 kilograms of Methamphetamine, Tramadol, Cannabis and Khat concealed in motor parts, MP3 player, speaker and fabrics heading to the USA, UK, Australia, Dubai and Madagascar were seized at three major courier companies in Lagos. “In Gombe State, 31,000 capsules of Tramadol were recovered from a truck that left Onitsha, Anambra State for Mubi, Adamawa State, and the owner, Ibrahim Tukur Bage, was arrested on Friday 11th February while attempting to escape. This followed the arrest of Aliu Salami, 43, with 143.9kg cannabis at Oke-Ata, Abeokuta South LGA, Ogun State, on Wednesday 9th February.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com