The Ogun State Signage and Advertising Agency has warned companies in the state of fraudulent revenue collectors who masquerade as government revenue collection agents to defraud companies. The General Manager, OGSAA, Fola Onifade, gave the warning on Thursday during a courtesy visit to the corporate head office of PUNCH Nigeria Limited in Ogun State. According to him, the fake revenue collectors’ stock-in-trade involves posing as government agents with fraudulent documents to dupe companies by collecting yearly charges for signage. Onifade said even though certain companies had been smart enough to figure out this subterfuge, others had fallen prey to the unscrupulous tactics of the fake revenue collectors. He said, “The Ogun State Signage and Advertising Agency was established in 2008 by Act of Ogun State House of Assembly to regulate the practices of advertising in Ogun State. “We are to measure and charge for those billboards that have been placed in the state and determine the rates payable on them. We came on board (the current team) about two years ago.” “The latest challenge that we are facing is that we have some people who have constituted themselves into an agency of their own. They have printed government letterhead, forged government receipts, forged government demand notices. They take it to companies. Unknowingly, you might even pay to them. But some people are smart; they will insist on paying cheques.” Speaking further, Onifade lauded PUNCH Nigeria for its commitment to serving the Nigerian populace through an unrelenting pursuit of the truth against all odds. described the commitment of the company towards its civic responsibility as commendable and a benchmark that should be emulated by other corporate entities. “We are here today to appreciate PUNCH. Considering your media might, you can decide not to pay for your signage, but without coming to ask for the bill, I think you raised the draft and paid. Because of that, as a responsible corporate body that not only talks the talk, but also does it, we should come here and appreciate you,” Also present at the courtesy visit were the Legal Adviser/Secretary to the agency, Mr Adewale Adeniyi; the Director, Admin and Supplies, Mrs Aderemi Kasumu, and the Head, Ogun Central Zonal Office, Mr Sarafadeen Solanke.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com