Ikeja Electric Plc has said it is committed to providing the required infrastructure to strengthen its network. The Board Chairman, Ikeja Electric, Mr Kola Adesina, expressed the company’s readiness to provide adequate supply to customers while improving the customer experience. He spoke at the unveiling of the company’s new Shomolu Business Unit office, which he said was aimed at further optimising its services and enhancing customer experience. He said, “In addition to providing the required infrastructure that will strengthen our network and bolster services, our technical team are committed to further improving electricity supply to our customers, and this is our obligation to them. “The unveiling of the new Shomolu Business Unit office signifies that Ikeja Electric prioritises both its members of staff and customers. This building provides a conducive environment for our staff, enabling them to work better, think intelligently and strategically while ensuring quality service delivery.” Also speaking at the event, Ikeja Electric’s Chief Executive Officer, Folake Soetan, affirmed the company’s commitment to improving service delivery to customers within its franchise network. Soetan said, “We are very excited to commission this ultra-modern facility designed to optimise operations in Shomolu Business Unit, in line with our mantra – ‘Customer first, technology now’. “The new office is equipped with state-of-the-art tools to enable efficient service delivery and improve the overall customer experience. We are confident that Ikeja Electric, through this new office, will continue to deliver top-notch services to our teeming customers in the network. “Our effort to continuously improve customer experience and deliver optimal value is the motivating force behind all we do at Ikeja Electric. And that is what has helped to position us as industry leader.” According to Soetan, the company is resolved to further deliver efficient services through online and offline touchpoints, by attending to queries promptly and using innovative solutions that offer convenience and unique experience. She said the company would continue to redefine its operations with innovative solution while exploring better ways to work. “The satisfaction of customers remains the priority, and this restates our unwavering commitment to service excellence through continuous investment in our people and technology,” she added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com