A two-year-old, Onyemaechi Chinedum, diagnosed with chronic liver disease will need a sum of N19m for a liver transplant. According to a medical report sighted by our correspondent, the baby was presented at General Hospital Ikorodu and later referred to Lagos State University Teaching Hospital where he was diagnosed with Obstructive Jaundice. The medical intervention required to save the Liver was not performed until Chinedum was rushed to the Babcock University Teaching Hospital where he later underwent a surgical intervention-cyst extension, cholecystectomy and roux-en-hepaticojejunostomy at the sixth month of his life. This came with a mild resolution of symptoms for the next two months. However, a histologic report revealed liver cirrhosis in him after the surgery. From the medical report from Babcock University Teaching Hospital and Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Jaundice was noticed on the sixth day of his birth. Afterwards, he was diagnosed with ‘infantile cholestasis secondary to a choledochal cyst at fourth month at Babcock University Teaching Hospital.’ Following this, LUTH carried out a post-surgery diagnosis which revealed that Chinedum had developed chronic liver disease secondary to the choledochal cyst. The Paediatric Consultant Gastroenterologist at LUTH, Dr Adeniyi, in his report sighted by our correspondent, said,  “Chinedum is presently on supportive medical therapy; he needs Nigerians’ financial support to undergo a liver transplant surgery. Chinedum was born on April 24, 2019, after his mother put to bed through a caesarian session and was discharged five days later. A liver transplant surgery for the two-year-old boy would cost about N19m at Yashoda Hospital in India. Donations can be made into the baby’s FCMB account, 8725650011; while his father can be reached on his mobile number, 0803-897-2784. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com