Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, has approved the appointment of Senator Lekan Balogun as the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland. The approval follows a recommendation made by the Olubadan-in-Council and which was communicated, via a letter, to the governor. The throne became vacant on January 2 when Oba Saliu Adetunji joined his ancestors. This approval is contained in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Taiwo Adisa. The governor said, “I am pleased to announce the appointment of the Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland, High Chief Lekan Balogun, as the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland. “The appointment is in line with the Olubadan of Ibadan Chieftaincy Declaration, as well as the unique and time-tested tradition of our people. “On behalf of the government and good people of Oyo State, I wish the newly confirmed Olubadan a successful reign blessed with peace and unprecedented progress.” The Personal Assistant to the new Olubadan, Hakeem Rufai, told our correspondent that the letter had been delivered to the monarch. On a similar note, Governor Makinde has also approved the revocation of the amended Ibadan Chieftaincy Declaration, which regulates the selection to the Olubadan of Ibadan chieftaincy stool. The statement indicated that the governor made the revocation order, dated February 11, 2022, in line with the powers conferred on him by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), in view of the judgements of the Oyo State High Court on February 1 and 10 as well as Sections 7, 20,26 and 30 of the Chiefs Law of Oyo State 2000. The four separate laws/White Papers approved for revocation were made public by the immediate past administration between 2017 and 2018. The statement listed the laws/White Papers to include the amended declaration regulating the selection to the Olubadan Chieftaincy stool, published in August 2017; The implementation of the White Paper on the review of the existing Olubadan of Ibadan Chieftaincy Declaration and other chieftaincies in Ibadan, Published in August 2017; The approval of appointment of beaded crowns for the Olubadan in Council published March 2018 and the appointment of Beaded Crowns and Coronet Wearing Obas published in March 2018. Meanwhile, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has congratulated Balogun on his appointment. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, disclosed this in a statement titled ‘President Buhari congratulates new Olubadan of Ibadanland.’ He said, “The President believes that the dedication of High Chief Balogun, the Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland, in diligently serving his people has rightly earned him the new position. “He trusts that the appointment of the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland, which validates the noble and cherished tradition of Ibadan people in selecting a traditional leader, will bring peace and prosperity to the land and continued honour to the crown.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com