Andrew Momodu, a former aide to Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has said that his quest to enlighten Edo people about the intricacies of democracy and politics informed his decision to join the race for House of Representative seat during the forthcoming general elections. Momodu, who was the immediate past Special Adviser to Obaseki on Security and Public Order, made this known in a statement on Sunday in Benin, the state’s capital. The aspirant who is eyeing to represent Etsako Federal Constituency in the Green Chamber, also boasted that he would be leading victorious members of the Edo State Contingent to resume at the National Assembly in 2023 after their victories. According to him, he was in the race to the Federal House of Representatives in 2023 to deliver the people of Etsako federal constituency from political enslavement and misrepresentation. The statement read, “I am in the race to win. I am in the race as a response to the call to service by the Etsako people. I am in the race to provide leadership to my people. I join the race to the National Assembly to enable me to expose the black box of politics and revealed inconvenient truth against the convenient lie that has been used to mislead and misrule our people. “We are tired of representatives who begged Etsako constituents to bear with the Federal Government. A representative that ought to articulate the aspirations and pains of the people to the government for intervention has rather turned the other way. “The duty of representative is not to lament with the people but to bring the people out of lamentation. I am in the race to bridge the gap and provide job opportunities to our people, deploy legislative influence through zonal intervention projects to develop our communities, and attract federal presence across our land.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com