All Progressives Congress candidate for the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti State, Biodun Oyebanji, on Saturday expressed optimism that all the seven aggrieved former aspirants in the party would embrace reconciliation and work for APC victory in the poll. Oyebanji hailed National Assembly members and former aspirants, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele and Femi Bamisile for their decision on Friday to opt out of earlier position of seeking legal redress over the January 27 governorship primary of the APC, which returned him as winner. Bamidele, Bamisile, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, Bamidele Faparusi; Kayode Ojo, Demola Popoola and Olusola Folabi had protested the list of local government and ward electoral officers for the primary election and called for suspension of the election. But Bamidele and Bamisile, who said they would no longer take the party to court despite their grievances, said their decision was in the interest of the APC. The APC candidate, in a statement by his media assistant, Raheem Akingbolu, titled, ‘Oyebanji hails Bamidele, Bamisile’s decision to drop suit against APC’ thanked the two leaders “for putting the interest of the party above other considerations and for demonstrating exemplary leadership qualities. “Their decision has further confirmed their commitment to the growth and success of our dear party and this is highly commendable. I hope my other co-aspirants will follow suit in the interest of peace and unity. “I urge all our members to appreciate these leaders for this excellent decision and refrain from making any remarks that might be deemed unfriendly. We are one family in Ekiti APC,” he stated. The APC candidate thanked the party leaders “who have been working behind the scenes to reconcile the aggrieved members” as he urged party members and his supporters to appreciate the decision of the two leaders and see it as a decision taken in the overall interest of the party.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com