As I chatted with my first daughter about two weeks ago, she unexpectedly asked me: “What is this about Russia planning to invade Ukraine?” It was an unexpected question because it is not often that we discuss foreign affairs beyond her occasional vacations abroad. Perhaps, she was already pondering the probable casualties from the perspective of a physician. As I told her, I was as perplexed as she was. Sure, the invasion of one country by another is not something in the distant past. Still, there was something about this virtual siege that evoked images from ancient history. Perhaps, the most vivid — thanks to Homer’s epic poem, the Iliad — is that of Greece’s siege of Troy in 1250 BCE. It was the narrative that bequeathed us still commonly used phrases such as the Trojan horse, or the white horse, or beware of the Greeks bearing gifts. They are all references to the ploy the Greeks used to trick the Trojans into letting them into their fortified country. After more than 10 years of seeking to breach the Trojan fortress, the Greek army pulled back, as though they had given up. Meanwhile, they left a white wooden horse, ostensibly as a goodwill gesture to the Trojans. Inside the horse, however, were Greek soldiers, who at the opportune time broke out from the horse, opened the gates of Troy, and let in the now resurgent invaders. There is a bit of parallel between this ancient tale and current affairs. To begin with, the Greeks laid siege to Troy to reclaim a royal wife the Trojans had abducted for their own prince. Today, the Russians are threatening to invade Ukraine because they believe she is betrothed to them and the West is at the verge of abducting her. The Russians have no need for the equivalent of a Trojan horse, however. Their probable entry gates are all around Ukraine: the Crimea, Belarus, and pro-Russia secessionist regions at the eastern borders. Meanwhile, all the principals in this drama are engaging in a diplomacy of denials and self-contradictions. The Russians have repeatedly denied any plans to invade Ukraine, accusing the West of hysteria. Meanwhile, they continue to build up infantry and naval capabilities around Ukraine. And they submitted conditions to avert the invasion they deny intending to undertake. On its part, the US has repeatedly warned of crippling sanctions against Russia if they invade Ukraine. But President Joseph Biden has said he has no intention of sending US troops to defend Ukraine. Even sending US troops to evacuate Americans could lead to World War III, he said. (World War III may well be a euphemism for a nuclear war.)Meanwhile, the US is sending thousands of troops to Ukraine’s neighbours, notably Romania and Poland. On their part, the Ukrainian government has fervently sought Western help to defend itself. Even then, the president has chided the US and other NATO countries for exacerbating the crisis by claiming an invasion is imminent. In effect, the world may be heading toward a catastrophic war that everyone sees coming, prepares for, yet denies. The stakes are very high. Unlike, the Trojan war, which was fought with spears and shields, a war in Ukraine could possibly escalate into nuclear warfare. So, we might be witnessing the equivalent of a train of humanity hurtling toward a precipice, with various engineers jostling to steer it to their preferred destination. People of the world may well cry out: “Stop that train, we want to get off.” But to where? A post-nuclear Earth will probably still be more habitable than Mars. But then that’s no consolation. Early last week, the Russians announced that some of their troops were returning to their bases. Might that be the equivalent of the Greek retreat? NATO almost immediately countered that columns of Russian tanks were advancing toward Ukraine. There have also been reports that President Vladimir Putin — the wily former leader of the KGB — is merely using the threat of invasion to extract concessions from NATO. Along the same line, there is speculation that he may have planted “intelligence” information to unsettle Ukraine. But then there is the contrary view that Putin means business.  Michael Kimmage, a professor at the Catholic University of America who specialises in US-Russia relations, told CNN that Putin’s aggression is borne of frustration with the West. “Putin harbours grievances and resentments toward the West and is using this crisis to express them,” Kimmage said. A focal point is the expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation into countries that Russia considers its areas of influence. NATO was formed in April 1949, nearly four years after the end of World War II. It was intended as a bulwark against the feared exportation of communism to Western Europe by the Russia-led Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. About six years later, the Soviets countered by forming the Warsaw Pact, a political/military alliance of Eastern Europe’s communist countries. In the wake of political and economic reforms in the late 1980s, the Soviet Union splintered into its constituent republics. Correspondingly, the Warsaw Pact also came apart. To varying degrees, the countries—including Russia—abandoned communism and began to install free enterprise economies and democracy. In due course, many of the former Soviet republics began to identify more with Western Europe than with Russia. A number of them were admitted into the European Union and even NATO — to the chagrin of the Russians. It just happens that, of the former Soviet republics, Ukraine was relationally closest to Russia. The Russians even ceded the Crimea to them during their days as Soviet republics. Things fell apart between the two countries when a popular revolt in Ukraine in 2014 ousted the pro-Russian government. The Russians immediately took back the Crimea and began to encourage secessionist movements in Ukraine, consisting mostly of ethnic Russians. When Ukraine formally applied to join NATO, Putin decided that destabilisation was no longer enough. Hence, the siege. So, a major condition for calling off the Russian invasion—which they deny intending to carry out — is that NATO declare that it will never admit Ukraine. “In my opinion, NATO should no longer be in the business of expanding into Eastern Europe,” Kimmage said. “This is already NATO’s de facto policy regarding Moldova, Ukraine and Belarus, which are the three Eastern European countries that could conceivably join NATO.” Still, NATO sees a formal acceptance of Russia’s demand as unacceptable. As Kimmage explains it, to formally make such a concession to Russia is to contravene the principle of self-determination of sovereign nations. “If left unopposed, even the annexation of a small bit of territory in Ukraine would be leading in a dangerous direction,” Kimmage added. And therein lies the stalemate. So, if Russia goes to war with the US and Western Europe it will be over something that Russia asks the West not to do and which the West does not intend to do. Yet, much blood could be shed for that. And the fate of humanity could be at stake. Consistent with the yes-but-no equivocations on this crisis, there may be hope for a resolution, but then maybe not. Last Sunday, Ukraine’s ambassador to Britain told the BBC that his country would reconsider its application for membership in NATO to avert war. But that hope was quickly extinguished by other officials who noted that Ukraine’s quest to join NATO is enshrined in its constitution. Talk about a stalemate—and a dangerously hurtling train. The only glimmer of hope lies in the fact that constitutions are drafted by people—and they have the power to amend it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com