The suspended Commander of the Police Intelligence Response Team, Abba Kyari, and other suspects are undergoing marathon grilling over alleged drug trafficking, The PUNCH has learnt. Officials of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency told our correspondent on Tuesday that “progress is being made” on the interrogation of the suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police and other suspects. The PUNCH had reported that moments after Kyari was declared wanted by NDLEA, the Nigeria Police Force, through the Force Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, announced Kyari’s arrest. The police subsequently handed Kyari over to NDLEA on Monday. An official of NDLEA, who prefers anonymity “because an investigation is ongoing”, told our correspondent that Kyari would be arraigned soon. According to the legal officer, the facts obtained so far are enough to arraign Kyari. “He will be arraigned for criminal charges in accordance with the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act,” the official added. When contacted, NDLEA Director of Media and Advocacy, Mr Femi Babafemi, also said Kyari would be prosecuted. “The ultimate goal of any criminal investigation is prosecution,” Babafemi said without giving details. On Monday, NDLEA declared Kyari wanted for complicity in a 25-kilogramme cocaine deal. The NDLEA also accused Kyari of being “a member of a drug cartel that operates the Brazil-Ethiopia-Nigeria illicit drug pipeline”. The agency said Kyari tried to compromise an NDLEA officer in January by asking him to conceal part of the cocaine haul that was seized from some suspects. It also said the senior cop was caught on camera handing over $61,400 in cash to compromise its operative. The suspended cop was invited for questioning on February 10 but did not show up or respond, according to the NDLEA. NDLEA later confirmed Kyari and four others were handed over to the agency over their involvement in a 25 kilograms Cocaine deal. The agency said the police handed over Kyari to NDLEA at the Force Intelligence Bureau of the Nigerian Police Force, to the anti-narcotic agency. The senior police officer was earlier suspended after he was implicated by Nigerian influencer Ramon Abbas, known as Hushpuppi, who pleaded guilty to money laundering and other crimes in the United States. Kyari, who became famous for exposing a string of high-profile crimes in Nigeria, denied the allegations against him. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com