Femi Adesina, the Special Adviser to the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has said his principal will rather expend money to cater for the poor and vulnerable than giving people in exchange for a favour. Adesina disclosed this in an article titled, ‘Buhari’s Kind of Kindness’, and shared on his official Facebook page on Thursday. The presidential spokesperson noted that the president’s commitment to the welfare of the poor and his love for the vulnerable earned him victories during the 2015 election and reelection in 2019. He said that rather than engage in bribery, Buhari will channel the fund to better the lots of hapless and the disadvantaged across the country. “President Buhari won’t give you sack-loads of cash to compromise you, or curry your favor. He would rather deploy same to do good deeds, showing kindness to the weak and deprived, the aching and hurting,” he wrote. Furthermore, Adesina described his principal as “A man with empathy for the poor, the weak and the vulnerable”. The article read in part, “He loves them deeply, and they also love him to bits. That is President Muhammadu Buhari for you. “It is often said that the man already has at least 12 million votes waiting for him in different parts of the country before the first ballot is cast in general elections. “The poor and the vulnerable constitute this large army of voters. They swarm round him, as bees do to the honeypot. “In 2019, having put on his thinking cap on how he could further be of help to the poor, the weak and vulnerable, the President established the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and Social Development. He appointed Sadiya Umar Farouq as the Minister. “The poor you will always have with you, the Good Book says. That explains the vision to take at least 100 million people out of poverty in 10 years. “But apart from that big picture, one after the other, in tens, hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands, the vulnerable are being taken care of through the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and Social Development. “He who feels it knows it. Leaders must be kind to those they lead. It has reward both here, and in the hereafter. “Now you know why President Buhari always has that standby 12 million votes. He cares for the poor and lowly. Whence comest another? They don’t seem to make them like this anymore.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com