Stallion NMN Limited says it is planning to begin assembling of the new Nissan Navara pickup in Nigeria in June this year. The General Manager, Stallion NMN Limited, Amit Sharna, made the disclosure in Lagos on Saturday during the launch of the all-new and most-advanced Nissan Navara pickup. Unveiled in its showroom with a test-drive, Nissan Navara, which comes in various sizes, promises to deliver an enhanced level of safety, comfort and driving pleasure, while continuing to bring the durability, reliability, and versatility that it is known for. The Stallion NMN boss described the new Navara as a reliable partner for work or travel and a workhorse that comes with many best-in-class technologies, including an array of Nissan Intelligent Mobility features and safety systems, making it the most advanced Navara yet. He said, “This new Navara brings the best of what Nissan has to offer in one package. Rugged, tough and smart, the pick-up offers premium comfort, all at a price that provides customers great value for money. “This particular Navara is made in Africa for Africa. So it comes with a capability to withstand even the toughest tropical terrains of the continent, especially Nigeria. “Building on more than 85 years of Nissan pickup heritage, the new Nissan Navara represents the pinnacle of the company’s experience in building tough and reliable pickups.” According to him, Nissan is offering the Nigerian market a comprehensive range, starting with double cabin 4×2. Further elevating the pickups rugged character is the introduction of the range topper PRO-4X grade,  a first for the Navara nameplate. He added, “The PRO-4X offers an even more impressive, eye-catching style to appeal to extreme adventure lovers who crave an escape from the daily routine. “Purpose built for Africa, boldly styled and technologically advanced, the all-new, all-tough NAVARA PRO-4X is loaded with technology and safety features to keep you and your loved ones connected, safe and comfortable.” According to the GM, the new Navara is powered by a 2.5L petrol engine that has proven reliable in the Sub-Saharan Africa driving conditions. He said the power train was chosen, because it met the performance, economy and durability requirements for customers in this demanding segment, adding that “”the engine is available with impressive power output 125KW, 244 Nm torque.” Navara is also equipped with Vehicle Dynamic Control system and ABS brakes, which enables drivers to be more confident and feel secure when towing large payloads and driving through muddy terrain with less acceleration and brake operation. An additional offering is the Hill Start-Assist and the Hill Descent-Assist allows drivers to change pedals easily from brake to accelerator to carry out safer driving on hills. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com