The Ondo State Security Network Agency, also known as Amotekun Corps, has arrested no fewer than 63 persons in a truck loaded with rams with some registered and unregistered motorcycles. It was gathered that the strangers entered the state from the northern part of the country before they were accosted by the men of the Amotekun Corps at the border town of Iju in the Akure North Local Government Area of the state. Speaking on the development, the Commander of the Amotekun Corps, Adetunji Adeleye, said the people claimed to be coming from Gombe State and travelling to Lagos before they were apprehended. He said, “Our men, while on duty, saw a truck filled with rams and motorcycles. “They were arrested along Iju Road and while searching the vehicle; we realised that the truck was not carrying only rams, but also carrying 63 persons, 10 registered okadas with Yoruba names and 15 unregistered okadas as well as 240 rams in the truck. “We are expecting them to provide evidence of ownership of the 15 unregistered bikes after which they will be released to continue their journey.” Adeleye added that investigation was still ongoing in the matter. Four arrested for illegal gold mining Meanwhile, no fewer than four persons have been arrested by the Amotekun Corps for allegedly involving in illegal gold mining in the state. The illegal miners were said to have been seen carrying out the activities at the hilly area around Owena Igbara Oke in Ifedore Local Government Area of the state. The state Commissioner for Mines, Energy and Mineral Resources, Rasaq Ayodele, disclosed this in Akure, the state capital. According to him, the suspects were currently being quizzed by the Amotekun operatives. He said, “The Illegal miners were spotted around Owena Igbara Oke. They destroyed cash crops and farmlands. Before we could get there, they had fled. “But luckily, we picked some people who confessed to carrying out the activities. Amotekun is getting critical information from them. They were primarily mining for gold.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com