The Coalition of Concerned Northern Forum has handed down a 72-hour ultimatum to the Federal Government within which to sack all the management staff of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation over the lingering fuel scarcity across the country. The group handed down their four-point demands in a statement jointly signed by the chairman, Ibrahim Bature, and the Spokesperson, Abdulsalam Kazeem, in Kaduna on Sunday. They also demanded that the Group Managing Director or the NNPC, Mele Kyar,i and the Chief Executive Officer of Nigeria Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority, Farouk Ahmed, resign with immediate effect. The group warned that failure for the government to meet their demands, would force them into mass action. According to the group, the authorities concerned should not take their threat with levity. The group said, “NNPC in connivance with un-recognised, unlicensed or faceless importers and relevant agencies that has to do with importation of petroleum products are dragging us backward due to their deliberate errors. “We, therefore, on behalf of the people of our region demand for the following within 72 hours; “Identification of all households with such mentioned cases and adequate compensation paid to them for their damaged automobiles, machines and equipment within our region. “The NNPC’s GMD, Mallam Mele Kolo Kyari, and Engr. Farouk Ahmed, the Chief Executive Officer of Nigeria Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority, should tender their resignation with immediate effect for negatively breaking the record of the current administration over persistent fuel scarcity; “All the management staff of NNPC should be sack without any compensation; “NNPC management should make public genuine and comprehensive names of those involved in this National scandal and embarrassment; “Or if our demands are not met in the next three working days, we shall occupy all NNPC zonal offices and it’s subsidiaries across our region and the FCT. “This is not just a mere threat. We will follow up with full action after the expiration of our ultimatum and this will serve as a litmus test on the part of the Government on their fight against corruption and indiscipline.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com