FEAR has gripped Ghanaian fans ahead of the Black Stars Qatar 2022 World Cup play-offs against Nigeria, after Super Eagles interim coach, Austin Eguavoen, was spotted at the Emirates Stadium in England last Saturday watching the Arsenal versus Brentford Premier League clash. Eguevoen and his assistants have been on a tour of England, where they have met with several Eagles stars in the country, as well as having contacts with potential targets like Crystal Palace duo Micheal Olise and Eberechi Eze. During the visit, the coach was pictured watching a game at the Emirates with some Ghanaian fans believing he went there to spy on their star midfielder, Thomas Partey, who put up a class performance in the 2-1 win for the Gunners. With the picture of Eguavoen at the Emirates circulating the media space, Ghanaians are scared that he has gone to tactically spy on their midfield man, Partey. Reacting to the picture posted by Ghanasoccernet on Twitter @Akansie_123 wrote, “Really, now it’s clear they mean business!! They are scouting our players and not leaving anything to chance.” @bobodealaso1 “Nigeria are out there working and scouting our best players while Ghana is trying to figure out who will coach the team.” @smallGhod joked, “Why are they dressed like the secret service while scouting Partey. They mean business.” Eguavoen did not only go to watch Partey, he was also there to assess Brentford’s Frank Onyeka, but the midfielder was an unused substitute. Ghana underperformed at the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon, failing to win a single group game before crashing out of the competition, while Nigeria impressed in their group stage but shockingly lost 1-0 to Tunisia to crash out in the last 16. The Nigeria Football Federation has tasked Eguavoen to continue with the team till at least the World Cup play-offs in March, with former Tanzania coach Emmanuel Amuneke joining the backroom staff. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com