Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola has said he would not begrudge those that contested the governorship ticket of the All Progressives Congress for 2022 election with him. Ex-Secretary to the State Government, Moshood Adeoti, and the former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Lasun Yusuf, had contested for APC ticket with Oyetola, but lost in the Congress conducted by a committee led by the Kwara state governor, Abdurahman Abdulrasaq. Oyetola in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Ismail Omipidan, on Saturday, thanked party leaders, supporters, loyalists, and critical stakeholders for the huge support they gave him, including trooping out en masse during the just-concluded primary. Specifically, he acknowledged the role played by the leadership of ‘Igbimo Agba’ (Elders Council), especially Chief Bisi Akande, Engineer Sola Akinwumi, Otunba Iyiola Omisore, Sooko Adeleke Adewoyin, Mrs. Titi Laoye Ponle and others too numerous to mention, saying their wise counsel helped in no measure in bringing the party back to life. He also commended the party chairman, Prince Gboyega Famodun, and other party excos for their unflinching loyalty and support, adding that their firm stands on the need to reposition the party paid off last Saturday. Oyetola said he did not begrudge those who contested the ticket with him, saying it was the expression of their democratic rights, just as he thanked members of the National and State Assemblies and the cabinet members for standing by him. The statement read in parts, “This is the beauty of democracy. My challengers expressed their democratic rights. I thank the party members for their prayers, goodwill, and immense faith they reposed in me. Let me also reassure them that I will never let them down. I will continue to work for the common good and to justify every bit of confidence reposed in me as a candidate of the party.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com