Governor Abdillahi Ganduje of Kano State has said that the people of the Northern part of the country have no other presidential aspirant to support than the National leader of the All progressive congress, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Ganduje made the remark at the inauguration of an office for Northern Youth Professionals for Tinubu, (an organisation that Supports Tinubu’s presidential ambition) held along Hadeja Road in Kano on Monday. The Governor, who was represented at the occasion by the Managing Director of Kano Road Traffic Agency, Dr Baffa Babba Dan’agundi, said it has become necessary for Northerners to reciprocate the gesture done to them by the people of South-West in 2015 where they supported Retired General Muhammadu Buhari to become President. According to him, the North has no other presidential aspirant to support in the forthcoming presidential election come 2023 than the former Lagos State Governor, Tinubu. “Northern Nigeria has no option but to support the Yoruba race and Tinubu. if I ask you to give the name of one person who supported the Northern candidature of Muhammadu Buhari, it will be Tinubu. “It is time for us to show whether we are truly sons of our parents or not. This is the time and we are with Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “His Excellency Dr Abdillahi Ganduje is part and parcel of this struggle, so we’re with Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “It was Bola Ahmed Tinubu who persistently stood firm and ensured that the people of the South-West supported Muhammadu Buhari from the APC primary up to the presidential election where he was victorious,” Ganduje said. He said the time has come for the Northerners to show and tell the world that they are supporting Tinubu’s presidential ambition to enable him to take the country to greater heights. In his remark, the NYTP Coordinator, Abdillahi Tanko Yakasai, said the reason why they are in support of Tinubu’s presidential ambition was because of his love for the development of Nigeria. He noted that Tinubu is a patriotic Nigerian and if given the mandate to rule the country, he would address the lingering security challenges and bring socio-economic development to the country. “If we look at the various developmental projects and programmes he executed while he was the governor of Lagos State, we have no doubt that he has the capability to address the multi-faceted challenges facing the country. “Northerners have no better presidential candidate to support than Tinubu because he is the one who supported and empowered the youth by providing them job opportunities in addition to allowing them to participate in politics without any discrimination,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com