The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, has said he and other government officials met with foreign technology investors in Saudi Arabia to boost investment in Nigeria. According to the minister, some global tech giants are willing to establish their manufacturing plants in the nation. He disclosed this on the sidelines of LEAP 22, an international technology conference held in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Pantami said, “Our coming here allows us to get in touch with potential investors. We have a series of meetings which accommodate all the Federal Government delegation here on how to come to Nigeria to invest. “Some of the global tech giants are willing to come to Nigeria to establish their manufacturing plants as the case may be.” He added that some countries have indicated an interest in understudying the digital economy of the nation. Nigeria, which recently lifted its ban on Twitter after over six months, is also making moves to tax tech giants. During the Twitter ban, the country lost about N556.11bn to the ban. According to the minister, the Federal Government intends to pass the startup bill before the end of 2023. Pantami said, “We are done with the Startup bill in the Federal Executive Council, it has been approved. I personally spoke with the attorney general. After the FEC meeting, I conveyed a letter to him that FEC has approved the bill, even though he knows as a member. But this is the process. He has said to me that the bill has been conveyed to the National Assembly. “It is now with the National Assembly to stamp their proceedings on the bill. But we are optimistic and very committed that the bill is going to be approved by this administration so that we can start the implantation immediately.” The Nigeria Startup Bill project is a joint initiative by Nigeria’s tech startup ecosystem and the Presidency to unleash the potential of the country’s digital economy through co-created regulations. In 2021, there were indications that the bill would be presented to the National Assembly in October. In a blogpost by the NSB, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) was quoted as saying, “Our young people are our most valuable natural resource, at home and abroad. Their ingenuity, creativity, innovation and entrepreneurial spirit is evident to all. “We will partner with the legislature to develop an enabling environment to turn their passions into ideas that can be supported, groomed and scaled.” It added that the bill would provide Nigeria’s tech entrepreneurs with an environment that allows them pursue their ambition for the betterment of the larger Nigerian economy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com