The Bauchi State Governor, Bala Muhammed, on Wednesday, held a closed-door meeting with former President Olusegun Obasanjo on the crisis rocking the Peoples Democratic Party. Muhammed disclosed this shortly after the meeting he held with Obasanjo at his Pent House within the premises of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Abeokuta. The governor, according to a statement issued by Obasanjo’s media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, was in Abeokuta to seek Obasanjo’s opinion on the next move of the PDP. Muhammed, who is also eyeing the presidential ticket of  the party, reportedly said, “I have come to sound his opinion on some things going in the party, to close ranks and make sure that we provide Nigerians with the opportunity to rescue the country from the present division going around which we have found ourselves. “We know that Baba is non-partisan, we know he is an elder statesman per excellence. But we are rebuilding our party to remove rancour, division and what-have-you. So, we still need him, because his words of wisdom are always very useful.” Speaking on the zoning of Presidency to the South by the ruling All Progressives Congress, the governor said the development did not pose any threat to the PDP ahead of the 2023 general elections. Muhammed said the PDP would continue to strategise to rescue Nigeria from the present situation the country found itself. He said, “The zoning of Presidency to the South by the APC is not a threat to the PDP because each party is trying to strategise, to plan and organise. If they zone to the South, it is open to us to see how it is going to give us more electoral victory or if we put it to the North, it will give us more electoral victory. “This is the kind of things we are doing; the leg works, the permutations and so on. So that, at least, whatever we are going to do, is give us and provide for Nigerians to choose between the best alternatives.” On his chances of getting the party’s presidential ticket to contest the 2023 election, Muhammed expressed optimism.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com