AMOBI DAVIES examines the surrounding the discovery of an aircraft belonging to the Rivers State Government Since the Rivers State Governor, Chief Nyesom Wike, announced that he had discovered an aircraft belonging to the state in Germany, doubts are yet to be cleared if such discovery was real or a mere dust raised in the name of playing politics. Though many persons acquainted with the unfolding events in the state will easily say the facts of the development have yet to be established, the issue has however created a sharp divide among the people of the state. Whereas some sections of the state expressed unwavering support for the governor and cheered his ability to discover a big state asset in far away Europe, others who had taken sides with the former governor of the state, now the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, believed that Wike was only trying to attack the minister. Truth be told, it is not the first time the governor and his predecessor would be involved in scathing criticism over the purchase and ownership of aircraft. Recall that in 2017, two Bell 412 helicopters said to belong to Rivers State were handed over to the Nigerian Air Force. The Nigeria Customs Service, at a point, maintained that the items were imported by yet-to-be-identified importers, but investigations by SUNDAY PUNCH then revealed that the two aircraft were actually ordered by the Rivers State Government during Amaechi’s tenure as the governor. As the argument raged, the state government requested the release of the helicopters in a September 28, 2015 letter from the Office of the Governor and signed by Nyesom Wike, with reference number RVSG/GH/PRES/VOL.1/03, addressed to the Comptroller-General of the NCS, and had the title, ‘Request for provisional release of two Bell 412 helicopters imported by the Rivers State Government for security surveillance services.’ The tension that was triggered by the heated debate on the aircraft lingered until it diffused with time. Wike had on his trip to Germany alongside some of his party men said the state government had through intelligence discovered one of its Legacy 600 aircraft that was flown to and abandoned in the European country since 2012 by the Amaechi-led administration. He specifically accused Amaechi of secretly taking the state-owned asset abroad and abandoned it there without any documentation. The governor alleged that the intension was to sell off the aircraft unnoticed. The governor, while addressing the General Manager, Business Development, General Atomics Aerotec, Markus Froetschi, explained that his administration, in a bid to recover state assets, had through intelligence, discovered that the Legacy 600 jet purchased by the Dr Peter Odili’s administration was in Germany. He said, “When we came into office in 2015, we never had an idea that our plane was in your facility. It was a matter of asking questions before we got the information that Legacy 600 belonging to our state is in RUAG, before General Atomics. We tried to make contact with you, which you obliged. So, we want to sincerely thank you for not hiding anything from us, because it is the property of the state government. “This plane was bought in 2003 by the government of Dr Peter Odili, and by 2007, he had handed over to the next government which was my predecessor’s, now the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. While he was in office, by 2012, this plane was brought here. The reasons; we do not know.” “Why was there no documentation to let the incoming government to know that we have this facility and we sent it to RUAG for inspection? Again, I do know from experience that the inspection of such facility does not take more than six months. So, if it was brought in 2012, at least, by early 2013, the plane ought to have come back for use.” However, a former commissioner for Agriculture in the state under the Rotimi Amaechi-led administration, Emmanuel Chinda, said the governor was aware that the aircraft was in Germany when he (Wike) assumed office in 2015. Chinda also said it was more of politics if Wike would claim that the Legacy 600 aircraft belonging to the state was abandoned in Germany for 10 years without documentation. The ex-commissioner, who is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress and a strong Amaechi loyalist, said documentation was done before the aircraft was moved out of the state. Chinda mentioned that the aircraft was approved and flown to Germany for maintenance purposes. He said the Wike-led administration was aware of the development and was only interested in playing politics with every situation, claiming that the governor was sounding political rather than being critical. “He (Wike) has been talking about Rivers State plane for the past four years now, as usual. What he did was to take his comity of friends to use tax payers’ money as they have always done to go for their meeting. If it is not so, tell me which aviation expert was in that delegation he took to Germany. What you see there is a group of politicians for his ‘Wike for President’ or for governor’s comity of friends. “When we were in government, that aircraft got bad and it was taken overseas for repairs. I don’t know how long it would have taken to come back, but proper documentation  was done before it was taken out of the country. It wouldn’t have been successfully taken out of the country without documentation. “The aircraft was bad and was sent for maintenance. Aircraft is not taxi that you handle anyhow. It went for maintenance and there was proper documentation. It is the property of Rivers State Government and that is why the authorities of those in Germany told them that it belonged to Rivers State Government and was on maintenance.” Similarly, a former Commissioner of Transportation from 2007 to 2015, Tolofari George, described the position of the governor as false, saying the attempt was to malign Amaechi. Tolofari said the governor’s claimed that his predecessor secretly abandoned the aircraft belonging to the state government in Germany was false. He noted that the plane was duly documented and declared in the handover note which Amaechi prepared for Wike. The former commissioner said, “Once again, in his characteristic mischievous style, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has sought to malign and attack his predecessor and erstwhile benefactor, the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, by making false allegations. “The lie in the Rivers State Government rant is so obvious. It is simply not possible that a plane that was properly documented in the handover notes of the State Ministry of Transport, which I supervised as commissioner to the incoming administration in 2015, can be said to be secretly abandoned? How? “When we got the new aircraft that the current government is using now, the older Legacy aircraft was sent to Germany for repairs and refurbishment and then to be sold to generate revenue for critical infrastructural projects in the state. To the previous administration, there was no economic sense to keep and maintain two state planes. The cost was just too prohibitive. So, the plan was to sell off the older Legacy plane. The plane was still in Germany at the time we handed over to the incoming administration. Everything was in the handover note of the Ministry of Transport.” Tolofari said in 2015 when the new administration took over, they claimed the same aircraft had been stolen, but that the same government was now saying the same aircraft was secretly abandoned in Germany. He said, “We can now see that the issue is purely political and vindictive, hurling false allegations on the previous administration. That the Legacy aircraft was in RUAG, Germany, was written in my handover note that is in the custody of the state government. “In 2015 when they made an issue of Rivers State having two aircrafts, and that one has been stolen, I issued a press release which reiterated that the aircraft was in Germany. Sometime last year, a staff of Rivers State Government got in touch with me, asking questions about the aircraft. I clearly told him where it was. So, I just don’t understand what this current fuss is about? We couldn’t have taken an aircraft to Germany and just dump it there and walk away without proper and formal documentation. Is RUAG, Germany a dumping ground? I recalled that the Rivers State Government had made an issue of the new aircraft currently in use, having a United States registration number, accusing the past government of wanting to steal the aircraft. “They accused us of doing an N registration (for plane registered in the United States) for the sole purpose of wanting to steal the aircraft. They made so much fuss at the time. But till date, which is nearly seven years after taking possession of the aircraft, they are still using the same foreign registration. Why haven’t they changed it to Nigerian registration?” However, the Deputy Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Ehie Edison, said the asset was flown to Germany and left there with an ill intention, describing it as administrative recklessness. Edison said, “We are surprised that this is more than seven years that the aircraft has been here. We don’t know their intention, but it shows administrative recklessness, and worst of all, there is no proper documentation to show Rivers State Government, as at then, meant well for Rivers people.” Lending voice to the controversy over the aircraft and emphasising the governor’s position, the Commissioner for Information and Communications, Paulinus Nsirim, said the governor did not lie as against the position of Tolofari. The commissioner said the administration was amazed at the position taken by former transport commissioner, adding that the past administration had been attempting to deny the truth about the Rivers aircraft in Germany. He added, “It is quite typical of the opposition to deploy its now tired diversionary tactic by dwelling on the personality of Governor Nyesom Wike and attempting to obfuscate the facts whenever contentious issues of their mismanagement of Rivers funds and maladministration of the state are brought up.” Taking a different position from the state government and the opposition, a Port Harcourt-based human rights activist, Enefaa Georgewill, insisted that it was wrong for Wike to bring up such matter few months to the 2023 general elections, adding that such claim could come with the risk of being misinterpreted. He recalled that the governor had on assumption of office said he had been informed of an aircraft in Germany belonging to the state and questioned why the governor would claim ignorance of the whereabouts of the same aircraft. He said, “We understand the fact that this is a political era, and political parties and gladiators will want to make political gain out of every issue. As a result, we are skeptical about taking issues with them. “However, it behoves us to stand on the side of truth. The truth that we know is that several media publications had credited Rivers State having the knowledge of an aircraft earlier before now; sometime within 2015/2016. There are several publications on this. One begins to wonder which aircraft the Rivers State Governor, Chief Nyesom Wike, is talking about now. “Is it a new aircraft outside the one he earlier claimed he had knowledge of and was already in Germany or is it a new one? If it is still that same old one, then at what point is the Rivers State Government saying that it is a discovery? The second point to consider; an aircraft is not like your phone or wristwatches. Some aircraft are as big as a two bedroom flat or more. By this, such facility cannot leave the Nigeria air space without proper documentation. “If an item as big as that leaves our air space with documentation, it equally follows that its destination is know by relevant authorities. All that any government needs to do is to look at the papers and trace her property.” Georgewill noted that proper investigation needed to be carried out to find out who was paying the demurrage of the space where the plane had been parked for over seven years now. “Secondly, because aircraft is not just a property that you go and dump in an aircraft maintenance company and leave it like that, you pay certain demurrage. Now, who has been paying those fees since? Is the incumbent government saying those who hid the aircraft there have been the ones paying,” he added. Speaking further, the activist pointed out that part of the blame would be on the administration of Amaechi for failing to have a proper handover to the current administration. According to him, “In all of these, one will blame the previous administration. If they had simply done a proper handover, this controversy wouldn’t have arisen. But because in our state, politics seems to be the major occupation, politics is played with high level of bitterness and due processes and administrative process are not followed, you now see a situation where proper handover did not happen. It is immaterial whether you like the incumbent government or not, what protocol and administrative processes require is that you do a proper handover. “In fact, immediately you hand over, you are free to abuse the new government. They expect you to do the proper thing as required by law. This idea of just drop everything and leave without a proper handover ceremony has given room for some of these things. The property of a man is his own, no matter the value or worth. If a man feels he has found his father’s property, it behoves him to get it back. “However, we must say that because of the uncertainty of the whole thing, we are beginning to ask questions whether or not the state government is not aware ab initio for it to come close to election period and begin to say they want to use millions of dollar to fix an aircraft when we have a lot of deficits in housing, education. As we speak, shanties are being demolished and there are no low cost houses.” Also, the President of South South Youths Initiative, Imeabe Oscar, said, “In-as-much as I don’t support the act of abandonment of the state asset in any guise, I also do not believe that the governor is not making politics out of the whole thing. I believe that the governor successfully located the aircraft because of some documents in his possession. He cannot claim to be a magician. “At this point, we should not be arguing about handover or no handover. For God’s sake, his administration is winding down; he should think of how to engage the youths. The money he wants to invest in servicing the aircraft can do the youths a lot of good. It can also be used to create skills acquisition programmes. It can also be used to pay workers.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com