The National Identity Management Commission has said that the national identification number verification service portal has been fully restored. This was made known by its head of corporate communications, Kayode Adegoke, in a statement made available to the press on Saturday. The PUNCH had reported that thousands of telecommunication subscribers nationwide seeking to retrieve their lost Subscriber Identity Module cards or acquire new lines were left stranded following the technical glitch in the NIMC portal that has grounded SIM-related services. The affected NIMC portal enables telecom firms, the Nigerian Immigration Service, banks, and other organisations to verify the National Identity Number of their customers before attending to them, in line with the Federal Government’s directive. Over the past couple of days, the portal breakdown has affected telecommunication companies, banks, and government agencies such as the Nigerian Immigration Service, which rely on the service to verify the NIN of their customers before attending to them. Adegoke said, “The National Identity Management Commission is pleased to announce that the National Identification Number Verification Service portal, which went down a few days ago due to maintenance by one of the Commission’s network service providers of its infrastructure, has been fully restored. “Consequently, customers and service providers can now take full advantage of the two verification platforms – Tokenization and NVS – which are both effective for verification and authentication of the National Identification Number.” The NIMC however expressed gratitude to Nigerians and promised to be innovative in its service to ensure quality delivery. He added, “NIMC extends its profound gratitude to the general public and partners for their support during the NVS downtime and use of the tokenisation platform. “The commission will continue to come up with innovative identity management solutions to enhance its capacity to deliver on its mandate.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com