Some Stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress under the auspices of the APC Rebirth Group Saturday in Abuja have said, as part of arrangements for the March 26 national convention, it expected a different committee to plan the convention other than the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Group. This is as it welcomed the renewed commitments of stakeholders to ensure that the much-awaited National Convention of the APC holds on the new scheduled date of March 26, 2022. In a statement signed late Saturday by the Group’s spokesperson, Aliyu Audu, titled ‘APC Rebirth Welcomes fresh commitment to hold national Convention, says El-Rufai has inspired confidence,’ the group said it is disappointed that the February 26 date earlier scheduled after cries from party members had to be shifted. It said it is not completely surprised at the turn of events as it had predicted that the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee did not demonstrate willingness to conduct the Convention anytime soon. “We were vindicated,” it said. Although it welcomed the recently agreed March 26 date, it expressed dismay over the fact that the same Caretaker Committee that has “consistently failed” to deliver on its core mandate of delivering the national Convention will be allowed to continue to supervise the process of the same Convention it could not organise. The statement read in part, “Our expectation was that after the meeting of governors with the president, a new committee would be immediately constituted to prepare for the new convention date of March 26, but this was not to be. “While we have nothing personal against the CECPC, our concern, as we have always expressed, is to ensure that handlers of the party at any point in time conduct affairs in ways that will stabilise it and preserve its fortunes for the tasks ahead. We hope that the CECPC will prove to be above board in this regard. “The recompense for us in the new reality of things is that an early commitment to deliver the Convention has been demonstrated with the few activities that have immediately preceded the announcement of the new date of March 26, especially with the coming into the fray of the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai.” It said unlike what was initially obtainable, El-Rufai did not only inspire confidence with the communication of the decisions reached during various meetings of the stakeholders; he also ensured that the zoning arrangement was communicated to the public as agreed by the stakeholders. “Elrufai’s intervention nonetheless, it would have been very gratifying if he and many other leaders of the party had not only spoken out against the sad trend the party went through within the last 22 months of the CECPC at the helm but also assumed responsibility just like he has done in the past few days. “We believe that his long silence and that of many others contributed mainly to the state in which the party has been thrown into and we hope that lessons would have been learnt and occurrence of this nature will be prevented in the future.” “Having now agreed on the new date for the Convention, the APC Rebirth is committed to joining hands with other stakeholders of the party to ensure that we deliver a convention that will be the pride of not just the party members but the country as a whole,” the Group said. It also appealed to the CECPC, saying, “We beseech the leadership of Mai Mala Buni to conclude his stewardship as party interim Chairman on a good note by delivering a transparent, free and fair Convention.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com