THE Governor of Borno State, Babagana Zulum, recently gave the starkest warning yet of the existential danger posed to the country by the Salafi jihadist faction, ISWAP. Without mincing words, he declared that the 13-year-old insurgency by the Boko Haram terrorist group from which itbroke away, would be “a child’s play” unless the Nigerian state urgently stopped ISWAP’s growth by re-strategising. Expeditiously, the Federal Government should treat this alarm with utmost seriousness and rework its counterinsurgency and counter-terrorism strategies. Zulum’swarning reflects the precariousness of the country. For one, while hosting the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in December, he had optimistically (and falsely) claimed that the security situation in the state had improved. But apparently bowing to reality, he raised the ISWAP threat alarm at the Presidential Villa as he emerged from a closed-door meeting with Buhari. This underscored gravity of the situation. Hear him: “The growing number of ISWAP in some parts of the state is a matter of great concern…But I think this is an early warning system. We shouldn’t allow ISWAP to grow. ISWAP are more sophisticated, more funded, and they are more educated. And we shall do everything possible to defeat ISWAP. Otherwise, what Boko Haram did will be a child’s play.” Failure to act quickly and decisively is perilous. Ominously, successive Nigerian governments are notorious for failing to act proactively on timely intelligence from domestic and foreign stakeholders, whether they touch on the economy, security, or social issues. With the country virtually besieged by criminals and terrorists, Buhari should move to revitalise the failing anti-terrorism strategy. For 13 years, Nigeria has been laid low by a terrorist insurgency sparked by the Boko Haram sect. With its epicentre in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa states in the North-East region, nearly 350,000 persons have been killed in the region between 2009 and mid-February 2022, according to the Council on Foreign Relations’ Global Conflict Tracker.Three million others have been displaced in the Lake Chad region, while 310,000 have become refugees. UNICEF estimates that 200,000 of the dead are children. The economy of the region has been ruined; travelling, farming and commerce are in abeyance. The instability has spread to the three other North-East states of Bauchi, Gombe and Taraba, and further southwards to the North-Central states where Kogi, Plateau, Niger and Nasarawa are menaced by Salafi and allied terrorists. Two fallouts, both deadly, have ensued from the insurgency: Boko Haram has given birth to off-shoots and splinters, among them Ansaru and ISWAP; and the Islamic jihadists have teamed up with thousands of bandits, killer Fulani herdsmen and militia in a terrifying alliance that has made northern Nigeria a hotbed of violence. Under their ravages, Nigeria has ranked the world’s third most terrorism-impacted country in the Global Terrorism Index for four straight years after Afghanistan and Iraq, with the failing states of Syria, Somalia and Yemen coming behind at fourth, fifth and sixth respectively. Consequently, the North-West has been infiltrated by terror groups under diverse tags: bandits, Fulani herdsmen/militants, and kidnappers/cattle rustlers. Orchestrating the spread of jihadism is ISWAP. It is a more dangerous force than the crude Boko Haram. It is more closely tied to the Islamic State and indeed, it is recognised by the global terror franchise as the umbrella for all IS factions in West Africa. Though it originally split from Boko Haram, it has taken over and absorbed the bulk of that group after it cornered its brutish leader, Abubakar Shekau, in the notorious Sambisa Forest, triggering his death by suicide in 2021. Apart from having better educated, tech-savvy and globally connected leaders and tested fighters, ISWAP is better funded, better equipped and adept at PR and multi-media messaging. Research by the Geneva Centre for Security Sector Governance revealed that ISWAP, though also very violent, succeeds where the Nigerian state and Boko Haram failed in the ungoverned areas of the Lake Chad region and the vast Sahelian parts of Northern Nigeria. It said, “By filling gaps in governance and service delivery, it has cultivated a level of support among local civilians that Boko Haram never enjoyed and has turned neglected communities in the area and islands in Lake Chad into a source of economic support.” Moreover, it disavows senseless killings of locals, preferring to target churches, security forces, aid workers and public officials. It also offers rudimentary but effective governance, basic social services, and security in the rural areas where government presence is scanty or non-existent. Last month, Zulum had confirmed that contrary to the Buhari regime’s repeated and false claims of “degrading” or defeating terrorism, ISWAP controls some territory. Buhari should shift gear and treat the threat with utmost seriousness. He, his officials, and security chiefs should stop living in denial. Terrorism is far from being defeated. The fight must be intelligence-led. Undoubtedly, the intelligence services have been flat-footed, reactive instead of being proactive. They need to be overhauled fast. The war on terror is a global campaign. No country, no matter how powerful, can defeat it on its own. It took a global coalition of 84 countries formed in 2014 to drive IS out of Syria and Iraq, deploying immense financial, logistical, and military resources, including boots on the ground.The coalition provided the air force that finally enabled the IS’ defeat. Nigeria badly needs such international help. Buhari should seek it to ramp up the current training assistance provided by Western nations to full scale intervention. Officials and the Northern elite should stop playing politics with terrorism.It consumes all in its wake. The misplaced policy of amnesty should be dropped. Hard core terrorists donot surrender; theirs is an apocalyptic worldview, where dying in battle or by suicide guarantees eternal reward in the afterlife. The so-called “repentant terrorists” are minions or locals forced or lured into their ranks. The state should go after their funding sources, sponsors and enablers, arrest and prosecute them. Terrorist leaders should be hunted down. The war requires a retooling and stronger commitment. The warning by Zulum is a wake-up call; Buhari should heed it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com