Nigerian-born Canadian official, Kelechi Madu, has been exonerated after his suspension as Minister of Justice and Solicitor-General of the Government of Alberta, Canada. Madu, who was suspended as justice minister in January 2022, following his violation of traffic laws and associated offences, has now been redeployed to the Ministry of Labour and Immigration, the Premier of Alberta, Jason Kenney, announced in a statement on Friday. Madu, who assumed the role in August 2020 and is reportedly the first Black person to serve as a minister of justice in Canada, got fined for using his phone while driving in March 2021. He was accused of calling the province’s police chief, Dale McFee, after being slammed a $300 fine he received for violating one of Canada’s traffic and safety regulations. But Madu had said he contacted the police chief only to share his experience and not to seek a waiver. Kenney had asked Madu to step aside pending the outcome of an independent investigation into a March 10, 2021 incident. After the probe, the Premier of Alberta on Friday said, “The report concludes that Minister Madu did not interfere in the administration of justice but that the phone call could create a reasonable perception of interference.” “It is clear from the report that his motivation in making the call was not to reverse the ticket but to raise broader concerns, particularly related to racial profiling. Nevertheless, as Ms. Kent concludes, ‘being angry, wanting assurances that he was not racially profiled are all understandable reactions, given the context of the phone call. It does not absolve the Minister from responsibility, but it is an explanation that deserves recognition,” the premier added. Kenney also said that given the unique role of the office of the Minister of Justice and Solicitor General, it would be appropriate for Madu to step aside from that position. The premier, however, redeployed the Nigerian-Canadian to the Ministry of Labour and Immigration. “I also look forward to Minister Madu’s continued contribution to important work of government as Minister of Labour and Immigration, where he will lead important reforms to the Alberta Advantage Immigration Programme and continued implementation of the Fairness for Newcomers Action Plan to help break down barriers to the economic success of immigrants. He will help to deliver on the Alberta Work Initiative, a key part of Budget 2022’s plan to connect unemployed Albertans with available jobs through expanded training programmes,” he Kenney. The PUNCH had earlier reported that Madu, in July 2021, had a spat with the Nigerian Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, over the re-arrest of the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu. Malami had fired back and described the views of Madu regarding the re-arrest of Kanu as an “outrageously ignoramus opinion that is eccentric and weird”. Kanu is facing terrorism-related charges before Justice Binta Nyako of a Federal High Court in Abuja and the trial has been adjourned to January 19, 2022. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com