ANYTIME you take any particular kind of medicine, there is the risk of it having some kind of interaction with something else you are currently taking. That other thing might be another medicine which will be of great interest and it could be food or a drink. In our environment, it could even be an interaction with a herbal mixture which may have been in use prior to visiting the hospital or concurrently, in use with the prescribed medication. Consequently, there are many different scenarios that can make drug interactions with some other compound something of profound interest to both the doctor and the patient that could have huge repercussions for the outcome of a condition. And so anytime during which you take one medication with certain foods, beverages or over-the-counter medicines, there is the risk of suffering from a drug interaction. As a result of this possibility, it is important to be aware of the possible outcome of such an encounter between two different compounds you are likely to consume before you get to take them. There is a wide variety of these kinds of interactions and we shall attempt to explore them. The most common of these possible relationships are the drug-drug interactions. The guiding principles are a horizontal line which says, in effect, that the more medications you take, the more there is the likelihood of a drug to drug interaction. These relationships can occur for good or ill and they can therefore determine how well your medications work or by how much their effectiveness diminishes or even whether by combining together they can cause a person some harm. For example, when you take a pain-reliever like tramadol and take another like celecoxib, you need to know before taking either one that they both have a common side effect which is drowsiness. Taking both together can, therefore, cause a multiplication of the drowsy effect while not necessarily improving their potential for pain relief. This knowledge, however, can enable the patient to take a smaller dose of both medications so that their combined side-effects can be reduced while not losing anything by way of pain relief. The attending doctors will be aware of these effects that tend to add on to each other and prescribe accordingly. Such an advantage is taken in the opposite direction when in an attempt to improve pain relief without taking too much of any particular medication, one person gets a prescription for both paracetamol and ibuprofen. In this case, the different pathways to pain control are taken advantage of to produce the best possible relief for the condition being treated. In many ways, and in various conditions, these advantages are often in use to provide the best possible outcome for all patients throughout the world and in many different scenarios around the healthcare industry. In the other direction, of course, there are plenty of reasons to be careful of what you take in addition to the routine use of certain medications. In the majority of cases, healthcare personnel stress the importance of taking some particular medicines with food or without food and these are important considerations as well when considering the use of certain medications. For example, you will most probably be told to not take another painkiller aspirin unless you have eaten or drunk something. This is because in its empty state, the stomach is less able to withstand the effects of aspirin and could cause much harm such as erosion of the stomach wall and internal bleeding. On the other hand, some other medicines are better absorbed when taken before food such as tetracycline whose absorption is often delayed when taken along with food. Worse, tetracycline is impaired in its absorption from the stomach when it is taken together with an antacid such as gascol. The world of prescription medicines is rife with examples like these and it is the reason why people should not simply stroll into a chemist and buy all sorts of medications for their use. You have probably seen posts in social media handles telling you to not take certain medications with bananas or grape juice and so on and so forth. Some of these pieces of advice may seem misdirected but it is a recognition of the reality that drugs can and do interact with certain foods and beverages. For example, grapefruit juice, not grape juice which is a different kind of fruit, can reduce the liver’s levels of certain enzymes that are charged with the responsibility of breaking down some medications. When this happens in the liver, the levels of the medication in the body will then rise thus creating an avenue for possible toxicity. This kind of relationship can occur when people take grapefruit juice with the common cholesterol-lowering drug, atorvastatin. Other statins like simvastatin and lovastatin also cause similar interactions that lead to muscle pain in those patients who commit such errors. Sometimes, even more seriously, muscle injury can result because of a phenomenon called rhabdomyolysis, a sort of dissolution of muscle fibres. It is important to know that such interactions do not just happen only with the mixture of a particular medicine with another one in the system. It can happen also even with certain disease conditions within the body. An existing medical condition can also affect the way a drug works. A drug like actifed, which contains pseudoephedrine may increase someone’s blood pressure and this can be dangerous when a person already has high blood pressure. Besides all that, there are several sad outcomes of late involving middle-aged and elderly men seeking to impress younger women with their sexual prowess in hotel rooms around the country. Often, these men take a mixture of medications to achieve this feat and they do not appreciate the fact that serious complications and tragedy can be their lot when they take such drugs. These reactions often occur when two or more drugs given together act at a receptor of similar structure within the body. When this kind of event happens, their level of activity may combine to produce a greater effect which is often called an additive effect. At other times, a depressive effect is produced which is described as an antagonistic effect. Many such interactions happen in our lives on a daily basis especially when such medications are not prescribed and when people just go about mixing all sorts of things together and consuming them. In relation to the comments made in the chapter above with the use of sex-enhancing drugs, some men take viagra first and probably take tadalafil later. This can be quite disastrous as Viagra has a relatively quick onset of action within about half an hour and peaks at about two hours while tadalafil would become effective in about two hours and remain so over some 36 to 48 hours. The nature of these medications, even though they have similar mechanisms of action, is that they will not increase the size of an erection or its strength but may cause a catastrophic drop in blood pressure such that death results. This could have been the fate of some of the men in the scandalous hotel stories of late. It is also important for people who are using various medications to be conscious of the dos and don’ts associated with their medications before they proceed to take them. It is even more important to be especially wary in a situation in which you use herbal mixtures together with modern medications. As an individual, one has often seen people walk into chemists to ask for bizarre drug combinations like two tablets of ibuprofen, two capsules of tetracycline, two capsules of ampiclox and two tablets of valium 5 (diazepam) in the false belief that it makes them stronger. For some people, this is an evening routine practised over many years often as they make their way home from work. For others, they mix an antibiotic powder with alcohol and claim that it is more effective when used like that. It is truly a spectacle and one which the rising desperation and poverty in our communities is making all the more common. Questions and answers Dear doctor, thank you so much for the previous advice you have given to me and others on this platform. The problem I have is in relation to the fact that since the beginning of this year, say about January 5, I just noticed that I have been having indigestion and when I eat, the food stays for a long time before it digests. I have been reading for my examinations and I don’t know if that has a role to play in causing this problem. When I eat, even after 24 hours, I just feel that the food has not digested. It remains in the stomach which then becomes hot. The food doesn’t digest, it gives me heartburn and I belch all the time and it scares me to eat and so I just make do with snacks or cereal which is not what I really want. I avoid eating cooked food for now so as not to aggravate the problem. What do I do about this?  0902xxxxxxx Thank you for your question. Obviously, you do have some reason to be worried. It is possible that the increased stress imposed on you by having to prepare for an examination may have a role to play in this but usually the use of an antacid in this kind of situation should have huge benefits for the feeling you have. If you take gascol for example or the less commonly known types of mist magnesium trisilicate for several days, there should be an immense relief. Dear doctor, I am 19 years old now. I usually have pain during my menstruation and that has been on like that for as long as I can remember but the last period I had towards the end of January was so terrible that I frequently found that I was not able to stand up straight for up to three days at a time. What made it worse was that I vomited a few times and suffered terrible pain extending to my back and thighs. It has never been like this and I am able to hold myself and cope with the pain. Now, I am left to wonder why this one is like that. Is this how it will now be? If so, what should I do please?                    0802xxxxxxx Well, menstrual pain has an unclear cause. If you have had this kind of pain since you first started to menstruate, it is more than likely that you have found various ways to cope with the discomfort as you did indicate. This last flare-up may have more to do with the fact that something else is contributing to it. If it continues in this severe pattern for a second month in a row, it would be worth the while to see a doctor for a proper examination and advice. In most cases, though, nothing significant would be found at your age and it is likely that this last episode would end up being a one-off occurrence. However, you must not dispense with the use of pain-killers which should also help you a great deal to cope better with the intense pain. Dear doctor. I am 22 years old and I found that I had a boil on one side of my vagina and it became painful and sort of red. I was on the verge of going to the hospital to complain to the doctor when it just burst on its own early that morning. It opened by itself and pus came out before it started reducing. Do I still need to take any drug? Thank you sir. 0803xxxxxxx Well, one can only say that it is a good outcome for a problem like this to resolve spontaneously. If the pain is now reducing, perhaps all you need to do is take some pain-killers like paracetamol and sit in a bowl of warm water with salt known as sitz bath to better clean out the hole which the ruptured boil is sure to have left behind. If you can get to do this about three times in a day, healing should be complete within a few more days. Dear doctor, is there any remedy for whitlow apart from lancing it? My swollen finger has not shown any sign of readiness to discharge pus. I am 69. My daughter is also affected at 37. Thanks.  0705xxxxxxx There are other things you can do which include the use of a good antibiotic and pain-reliever plus the inserting of the affected finger in a container that has got warm water and salt. These measures will reduce pain, encourage reduction in swelling and control infection. Dear doctor, may the Good Lord continue to bestow you with more wisdom in Jesus Name. Amen. I am a 71-year-old woman. I always have this crucial pain at the end of my spinal cord all the way to the area around the buttocks especially when I wake up early in the morning, to the extent that I will find it difficult to get up. But once I get up and start going about, the pain will subside gradually. Once upon a time, the doctor I told said I should be sleeping on the floor so I had to lay the mattress on the floor even before my husband died. Now that I am all alone and have no one to assist me in rubbing it with a balm I just use paracetamol, the pain will be reduced. Again, when I want to bend my elbow to sneeze or cough, I always have pain within the hollow of my elbow. I need your advice on the medication to use or what to do concerning these two areas of my body that are giving me pain. Sorry for the inconveniences and remain blessed. Thanks.  0805xxxxxxx Well, I must thank you very sincerely for your prayers. God bless you madam and be assured that you are not inconveniencing me in any way. The pains you have may be related to your age. It is important for you, however, to be examined properly by a doctor which will include X-rays of the areas you have complained about just so that you can be freed from this pain, especially the one low down in the back. It is when you have done so and the nature of the problem there is known that a prescription can be offered to you which should spare you from the kind of difficulties you presently face. However, it is difficult to see how sleeping on the floor can be of help to you. Dear doctor, thanks for the way you have been helping the masses. My mother is 67 years old and has been suffering from a problem in the eyes which I think is glaucoma. She has been to the state hospital in Osogbo and a private hospital but her eyes are red and she cannot see well. The last doctor she saw said she has eyes pressure and they can’t perform any operation on her. These are the drugs she has been taking: Metalone plus; Tinomed; Ocufenace; Vistulent; Pilocarpine; Chloramphenicol 0.5%: Antallerge; Clamol 0.5%; Bicoma; Duosopt eyecap; Ocuvite. Please, kindly recommend any drug she can use and any good hospital in Osun State.  Thank you sir.   0805xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your kind words. I believe you should visit the LAUTECH (Ladoke Akintola University of Technology) Teaching Hospital in Osogbo if you are keen on getting a second opinion. It is all too likely, though, that we may be talking about the same hospital in which case you may choose to visit the nearby OAU (Obafemi Awolowo University) Teaching Hospital at Ile-Ife. As for the medications, it is important to leave any adjustments she may need to the team at Ife who will perform a comprehensive review of what she has been using. Dear doctor, I am 50 years old now and just a week ago I started to feel serious pains in my nipples. I also had a thick discharge from my vagina like catarrh. The previous month, December, I didn’t even see my period. I have not experienced this kind of thing before and I am concerned. What is the cause and what should I do to treat it?    0802xxxxxxx Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com