Leaders of the Kebbi State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party have endorsed the presidential ambition of Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal. Tambuwal, who was in the state earlier in continuation of his nationwide 2023 presidential bid consultation led a delegation, including former Governor of Sokoto State, Attahairu Bafarawa; former deputy governor of Sokoto state and ex-minister for water resources, Muntari Shagari, as well as a former Minister, Bello Sulaiman; Sokoto PDP youth leader, Ahadiya Mbinji, were received by the Kebbi PDP state excos. Speaking on the purpose of his visit, Tambuwal said he was in Kebbi to consult with the leaders in the state for his presidential aspiration, adding that with the level of reception he received by the Kebbi PDP exos and structure, he was convinced that PDP is back in Kebbi state. He said with a united house, PDP would reclaim Kebbi and Nigeria again. “APC has failed Nigeria. International organisations have rated Nigeria as the world poverty capital and it’s time to change the narrative. “PDP has ruled Nigeria before and now APC has ruled and you all have seen the negative difference. The mantra they campaigned on has failed. So, it’s time for us to change the fortunes of this country. I urge you all to remain united and committed.” He thanked the state exco for the success recorded during the just-concluded local government elections in the state, noting that it’s a sign that the party is ready to reclaim the state. Tambuwal was received by the entire Kebbi PDP state exco led by the party chairman, Alhaji Usman Bello Suru as well as a former minister of Special Duties, Kabiru Turaki, General Ishaya Bamayi, and General Bello Siyaki. In his remarks, the state PDP chairman, Usman Suru, said the Kebbi State PDP is in support of Tambuwal’s ambition. “We know his competence. We knew him when he was a lawmaker, became speaker, and his performance as Governor of Sokoto. “He is qualified to rule this country and we recognise his quality and we assure you of our support,” he said.