A State High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on Tuesday ended a rift on the traditional stool of Ogbogoro Community in Obio Akpor Local Government Area of the state that had lasted for over 14 years. The presiding judge, Justice Adolphus Enebeli, in his judgment, declared Chief Felix Amadi as the paramount ruler of the Ogbogoro Community and head of the Rumukpalikwu-Ada family. This judgment brought to rest the Ogbogoro chieftaincy tussle and the land dispute between the family of Owhor Dike of Ehiozu family, and Felix Amadi of Rumukpalikwu-Ada families. It would be noted that 14 years of the chieftaincy war in Ogbogoro affected the development of the community. Enebeli in his judgment declared Chief Amadi as the paramount ruler of Ogbogoro and head of Rumukpalikwu-Ada family. He also declared Chief Felix Amadi and members of his family as the rightful owners of the disputed land in the area and issued perpetual injection restraining Owhor Dike and others who are claimants in the matter from interfering in the stool or the parcel of land. Enebeli said that the defendants in the matter proved their case beyond reasonable doubt and awarded the sum of N500,000 against the claimants. The judge further gave window for those who built on the disputed land before the case was taken to court to approach the family for renegotiation. Enebeli also ruled that those who bought land in the disputed area and developed it while the matter was in court were at the mercy of Chief Felix Amadi and members of his family. Meanwhile, Justice Enebeli adjourned till the first week of March 2022 to commence contempt of court proceedings against Collins Ihunda, Clifford Amadi, Letten Maxwell and two others who are members of Ehiozu family over allegations of tampering with the parcel of land during the pendency of the matter in court. Meantime, the paramount ruler of Ogbogoro Community, Amadi, has described Nigeria’s judiciary as the hope of the common man. Amadi, who spoke after the judgment at the court premises, said the 14 years legal battle has caused underdevelopment in Ogbogoro. He promised that the judgment would help to restore peace, advising all to come together for the interest of development.