Prominent traditional rulers in Igbomina land in Kwara State have expressed concern over the worsening security challenges being experienced in the area, saying that measures are being taken to check the influx of obnoxious migrants into the area. The Chairman, Igbomina Ekiti Traditional Rulers Forum and Olupo of Ajase Ipo, Oba Ismail Atoloye II; the Olomu of Omu Aran, Oba AbdulRaheem Adeoti; and the Elese of Igbaja, Oba Babalola Arepo III, made their positions known separately at the weekend when members of the Executive Committee of the Igbomina Professionals Association led by its President, Adebayo Atoyebi, visited their palaces. The association, according to a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Mr Kunle Akogun, had embarked on the visits to call the attention of the royal fathers to the security situation in the area and to suggest possible way out. Commending the IPA for deeming it fit to embark on the visits, the traditional rulers assured the association that they are on the same page in the area of security concerns. At the Olupo’s palace, Oba Atoloye disclosed that the royal fathers were making moves to tackle the security challenges in their domains, saying, “We are already taking some steps to curb it.” He said the Igbomina Traditional Council had embarked on certain steps to stem the influx of the Fulani immigrants, noting, “We have already entered into an agreement that those who have already settled on our lands are enough and that we don’t want any more of them here. If we cannot send those already here back, we would not allow any new Fulani settlers in our land.” The Olupo also told the Igbomina professionals that the royal fathers “are not relenting but with this your effort, we will look more inwards,” saying, “Any community that is devoid of security is in peril because insecurity will eventually wipe out that community.” On his part, the Elese of Igbaja, Oba Babalola, appealed to his fellow royal fathers to be wary of harbouring the Fulani settlers on their lands, saying, “They should not, because of a false feeling of population expansion, condone the influx because in the long run, these Fulanis would be the undoing of those communities.” Also welcoming the IPA delegation to his palace, the Olomu of Omu Aran, Oba Adeoti, commended the association for its patriotic concern over the development and security of our people, saying that “you have good intentions and lofty ideas that can help Igbominaland.” Oba Adeoti advised Igbomina sons and daughters to take more active part in politics, pointing out that “if you really want to help Igbominaland, you need to join politics.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com