Taiwo Awoniyi will hope to avoid another miserable day in front of the Union Berlin fans on Saturday (today) by ending his six-game goal drought when his side takes on an in-form Mainz, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Mainz are currently the Bundesliga’s most in-form team, the 05ers having taken seven points from their last three games. The Nigerian striker will be keen to help end the club’s downward spiral in the Bundesliga where they have lost their last three games for the first time in almost two years. The club’s worst-ever run in the top flight is four successive losses and dates back to autumn 2019. Awoniyi who scored the last of his nine goals so far this season in a 2-1 win over RB Leipzig on December 3 is expected to lead a Union attack that has not found the back of the net in three games – an unwelcome record for Die Eisernen in the Bundesliga this season. The drought will be cause for concern after Awoniyi suffered a similar drought last season – between January 1 and May 22 he went nine matches without scoring. Since joining the club the 24-year-old Nigerian has made 52 appearances and has scored 19 times making seven assist. His coach Urs Fischer is desperate to stop that rot on Matchday 24 and revive their hopes of European football next season as he admits that the confidence of his team is on a low. Speaking ahead of the game, Fischer said, “Shots on goal and finishing is always a topic for the team. “It is a topic for us to focus on basically because it’s hugely important we show that on the park. The players are doing great, working hard on things. “After three games without points or goals, confidence isn’t the same as the end of January. That leaves things behind. We spoke about things in January that we hadn’t done well; we did again. In the end, you keep working to turn things around. “Mainz’s last game against Leverkusen was great, turning the result around with a goal at the end. “They never give up until the last minute. It’s a robust and strong team with good organisation and compactness. They have a very strong transition game, as well as speed. They are aggressive on second balls. It’s a very difficult match.” Union’s Awoniyi and Jonathan Burkardt of Mainz are their teams’ top scorers with nine and seven goals respectively. Neither has found the net since Matchday 14.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com