The five South-West governors who are members of the All Progressives Congress are expected to meet in the coming days over who will emerge as the national secretary of the APC, The PUNCH has learnt. The APC had earlier in the week zoned the national secretary position to the South-West. The national secretary is one of the most powerful positions in the National Working Committee. Other positions that the zone will produce include: national vice chairman (South-West), national youth leader, deputy national auditor, zonal secretary, zonal youth leader, zonal organising secretary, zonal women leader, zonal special leader. Impeccable sources told The PUNCH that the national secretary positions may be “micro-zoned” to Oyo, the only state in the South-West that is not governed by the APC. A top official said, “The governors will be meeting soon but no exact date has been fixed. They will deliberate on who should emerge as the national secretary of the party. Already, there is a general feeling among them that the position will go to Oyo, the only state that doesn’t have an APC governor. “A strong politician from Oyo State will also help checkmate Governor Seyi Makinde. So, that is what we are considering at the moment. Also, they will decide on who should emerge as the vice chairman in the zone.” When asked which state would host the zonal congress, the official said the governors would be the ones to decide. Another APC chieftain confirmed to The PUNCH that Oyo State may produce either the vice-chairman of the APC in the region or the national secretary. The chieftain, however, said APC leader, Bola Tinubu, would play a key role. “Tinubu is the leader of the South-West and he has the trust of at least three out of the five governors so what he says will carry a lot of weight. The thinking within our camp is that Oyo will produce either the national secretary or vice-chairman. It is more likely that the national secretary will be given to Oyo,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com