Below, KELVIN EKERETE takes a look at 10 Super Eagles players who have been struggling at their respective clubs this season Henry Onyekuru Since joining Greek side Olympiakos in the summer of 2021 for €4.5m, Onyekuru has failed to meet expectations. The forward was hoping to revive his career at the club after being deemed surplus to requirements at Monaco, but he’s struggled for form and consistency and was a subject of several transfer rumours during the January transfer window. The Nigeria international was on target in his second outing against Slovan Bratislava in a UEFA Europa League qualifying match last August, but ever since, the forward has failed to find the back of the net in his next 22 games in all competitions, equaling a total time of 1,017 hours and a period of almost six month. Terem Moffi Striker Mofi was highly sought after in the summer, thanks to his impressive performance for Ligue 1 side Lorient, which helped them maintain their topflight status in the 2020/21 season, as he bagged 14 league goals, 11 of them coming in the second half of the season. However, the powerful forward has failed to replicate the form and has only been able to score just three goals in 23 matches this season. His struggles have affected Lorient, who are wallowing in the relegation zone. Peter Olayinka After scoring in three consecutive league games for Slavia Prague in October, on his return from an ankle injury, Olayinka has only been able to score once ever since. He’s only managed two assists in 22 games as well. Frank Onyeka After joining EPL newcomers Brentford last summer, a lot was expected from combative midfielder Onyeka, but after some fine performances on his arrival, the Nigerian has struggled thereafter. Alex Iwobi Everton’s Iwobi has struggled to impress in his third season with the Toffees. Highly rated at Arsenal, before his move to Goodison Park, the forward has contributed two goals and two assists to the club in 16 appearances in all competitions. He looks to be close to finding his feet under new manager Frank Lampard. Samuel Kalu Kalu will be hoping to turn around his career after making a January move to struggling EPL side, Watford, after the winger battled to make the grade with French Ligue 1 club Bordeaux. Kalu had a goal and an assist in 11 games for Bordeaux in the first part of the 2021/22 league season, starting just two of the games. Samuel Chukwueze This season, Chukwueze hasn’t shown glimpses of why he’s regarded as one of the most exciting young talents in global football. He’s made just five starts in 14 league appearances for Villarreal this season, scoring twice and providing one assist. Although he has scored five goals in 18 appearances in all competitions, Chukwueze has struggled to consistently churn out impressive performances for the Yellow Submarines. William Troost-Ekong Despite being a key member of Watford’s defensive set up this season, Troost-Ekong has struggled with the fast pace of the EPL since helping the Hornets return to the English topflight this season. He has committed several blunders, which pitted him against the fans. Against Brentford, his poor tackle inside the box on Saman Ghaddos in the 94th minute won the opponents a penalty, which was converted by Bryan Mbeumo to earn the Bees a hard-fought win. He was dropped for the next game against West Ham. Maduka Okoye Despite signing for Watford in the January transfer window, the performance of Okoye for Sparta Rotterdam has not been impressive. Okoye has conceded 27 goals in 18 appearances for the Dutch Eredivisie side keeping just two clean sheets. Semi Ajayi Ajayi was one of the most consistent players for West Brom in the Premier League last season, and featured in 14 of the first 15 games for the Baggies this term, before being relegated to the bench. The big defender has only played four minutes of competitive football in the English Championship, since clocking 90 minutes on October 30.  Before getting called up for the 2021 AFCON in Cameroon, Ajayi was on the bench for nine of 10 games, playing just four minutes in those games. On return from the AFCON, he returned to the bench. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com