As the 2023 presidential election is some months away, a group in the All Progressives Congress in the South West has declared support for the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). The group, under the auspices of the Osinbajo Grassroot Organization, Ondo State chapter, described the VP as the person who has the capacity to solve various problems facing the country, if he is elected. Addressing a crowd of members of the group in Akure, the state capital on Saturday, the Director-General of Osinbajo Campaign Council, Ondo State, Barrister Ifeolu Fasoranti, said the Vice President would turn around the socio-economic and political situations of the country if he was given the opportunity to rule the country He said, “We believe that as President, Prof. Osinbajo will harness all the resources and rejig the system to work towards the interest of Nigeria rather than the interest of individuals. “With his vast experiences in the academics, law, governance and administration, Osinbajo has fashioned out many programmes that will effectively address the challenges confronting this nation. “No doubt, he will be a bridge between the old and the new, between the North and the South, between the East and the west. He will be a connecting valve among all religious beliefs.” According to the group, the choice of the Vice President becoming the next president was based on the belief that he would drive the economy of the country right and be totally detribalised, doing everything in the interest of the nation. The group coordinator also disclosed that many prominent elder statesmen, notable selfless and patriotic leaders, and compatriots across the country were committed to the course. He noted that without trying to ruffle feathers the nation needed an energetic, fearless, truthful , focused leader like Osinbajo ,with conscience and vision to direct its affairs. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com