The Rector, Federal Polytechnic, Idah, Dr Danjuma Baba, has warned newly matriculated students that any student who failed to record 75 per cent contact hour with lectures in a semester would be expelled from the school. Baba disclosed this during the 35th matriculation of the institution held on Saturday at the convocation pavilion when over 2,500 students were admitted into both National Diploma and Higher National Diploma programmes. He stressed that over 2,000 candidates had been offered provisional admission to study various courses at the HND level. Out of over 2,000 candidates that applied for the ND programme, only about 1,500 have been offered provisional admission while another over 1,000 candidates have been offered provisional admission to study various courses at the HND level. “There shall be no absenteeism from lectures, tests and assignments. The minimum class attendance required of full-time students in a semester for each course is 75 per cent of the total contact hours for the semester. “All academic departments shall keep an attendance register for this purpose. Only students who meet this requirement will graduate. Study the Student Handbook religiously as ignorance is no excuse in law,” the Rector warned. He further added, “Recently we expelled a student for refusal to fill the misconduct form despite her claim of ignorance because it is clearly stated in the Student Handbook.” “Let me warn at this point that the Polytechnic will not tolerate neither will it condone any act of indiscipline on the part of any student. You are to qualify for graduation only when you have been certified both in character and in learning.” He disclosed that the present school administration had, more than any previous one, attracted more TETFund interventions in infrastructure, office furniture, equipment for laboratories and workshops. In addition, the Capital Projects funded by the Federal Government under this administration had been overwhelming and unprecedented. “Over fifteen TETfund structures, road networks and other facilities by the Federal Government are now ready for commissioning. This has greatly enhanced our capacity to admit more students for various courses in the Polytechnic,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com