The Zonal Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress and former Deputy Speaker, Ekiti State House of Assembly, Karounwi Oladapo, shares his experience with ABIODUN NEJO on the January 27 governorship primary of the party in the state and other issues With 2023 elections around the corner, why do you still have crisis in your party in all states in your zone? That is the nature of politics. What you call crisis are disagreements among political leaders who have divergent interests and are trying to contest for space and positions. Parties will continue to have issues, but it becomes crisis when you allow it to have structural and fundamental effects on the party. What I mean is when you allow disagreements, on conflict of interest or tendencies to snowball into factional executive committees of the party at various levels. We don’t have crisis in the zone, what we have is conflict of interest, contestation between political tendencies and that is why we call it politics – struggle for power, space, fortune, fame and influence. But don’t you think these issues can affect the party’s chances in the general election? No! In our party, reconciliation is an inbuilt strategy within the management. More or less, there is always a reconciliation committee, which is almost a permanent committee at various levels, because there will always be issues to resolve. As you are resolving one, there will be another. Even resolution of an issue can naturally lead to generation of another contending issue. The 2022 Ekiti APC primary has left a sour taste for seven of the eight aspirants – what really happened? Ordinarily, I can give you direct information or direct evidence. If it had happened in another state, I probably might not be present when the whole scenario happened. But in this case, I was present, particularly in my local government, Efon, and in my ward and I know exactly what happened. I would not have understood what led to the crisis or people calling themselves aggrieved. About eight leaders offered themselves for the contest to be governor under the APC. They respectable leaders of our party who have contributed in one way or the other to what we have in the state. Bought forms; they presented themselves and they appeared disciplined. A National Electoral Committee led by Jigawa State Governor, Abubabakar Badaru, was set up to manage the election in Ekiti State. On the eve of the primary election, stakeholders in Ekiti State were invited for a meeting. I was present; seven of the eight aspirants were in attendance. The party issued guidelines in accordance with the APC constitution. Each item of the guidelines and regulation was raised by the National Electoral Committee, questions were allowed, issues were raised and at the end, we arrived at a number of resolutions by consensus. Everybody was happy. Even the aspirants were exceedingly happy to the extent that they called for group photographs. We were good to go for the election the following morning. The election was to start by 8am with accreditation of APC members between the hours of 8 and 12. The aggrieved aspirants alleged that those billed to serve as electoral officers at the local government and ward levels were supporters and backers of an aspirant, Biodun Oyebanji – how come? That allegation, to me, is strange. They never made such complaint at the stakeholders’ meeting. At the meeting, they raised issues when the committee told them that going by the custom and tradition of our party, electoral officers were always appointed among party members to oversee the conduct of the election at the local and ward levels. The committee said primary election was an internal affair of the party. So, it’s the members that would be used to conduct elections. The aspirants raised an issue that they didn’t have confidence in the party and that they had reservation about anybody selected on the party’s platform. I have never heard that before. Could the party have appointed electoral members from another party? But the committee magnanimously said if they didn’t have confidence in those the party had selected, they should bring 20 persons each who would be accommodated and made part of the electoral committee. They were happy and they brought the names which the committee integrated. The following day when they said some of the aspirants were agitating in front of the state secretariat of our party, it was around 9.30 am when the election process was already in progress. It was only a few of us who had access to social media that knew that some people were protesting, but for a number of voters, they didn’t know of anything like that because all the issues had been resolved the previous night. How will you react to the allegation that the State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, imposed his friend and erstwhile Secretary to the State Government and as well compromised the Badaru-led committee? It is really unfortunate. This is an allegation that none of them can substantiate with any material fact. As a matter of fact, a number of them had done series of press conferences before the primary to the effect that they had met with the governor and that the governor had assured them of a level playing field. I read series of it and I have copies. They said they believed the governor as a democrat and that he had given them assurances and so far, they had not seen him supporting any of the candidates. I was surprised when, on the Election Day and after, I heard of the allegation of imposition. What is called imposition? Imposition is when you deny people of their democratic rights. Biodun Oyebanji was the only one among the eight aspirants who went round the state four different times to seek for votes. I saw one of the other aspirants for the first time during the stakeholders’ meeting and he is aggrieved – somebody that had no posters, no ward. The process had been so transparent, decent and I expect my respectable brothers not to have generated any issue out of the primary. But that day, the aggrieved aspirants and their supporters were in town protesting – so who voted? Was there any election that day? Technology has made life easier. Election successfully took place in 166 of the 177 wards in Ekiti State. As we speak, if you search on Google, you will see pictorial evidence. Pictures were taken and videos were recorded in every of the wards where the election took place. Electoral guidelines and every step of the process were followed. We knew for a fact that at the end of the exercise, there would be the likelihood that some of those who lost out might want to challenge the credibility of the process. As such, we had directed APC members to have pictorial and video evidence. In 11 wards, these aggrieved aspirants disrupted the election in their base. Was election to be conducted in the areas they knew Oyebanji would have defeated them? So, they disrupted the election. We are all politicians; it is a terrible thing if you have over bloated image of who you are. Election is not really like that. Big names don’t win elections; it is your ability to connect with the grassroots. This is grass roots election. It is those that people at the grass roots trust that they will queue behind. Going by the results released in an election involving heavyweights like Opeyemi Bamidele, Dayo Adeyeye, Femi Bamisile and others, Oyebanji secured over 90 per cent votes. Is it not a justification of the allegation that the result was allotted or you think Oyebanji is that popular? I have addressed the big names syndrome; big names do not win grass roots election. Ordinarily, majority of us were preparing for delegates’ election. Delegates’ election can favour big names at times because you cannot trust many people with money, because of the poverty that is ravaging this part of the country. Many people can be compromised and bought with money, but unfortunately for them and fortunately for the system, the seven other aspirants wrote a petition to the effect that they did not want delegates’ election, that Dr Fayemi influenced the election of the present members of the executives at different levels and that there was a likelihood that there would not be fair treatment from the executive members. To that extent, they said they wanted all card-carrying members of the party to vote. The national headquarters of the party granted their request and that was the seven aspirants’ undoing. But is Oyebanji that popular? Let it be on record; Oyebanji will go down in history as a personality that never lobbied anybody in this state to say he wants to be governor. He was pushed by Ekiti people and the people volunteered to bankroll his campaign up till now. Oyebanji is my childhood friend. We schooled together in our secondary school days in Efon Local Government Area. As I speak to you, there was no day Oyebanji ever told me that he wanted to contest for governor much more telling me to help him lobby people. Is that to show he is unwilling or unprepared? He is so prepared but he never anticipated that. On Ekiti governance and politics, he is the most experienced and most senior of all those who aspired. Prior to 1996 when Ekiti State was created, Oyebanji was the only scholar from our ivory tower; he was a lecturer then at the age of about 26. He offered himself to serve on the committee for the creation and struggle for the freedom of Ekiti State. It was the present Ewi of Ado, Oba Adeyemo Adejugbe, and other obas that accommodated him and recommended him to the Committee for the Creation of Ekiti State, the youngest of the founding fathers of Ekiti State and since that time, what has Biodun Oyebanji not been? Prior 1996, where were the other aspirants? In 1999; Biodun Oyebanji started the administration together with Otunba Niyi Adebayo. As at that time, let other aspirants come and tell us where they were in 1999 whether they were part of governance and politics architecture of Ekiti State when Oyebanji was a cabinet member. Nobody parades the type of credentials that Oyebanji parades among the aspirants. But do you think the popularity will stand on June 18 when he will run against strong candidates like Bisi Kolawole of PDP and Segun Oni? I am even happy that we went for direct primary. If it had been delegates’ election now, nobody would ascribe to Oyebanji to have vote bank. As I speak with you now, Oyebanji is the only personality in Ekiti State that has a vote bank of 102,000 This is a vote bank that has video evidence. We monitored the primary in our areas; it was a celebration of internal democracy that day. For the first time, people came out to vote without asking for money. This election changed my perception about people that if you don’t have money, you can’t win election. People came, queued and voted without asking for money and no money was made available to them. The talk in town is that the name that APC has sent to INEC is a dummy and that Oyebanji’s people should celebrate less. People can embark on political masturbation to deceive their followers. I can tell you for a fact that as of Monday last week, I participated in filling the section of the INEC nomination form of Biodun Oyebanji for governor with my voter card and I met other leaders who were equally invited with their voter cards to come and fill the portion. This is to confirm to you that his name had been submitted to APC, the party had confirmed and approved of it, the party had sent his name to INEC, and INEC had acknowledged his name and issued his form to him for filling. I participated. There is fear in some quarters in your party that Chief Segun Oni’s defection from the PDP to another party will have ripple effect on the APC, being a former deputy national chairman – how do you address this? Effect, how? He is somebody that has never won any election in his life? Let anybody tell me; which election, whether party or public election that Chief Oni has won in his life? None! Governorship, he never won, the court said so. He was imposed as zonal chairman of the PDP, the court removed him. He contested in governorship primary under our party, he came distant second, he left our party for PDP, he was beaten blue black by Bisi Kolawole and Ayodele Fayose. People are judged by the outcome of elections in their wards and polling units, you don’t judge people because he was former this, former that. When he came to our political party, he never won Ifaki Ward for us for one day and he spent almost six years in our party. What effect will somebody who has no record of winning election have on our political party? Can your party win the June 18 election? We still don’t have a better alternative to the APC. Apart from having a candidate acceptable to the generality of the people, the APC has done sufficiently well to earn people’s confidence. Dr. Fayemi has done so well. Forget his sterling performance in his first term that was completely destroyed by the PDP that took over in 2014. In the second term, the achievements of Fayemi are verifiable. Of the 132 towns and villages in Ekiti State, there is nowhere you will get to today that you will not see one project or the other that Fayemi is doing. All these will count for us. We will only go there to speak to the projects – roads, education, health, water, security. These will be our campaign points. Let our opponents come and tell the people what they have done. Of the presidential aspirants from the South-West in APC, who do you think is capable of winning and delivering the most? People are coming out to contest and we have not seen the end of it. But I believe that Ekiti has the brightest and best candidate to move this country forward at this point in time. Who is that person from Ekiti? We are still waiting. I have not seen anybody coming out from Ekiti, but I know we have Otunba Niyi Adebayo, who is eminently qualified. We have Fayemi who is eminently qualified. So, I pray any of the two will come out. People are saying Governor Fayemi is interested, though he hasn’t declared; the same way as Prof Osinbajo, but Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has shown interest – what is your take here? I cannot make comment now because we have not had all the aspirants from the South-West. It is still emerging. Even Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has not made public declaration. The only person that has addressed the press to that effect is our leader, highly respected Senator Bola Tinubu. He is competent and qualified to rule Nigeria, but we must have all the aspirants from the South-West on the table before we can begin to discuss them. However, somebody from Ekiti State, I believe will rule Nigeria because we have the best material. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com