The Akwa Ibom State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps has inaugurated 35-unit special female squad to help in combating security lapses in the country, especially in public schools. The state Commandant of the NSCDC, Abidemi Majekodunmi, while inaugurating the squad on Tuesday in Uyo, said the members had undergone rigorous training for the purpose of securing the nation. He said the formation of the squad, code-named ‘Blue-beret’, was in line with the directive of the Commandant-General of the NSCDC to secure schools. Majekodunmi added that the Blue-beret squad was designed to combat some illegal activities currently going on in some parts of the country. He stated, “Recently, we have had the upsurge in kidnapping, armed robbery, contestations with state sovereignty, and above all, attacks on school facilities and institutions. “This special female squad is special in all ramifications and the members are here today as a product of rigorous training exercises and comportment, and of course, all combined together, those efforts have manifested in what we are witnessing today. “This project follows the directives of our commandant-general to inaugurate these special Blue-beret corps tagged: Female Arms Corps. This is a special female squad, and for the exemplary display of today, they are very special. “This project was launched by the commandant-general because he is very much concerned about the safety of our schools and our children. “He launched the school initiative project whereby security can be provided to secure our schools and protect our children in schools. “The commandant-general launched the resurgence to reposition and rejig the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence structures, and to revamp our activities. All these are targeted towards ensuring strategic positioning of the security of the state.” He congratulated the team, particularly the instructors coordinated by the head of department, describing the feat as sterling, excellent and wonderful. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com