The police in Ekiti State have arrested 13 suspects and ex-convicts in connection with armed robbery attacks and killings in parts of the state and rape incidents. The Commissioner of Police, Ekiti State Command, Tunde Mobayo, on Wednesday said that nine of the suspects were members of a killer armed robbery squad who confessed to have carried out operations in 96 houses within Ado-Ekiti and its environs such as Embassy Inland, Ado-Ekiti in 2021, Ajebamidele Area in 2021. Mobayo, who was represented by the Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, Sunday Abutu, said the remaining were three suspected receivers of stolen goods and a woman friend of one of the suspects. The police spokesperson who said that the suspects were arrested in different locations following investigation by men of the Command and operatives of Rapid Response Squad, said a suspected stolen Bajaj Boxer motorcycle was recovered from the receivers. He said arms recovered from the suspects are Beretta pistols, 12 locally-made guns, two expended cartridges, 12 metal files, two metal hand saws and gun making tools. Abutu said, “All the suspects confessed that they formed the gang and started robbing with arms immediately after the disbandment of SARS in October, 2020. They took responsibility for the attack on Niran Students Hostel along Poly Road, Ado-Ekiti in 2021 where they raped two female students, and at Agogo Community in Ilupeju Avenue, Ado-Ekiti in 2021 where they killed one Joseph Blessing who was a night guard”. He said that the gang also confessed to have killed a POS operator, Francis Apata, at Ilawe-Ekiti in December 2021. They also said they were responsible for the rape of a lady in January 2022 at Irewolede Estate area along Ilawe Road on January, 2022 and at Oke Ureje Quarters in Ado-Ekiti at the same time. According to him, the others were arrested on 1st January, 2022 at about 01:45am by the team of the RRS operatives for allegedly receiving stolen items from the robbery gang. He said, “Investigation revealed that all the arrested suspects are ex-convicts who had served different jail terms in the Nigeria Correctional Centre facilities in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State and Akure, Ondo State. Effort is on top gear for the possible arrest of the fleeing members of the gang and the recovery of other stolen items”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com