The publisher of Guru Magazine, Chief Abimbola Aboderin, has declared his intention to salvage the country if given the opportunity. Aboderin, at a briefing on Wednesday in Lagos, said the present situation of the country had become unbearable for many citizens. He said, “I come out to say it boldly that if Nigerians globally are ready to contribute to my presidential aspirations I am ready to salvage Nigeria with my wealth of experience and international connections. I am ready to help salvage Nigeria, but I will only put myself foreword if Nigerians are ready to contribute towards my being their president and salvage them from the present unbearable state we have found ourselves. “I am not happy with the situation of things in our great nation; many today cannot afford to eat the normal three square meals, this is actually no time for blame game on anyone. And I can say it without fear or favor that President Muhammad Buhari is not the root cause of our problem, our problem has its root in age-old corruption which has been in our system for a long time. “I have come to put myself forward if that is what our great country needs to advance and be emancipated. I am highly motivated and determined to put myself forward.” The elder statesman said his love for the country was beyond financial gains, adding that Nigerians should shun money politics come 2023. “All I have done for Nigeria because of my love for her cannot be overemphasized; my message at this world press conference is simple, if I have done it in the past for Nigeria, I can still do it again, it can be done again because I have God on my side and the connection globally to help Nigeria and to emancipate her from her present state,” Aboderin said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com