Ahead of its February 26 national convention, the youths of the All Progressives Congress from the South-South zone have called for unity among the party members. They also demanded that young people should be given opportunities to occupy leadership positions in the party and government. Speaking at the zonal youth leadership, sensitisation, and capacity building meeting for newly elected youth leaders of the party in Benin City, the APC South-South youth leader, Gabriel Iduseri commended the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee. He said Buni’s leadership qualities and activities led to the successful conduct of ward, local government, and state congresses that would climax with the national convention. He said, “We, the youths of the APC in the South-South zone are ready for the next level the party is going to. We have come together as one family and preaching unity and working together for the progress of the party and the country. We are also clamouring for inclusiveness in the party and in the governance of the country. “We all know that the journey of the APC in the last four years has been a bit difficult with divergent interests but here we are standing together again, ready to carry on and change the narratives of our zone. “There is nothing that is as strong as a united house, a united party, and a united zone. My message to the leaders of APC in the South-South zone is that they need to be united in their political approach because a divided house cannot achieve anything meaningful, just as nothing good can come out of a war-torn zone.” Speaking in the same vein, the South-West APC youth leader, Kolade Paff, said, “It is the aggregate of the productive capacities of our youths that will determine where Nigeria will be among nations of the world. Therefore, the youths have their role to play while the country also has its overall role to play.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com