The leadership of the House of Representatives on Monday grilled the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, over an order to Nigerian embassies, High Commissions and other foreign missions not to implement a clause in the 2022 Appropriation Act that allows them to spend their revenue on capital projects. The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, chaired the closed-door meeting where the minister was grilled. Gbajabiamila had invited the minister over an order by the ministry to Nigerian foreign missions not to implement the clause and revert to the headquarters for funding. A member of the House, Kasimu Maigari, had moved a motion of urgent public importance to raise the alarm, urging the chamber to ensure that the ministry complies with provisions of the Act. The House unanimously adopted the motion, directing the ministry to “expressly comply with the provision of Section 11 of the 2022 Appropriations Act (Power of Nigerian Embassies and Missions) and report such compliance to the House within one week.” Before the meeting went into a closed-door session, Gbajabiamila stated that the Appropriation Act is a law that must be obeyed. He said, “We did not just wake up one day and pull something out of the hat and say we want to put this clause. For every law, there is a reason for it. And the reason for it is very simple: I have been all over the world for one official duty or the other, and, of course, the first port of call is always the embassy. “Honestly, unless we want to kid ourselves; it makes you very un-proud to be a Nigerian… The state of affairs of where these people are; what they are doing, their lifestyle. What it leads to…Sometimes even to corruption and you cannot even blame them. “Even within Africa or outside of Africa, we call people ambassadors and I think the meaning of ambassador is very clear. They are a reflection of Nigeria. But when an ambassador does not have a car or his car is 15 years old and it breaks down every single time on the road – the car has even broken down with me in it before and they had to hurriedly roll up the Nigerian flag and put it in their pockets to avoid embarrassment. “You go to an embassy, the toilet is not working. You ask them why, they say there is no money. You go into an embassy; the air conditioners have packed up. I can go on and on. That is what got us here. I cannot begin to tell you what I have seen and what I have heard.” Gbajabiamila noted that it was the conditions of the foreign missions that made the lawmakers “insert a clause that would allow these people remove the red tape; remove the bureaucratic red tape and allow these people to do what they need to do.” He added, “If anyone is found wanting, the law is there. Anyone that breaches the law would face the penalty. But we cannot in the name of saying they would breach the law allow Nigeria and Nigerians to suffer. “You hear of people withholding the green passport or visas because they are trying to generate money; taking bribes to give people visas and passports because they are trying to generate money, because money is not forthcoming from their home country. There is no point in us appropriating money and the money is not used.” Earlier, Onyeama said, “I think at the end of the day, what I can say is that from the executive side and the legislative side, we are all essentially here to promote the interest of Nigeria and Nigerians. That is our guiding principle and philosophy and that is what we would do to the best of our ability. “Thank you for convening this meeting. Hopefully, it would be something that would enable us and all of the country to move forward in the best interest of our citizens.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com