Two policemen have died with another injured after gunmen attacked Isu Divisional Police headquarters in Imo State. Our correspondent gathered that the incident, which happened on Monday, saw policemen on duty engaging the hoodlums. Sources said that on arrival, the hoodlums launched an attack on the station with various weapons including Improvised Explosive Devices. The police spokesperson for the command, Mike Abattam, who confirmed the attack and death of the two cops in a statement, said that suspects had been arrested. The statement partly read, “Armed men suspected to be members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra/ Eastern Security Networkin their numbers came in two Toyota Sienna Buses, a Toyota Camry car and unspecified number of motorcycles, attacked the station from the rear axis because, the station has no perimeter wall, shooting sporadically, threw petrol bombs and Improvised Explosive Devices that ignited the station. “The police operatives of the division immediately responded by engaging the hoodlums in a gun duel. Due to the superior firepower of the Police, the hoodlums were dealt a heavy blow and they scampered for safety, running in different directions with various degrees of gunshot wounds. “The gallant police operatives did not relent, they gave the hoodlums a hot chase and while escaping some ran into Golden Suite Hotel and Isu Villa Hotel respectively, the two hotels were immediately cordoned and raided and in the process , a total of Twelve (12) motorcycles without identification numbers and two vehicles one (1) Lexus RX350 SUV and one (1) Lexus RX330 SUV believed to have been used by the hoodlums were seen and recovered. Also seventeen (17) male and a female suspects were arrested and undergoing interrogation. “However, the fire and Improvised Explosives Devices affected some vehicles and part of the building of the division, and unfortunately, two police officers paid the supreme price, while one sustained minor bullet injury on his head.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com