The Secretary, Peoples Democratic Party in Zamfara State, Faruku Gusau, speaks to MAIHARAJI ALTINE on the security situation in the state and the call from Governor Bello Matawalle to resign Your party, the Peoples Democratic Party, has called on Governor Bello Mattawale to resign because of the level of insecurity in the state. Don’t you think he is trying his best to tackle the problem? Before I answer your question, I want to bring to your notice that the governor swore that he would have resigned if not for the fact that if he does, his Deputy,  Mahdi Aliyu Gusau, would be sworn in as the new governor. He made this statement in public. So, when the deputy governor heard of this, he too swore to God that he would resign if the governor resigns his position. Surprisingly, up to this time I am talking to you, Matawalle has yet to resign. I want to advise the governor to stop making this type of false statement and should also stop swearing to God if he knows that he cannot fulfill the oath. On our part as the opposition party, we are not happy with the way and manner our people are being killed, kidnapped or displaced from their communities by terrorists and we are not satisfied with the governor’s approach to the security issues. I am telling you that the level of insecurity was not as bad as it is now that the governor defected to the APC. The security situation in the state which the governor has been sinking a lot of resources on is now deteriorating since he joined the APC. Matawalle was deceived by some people who told him that he would get assistance from the Federal Government, particularly on the issue of insecurity if he joined the APC. They deceived him by telling him to join the Federal Government’s party if he wanted to get support from the president, Muhammadu Buhari to fight the bandits. Up till now, we have not seen anything in that regard. That is why we are insisting that he should immediately resign in order to save the state from total disintegration. What is your assessment on the ongoing projects that are being executed by the current administration in the state? The ongoing projects should not be the priority of the people of the state. I cannot see any project currently being executed by this administration that has direct bearing to the common man. I am calling on him to concentrate on people-oriented projects before his time ends because since he assumed office more than two years ago, he has never executed any project that has direct bearing to the common man. A lot of money has been sunk into projects in Government House alone, leaving the state to continue to grope in the dark. This regime is the worst thing that  has ever happened in the state since its creation in 1996. But the governor was with you in the PDP before he decided to leave and joined the APC… That is the assumption of many people but to be frank with you, Matawalle has been running a one-man show. He has been running the government single-handedly and does not listen to advice from anybody. So, nobody will blame us for his inability to deliver. Another disheartening situation is that immediately he took over the mantle of leadership under our party, he abandoned most of the PDP members, including the executive members of the party. I served as a publicity secretary of the PDP when he was in our party as a governor, but there was never a time he listened to me. So, how can anybody associate us with his failure? The worst part of it is that he now wages war against our members simply because we refused to follow him to the APC. I want to advise him to stop harassing and intimidating us. He should remember that the PDP that made him to be the governor did not win election. The mandate was given to him and his deputy through the Supreme Court’s verdict. He should remember that the seat he now occupies does not belong to him. It belongs to the PDP and we are in court to challenge his being on the seat because he has left the party that brought him to power. He should understand that the governorship seat he is now occupying is for the PDP and not for him as Bello Mattawale. He should stop biting the finger that fed him; he should stop fighting the PDP and its members in his own interest. With Matawalle defecting to the APC, do you think the PDP can reclaim the seat in 2023? I am very optimistic that the PDP will reclaim Zamfara State come 2023, going by the current happenings in the state where the governor is not fighting the PDP only, but he is also fighting majority of the APC members. Don’t forget the fact that the APC in Zamfara State has three factions. The two factions under former governor Abdul Aziz Yari and Senator Kabiru Marafa are at loggerheads with the governor. Another problem that will make Matawalle to lose his seat come 2023 is that he has completely abandoned most of the APC members that are still under his faction and he is now trying to make new friends and associates. This is a dangerous trend that will mar his chances of getting a second term in office. His defection to the APC is a blessing to our party because we have never been in trouble until  Governor Matawalle became the governor under the umbrella of the party as a result of the court’s judgement. He never found time to visit the headquarters of the party for any reason and he was not relating with even the executive members of the party, not to talk of ordinary party supporters. We are very happy with his defection to the APC. We now have peace within the party since he left us. I want the governor to know that there is no amount of pressure or blackmail that will make PDP members to change their mind and join him in the APC.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com