Lobi Stars midfielder Chukwuka Onuwa, in this interview with KELVIN EKERETE, talks about the improvements in the Nigeria Professional Football League and why he celebrated his goal against former club Enyimba  Do you think the NPFL is better than when you started playing in the league? Playing in the league is something I enjoy a lot. I’ve played in the league for a while now and things are improving. I’m very happy for what the League Management Company has been doing so far, especially in the area of officiating. I believe the league is gradually becoming one of the best in Africa in terms of management and player development and welfare. You scored against your former club Enyimba this season and celebrated… (Cuts in) I was very happy with the goal because it also gave us the win. I celebrated not because I left the club on a bad note, but because I was excited. Despite scoring against Enyimba, a lot of people from Aba called to congratulate me. I left the club in good faith having paid my dues. In my first season with the club, we won the league, so Enyimba is a club that’s very close to my heart. The goal has given me a lift of confidence to get more goals and that’s what I want to improve on this season. What is it like controlling the midfield against taller midfielders? I prefer playing against taller midfielders to the short ones. Playing against taller opponents gives me an edge. I easily beat them because I think fast and my game and passing are very quick. I model my game after Real Madrid star Luka Modric. I like keeping the ball when I should and I also let the ball do the movements for me. How do you manage your female fans? I keep my life very private. I entertain my fans, both male and female, but I keep to myself a lot. My priority is my football and it takes a lot of my time and focus, so I don’t get carried away. Mingling too much wouldn’t help my career, that’s why I decided to keep to myself at all times. What’s your target with at Lobi this season? Right now I believe we’ve not been doing pretty well in our away games, but the league is a marathon and not a sprint, so we will take each game as they come as they all have their different dynamics. The game on Monday against Dakkada is going to be difficult, no doubt. We need to give 120 per cent if we want to win because they will come all out for the maximum points. My goal this season is to see us at least get a continental ticket, so we need to work very hard to achieve that. Your former coach at MFM FC Fidelis Illechukwu is doing well at Plateau United. Do you think he can win the league with the former champions this season? I am very happy with his performance with the club. I keep in touch with him every time. He has done a lot for this league, right from his time at MFM to Heartland, where he still managed to keep them in the league despite the situation there. I’m happy he’s doing well and I think he can go all the way. We can’t predict the future, but at this moment, I’m happy for him. What’s the toughest team you’ve played against this season? I won’t really say there’s a particular one but the game against Enyimba comes to mind because they are a team with lots of quality in every department, so it was difficult but enjoyable. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com