Oseyili Anenih, one of the sons of Late Chief Tony Anenih, has received the backing of his father’s kinsmen, the Uzenema Community, to run for the Esan North-East/South-East Federal Constituency seat, Edo State. Speaking on Sunday, elders of the community led by Jonah Agumelen, the Odionwere (the oldest man in the village), have stated that no one else after this endorsement of Ose would come from Uzenema for the Rep seat. Agumelen said: “As a community, we will all vote for Ose Anenih because we have given him our blessings and prayers. He is a good man; and he is our own. “He is from a good home, and his family has contributed enormously to this community, Edo State and Nigeria at large,” the elders said. In the same vein, the oldest man in the Anenih clan, Akiohiamen Robertson, also blessed the aspiration of Ose, describing him as a worthy son who will continue to serve the community as selflessly as his father did. Asked to comment on the endorsement, Oseyili Anenih said he is humbled by the support he has received from his people. He pledged to protect and promote the interests of his community to the best of his ability. He said: “Politics is about consultations and consensus building. I have gained the trust of my community, and now I have to do the same across the entire constituency. “This marks the beginning of what is still a long journey. I look forward to engaging with the wider constituency so I can present to them my plans and ideas that I believe will make Esan North East/South East Constituency even greater than it is currently.” Oseyili Anenih is widely seen as the leading Peoples Democratic Party House of Representatives aspirant for the North-East/South-East Federal Constituency ticket. Over 400 hundred community leaders, elders, and youth groups and Anenih family members attended the ceremony convened by Tony Anenih Jnr, which held at the Anenih family compound in Uzenema. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com