The Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado-Bayero, has advised Bayero University, Kano alumni to contribute their quota in the development of their alma mater. Bayero, who is also an alumnus of Mass Communication, class of 1984, made the call on Saturday in Kano, at a lecture on the ‘Importance of Alumni Association and its Relevance’. The lecture was organised by the Bayero University Mass Communication Alumni Association to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the department. “We have no words other than to thank the Almighty Allah who has blessed us to be educated in this great university. “We shall continue to congratulate each other for this blessing, it is not our making, but the will of Allah and His blessing on us. “So, it is good for us to see how we can continue assisting our alma mater, based on our ability. “We should also assist those who are less privileged in the society,” he said. The monarch advised students and the alumni to continue to be good ambassadors of the institution wherever they might find themselves. Earlier in his remarks, the University’s Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Sagir Abbas, congratulated the department for the successes it recorded since its establishment in 1978. Represented by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Management Services, Prof. Mahmud Sani, the VC said that alumni have great roles to play in the development of the institution. He said the management is ready to collaborate with them to contribute their quota towards the development of the institution. The lecture was presented by a former registrar of the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria, Alhaji Garba Bello-Kankarofi, who was an alumnus of the department. The Head of Mass Communication Department, Dr Mainasara Yakubu-Kurfi, said that the department was created in 1978, with 31 students and four academic staff. Kurfi said that the department, now a faculty, has a new FM radio station tagged ‘BUK-FM 98.9’, which is serving as a platform for training broadcast students. He said that the National Broadcasting Commission had approved the licence for the establishment of a television station in the institution. He noted that, besides the B.Sc Mass Communication undergraduate programme, the department offered professional and academic postgraduate programmes including PhD. The Majority Leader, House of Representatives, Alhassan Ado-Doguwa, an alumnus of 1990, donated N10 million to the faculty and the department. Brig.-Gen. Samaila Uba and Brig.-Gen. Sani Kukasheka (retd.), were among other alumni who graced the occasion. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com