Insecurity has returned to the front pages of our newspapers and the prime times of our broadcasting stations. Given that the media mainly reports and do not manufacture news, the recent focus on the persisting peril in the nation reflects the tragic and sordid reality of the resurgence of insecurity, not just in the North-West and North-East but in virtually every part of the country. In spite of several promises solemnly made by this administration, the problem never seems to go away. Only on Wednesday, the Senate called on the security institutions to match the declaration of bandits as terrorists with prompt and decisive counter-terrorism actions. The Senate was responding to lamentations by one of its members from Katsina State concerning the kidnap of 38 members of his community without any serious resistance. The very next day, six people were killed by bandits close to the same neighbourhood and several people were carted away like donkeys by bandits. One of the remarks made by the Senate President, Dr Ahmed Lawan, is that the distinguished senators are puzzled that there is no corresponding markup in output and results with the bulge in the defence budget and expeditious funding of defence. Before getting to the nitty-gritty, please note that the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, unveiled earlier this week the heartrending statistics that last year bandits killed 1,192 Kaduna State citizens while kidnapping 3,348 people. In that same year, revealed El-Rufai, nine persons were kidnapped daily. Importantly, observe that Kaduna and, of course, Zamfara states are only worse case scenarios to what is spreading national bereavement and disaster. In recent weeks, the Southwest has had its share of kidnappings with accompanying fatalities in such states as Ekiti, Ondo, Oyo, Ogun and Osun. This is presumably why the governors of Oyo and Ogun states signed this week border cooperation agreements. Taking up the report of the Centre for Democracy and Development, quoted in the opening paragraph, a report partially corroborated by the Senate, one can ask the question regarding the linkage between the arms bazaar and diversion of funds in relation to rising insecurity. If indeed there is a monetisation of the insecurity phenomenon, then it is hardly surprising that the crisis continues to reproduce itself for the simple reason that it has become a lucrative window for emergent billionaires who have access to funds meant for arms procurement. The CDD Report went on to say that this underhanded corrupt business flourishes because of the secrecy surrounding the purchase of arms as well as the trumping of due process by the emergency norms that have come to prevail in such undertakings. Nigeria’s problems are tragically repetitive to the extent that the massive diversion of funds meant for arms supply loomed large at the very inception of the Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) regime, when sensational arrests and disclosures concerning the officials of the former President Goodluck Jonathan administration seized the headlines. At that point, the issue provided legitimacy for Buhari and the All Progressives Congress who employed it to bolster their popularity. The gospel of reform today sounds hollow in view of the torrent of revelations concerning primitive accumulation of wealth by a political and military elite, who are accused of prolonging the national predicament because of what they stand to gain. Obviously, not all the participants in this ungainly drama stand accused but it would have been refreshing if a few allegedly guilty souls were openly brought to book and made examples of. Very often we have been told by political and religious leaders that they were about to name highly placed figures sponsoring terrorism in its many guises. So far—as the CDD report makes clear—no individual, prominent or otherwise, has been named or made to face the music. It would be a pity if the current regime goes down in history as one equally corrupt, or even more corrupt, than the one it displaced with a campaign that it had come to cleanse the Augean stables. There is another side equally frustrating to the abnormality of escalating insecurity namely the enfeeblement and lack of capacity of the Police, which is primarily responsible for internal security. Obviously, like several of Nigeria’s endemic woes, this is an old sore. I am aware that the Senate has been busy with such matters as amending the Police Act and embarking on what it described as holistic police reform. Noble as their intentions may be, please put the spate of activities in the context of the numerous presidential committees on police reform, which every administration has undertaken since 1999. Tomes of analyses, theses and recommendations are idling away in the archives of the presidency on what to do with the police. Names like Parry Osayande, M.D. Yusufu who headed these panels readily come to mind. Apart from these, there was a civil society panel on police reform which also produced its own massive sheaf of diagnoses and suggestions for remedy. In spite of all that, predatory policing is very much with us. One almost came to tears on Thursday, when a former Commissioner of Police at the Federal Capital Territory narrated on national television that the amount voted as overheads for many police stations hardly exceeded N50,000 and that severely under-kitted  policemen are sent to do crowd control with no shield, headgear or appropriate equipment. This anomalous situation has been with us for several years. The pity is that no corrective regime has thought it apposite to give the nation a proper and capable police force. Doubtless, there are many who consider state police a disturbing proposal as they are ready to reel off all the possible abuses that will go with it. What they do not understand or refuse to understand is that if the country had a virile police force that is both effective and getting results that would have been the strongest argument against state police. Alas! Kicking state police into the dustbin of the national discourse is like dancing over the graves of those who have lost their lives because of an effete national police easily overpowered by criminals brandishing sophisticated weapons. In other words, corruption apart, little attention has been paid to the status, capability and effectiveness of our security institutions by successive governments including the current one. So what we get is that problems long postponed or sidestepped have come back to haunt the nation with a vengeance. What then is to be done? A cleansing exercise must be mounted with a view to returning military expenditure and arms purchase to an even and sanitised keel even if only to demonstrate that the government is capable of taking the right steps in the direction of ending the war on the insurgency. Beyond that, there is an urgent need to re-kit, retool and re-imagine the police as part of a larger project of state building. That is a required step towards freeing Nigeria from the strangle hold of terrorism and cognate challenges. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com