Female genital mutilation/circumcision is still an issue especially in Africa and Nigeria inclusive. The United Nations noted that more than 200 million girls and women live with the consequences of female genital mutilation, while at least four million girls are at risk of undergoing the practice each year. In 2015, world leaders agreed and pushed for the elimination of female genital mutilation as one of the targets in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. UNICEF noted that it was an achievable goal, urging that all must act to translate the political commitment into action. The United Nations has set February 6 of every year as International Day of Zero Tolerance for Female Genital Mutilation to raise awareness on the negative impact of the traditional practice with this year’s theme noted as “Accelerating investment to End Female Genital Mutilation.” Though FGM is practised in more than 28 countries in Africa and a few communities worldwide, it’s largely recorded in Sierra Leone, Egypt, Nigeria, Mali, Eritrea, Sudan, Central African Republic, and northern part of Ghana where it has been an old traditional cultural practice of various ethnic groups. In Sierra-Leone, there was uproar recently over the death of 21-year-old lady, Maseray Sei, after undergoing a female genital procedure. Following the news, various women rights group including those in Nigeria joined forces to call for the criminalisation of FGM. Sei reportedly died from acute bleeding and shock a day after being subjected to FGM, and this was confirmed by the post-mortem carried out on 14 January. A few days following Maseray’s death, in a different region, a 15-year-old girl was admitted to hospital for urgent treatment after suffering serious complications due to FGM. Women’s rights organisations across the country and around the world came together to co-sign an open letter calling on the Government of Sierra Leone to criminalise FGM and protect women and girls from the harmful practice. In Nigeria, subjection of girls and women to obscure traditional practices is known. FGM is widely recognised as a violation of human rights, which is deeply rooted in cultural beliefs and perceptions over decades. FGM is commonly practised in Nigeria during infancy especially within the window of the first eight days of the child’s birth. The mutilation of the woman’s genitals is sometimes done some period before a lady gets married or after the birth of the first child in some cases. Such practices are often carried out by traditional birth attendants and some uniformed medical workers using razors and scissors and in some extreme cases, broken bottles. The perpetrators of this practice from primitive age have justified the act that the procedure helps in preventing promiscuity, initiates girls to womanhood, and promotes women’s chastity.  They ignorantly also believe that it also increases male sexual pleasure, prevents infant and child deaths, enhances women’s fertility and child survival among other cultural and religious beliefs. The WHO stated that that there were four types of FGM. The first procedure involves clitoridectomy; removal of some or the entire clitoris. The second type known as excision is the removal of some or all of the clitoris and the labia minora (the folds around the vulva). The third known as infibulation is the narrowing of the vaginal opening through the creation of a covering seal. The seal is formed by cutting and repositioning the labia minora, or labia majora, sometimes through stitching, with or without removing the clitoris. The fourth type is any procedure done to the female genitalia for non-medical purposes. All four types are practised in Nigeria. The procedures are typically carried out by elderly women in communities who serve as custodians of the tradition and information about the practice. The circumcisers typically have little or no formal education or medical training, a report from the Institute of Current World Affairs indicated. The WHO also stated that short-term complications arising from FGM included haemorrhaging, infections, severe pain, urine retention and other urinary tract problems and psychological trauma. Besides, long-term effects include chronic infections, cysts, ulcers, painful scar tissue, problems affecting the bladder, uterus, kidneys, sexual and mental health issues, infertility; menstrual complications, difficulties during childbirth, and an increased risk of infant and maternal mortality. UNICEF data indicated that almost eight out of 10 adolescent girls who experienced the practice were cut before the age of five. However, there is evidence of significant generational change in the prevalence of FGM in Nigeria as women aged 45-49 are more than twice more likely to have been cut than girls aged 15-19. In 2015, the administration of former president, Goodluck Jonathan, enacted the Violence Against Persons Prohibition Act, which among other things, “seeks to eliminate female genital mutilation as well as all other forms of gender-based violence.’’  But the law has yet to be domesticated in some states. Experts across the medical fields and the child protection agencies have all called for perpetrators of the act to put an end to it, urging the governments to help domesticate the VAPP act. Commenting on the issue, a medical practitioner at the Eko Hospital, Lagos, Mrs Fidelia Anaele, identified the clitoris as the main stimulant for sex in a woman’s body, noting that when it’s cut off, such a woman wouldn’t enjoy sex naturally. She said, “When you cut off the clitoris, sensitivity for sex is gone. In this case, the man has to do a lot of things to stimulate the woman. Such women need external aids such as creams to increase their libido. “Apart from that, FMG is so dangerous to the point that during healing, there could be fibrous tissue and for the man to penetrate during sexual intercourse, it will be difficult and therefore makes the exercise a painful experience for the woman. This not only makes sexual intercourse painful for such women, it also creates fear among them whenever their husbands demand sex.’’ Anaele added that such situation had broken homes, making many husbands to engage in extra-marital affairs due to their wives’ low libido and poor response to sex. She added, “Oftentimes, some women, when they are with their husbands, are not aroused because their stimulant—that is the clitoris — has been removed.’’ Also, UNICEF Child Protection Specialist, Dr Olasunbo Odebode, said that FGM had a combination of many consequences such as psychological, physiological and health-wise. Odebode stated, “People should stop the harmful practice. It is injurious to health and has lots of health consequences. It has psychological and physiological impact on the lives of women and girls. The consequences can be short- or long-term. For some, when they grow into adulthood and become of child-bearing age, having sexual intercourse becomes painful because the place is already scarred. Also, during childbirth, it’s hard for the vagina to dilate for the baby to come out which results in prolonged labour.” The Chairman, Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria, Lagos State chapter, Dr Tunji Akintade, called on the government at all levels to enforce laws violating the rights and dignity of women and girls. He stated that the new trend of FGM practice, commonly referred to as ‘medicalisation of FGM,’ was totally unacceptable, urging the public to report any medical practitioner engaging in the practice to the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria for disciplinary action. Another UNICEF Child Protection Specialist, Maryam Enyiazu, described the reasons for the practice of FGM as ‘baseless and unfounded.’ Giving an overview of FGM practice in Nigeria and its impact, Enyiazu noted, “We have a lot of documented evidence that shows that there is no added value in getting female children mutilated. “To start with, it is an infringement on their fundamental human rights and we have documented evidence of the health implications of FGM. The immediate and the long-term effects of the practice are many. Some of the short-term effects of FGM include excessive bleeding, infections that can lead to complicated labour, and, in some cases, it leads to HIV infections because it is usually carried out in unhygienic surroundings using unsterilised equipment.’’ Enyiazu further said that as a result of excessive bleeding, because it was not done under any form of anaesthesia, it could lead to death. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com