Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, on Wednesday stormed the Plateau State High Court sitting in Jos where a former governor of the state, Jonah Jang, was arraigned. Jang is standing trial alongside an ex-cashier in the Office of the Secretary to the State Government, Yusuf Pam, on alleged N6.3bn fraud charges brought before the court by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. The two accused persons were first arraigned before Justice Daniel Longji in March 2018 on 17 counts bordering on criminal breach of trust and misappropriation of public funds but they had since pleaded not guilty to the charges . The case is currently before Justice Christy Dabup who started hearing on the matter afresh following the retirement of Justice Longji in December 2019. Wike, clad in a dark blue suit with white shirt, arrived the court around 9.50am in company with other Peoples Democratic Party chieftains and moved straight to Court 2 where the trial was already in progress. Jang’s councel, Mike Ozekhome ,SAN, told the judge  that the Rivers State governor was in the court to witness the trial of his client. Meanwhile, Wike, in an interview with journalists after the court session, decried the high rate of poverty and insecurity in Nigeria under the watch of the All Progressives Congress. He said with the current challenges facing the country, Nigerians will not be happy with the PDP if it fails to reclaim power from the ruling APC in 2023. According to him, the only way to achieve the objective is for the PDP to be united and work together in the interest of the people. Wike said, “Nigerians are waiting for the PDP because Nigeria is bleeding. Plateau State is not an exception from the bleeding that is going on in Nigeria. It is not about Muslim or Christian. It is not about the South or the North. “The hardship, poverty and insecurity are everywhere and the only hope Nigerians have today is on the PDP. So, it requires the collective efforts of everyone to know that if we don’t work as a team to reclaim power from the APC, Nigerians won’t be happy and that is the job.” The governor said he was in the state on a reconciliatory mission among the party leaders in the state particularly that between a former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Jeremiah Useni; and Jang.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com