The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has assured Nigerians, particularly residents of the North-East that they will witness a change from the subsisting protracted insurgency to an era of peace and development in their respective communities in the coming months. The President made the pledge on Wednesday in Abuja while speaking at the inauguration of the Presidential Committee on the Repatriation, Return and Resettlement of Internally Displaced Persons in the North-East of Nigeria, which preceded the weekly Federal Executive Council meeting. Buhari said that his regime was embarking on a revised approach to addressing the 13-year insurgency in the region and would not relent in efforts towards a return to peace and normalcy in the North East and return it to the path of development and growth. The President’s promise was contained in a statement titled, ‘IN COMING MONTHS, YOU WILL WITNESS MASSIVE SHIFT FROM INSURGENCY TO PEACE, STABILITY, PRESIDENT BUHARI TELLS NIGERIANS IN THE NORTH EAST’, and signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina. He said, ”To the people of the North-East, particularly the children and future of the North-East, we will never forget you because your courage, sacrifice and endurance have been exemplary. ”I pledge to you that in the coming months, you will begin to witness a shift away from a protracted insurgency to peace building, stabilisation, and ultimately, development in your respective communities as we embark on a revised approach to addressing this conflict: A return to normalcy”. On the Terms of Reference for the committee, the President emphasised a need for a shift from managing the situation to activating a permanent solution for effective and practicable restoration. He said the committee, among others, was expected to develop a concise three-year action plan by the end of March 2022 that incorporated national and state level plans, providing a clear pathway for the restoration of peace and development in the North-East. The committee, he said, would also develop and implement a phased plan for the repatriation, return, resettlement of the IDPs and restoration of livelihoods, incorporating global best practices that give dignity to the affected populations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com