A former Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State, Jide Awe, on Wednesday, received scores of Peoples Democratic Party members in the Efon Alaaye Local Government Area into the ruling party. Efon Alaaye is the home town of the PDP candidate in the June 18 governorship election, Bisi Kolawole. Awe, flanked by other APC leaders and the party’s governorship candidate, Biodun Oyebanji, assured the new APC members that they would not be discriminated against in the party, saying, “This is heartwarming”. The APC leader, who spoke at Efon Alaaye, capital of Efon Local Government, during Oyebanji ‘Thank you visit’ to the 16 council areas of the state, said, “Efon Alaaye is the sixth council we have visited on this ‘thank you’ visit but it is on record that this is the first time we are receiving decampees from another party. “We sincerely welcome our brothers and sisters from the other side for crossing to the progressive camp. While welcoming you on behalf of the leadership of the party, we assure you of fair treatment and cooperation.” The APC candidate, Oyebanji, who said he felt comfortable sitting with the Efon people, described the defection of the PDP members to APC as a demonstration of love from his people. Oyebanji said his father was a principal at a school in Efon Alaaye while he was growing up, adding, “I’m going to be a teacher- governor. The defection of many people from PDP is symbolic and a signal that Efon people are prepared for the task ahead. I assure those coming in of a level playing field in APC and I promise to always be there for our people”. APC chieftain and Chairman, Ekiti State Local Government Service Commission, Adewumi Bejide, praised the party members in Ijero, Ekiti West and Irepodun/Ifelodun LGAs for their support during the primary election and urged them to make sure they got their voter cards before June 18 to vote for Oyebanji. The PDP defectors promised that they would join hands with APC members to woo more opposition party members into the ruling party, adding that they would not allow Efon Alaaye people to be misled by selfish politicians. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com