Unknown gunmen have reportedly abducted a nursing mother, Salimot Ajibola, along the Rounder area in the Abeokuta-North Local Government Area of Ogun State. Ajibola was reportedly kidnapped on Thursday evening while she was in a car with her husband. An eyewitness told our correspondent that the husband and wife were about to drive into their house when the kidnappers attacked them and abducted the wife. The source said the husband passed out after the assailants hit him on the head during the attack. According to the source, the man regained his consciousness and discovered that the abductors had kidnapped his wife, leaving behind their maid and the baby. A relative of the victim, who identified herself simply as Aina said, “Few hours after her abduction, the kidnappers called the family to demand N25 million ransom for her release. “As negotiations continued, they reduced the ransom to N15 million. The family pleaded and they later settled for N3 million. “The N3 million was taken to a location described by the kidnappers. After they got the money, Salimot was released on Saturday night. “This Ogun State, especially Abeokuta is becoming something else. I never thought this could happen to someone close to me. It is very sad. The family went through hell to raise the money. The baby was crying for food. It was just a harrowing experience,” Aina added. When contacted, the Ogun State police spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident. He, however, said the police were not aware of any ransom paid to effect the release of the abducted woman. “I am not aware of any ransom paid. But I know she has been released. Whenever people want to pay this money (to the kidnappers), they won’t inform the police. So, we are not aware of any ransom paid,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com