American rapper and business mogul, Kanye West, has requested his estranged wife, Kim Kardashian, to prove that he was behind some provocative posts on his Instagram page. This comes shortly after Kim alleged that Kanye’s Instagram posts caused her emotional distress. However, in fresh legal documents obtained by TMZ, the 44-year-old rapper insisted that Kim had to provide evidence that indeed, those said posts were actually written by him. “Kim claims she read something online allegedly by Kanye and characterises the posts in her declaration as misinformation. Kim needed to offer the social media posts into evidence, and show that the posts were written by Kanye,” Ye’s lawyer said. Though the documents never said Kanye didn’t write the posts, it only asked Kim to provide evidence that he did. The requirement in the documents, however, was in opposition to what Kanye posted when he deleted some of the provocative tweets about his estranged wife. “I’ve learned that using all caps makes people feel like I’m screaming at them. I’m working on my communication,” he had said. He also added, “I take accountability. I’m still learning in real-time. I don’t have all the answers. To be a good leader is to be a good listener.” With his new lawsuit, however, the rapper has geared towards making his social media posts attacking Kim and her boyfriend, Pete Davidson, inadmissible in the forthcoming court hearing. In a week’s time, a court would deliberate on Kim’s marital status, following her plea to be declared single. Kanye had earlier opposed Kardashian’s divorce petition as he wanted them to ensure their assets were safeguarded before she was declared single. While Kim had filed divorce from West in February 2021, the rapper had made it clear that he was going to fight for the marriage. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com