Resident doctors at the University of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital, Ondo State, on Wednesday commenced a two-day warning strike in protest against an assault on one of them by a relative of a patient. It was gathered that a doctor in the hospital, simply identified as Dr Sayo, was allegedly attacked by a relative of a patient. Sayo, a medical officer attached to the Accident and Emergency Unit of the hospital was allegedly assaulted while discharging his duty. It was gathered that the relative of the patient attacked the doctor who he accused of not properly attending to the aged patient. To this end, the doctors, under the umbrella of the Association of Resident Doctors, UNIMEDTH, staged peaceful protests in Ondo and Akure branches of the hospital simultaneously, describing the attack as barbaric. They called on the state government to provide adequate security in the hospital to prevent a repeat of such an incident. Speaking during the protest, the association’s President, John Matthew, said the attack on his colleague was uncalled for. He said, “It is sad that we have found ourselves in this precarious situation. Over 100 staff members have left the hospital, thereby creating a burden for us. “We implore the state government to employ more doctors to address the problem. We also want the government to provide adequate security in the hospital.” Meanwhile, the management of the hospital has condemned the assault on the doctor. The hospital’s Chief Medical Director, Dr. Oluwole Ige, made this known on Wednesday while speaking with journalists on the incident. Ige also condemned the decision of the resident doctors to embark on a two-day warning strike over the attack on their colleague, saying the strike was uncalled for since the culprit had been arrested. He said, “It is wrong for a relative of any patient to attack any health worker. It is not only barbaric, but senseless. The man who assaulted the doctor has been arrested by the Amotekun operatives and will be charged to court any moment from now. “But the management is not pleased with the decision of the doctors to go on a warning strike. Their decision is wrong and not good for the health system. The management is not happy with the development.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com