The Transmission Company of Nigeria on Sunday announced that it had taken delivery of 15 power transformers from the Apapa Port, Lagos, which would increase the country’s electricity transmission capacity by 1,487 megawatts. It said the power equipment comprised 10 different 60MVA 132/33kV and five 150MVA 330/132kV capacity transformers delivered to TCN central store in Lagos, for onward delivery to various project sites nationwide. The company’s Acting Managing Director, Sule Abdulaziz, said the contract for the supply of the transformers under the Nigerian Electricity Transmission Project was funded by the World Bank. He, however, noted in a statement issued by TCN in Abuja, that the transmission company would decide on the project site where the transformers would be installed. The statement read in part, “He (Abdulaziz) informed that on installation and connection to the grid, the 10 number 60MVA 132/33kV power transformers and the five 150MVA 330/132kV transformers will add 637MW and 850MW respectively to the transmission network. “This consequently will increase the total capacity of the transmission system by 1,487MW while ensuring N-1 reliability criteria in the substations, which is strategic in enhancing grid stability.” Abdulaziz noted that earlier in August last year, the World Bank also funded transformer supply contracts which brought in ten 10 number 60MVA132/33kV transformers and 25 earthing transformers. He stated that out of the 10 different 60MVA transformers, five were installed in Karu and Gombe Substations, while two were currently being installed in Kano and one in Lagos. “This is the first time in the history of TCN that it took delivery of large numbers of transformers within a short period. These are milestone achievements for TCN, as it strives to implement its short-term development plan under the Nigerian Electricity Grid Maintenance, Expansion and Rehabilitation Programme,” Abdulaziz stated. He added, “The World Bank-sponsored NETAP project is only one of the TCN donor-funded projects aimed at expanding the transmission grid, while also prioritising maintenance of the existing transmission infrastructures.” He said TCN was equally executing several projects funded by the Agence Français de Développement. He noted that on the other hand, processes for projects funded by the African Development Bank were progressing very fast and TCN would soon sign contracts for 330kV and 132kV substations.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com