Dayo Benjamins-Laniyi is a politician, entrepreneur and the Executive Director of Doxa Group. She tells TOFARATI IGE about her career and other issues You are described as a ‘global enterprise communicator’. What exactly does that entail? A global enterprise communicator is a professional definition of a highly skilled delivery of communication blends for speakership, events hosting, brand profiling and content sequencing.  It is an internationalised profile of a professional speaker with versatile and dynamic skill-sets in delivery of content for events. What inspired you to become a politician? I am a politician by default, not by design. While growing up, it was never my ambition to be a politician. I did not study political science, neither was I called by ‘my people’ to represent them. I became interested in politics through exposure and privileged contact with political icons, events, networks and platforms. Over time, a dormant political consciousness was awakened (in me) and the attenuations reset my mindset and understanding of political dynamics. It was through this continuous exposure to government executive events, advocacy groups and grassroots entrepreneurship that I began to develop political consciousness. I have also learnt that politics is the only path for change in a nation.  My experience has taught me that engagement in politics is the only way to genuinely make a difference. Also, I believe that every woman is born a politician. As a girl-child, one is always working out how to utilise one’s relationships to one’s best interests, based on how one interacts with the decision makers in one’s life. The power of a woman’s influence comes from how she navigates her way through relationships, from childhood through adolescence to adulthood. Politics, especially in Nigeria, is seen as a dirty game. Do you intend to play dirty? If not, how do you intend to keep it clean? My intention is always to stay clean by taking a bath (laughs). The truth is that I don’t play dirty and I don’t need to. I don’t view politics as a game but as a real opportunity to make a difference. I believe more women and disruptive individuals like me should engage the process, embolden ourselves and run for elective offices. I have also learnt how life-changing this whole experience is. Today, I speak to issues, people, and clarify my own thoughts for legislative change as an outline of manifesto to be presented to my constituency. What is your assessment of the level of women participation in Nigerian politics? I believe women should be able to determine their own voting choices and be able to vote for themselves. They should be able to contest and be elected into (public) offices.  Safety and security should be paramount for election campaigning. Political education is also very important, while understanding that women are a critical demographic in the political architecture. Also, young girls should be exposed to the benefits of political engagement. It is not just to be voted for but to understand the power of political literacy in dealing with issues that are relevant to them as girls. More women need to become role models in the political space. It is also imperative that women have access to education and training in matters of political leadership, technology and service delivery. As the 2023 general elections approach, do you think enough attention is being given to women? It is important for me to emphasise that women are bringing attention to themselves. This has become an intentional and deliberate intervention by the advocacy for and by women and by the party platform. In a way that has never been seen before, the All Progressives Congress women convention clearly profiled women for the purpose of them participating in the forthcoming elections. Throughout the engagement, we saw that the entire process was aimed at drawing up a charter of action for women’s participation in politics. It wasn’t a conversation about platitudes or asking for concession; rather it was a position statement in reference to the institutionalisation of women who have proven indispensable to the nation’s political and cultural development. I will conclude by saying women are no longer waiting, they (we) have gone for it. You are also a public speaker. What common mistakes do Nigerian politicians and leaders make when speaking to people and passing important messages across? I would love to address speakers in general, rather than politicians in particular, as everyone can be called upon to speak. One challenge I have is when people are called to speak, and they make statements like ‘I wasn’t aware I would be speaking here’ and ‘I was called upon just a few moments ago’. I don’t believe that is necessary. What matters is that you were given a chance to share a message that would impact your audience. Politicians are labelled as having a tendency of talking too much. Even I face the challenge of this complaint. The only way to become a better speaker is by applying the KISS principle (Keeping It Short and Simple). There is also the challenge of politicians not telling the truth just to impress and gain the advantage of being able to wow the people with beautiful speeches laced with deception. True speakers must speak from a heart of truth. In everything we do, we are accountable. We must always be guided and guarded by what we say and promise. Our truth should be spoken honestly and with humility— with true love for people and commitment to purpose. Even ones’ opponents should be treated with respect and decency. As the Executive Director of Doxa Group, what are your duties? My duties include providing inspirational leadership, accountability and integrity of processes; managing human resource, coordinating and sequencing marketing activities; and curating project contacts and contracts. I am subject to the leadership and vision of the Chief Executive Officer, who directs, instructs and informs me as to the outcome of our entrepreneurial proposals and the direction of our business plans for greater productivity in our sphere of influence. Today, Doxa is more than just an enterprise. We have a full-fledged alumni and an institute for training talent and capacity with a focus on event design and  management and communication, as well as experiential and technical support systems for conferences and other projects. What are some of the biggest challenges you face as a businesswoman? My biggest challenge has been ‘minding my own business’ without being distracted and pulled in so many other directions. The daily assignment of finding the next client and retaining existing clientele. Managing market position in the face of innovative competition, maintaining our niche and defining new pathways could also be challenging. I have learnt never to burn bridges and never to give up. I challenge myself continually to be more and do more. Moreover, my reference of engagement as a business person must extend beyond any kind of limitation, beginning with my own. Challenges will always abound but we must look at them as opportunities that can be turned around or moved in a more profitable direction. Any challenge one confronts makes one a champion. One also becomes fearless as one goes along. Tell us about the African Culture Transformation Initiative. It was an experiential disruption from engaging platforms of conversation and discussion during the tenure of Dr Akinwumi Akinkunmi as the Minister of Agriculture, and the novel profiling of ‘agro-preneurs’. It was a vision of changing our entire economic system through agro-economy; getting women into spaces where they can participate in profitable ventures and agro enterprises. I saw it as something that would transcend the continent. You have been working on an Agro-Transformation project for African Women. What headway have you made with it so far? The African Continental Free Trade Agreement has scaled up the framework of this engagement and its proposition which we have put into the various platforms of interest upon which we have placed our intentions and assets. What inspired you to set up Dream Girls Africa and have you achieved your aim? I was invited to be the master of ceremonies at the International Women’s Day 2019 for the UN Women in Abuja. I went to the Government Girls Secondary School, Dutse, where the event was held and was swept off my feet. I was inspired by the girls, and their energy and excitement. You are involved in so many activities. How do you manage your time in such a way that your career, marriage and other activities do not suffer? I am a testimonial of God’s grace.  I always testify that I don’t cope or manage. I am in God’s hands. Every day, I become more courageous and more intentional about curating success in my personal space. The first thing I did with my conviction to run for political office was to talk to myself, and get my husband’s permission. I made sure I received his clear direction with approval, instructions, caution and advice. I then had a conversation with myself concerning my marriage, the assignment of my maternal responsibility to my children, my personal pursuit in the place of my faith and my advocacy for the things I love. These things required private conversation in order to be settled in my heart, so that my heart is kept at peace and my mind will not stray from the instructions contained in the permissions. The power of hope, trust, permission and submission has always made me excel. Who are your role models/mentors and how have they shaped your life? In the political space, Dame Patience Jonathan (former First Lady) is my number one role model. She has in many ways shaped and influenced my thoughts and given me the impetus to think politics. Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Dr Obi Ezekwesili are women whose strength and courage of leadership and personal conviction have always blessed me. One of my singular mentors in my personal space is the CEO, Foreign Investment Network, Mrs Olayinka Fayomi. She is an outstanding model of strength. She recognised my potential long before I did. Through her, my husband and in-laws have become a linear force of encouragement to me to become what I never knew I could be. Also, the two ‘mothers’ in my life— Barbara Olumide and Adeola Olumide have had different impacts on my life. In the entrepreneurial space, I admire Dr Stella Okoli of Emzor Pharmaceutical. I love her happiness, in spite of her personal challenges. She is a woman of substance and global impact. I also love the way Ibukun Awosika inspires life through her personal story and 360 degrees entrepreneurial success. She is also a mentor of mine. Also, Onyeka Owenu was the first woman who inspired me in the entertainment industry. I love how she was able to translate a message into music which eventually became a legacy. What personal qualities have helped you get to this stage in your life and career? I have the ability to play the role of a mother, mentor and leader for the people around me. I am referred to as an ‘Alpha female’ by people close to me. I am very real and as truthful as I can be with myself. I extend that level of honesty to the people around me without imposing my will on them. The qualities that have preserved my life and my authenticity are humility, intentional happiness, compassion and hope for a better day and outcome. How do you unwind? I meditate in my garden. I also take walks when I can, engaging my children, listening to music and praying. How do you like to dress? I like dressing distinctively, and when in doubt , I wear red. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com