Nollywood actor and singer, Bankole Wellington, popularly known as Banky W, has revealed that marrying his actress wife, Adesua Etomi, was the second best decision he has made. The singer said this on Tuesday while celebrating his wife’s birthday on his Instagram page. Sharing a video of himself and his wife, the father-of-one noted that his best decision was giving his life to Christ while marrying Adesua was the second. He wrote, “The second best decision I’ve ever made was to ask @adesuaetomi to be my wife (the best was giving my life to Christ). “Happy birthday to my crown, my queen, my everything, my lover, my baby mama, my partner-in-purpose-and-destiny. “You’re my inspiration and support system; my motivation and source of encouragement. “Thank you for loving me and building with me. Thank you for looking out for me and praying with me. “In Jesus’ name, this will be your best year yet, and the rest of your years will be the best of them. You will shine like the star He created you to be. “You will never be held back by the limitations or expectations that others have of you. “Your validation will only ever come from who God is, and who He created you to be. You will increase in wisdom, grace, strength and anointing. “You will achieve your destiny and manifest your dreams. The peace of God will guard your heart and mind in Christ Jesus, and the purpose of God will guide your life’s journey. “We will grow old together, and live to see our children’s children, in abundance, joy, peace, love and contentment. “Shuga(sic), I will forever be your biggest fan and cheerleader. I’m so grateful for you, proud of you and thankful that I have the honor of being your husband. “You are light. You are love. You are beauty. And you’re mine. “I don’t need to win the lotto because with you, I’ve clearly won in life. Until the day we die, it’s gonna be you, me and the Most High.” Banky W and Adesua Etomi tied the knot on November 19, 2017 in a star-studded ceremony. They welcomed their first son, Hazaiah, in January 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com