The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has said that Africa’s growth and development will require strong, visionary leadership that caters to the people’s needs and effectively strengthens institutions that encourage peaceful co-existence while providing disincentives to conflicts and coups. Buhari said this on Sunday in Addis Ababa, at a meeting with the Ethiopian Prime Minister, Abiy Ahmed, at the Headquarters of the African Union. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, disclosed this in a statement he signed on Sunday titled, ‘Africa needs stronger, better leadership to grow, President Buhari, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed agree at AU meeting’. The President commended the efforts of Prime Minister Ahmed in maintaining peace and unity in the country and dedication to ensuring fairness and justice in development. He said, “You are leading a country that is large and diversified, just like Nigeria, and I know the sacrifices required to make the desired impact, especially in maintaining peace.” He urged the Ethiopian leader to stay focused on keeping the country together, in spite of the difficulties, assuring him that Nigeria will continue to support efforts in peaceful co-existence and unity. Buhari, who said Ahmed had provided strong leadership for the country, encouraged him to sustain the good work in ensuring even development. In his remarks, the Prime Minister thanked the President for support to the country over the years, on national and personal endeavours, particularly in encouraging unity and stability. Ahmed noted that Africa had experienced slow growth due to conflicts, adding that the larger economies like Nigeria and Ethiopia should provide the leadership that will deepen progress and prosperity on the continent. The Prime Minister said the resurgence of coups on the continent could further weaken institutions and reverse the democratic. He also appreciated Buhari for his position on zero tolerance for military interference in governance, saying collective and visionary leadership will move Africa forward. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com