The Indigenous People of Biafra has accused the Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma and the security agencies of masterminding the incessant abductions and killings going on in the South East. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, on Saturday, the group noted that the Ebubeagu security outfit, in collaboration with the Nigeria Army and police, has eliminated scores of innocent youths in many communities in Orsu and Orlu Local Government Areas of Imo State, including women and children. The group listed communities such as Oboh Umutanze, Attah, Okporo, Amaifeke, Ihioma, Ama-azu, Amannachi, Nnempi, Akata, Orsuihiteukwa, Umutanze, as some of the areas Uzodimma and his group have wreaked havoc on. The statement also quoted Powerful as saying that it was imperative to call “Uzodinma and his gang to order and ask him why he used soldiers and police personnel to eliminate innocent Biafran youths”. He said mortuaries across the region, especially Imo State, are filled with unclaimed corpses, who are buried in mass graves or destroyed with acid from time to time, adding that the atrocities committed by Uzodinma extended to many communities in the region. The statement reads in part, “We are asking Uzodinma and his APC party, why do they derive joy in killing innocent Biafra youths in cold-blood while Fulani bandits and terrorists go unchallenged in their killing spree across Nigeria? What crime did Imo youths commit to deserve the ongoing secret genocide in the state? “We call on the United Nations, America, British High Commissioner, Israeli Ambassador, German Ambassador, French Ambassador, Canadian Ambassador, Japanese Ambassador, Australian Ambassador, Amnesty International, Intersociety groups, Human Rights Watch, and all  Human Rights Organisations across the globe to send investigation teams to these communities and find out what the situation is. “They will confirm to their amazement, that nobody is dwelling in these communities. The youths and people have been indiscriminately and mercilessly killed by the Fulani terrorist soldiers deployed in Imo State by the Federal Government in collaboration with Hope Uzodinma.” The group also claimed that the incessant killing of the youths in these areas had turned the affected communities into ghost towns. “IPOB is out now to expose these atrocities committed by Hope Uzodinma, Nigeria Army and police including, Ebubeagu security outfit. “It’s too appalling that Ebubeagu security outfit would join hands in killing our people and call them unknown gunmen. History will judge them all,” it added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com