The newly confirmed Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof. Rhoda Gumus, has expressed shock over reports and petitions accusing her of being a card-carrying member of the All Progressives Congress. To this effect, Gumus, through her legal firm, Adams Fasingha & Co. has given 14 days to the Convener of Concern Nigeria, Mr. Deji Adeyanju, Sahara Reporters and Peoples Gazette to retract the allegation and apologise to her or face legal action. Adams Fasingha & Co, in a letter dated February 9th and addressed to Adeyanju, said Gumus, a Professor of Chemical Engineering, remained non-partisan. The letter signed by the firm’s Managing Solicitor, Adams Fasingha, noted that the academic track record of Gumus compelled the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to nominate her as a commissioner for INEC and forwarded her name to the National Assembly for confirmation. The letter reads, “Our client was shocked and traumatised to hear that you petitioned her to the Senate President, stating false information that she was a card-carrying member of the All Progressives Congress, which is a blatant lie. “For the records, it is clear that such manifest falsehood is geared towards misleading the general public and drag her good name to the mud.” The letter, a copy of which was made available to our correspondent in Port Harcourt further described as forged, an APC membership slip and register, which Adeyanju and others based their allegations and reports on. “Our client has discovered that her picture was super-imposed to a fake APC register and membership slip. In the said purported register, her signature was forged and thumb-printed like an illiterate jurat. “Similarly, her name in the said register was concocted without a voter registration number, which ought to be in all membership card or slip. “In your petition to the Senate President, you claim that our client is from Yenagoa Ward 8, whereas our client is from Koroama Ward 9. The effect of this libellous publication had caused our client so much embarrassment and had eroded her dignity in society,” it stated. Adams Fasingha & Co in the letter advised Adeyanju in his interest to retract the malicious petition and publish same in two national daily newspapers in Nigeria within 14 days from February 10th to 23rd. “Take further notice that where you are adamant and refuse to retract this malicious publication, we shall be left with no other alternative than to institute this matter in a court of law of competent jurisdiction,” the letter added Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com