The Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority has called on all residents of the state to partner with the authority in its quest to end unauthorised physical developments. As such, the state government urged residents to report construction works that pose threats to the lives and property of Lagosians to the agency. A statement quoted the LASPPPA General Manager, Kehinde Osinaike, as saying this recently in his office at the Old Secretariat, Ikeja while reviewing the monitoring and enforcement activities of the authority as part of strategies to curb the culture of flagrant disregard to physical planning permit laws. The General Manager, who assured whistleblowers of the protection of their identity, urged Lagosians to consider it their civic responsibility to report every infraction on the state’s physical planning permit laws to the state Ministry of Physical and Urban Development. He said, “The confidentiality of the identities of all whistleblowers will not be disclosed and all the complaints and reports would be accorded necessary attention and treated as matters of urgency.” The general manager also encouraged members of the public to report infractions of planning permit laws to any of the 40 district offices of LASPPPA nearest to them in different parts of the state. He also added that all complaints, reports and petitions could be referred to any of the Lagos State social media platforms on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram or through Whatsapp Messages sent to 08023146227 and 08054076551. According to him, LASPPPA remains committed to ensuring even and orderly developments of physical structures that are safe to live and work in across the State. Osinaike promised that the authority and other government MDAs in the built environment would continue to encourage property owners/developers to conform to the state’s physical planning permit Laws. He also warned that non-compliant property owners /developers desist from constantly flouting the procurement and application of physical planning laws of the state which are geared towards the benefit of the society at large.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com