The Commander-General, Kano State Hisbah Corps, Sheikh Ibn Sina, speaks to TED ODOGWU about the activities of the law enforcement body and responds to controversies around some of its policies What does the word Hisbah mean and what is the group’s ideological thrust? Hisbah is an Arabic word derived from its literal meaning of enjoining rightdoing and totally forbidding wrongdoing, particularly with regard to societal reorientation towards peaceful co-existence among the diverse ethnic and religious groups resident in the metropolitan city of Kano. It (Hisbah) also ensures that the Muslim community in Kano is Sharia-compliant, both in words and deeds. Hisbah abhors immorality in its entirety. It has zero tolerance for immorality. How large is Hisbah’s manpower? Hisbah has a total number of 15,700 corps spread across the 44 local government areas of the state, including the headquarters of the board. What is the recruitment process of members like? The recruitment process is unlike that of other organisations, as it solidly depends on the person’s attitude and character in his domain, in addition to his educational background. Also, the person recruited must retain his job, since his recruitment is not on a permanent basis. Can you tell us how much a Hisbah corps earns per month? Hisbah is not a profit-oriented organisation, rather it is an institution saddled with numerous responsibilities, particularly fighting against all forms of immoral activities in society, so as to minimise the rate of crimes in society. It (Hisbah) collaborates with the various security agencies in the country, such as the police, Nigerian Correctional Service, NDLEA (National Drug Law Enforcement Agency), Federal Road Safety Corps; Kano Road and Traffic Agency; fire service, among others. Each of these organisations involved in ensuring the maintenance of security of lives and property has one representative on the board of Hisbah; they are all stakeholders on the Hisbah board. Are there dos and don’ts for members Hisbah and what are the disciplinary regime for members who fall out of line? Yes, the board has its stipulated ways to discipline any erring corps, while discharging their statutory duties, or any corps who violates the rules and regulations of the board. The board, as a matter of priority, ensures that all corps members are disciplined. Is Hisbah’s jurisdiction restricted to only Muslims or does it cover activities of non-Muslim residents of Kano State as well? Hisbah’s jurisdiction covers both Muslim and non-Muslim communities. It adjudicates and amicably resolves minor disputes between Muslim and non-Muslim communities to the satisfaction of both parties, without discrimination. You will agree with me, judging by the record of non-Muslims brought before Hisbah board, whether between a Muslim and a non-Muslim, that all complaints are amicably resolved to the satisfaction of both parties. If activities of Hisbah cover non-Muslim residents in Kano, how do we juxtapose that with the constitutional provision that Nigeria is a secular state? That one is constitutional provision and Hisbah is trying as much as possible to work within the context. The same constitution allows states and local governments to create some agencies to complement the efforts of the Nigeria Police Force, and other law enforcement agencies. What are some of the acts that Hisbah considers to be offensive and go after people for? Prostitution, sale and consumption of alcohol, acts of immorality, such as indecent dressing, particularly among females, whereby some of them dress in transparent clothes that expose their bodies, as well as conducts related to immorality. What are the regular punishments imposed on people who offend the laws that Hisbah enforces? Sincerely speaking, the Hisbah board is not a magistrates’ or Sharia court, but an agency saddled with the responsibility of counselling and mobilising people towards embracing morally-upright behaviour. The agency arrests and reprimands offenders so as to serve as a deterrent to others. Hisbah was founded in 2003, will you say its establishment has helped to improve morality and reduce rate of crimes in the state? We have certainly curtailed immorality, which can be confirmed from members of the general public and security agencies in Kano State. Can you shed more light on the relationship between Hisbah and the Nigeria Police Force, for example? It’s indeed very cordial, as we always collaborate toward ensuring a law-abiding and decent society, free from immorality. One of the attributes of Hisbah is the destruction of beer consignments. For instance, sometime in 2020, Kano Hisbah destroyed 1,975,000 bottles of beer, valued at over N200m. Don’t you think this is counter-productive for the state’s economic prosperity? Hisbah operates within the context of the laws governing its conduct and establishing the board. There are other sources (of revenue for state) than the sale and consumption of alcohol that can enhance the economic prosperity of the state. But how do you react to those who say it is immoral for the Kano State Government, through Hisbah, to clamp down on beer sellers, while the state benefits from Value Added Tax on beer consumed in other states? Well, I don’t know. Many people were surprised recently when Hisbah announced a ban on use of mannequins for displaying clothes in boutiques. What is the rationale behind this ban? Hisbah has always been sensitising, advising and campaigning among the users of mannequins in their shops, boutiques and large supermarkets, for them to appreciate the Islamic point of view on the use of mannequins, its advantage and the disadvantages. Since boutiques use mannequins to display their goods in order to attract customers, don’t you think the ban will have an adverse effect on boutiques’ businesses, as well as impact negatively on the state’s economy? I don’t know. How will you rate the level of compliance with the ban on the use of mannequins by boutiques in the state? Very satisfactory, following a series of meetings held with amalgamation of national union of textile makers and tailors, which achieved a lot towards the level of compliance to the ban. Has any boutique owner been arrested for violating the ban and what is the punishment for a violator? Till date no boutique owner has been caught violating the ban. Some persons have argued that Hisbah only goes after the common people, while ignoring the powerful, citing the case of the alleged dollar bribery video involving Governor Abdullahi Ganduje. How do you respond to that? Thank you. Do you have record of high-profile persons who Hisbah has moved against? Hisbah does not disclose such records to the media. What does Hisbah ultimately hope to achieve with its various laws and enforcements? Hisbah wants to ensure decent and law-abiding citizens and a society free from all immoral and evil acts. Are there cases where some persons have instituted legal actions against Hisbah over alleged abuse or human rights violation? Certainly, there are, especially during the previous administration, but not on human right violations. However, when the current regime came on board, Hisbah resolved all the lingering disputes out of court and continued its sustenance of a decent, moral society and we are still forging ahead. Hisbah also arrests street beggars. What do you do with such persons? Yes, there is an existing Kano State law, which prohibits street begging. The law is: Kano State Street Begging (Prohibition) Law and Other Related Matters 2013. It was passed by the Kano State House of Assembly in 2013 and assented to by the then governor. In addition, the law prohibits all varieties of street begging, either by the male or female section, be it adult or children. Street begging includes begging for alms on the major roads, roundabouts, junctions, traffic lights, and other public places.  The Hisbah Board is empowered to reinforce the law. When Hisbah corps go out on patrol and find persons breaking this law, Hisbah corps will arrest them, and bring them to its main head office in Sharada or any of its branches. The corps officials will screen such persons and detain them for some days to observe their conduct or behaviour to enable the corps to determine the type of counselling for the arrested persons, until the persons arrested agrees to give up begging. At the close of the day, Hisbah either sends them to their respective home towns or invite their relations and hand them over, after filling an agreement form that such persons will desist from street begging forthwith. Recently, Kano state Governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, mandated Hisbah, that if a street beggar is arrested, he or she should be identified and if confirmed as an indigene, he or she, as the case maybe, will be repatriated to his immediate family, through his local government, particularly, his village or ward head. This is exactly what Hisbah board is doing when it arrests street beggars in Kano. However, if the beggar is caught for the second time, Hisbah has no alternative than to take the beggar to court for prosecution, because he or she has violated Kano State laws, which prohibits street begging. How do you react to the argument that arrest of street beggars amounts to further oppression of the poor, who engage in street begging, as a last resort for survival? The arresting of street beggars by Hisbah does not amount to further oppression, as they were arrested for violating the existing laws of Kano State, which prohibits street begging. Whoever that is caught, whether an adult or child roaming the street, begging innocently has violated the state laws, including those engaged in vices, like prostitution, drugs and child abuse, armed robbery in the society. Also, a lot of miscreants have been apprehended disguising as street beggars. Sometime ago, it was in the news that Hisbah arrested a pharmacist for taking a woman home. What makes that an offence, since the woman and the pharmacist are adults, capable of making informed decisions? The person Hisbah arrested sometime ago is a fake pharmacist. Hisbah’s comprehensive investigations indicated that the guy arrested did not study pharmacy. Also, he claimed to be working at the Murtala Muhammad Specialist Hospital, which informed the decision of Hisbah management to invite the Chief Medical Director, who confirmed that the arrested person, who claimed to be a pharmacist, is not his staff. Not satisfied, Hisbah further reached out to the Pharmaceutical Council of Nigeria that equally disowned him. That was why the fake pharmacist decided to take a woman to his house instead of him to act like a genuine pharmacist. Finally, Hisbah handed over the matter to the Nigeria Police Force for further investigation and prosecution. What was the outcome of the pharmacist’s case? The fake pharmacist was handed over to the Nigeria Police Force, who in turn took the case to court and the court’s verdict is still being awaited. Hisbah’s action will send a warning signal that there is no hiding place for impostors in Kano, a development that will serve as a lesson to others.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com