Niger State, the state with the largest land mass in Nigeria, is fast becoming an abode of terrorists, who unleach havoc on residents daily,  AISHA WAKASO writes Niger State is one of the states in Nigeria faced with serious security challenges where there is hardly a day that passes without an account of kidnapping, killings or cattle rustling in interior communities. The state was arguably one of the most peaceful states in Nigeria until gradually, it became a home for various nefarious activities for terrorists whose devilish actions are increasing daily and causing grave loss of lives and economic losses to their victims. Some of the activities carried out by these terrorists include kidnapping for ransom, killing and rustling cattle from communities. Unfortunately, these attacks have led to the death of over 2,000 people in the last two years and driven many out of their homes, farms and villages to become internally displaced persons  for fear of their lives. These terrorists carry out their attacks without fear or favour killing troops, civilians, women and children and kidnapping men, women and children. Their activities started in the interior villages in Shiroro and Munya local government areas where they started by attacking villagers, killing them, stealing their farm produce and kidnapping them. As a result of these, some communities in both LGAs went into negotiations with the terrorists and started to pay taxes which include money and motorcycles to save their people from being attacked. From attacking people in their villages at night, to daytime then these terrorists started to rustle cattle in the Zone C axis of the state which consists of Kontagora, Mashegu, Mariga and Magama. Kagara and Tegina weren’t left out of these attacks. The terrorists became bolder when they realised that they got away with these attacks and then began to block roads to kidnap commuters for ransom and also started to attack schools kidnapping school (Islamic and western) children. These attacks on schools led the state government to shut down schools in security risk areas to avoid putting the lives of the children at risk. Unfortunately, some of these kidnappings for ransom are not reported because they either happened in the remote areas where there are no mobile phone connections or they happened within the metropolis and the families quietly paid the ransom and preferred to be quiet about it. Some of such quiet ransom paid kidnaps included one that happened around Brighter School and Mypa road both in Minna town. The families of the kidnapped men paid the ransom and refused to speak about the incident. In August 2020, three soldiers of the Joint Taskforce were killed and two others wounded while repelling an attack by  bandits in Tashan Kare, an outskirt of Kagara in Niger state. In February 2021, one student was killed while 42 people were kidnapped which comprised  27 students, three teachers and a dozen family members of staff of Government Science College in Kagara town. The terrorists who attacked the school were said to be heavily armed and dressed in military uniforms. After the attack on the school, commuters returning from Kontagora to Minna were abducted and ransom was paid for their release. On February the 17th,2021 bandits continue to have a free run in the state as they executed a daring broad daylight raid on some communities in the state, killing 10 persons and abducting 24 others. Eight farming and herding villages in the Shiroro LGA were attacked on  June 9, 2021 by bandits who rustled 525 cattle and killed 47 persons. On  September 5, 2021, another group of a bandits invaded Magami community in the Shiroro Local Government Area killing at least 20 persons in what a source close to the community described as a retaliatory attack by the gunmen who were had earlier been attacked and killed by the Special Security Task Force, which included police, local hunters, and vigilantes, launched an attack on the bandits, killing roughly 40 of them and recovering 16 motorcycles, as well as weaponry and ammo, mostly AK47 rifles. Thirty persons were also kidnapped on September 29, 2021 from Kachiwe and its adjoining villages in Sarkin Pawa headquarters of the Munya Local Government Area of the state. A clash occurred between bandits and some local defence fighters in Dukku, Rijau Local Government Area of the state which led to the killing of at least 17  vigilantes. One of the most worrisome abductions that occurred in the state was that of 136 Salihu Tanko Islamiya School Tegina children who were abducted on  May 30 and spent 88 days in the forest with their abductors. The abductors and the government were in talks negotiating for their release. This was one of the most dramatic negotiations as the abductors were said to have at a point rejected the ransom paid saying it was incomplete and angrily increased it. The abductors who took with them children as young as four years old from the Islamiya school demanded a ransom of N200m and six bajaj motorcycles before they would release the children but later reduced it to N100m and six bajaj motorcycles. Parents, well-wishers and philanthropists contributed a total of N50m which was taken to the bandits in the forest on two different occasions, they collected the money and claimed it was short of N7.4m and therefore refused to release the pupils. When the second trench of the ransom of N20m  was taken to the bandits, the conveyor was kidnapped but later released two weeks later with an addition request from the terrorists foran additional N30m  and 6 new bajaj motorcycles before they would release the children. Parents were said to have sold their properties to pay the ransom as the government vehemently refused to pay the ransom. Six of these Islamic children were said to have died as a result of malnutrition, cold and fever. Their abductors took others through the forest from Niger State to an outskirt of Kaduna State where they released them. Communities around Shiroro and Munya Local Government Areas pay taxes to the terrorists and even purchase motorcycles for them to stop them from attacking them and allowing them to go to their farms but that hasn’t brought a permanent solution to the problem as the attacks still continue almost on a daily basis. One bitter reality is that the killings and abductions for ransom in Niger State are underreported as some happen without getting to the media or even getting to the government. Family members just count their losses lick their wounds and carry on like nothing happened. While some people think that the government and security agencies are not doing enough to protect the residents of these areas, the government seems to be doing what they think is strategic because it would be recalled that a journalist once asked the state governor what he was doing to ensure that lives and properties are protected from the terrorists and he said that his administration had strategies in place that he wasn’t willing to say out publicly adding that there were informants everywhere including in his administration. Those who opined that the government is not doing enough gave reasons as the government not coming to their rescue when they were taxed by the terrorists adding that they had to raise the monies to be paid despite that government was aware of their plight. Some others opined that security agents never arrive at the time the attacks are going on even when they are called. They said it is obvious that the government and security agents do not have the capacity and as such, they are only hoping on God for help. The government has put in place a few laws to curb the crime but all that have proved abortive. Some of the laws include banning of commercial motorcycles, banning the sale of fuel in jerry cans and sometimes blocking mobile phone networks in those areas. Some 15 and early morning worshippers were also killed in a mosque in Maza-Kuka in Mashegu Local government while 19 were kidnapped and eight died before the ransom was paid. Only recently did the state Governor Abubakar Bello reveal that there were 50 attacks in 2 weeks which led to the killing of about 300 people including some Chinese expatriates. Attacks occur daily and another occurred on the 19th January in Ukuru village in Bobi where a number of people were killed, some kidnapped, and houses burnt. Also in 24th, terrorists who always attack on motorcycles attacked batagari village in mashegu local government area. They killed one person, abducted 15 people and ransacked houses stealing valuables. These incessant attacks and abductions have caused a grave economic loss of the people in Niger state as farmers have abandoned their farms for fear of being abducted, cattle have been lost to rustlers and millions of naira paid for ransoms as the case may be. Unfortunately, the majority of the times when abductions or killings occur, there are always conflicting reports in the number of those killed or abducted by the resident, government and police. Though it is believed that the government and Police are reducing the figures not to cause tension among residents, others think they are trivializing human lives by reducing the numbers. Another group of people are also of the opinion that residents of affected areas might be inflating the numbers to attract sympathy and get the government to act fast. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com