The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission has arraigned a former Secretary-General of the Athletic Federation of Nigeria, Mr Amaechi Akawu, for alleged complicity in a $150,000 fraud. Akawo was arraigned Friday before Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court 5, sitting in Abuja, on allegations of corruption bordering on money laundering and fraudulent diversion of public funds. The ICPC had filed a 10-count charge against him before Justice Ekwo, in which it accused the former Secretary General of diverting monies released by the International Association of Athletics Federation for the hosting of the CAA Grand Prix Competition in Delta State, popularly known as 2017 Warri Relay Competition. The offence was allegedly committed in July and August 2017 when Akawu, on multiple occasions, fraudulently diverted funds from the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development into personal use. A statement by the ICPC spokesperson,  Azuka Ogugua, on Sunday, titled, ‘ICPC arraigns ex-AFN secretary general over $150,000 fraud,’  alleged that the defendants used various fronts to receive the money. It stated, “His actions violated sections 1 (a) and 16 (1) (d) of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act, 2011 and are punishable under relevant Sections of the same Act. “Akawu entered a not guilty plea when the charge was read to him. His counsel, Emmanuel Aghedo, moved his application, praying the court to grant him bail on liberal terms. “ ICPC’s, Mashkur Salisu, who did not object to the bail application, however, urged the court to grant him bail on stringent terms that will ensure he stands trial.” The matter was adjourned till May 16, 17 and 18, 2022 for hearing. Ruling on the bail application, Ekwo reportedly admitted him to bail in the sum of N15 million, with one surety in like sum. The judge ordered that the surety must have landed property within the Federal Capital Territory and the accused must deposit his international passport with the court registry.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com