The Nigeria Police Force and the Department of State Services are said to be investigating the theft of the computer containing the records of members of staff of the National Assembly, The PUNCH reliably learnt on Tuesday. Top sources in the National Assembly and the National Assembly Service Commission disclosed to our correspondent that the theft, which was suspected to have occurred during the weekend, was discovered on Monday. One of the sources, who declined to be named as he was not authorised to speak to the press on the matter, alleged that the theft must have been an attempt to frustrate the ongoing audit of workers’ records. “The news reaching me now is that there was break-in at NASC and the hard drive of staff records was stolen. The computer was stolen over the weekend but, unfortunately, the thief never knew there is a backup. “The DSS and the Police are currently carrying out investigation and all the staff members of the affected department have been invited. This may not be too far from the recent involvement of top management staff in age falsification,” he said. Another official, who also spoke to our correspondent on Tuesday night, said, “It is the first time such a thing will happen in the history of the National Assembly.” The Director of Information, NASC, Mrs Janet Mambula, could not be reached for comments as of press time on Tuesday night. The NASC had retired the Clerk to the Senate, Ibrahim el-Ladan; and two permanent secretaries, Anthony Adebanjo and Michael Opara, over alleged forgery of documents and age falsification. The commission had ordered el-Ladan and Adebanjo to proceed on retirement with immediate effect, while Okpara was asked to retire in six months. The NASC had also gone ahead to appoint Mrs Isabella Ugochi Iloba as acting Clerk to the Senate, to take over from el-Ladan. The Executive Chairman of the NASC, Ahmed Amshi, in a letter dated February 9, 2022, with Reference Number NASC/PF/69/184, titled ‘Retirement from Service, and addressed to el-Ladan, a copy of which our correspondent sighted on Tuesday, partly read, “The Commission at its 547th meeting held on Wednesday, 9th February, 2022, has approved your retirement from service with effect from 9th February, 2022. “The commission wishes to acknowledge your immense contribution to the growth and development of the National Assembly Service. “As you proceed on retirement, please hand over your office and other Government property in your possession to the Deputy Clerk, Senate (Legislative), Ilobah Isabella Ugochi. “On behalf of the commission, I pray that Almighty God will continue to grant you good health and success in your future endeavours.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com