Ahead of the All Progressives Congress National Convention, youths of the party from the South-South zone yesterday called for unity among members of the party and demanded that young people should be given opportunities to occupy leadership positions in the party and opportunities in government. Speaking at the zonal youth leadership, sensitisation and capacity building meeting for newly elected youth leaders of the party in Benin City, the South-South Youth Leader of the APC, Gabriel Iduseri, also commended the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, CECPC of the party which activities he said led to the successful conduct of ward, local government and state congresses that would climax with the national convention. He said: “We the youths of the APC in the South-South zone are ready for the next level the party is going to. We have come together as one family, preaching unity and working together for the progress of the party and the country. We are also clamouring for inclusiveness in the party and in the governance of the country. “We all know that the journey of the APC in the last four years has been a bit difficult with divergent interests but here we are standing together again, ready to carry on and change the narratives of our zone. “There is nothing that is as strong as a united house, a united party and a united Zone. My message to the leaders of APC in the South-South Zone, is that; they need to be united in their political approach because a divided house cannot achieve anything meaningful, just as nothing good can come out of a war torn zone. “Remember as a leader, you are saddled with lots of responsibilities and as a shining ambassador of the party, you have a task to ensure that our party is put on winning ways, because only winners can celebrate and losers are not known. “Therefore, I charge you to set your foot on the right path of winning elections and facilitating benefits of good governance to your constituencies.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com