The Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwoolu has celebrated veteran obstetrician and gynaecologist, Oluyomi Finnih, as he clocked 80. In a statement available on his official Facebook page, on Wednesday, Sanwo-Olu described the member of
the Governors Advisory Council, and former Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist of the Lagos State Ministry of Health, as a “father” and “leader”. Finnih started work at the Lagos Ministry of Health around 1971 before he was appointed as the Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist at the Lagos Island Maternity, Lagos, from 1975-78. He ventured into private practice, as the Medical Director/Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, Finnih Medical Centre, Ikeja in 1983. Apart from being the ex-General Secretary of Nigerian Medical Association from 1975 -1978, Finnih is a member of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, England, as well as a member of the International Federation of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists. Sanwoolu praised Finnih for his immense contributions to medical practice and the development of the health sector in the state and the country. He hailed him for his dedication and selflessness in both public and private service He said, “On behalf of my family, the good people of Lagos State and members of the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress, I heartily congratulate our father, leader and member of the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), Dr Oluyomi Finnih, on the occasion of his 80 years birthday. “Dr Finnih is an epitome of dedication and selflessness in public and private service. His contributions in the field of medical practice have helped with the development of the health sector at State and national levels.
He served passionately in the Lagos State Ministry of Health and worked as Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist at the Lagos Island Maternity Hospital for many years before going into private practice as Medical Director/Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, Finnih Medical Centre, Ikeja. “Sir, as you celebrate a major milestone by joining the league of Octogenarians, we pray that the Almighty God increases you in good health and grant you fruitful years to enable you to render more service to our party, Lagos State, and humanity. Amen,” Sanwo-Olu stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com