The Pathfinder International has lauded the contributions of The PUNCH to the increased awareness in health, especially child spacing issues in Gombe State. Recall that Gombe was one of the 12 states where the organisation had implemented the Advanced Family Planning project to advocate for favourable policies, and adequate funding. Speaking during a close-out ceremony organised by Saif Advocacy Foundation, the country Director Dr Amina Dorayi, who was represented at the occasion by Yusuf Nuhu, called for sustainability of  the family planning debates, owing to its huge benefit to women, the state and the country. Dorayi, who lauded The PUNCH correspondent, Chima Azubuike, for amplifying the voices of women, communities and health facilities in need, said, “Thank you for being part of the Advanced Family Planning project success.” The country director disclosed that the AFP which was initiated in 2012 was geared towards raising awareness on the gains of family planning, especially for women within child-bearing age. Dorayi said, “The aim was to increase financial investment as well as political commitment. The focus of the project has been funding, policy, and visibility. We have done this project in 12 states, Gombe included. “In terms of policies, we have done Family Planning Cost Implementation Plan; currently, we are trying to complete the review of the one in Gombe. We have done that in Benue, Kwara, Cross River, Niger, Plateau, Nasarawa and as well as the national level.” She disclosed that as the organisation attempts to graduate advocacy working groups, identify the technical needs of the group as well as support awareness campaigns. The Executive Secretary of Gombe State Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr Shuaibu Abdulrahman, promised continued support to the family planning campaign. Represented by Felix Habila, the Secretary lauded the efforts of Gombe Advocacy Working Group, adding that, “we are not ignorant of the absence of child spacing within our community which has led to giving birth to children that are not spaced and we know the consequences involved in the failure to space our children.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com