Former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar(retd.), has warned politicians against employing youths for political violence in the forthcoming elections, adding that the country already has enough security challenges. Abdulsalami gave this warning when he was conferred with a Honorary Doctorate Degree during the 30th Convocation Ceremony of the Federal University of Technology Minna on Wednesday. The former head also advised youths not to allow themselves to be used by politicians to cause violence and disharmony. He said, “As we go into politics, caution Nigerians and politicians, please wisely play the game. Avoid using our children and grandchildren as propaganda and abusing them and trying to make them do what we know is wrong. “And for the youths, please avoid being used as thugs and arbitrators of disharmony and violence in the country.” Abdulsalami described the security challenges the country is faced with as a war without morality where people are killed without reasons. “We are facing a hard time security-wise where the war front is everywhere and this is a war without any morality where the old and the young are slaughtered without any cause. “Our security forces are overstretched so it is left to all of us to join hands in making sure we provide information where possible so that this situation will be addressed,” the former Head of State said. The University conferred former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar, the President of the African Development Bank, Dr Akinwumi Adesina, the Chairman of BUA Group of companies, Alhaji Abdulsamad Rabiu and the Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mallam Mele Kolo Kyari with Honorary Doctorate Degrees. The Vice-Chancellor of the University, Professor Abdullahi Bala, said that they were awarded the honorary degrees because of their patriotism and legacies of service which have contributed in no small measure to the unity, peace, security and prosperity of the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com