Prominent politicians from various political parties gathered in Ibadan on Monday in honour of former Oyo State Governor, Chief Adebayo Alao-Akala. Alao-Akala first served as the deputy to former governor, Senator Rashidi Ladoja, before becoming governor. The Senator representing Oyo North Senatorial District, Fatai Buhari, while paying tribute described the late politician as a very compassionate leader who did many things to have positive impacts in the lives of everybody who came across his way. Senator Kola Balogun, who is of the Peoples Democratic Party representing Oyo South Senatorial District, also paid glowing tributes to the late former governor. A chieftain of the APC, Niyi Akintola (SAN), said he always disagreed politically with Alao-Akala while he was alive. He, however, said the late former governor was a very good man and a very accessible leader. This is as he lauded the infrastructural programme embarked upon by Alao-Akala’s administration. A retired Permanent Secretary, Prof. Tunji Olaopa, who delivered a lecture at the programme, described Alao-Akala as a very compassionate man who wanted the best for the people around him. Olaopa said Alao-Akala took his political constituency I into consideration before forming a political alliance with late Chief Lamidi Adedibu and Ibadan people while urging politicians to always emulate him on this Olaopa said, “The question for the political class taking a cue or the baton from him is, therefore, to keep
pushing the political interest of their constituencies while forging alliances that are critical to the fruition of political culture and resilience that are required to build a strong and prosperous Nigerian state, overall, with sensitivity to better harness our diversity to not only position the South-West in the larger federation but to salvage our ailing and failing Nigerian nation-state. “This relates to the issue of how the political class in Nigeria manage the tension that comes with ethnic and tribal politics and crisis management. Taking lessons from and in stark contrast to the Awolowo-Akintola environment of bitterness polluted polity. “Senator Rasheed Ladoja’s testimony that though he and Akala had occasions of political disagreement, “this did not injure our personal relationship … I, therefore, never saw Alao-Akala as a betrayer,” was instructive. It validates Akala’s ideology of live-and-let-live, a politics that tried as much as possible to be devoid of bitterness that has become the hallmark of the Nigerian politics.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com