Students of tertiary institutions under the aegis of the National Association of Nigerian Students on Monday protested in parts of the country, including the Federal Capital Territory, against the ongoing waning strike by members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities. In Abuja, protesting students grounded activities at the secretariat of the Federal Ministry of Education after the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, walked out on them during a meeting. The students, who were demanding an immediate end to the ongoing strike by ASUU had stopped at the National Assembly, demanding to speak with the leadership of the Assembly but the security operatives on the ground shut the gate against them. The protesting students then decided to take their protest to the ministry and demanded to speak with the minister, a request that was granted At the meeting with the minister, President of NANS, Sunday Ashefon, demanded an immediate end to the ongoing strike while negotiations continue. He also called for the inclusion of the students in the negotiation process, threatening that students may ground activities nationwide as done during the #EndSARS protest. The visibly angry minister said he was disappointed with the NANS leadership, adding that the government had done what was expected of it since the commencement of the strike. “I must begin by telling you that I am very disappointed if this is the way you want to put your case across to us,” he said. He then staged a walk out of the meeting. The protesting students shut the gates of the ministry for hours to deny the minister and workers of the ministry entry and exit. They marched round the building chanting songs such as “Adamu must go”. In Plateau State, the protesting students locked out federal and state workers. They gathered in front of the National Library, Yakubu Gowon Way in Jos around 8am and later moved to the federal secretariat located within Tudun Wada community and locked the gate, therefore preventing workers from going in while those already inside were trapped in their offices. Some of the civil servants told The PUNCH in Jos on Monday that the students, after locking the gate of the federal secretariat for some hours, moved to the nearby state secretariat where they also locked the gate. In Ebonyi State, students embarked on a peaceful protest to register their anger over the strike. They barricaded the Presco Campus section of the Abakaliki-Enugu Highway, demanding immediate end to incessant strikes in the country. The students were led by the Acting Deputy Coordinator of Zone F, Ewa Chukwumaijem; and the Joint Campus Committee Chairman-elect in the state, Ituma Kelvin. In Oyo State, the Zone B of NANS berated the Federal Government and ASUU for the ongoing strike. The students staged a protest against the strike and called on the Federal Government and ASUU to resolve the issues that led to the strike without further delay. The Coordinator of NANS in the South-West, Fiyinfolu Tegbe, said during the protest in Ibadan that students would block all federal roads in the region from Tuesday if the Federal Government and ASUU failed to resolve the strike issue. Members of NANS from the University of Calabar and University of Cross River State took to the streets of Calabar to protest the strike. The students asked the Federal Government to listen to ASUU and end the strike once and for all. In Osun State, students embarked on a peaceful protest in Osogbo. Speaking on behalf of the protesters, the chairman, NANS/JCC Osun Axis, Oyelayo Oyewole, said they stormed the streets to make ASUU and the Federal Government end their disagreement that had disrupted academic activities in universities. In Minna, Niger State, NANS threatened to shut down government activities in the state if the impasse between the Federal Government and ASUU is not resolved. NANS’ zonal coordinator, Hussaini Ebbo, made this threat in Minna during the NANS peaceful protest. “The next time we are up on the street to demonstrate, we will ensure that we shut down all ministries and parastatals,” he threatened. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com