The Coalition of Northern Groups, Katsina State chapter, on Thursday, alleged that terrorists had begun to collect levies from some communities in the state. Although the coalition did not disclose the amount being collected and methods of collection, it, however, alleged that residents of communities in the Batsari, Safana, Faskari and Dandume local government areas of the state were among those paying the levies. The Chairman, CNG, North-West, Jamilu Charanchi, listed Daurawa and Kasai in the Batsari Local Government Area; Barebari in the Safana Local Government Area; Kanin Haki in the Faskari Local Government Area; and Mahuta in the Dandume Local Government Area as communities where terrorists were collecting levies from the residents. The CNG in a condolence letter to Governor Aminu Masari on Wednesday’s terrorist attack on the Jibiya-Magamar border town, where the Divisional Police Officer for the area, DSP Abdullahi Rano, and an unnamed member of a vigilante group lost their lives, expressed concern over current activities of terrorists in the state. The letter, signed by Charanchi and dated February 9, 2022, was available by the coalition on Thursday. It read in part, “The Coalition of Northern Groups, Katsina State chapter, is deeply disturbed by the recent despicable and unchecked decimation and emasculation of our people; destruction of livelihoods; abuse and exploitation of women and extortion of poverty-stricken communities by terrorists in the state. “In the last few days, armed bandits/terrorists across Jibia, Batsari, Bakori and Faskari have killed scores of helpless and defenceless citizens in addition to multiple kidnappings and other forms of exploitation. Regrettably, these killings, abductions, maiming and exploitation have been going on incessantly with no respite in sight. “We, therefore, find the recent killing of Magaji Yangayya, the DPO of Jibia and an army officer in the state very worrisome and alarming. “The CNG has gathered shocking and frightening information that suggests that some of our villages are firmly under the control of bandits, where levies or taxes are imposed on our people, and are subjecting our poor people to further economic deprivation and devastation.” The group added, “The stories are demoralising as over 50 innocent, defenceless and impoverished citizens of the state were killed systematically in the last four weeks. While these atrocities go on with alarming regularity, the Federal Government appeared to have completely surrendered its prerogative of the use of force to the bandits/terrorists, who today operate parallel governments in villages and communities in the state, where they impose taxes and levies on the villages and kill people at will. “We are convinced that the government and its functionaries have lost the political will and determination to decisively deal with the problems once and for all. The security institutions are grossly understaffed, ill-equipped and poorly motivated to sufficiently confront monstrous terrorism and rampaging banditry and force them out of their hidden enclaves. “Therefore, the CNG calls on traditional rulers to stand with their people in this difficult and scary situation and confront the challenges for our collective survival. Communities must work together under the traditional institutions, religious leaders and community leaders to source alternative methods of preserving and protecting their lives, properties and communities as our security architecture proves incapacitated and reluctant to decisively and resolutely deal with the problem. “Unfortunately, the political leaders, who are supposed to protect our lives and property, are busy with their politicking without showing an iota of sympathy and empathy to the plight of our people. While we condole with families of the bereaved, the state government, traditional rulers, the Commissioner of Police, the Nigerian Army and well-meaning citizens of the state, we equally implore our teaming youths in the state to rise to the occasion.” The spokesman for the state police command, SP Gambo Isah, however, described the allegation that terrorists had begun to collect levies as “frivolous.” He maintained that no such case had been reported, insisting that the police and other security operatives were working round the clock to ensure the safety of lives and property in the state. Isah stated, “Allegation of terrorists collecting levies, taxes or whatsoever in any community in the state is not only false, it is also frivolous. Which community? How much is being paid? Who is paying what and through what methods are such levies paid? “Look, the police and security operatives are working round the clock to ensure safety of lives and property in the state. Such efforts led to what happened in Magama-Jibiya on Wednesday, where our gallant officer, the DPO, paid the supreme price while repelling terrorists. “The police command has even reinforced our personnel, especially in all the frontline council areas, to ensure that peace reigns there. People should not pay any levy to anybody and instead should be bold enough to report such to the security operatives. We are up to the task.” The Special Adviser to the Governor on Security, Ahmad Katsina, did not take calls put through to him on the matter and had yet to respond to a message sent to him on the allegation as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com