The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Friday in Abuja said he would support the aspirations of credible and committed young people vying for positions in the February 26 national convention of the All Progressives Congress. This is as he mandated his Chief of Staff, Prof Ibrahim Gambari, and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, to ensure that all ministers and heads of agencies include young people with the requisite skills and experience in all boards and committees of the Federal Government. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, who disclosed this in a statement he signed on Friday titled, ‘Ensure young people with requisite skills get board appointment, President Buhari directs SGF, chief of staff, ministers,’ said Buhari gave the assurance while receiving members of the APC National Youth Lobby Group at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. ‘’I will also support the aspirations of credible and committed young people who are vying for positions in the upcoming convention. It is also in our interest to ensure the longevity of our party by standardizing and institutionalising the leadership recruitment system. Hard-working and exemplary individuals should be identified and encouraged and mentored. It should be a deliberate policy of the progressives in ensuring that we have a robust succession plan in place,” he was quoted as saying. The President also directed the SGF, Mustapha, to submit a report on the inclusion of young people on boards and committees that are yet to be constituted, next month. He further asked his Chief of Staff and the SGF to ensure monthly engagements with the APC youth lobby group for better synergy and cross-pollination of ideas and opportunities. While urging senior government officials to explore the establishment of a committee of young people to form the monitoring and evaluation team of ongoing Federal Government projects across the country, Buhari said the committee would provide feedback to enable his government to hold public officers to account. Buhari also welcomed the idea of the establishment of a presidential committee on youth in liaison with the youth leader, requesting the SGF and the Chief of Staff to work out the modalities for its operationalisation. He told the group led by Ismaeel Ahmed that the leadership of the party would ensure the full participation of young people at all levels. He urged them to help the party achieve a successful convention on February 26, 2022, and in subsequent elections in Ekiti and Osun states. Expressing support for the establishment of the progressive institute for the party, the President said,  ‘’The party must have an Institute where its ethos, character and mantra are inculcated in our members. I will rely on you to share the concept note for further action.’’ He endorsed the 2021 APC Youth Conference Report presented to him, assuring the Group that the recommendations in the report that were within his own remit would be given favourable consideration.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com