The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has released an updated list of landed properties seized from an undisclosed ‘top military officer’. According to the EFCC, the new list contains 24 landed assets, estimated at over N10.9 billion, a sharp contrast from the N3 billion given as the value of the properties in the commission’s earlier statement on Monday. According to an earlier statement, issued by the Spokesperson for the EFCC, Wilson Uwujaren, the Judge of the Federal High Court in Abuja, Justice Nkeoya Maha, issued an order of final forfeiture of the assets to the Federal Government on Monday, But in another statement, issued late on Tuesday, Uwujaren listed 24 sets of assets, valued at N10.9 billion, seized from the military officer in Kano, Kaduna, Borno and Cross River states, respectively. The Commission listed the assets to include about nine filling stations, with a total of 300 pumps spread across Kano State. Others include an LPG plant with 30 shops, an event centre, a three-storey plaza with 28 shops and a block industry, all located in Kano. “The 24 properties, which are spread within Kano, Kaduna, Borno and Cross River states, comprise land, shopping complex, gas station and fuel stations, cumulatively valued at N10,935,000,000.00. (Ten Billion, Nine Hundred and Thirty-Five Million Naira),” the statement stated. Earlier, the Commission disclosed on Monday that the assets were controlled by the military officer through proxies, including the late General, Aminu Maude, and some companies, Atlasfield Integrated Services Nigeria Limited, Marhaba Events Place, Aflac Plastics and Atlasfield Gas Plant Limited. The properties are: A 16 Pump filling Station located at Rijiyar Lemo, Kano. A Filling Station with 41 pumps located opposite Federal Secretariat, Kano. A Filling Station with 39 pumps located along BUK Road, Kano. A Filling Station with 31 pumps located along Zaria Bypass, Kano. A Filling Station with 31 pumps located along Maiduguri Bypass, Kano. A Filling Station with 29 pumps located along Maiduguri Bypass, Kano. A Filling Station with 23 pumps located along Naibawa , Kano. A Filling Station with 39 pumps located along Bachirawa, Kano. A Filling Station with 51 pumps and a one-storey building with 35 shops attached to the Filling Station located along Shiek Ja’afar Road Dorayi, Kano. An LPG plant with 30 shops attached to it located along Zaria Road, Kano. Marhaba Event Centre, Guda Abdullahi Road, Farm Centre, Kano. A three storey building (Plaza), with 28 shops located on Hadeja Road, next to Sheshe Supermarket , Kano. A three-storey building (Plaza), with 126 shops located on Audu Bako Way, Opposite Nation Plaza, Kano. Classic Block Industry at Maiduguri Road, Kano. Atlasfield Corporate Headquarters, No. L6 Ahmadu Bello Way, Kaduna. Undeveloped plot located at Sharada, Adjacent A.A. Rano Filling Station, Kano. Undeveloped plot located at Yan Rake, Adjacent Dala Orthopedic Hospital, Kano. Undeveloped plot located along Kano-Gwarzo Road, Adjacent Kedco Regional Office, Kano North/Opposite Silver Spoon Restaurant, Kano. Undeveloped plot located along Kano-Gwarzo Road, opposite Markaz Mosque, Kano. Undeveloped plot located on Sani Marshal Road, Opposite Nissan Automobile, Kano. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com