Mixed reactions have trailed the ongoing governorship primary election of the All Progressives Congress in Osun State. The fierce battle for the sole ticket of the party is between the Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, and a former Secretary to the State Government, Moshood Adeoti. Adeoti, a former state chairman of the party, is the anointed candidate of the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. While Oyetola’s men expressed satisfaction with the ongoing process, supporters of Adeoti grumbled over alleged missing names from the party’s register. The PUNCH gathered that voting has commenced in over 300 wards in the state with Oyetola leading from unconfirmed reports shared on social media so far. It was also learnt that there’s a large turnout in Osogbo and Olorunda Local Government Areas. “The process was free, fair, and credible,” Ganiyu Isola, who voted at Orolu Local Government Ward 03, said. Senate spokesperson, Ajibola Basiru, expressed satisfaction at the turnout of party members. Basiru, a strong supporter of Oyetola, said, “This is the third ward I have been aside doing accreditation in my own ward. I have been to Ward 10 and now in Ward 9 and we have seen people ready and willing to vote. “The party members have taken over the control and determine who will be their candidate. I only appeal to those that would lose to accept in the spirit of democracy, unity, cohesion, and development of our party to accept that in good faith and ensure that we join hands together to ensure the success of our party in the July election.” Osun Commissioner for Finance, Bola Oyebamiji, described the large turnout as an appreciation of good governance. At Ejigbo, former Osun Speaker Najeem Salaam, complained that INEC officials refused to show up at Ward 4 collation centre, which is the constitutionally recognised venue for the primary election. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com