Former Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, on Monday said whoever emerges as the successor of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in 2023 would face multiple problems. Sanusi declared that Nigeria “is living on extra time”, adding that the country would be facing deeper challenges from 2023. The former Emir,  who is also a former Central Bank of Nigeria’s  Governor and leader of Tijaniyya sect in Nigeria, spoke in Abeokuta, Ogun State, at a reception organised for him (Sanusi) as part of activities marking the 80th birthday of Babanla Adinni of Egbaland, Chief Tayo Sowunmi. Sanusi, while warning presidential aspirants of the tasks ahead of them, said Nigerians must be ready for difficult decisions that would affect them. He said “To be honest, we are living on extra time. In 2015, we were in a deep hole. In 2023, we will be in an even deeper hole than in 2015. “The challenges facing all those people who are struggling to be President, I hope they understand that the problems that they are going to face are multiples of the problems that were faced in 2015 and all of us have to be ready for difficult decisions and if they are taken, we are all going to pay for it. “But the solution is not for all of us to jump into politics, this country needs good politicians, it needs imams and pastors and bishops who are going to stand up and remind them (politicians) of the fear of God. It needs technocrats who are going to critique their policies, it needs traditional rulers who are going to speak as the conscience of the people, everyone has a role to play and we should try to play that role to the best of our ability.” While reacting to the call to join politics, the 14th Emir of Kano said he has ruled out any interest in political position. He said he was contented being a spiritual leader of the Tijaniyyah which he described as more demanding than being the President of Nigeria. He said, “If we all go into politics, who is going to hold the politicians to account? Who is going to stand up and tell them when they are going wrong? Who is going to speak to the people and explain sometimes difficult and painful policies that people don’t like or which are in the long term interest of the people? “People don’t understand the role we play as traditional rulers, as religious leaders that they think you should go and be a governor, or be a President. To be honest, I think that the role I play can be more important than that of the President, it is different, it has different content. “But to be Khalifa Tijaniyyaa of Nigeria is an office that personally, given the choice between that office and the presidency, I will choose that office.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com