LAST Monday’s declaration of a “comprehensive and total” strike to last four weeks by the Academic Staff Union of Universities is a sad development for higher education in Nigeria. After many months of going back and forth between the union and the Federal Government, the President of ASUU, Emmanuel Osodeke, eventually announced the commencement of yet another strike. Like previous ones, this strike is bound to throw the already fragile public university system into a comatose state. Every effort should be deployed to restore full academic activities and to resolve the two decades-old war between the government and university teachers. The scenario is depressingly familiar. As usual, ASUU cites the failure of the Federal Government to implement the Memorandum of Action it signed with it in December 2020, as well as the inability of the government to fulfil some of the other agreements inked as far back as 2009. ASUU had on November 15, 2021, given the Federal Government a three-week ultimatum to meet the demands. These include: the revitalisation of public universities through consistent funding; payment of earned academic allowances to lecturers; the acceptance and implementation of the University Transparency Accountability Solution developed by the union instead of the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System introduced by the government; settlement of promotion arrears; and the renegotiation of the 2009 ASUU-FGN agreement. Since 1999, Nigerian universities have been on strike for a cumulative period of three years. Between that time and 2020, lecturers in public universities had gone on strike 15 times, according to media reports. The entire period they embarked on such strikes spanned about 50 months. This means that for every five years since 1999, Nigerian universities have spent one year on strike.The strike actions have disrupted the academic pursuits of most Nigerian students with an estimated 75 percent graduating later than scheduled, educationists say. Following the NEEDS assessment of 16 federal universities in 2012, the government agreed to release N1.3 trillion as revitalisation fund over six years, starting with the sum of N200 billion in 2013. According to the union, the move is meant for the massive injection of funds into the public universities, to improve the facilities and enhance human capacity, among others. The latest strike–described as a resumption of the one suspended last year by ASUU–has thrown traumatised students and their parents into another round of agony as Nigeria is about the only country in the world where the fate of the future generation is left hanging, with all those who are supposed to be concerned playing the ostrich. The parents are angry, the students are despondent, and admission seekers are bewildered about what the future holds for them in the unending cycle of disruption to the academic calendar and by the callous way in which those managing the system have been carrying on. Incidentally, the children of the elite, including the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and other key government officials mostly school abroad, where the system operates seamlessly, and the academic calendar is not affected by mundane existential issues. That experience should drive them to replicate similar standards at home. The bulk of students attending public universities in Nigeria are the sons and daughters of those in the lower rung of the ladder, whose parents cannot afford the high fees charged by the private universities. In some instances, the students co-sponsor themselves, while others are virtually responsible for sending themselves to school.In such circumstances, any disruption to the academic calendar is a disservice to them. Besides, undergraduates are not qualified for employment in Nigeria and the time they spend at home during strikes by their lecturers is a complete waste. In most advanced countries, undergraduates are allowed to work and earn money as part of their training and to apply the knowledge they are acquiring in the work environment. United States’ state governments deliberately establish ‘community colleges’ which run two-year courses to produce workers who can work with the diplomas awarded, and later, proceed to full time colleges for another two years to obtain bachelors’ degrees. An ongoing strike by lecturers in United Kingdom public universities is planned for only 10 days. But incessant indefinite strikes have made Nigerian graduates unattractive in the international labour market, while those who want to pursue further studies abroad are not given the same opportunities as their counterparts in more stable societies. The Nigerian government created the mess, it should clear it up. It repeatedly signs agreements and fails to honour them. Successive governments have not made a determined effort to solve the crisis by sourcing and meeting instalment payments to clear the funding they promised. The utterances of the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, and of the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, are provocative. They have proved to be poor negotiators. Rather than douse, they exacerbate the tensions between the government and ASUU.They need to change their combative ways. The Federal Government should behave responsibly by honouring the agreements it entered with ASUU, by funding the universities appropriately and pay commensurate wages to the lecturers instead of causing distractions. A good way to start is to agree with the union on a formula to release the revitalisation fund to the system over an agreed number of years, even if it means that the government should look beyond the normal budgeting appropriation process to raise money for this purpose. It should go the extra mile the way it does for security funding. ASUU should insist on a moratorium on the establishment of public universities.The same Federal Government that cannot fund existing institutions is busy establishing new ones, while state governments that are barely able to operate without federal allocations are creating universities indiscriminately with no intelligent plan of funding them. While ASUU’s demands do have merit, the lecturers should consider what their students are going through because of the strike. It should change its way of handling disputes with the government; if the same method of embarking on strikes has been used for many years without achieving the aim, the eggheads in the university system should think of new strategies by being more innovative. The opportunity of the four-week warning strike should not be lost. The government must quickly come to terms with its obligations and work out an acceptable way of meeting them, while the union must reassess its strategies and come up with solutions that will take the interests of its members, the students, and their parents and guardians into consideration. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com