The 22 governors of the All Progressives Congress are expected to meet on Tuesday. A top member of the party, who spoke on condition of anonymity, disclosed this to one of our correspondents as the party on Sunday named a 20-member convention sub-committee for the convention scheduled for March 26. However, it was learnt on Sunday evening that following the announcement of the Independent National Electoral Commission that all parties can begin their presidential primaries from April 4, 2022, some were of the view that rather than hold the national convention on March 26, 2022, the convention and the primary could be held together. An APC chieftain, who confirmed this to The PUNCH, said the fresh moves were based on the argument that the party needs to save funds. The Secretary of the APC Caretaker Committee, John Akpanudoedehe, did not respond to a text message on Sunday when contacted for comment. However, it was learnt that the President and the governors will also be discussing the issue of the chairmanship of the party. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, had on Saturday denied reports that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) had endorsed former Governor Abdullahi Adamu of Nasarawa State. Also speaking on Channels Television’s ‘Sunday Politics’ programme, Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State confirmed that Buhari would be meeting with the governors on Tuesday. Sule said the governors would meet to ratify issues of zoning and the choices for the Presidential primary “As far as the convention is concerned, most likely we are going to go by consensus and that is how the election will also be carried out, by consensus. “Going into our Presidential election, when we get to that, most likely it will be done by consensus hopefully and if we cannot do that, we will do indirect (primary) most likely,” the governor said. “(At the meeting), we are hoping that we can come up with clearer visions. I am not the chairman of the PGF or the party but I was only invited. I believe when we get there based on the agenda we see, a lot of discussions will be clearer; a lot of negotiations will be done. The zoning will be discussed,” he added. APC names convention committee members In preparation for its national convention scheduled for March 26, the party’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee on Sunday constituted 20 sub-committees. Akpanudoedehe disclosed that the creation of the sub-committees was in accordance with the convention schedule of activities. The sub-committees include the Screening Committee to be chaired by the Kwara State Governor Abdulrahaman Abdulrazaq and Emmanuel Emeka as Secretary; the Screening Appeal Committee is chaired by Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodima and Shuaib Aruwa as Secretary; Election Committee is chaired by Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, while Katsina State Governor, Bello Masari, will chair the Election Appeal Committee.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com