Presidential aide, Bashir Ahmad, has praised the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), resolve to reject foreign influence and support for the protest against police brutality and extra-judicial killings in Nigeria. The #EndSARS protest against police brutality and bad governance took place in Nigeria in October 2020. Bashir, who is the Personal Assistant to the President on Digital and New Media, disclosed this on his Twitter page on Sunday. He said that irrespective of the critics’ position, no leader would watch the country burn under his watch. He said that despite criticism that trailed the President’s approach, including the ban placed on the social media platform, Twitter, Buhari’s successor will also adopt the same stringent approach to protect Nigeria’s unity, given such circumstances. He tweeted, “Those unpatriotic people are still angry with Pres. @MBuhari for not allowing miscreants with help of misguided outsiders to destroy this country, they’re like we can’t wait for 2023, they should know that whoever takes over from Baba will also NEVER allow them to terrorize us.” The PUNCH had earlier reported that the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, slammed the Canadian government and social media giant, Twitter, over the truckers’ protest against COVID-19 restrictions in Canada. Recall that during the #EndSARS protest in Nigeria, the Canadian government condemned the actions taken to quell the nationwide protest. Tweeting through @CanadaFP, it said, “Canada is deeply concerned about the excessive use of force during the ongoing protests in #Nigeria. Those responsible for #HumanRights violations and abuse must be held accountable.” Likening the #EndSARS protest to the truckers protest in Canada, Mohammed accused Twitter and the West of double standards in the way they perceive the violent protesters in their region and those in Nigeria. In a news briefing on Sunday, the Minister said “the Canadian protesters, who have blockaded roads and resorted to inconveniencing others, have been branded as terrorists or insurrectionists and subjected to a number of clampdowns by government and private organisations.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com