A  former Governor of Old Anambra State and elder statesman, Sen Jim Nwobodo has reportedly told the member representing Enugu South/Enugu North Federal Constituency, Ofor Chukwuegbo, that he would not support his governorship ambition. Chukwuegbo was reported to have led a delegation of his Awkunanaw kinsmen to Nwobodo’s house to seek his blessings and clarify his position on the governorship seat of the state ahead of the 2023 elections. The lawmaker was said to have lobbied the elder statesman to change his position on micro-zoning of the governorship position within the Enugu East Senatorial District. The Director-General of Chukwuegbo’s campaign organization, Chiene Chiene, who was part of the Greater Amechi Awkunanaw leaders on the lawmaker’s entourage was quoted to have said, “We’re here to see the father of politics in Enugu; our visit here is to intimate him of the ambition of our brother, Chukwuegbo, to be governor of Enugu State in 2023. “We came to seek his blessings and we got that. That’s why we’re leaving happily. He is our brother, our father, a trailblazer and a light bearer.” But speaking in a chat with our correspondent, Nwobodo reiterated his preference for an indigene of Nkanu East LGA as the next governor of the state but added that he did not have the power to stop any aspirant from contesting for the coveted seat. He said that he cannot pander to emotion even as he said, “I welcome everyone who visits me. As an elderly man, I gave my blessings to him because I have the right to say no. “But I told them clearly that I have not changed my position on Nkanu East and I don’t have the intention to reconsider my position on that. “Ofor is my closest relation and came to talk with me as his father. He, just like any other person, has the right to aspire to any position. All powers belong to God.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com