Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, was in Katsina and Kaduna states on Thursday where he met leaders and stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party and formally told them his ambition to contest the party’s presidential ticket in 2023. In Katsina, he promised an all-inclusive government that will bring back hope to Nigerians. Tambuwal, who met the PDP elders and the stakeholders at the state secretariat of the party, pleaded for unity among party members. He said once the party is united, it would be easier to reclaim power from the ruling All Progressives Congress in 2023. He observed that Nigeria had “never been this divided with several agitations and insecurity at a very alarming level.” He urged members of the PDP in the state to shun all divisive tendencies and ensure victory for the party in the 2023 general elections. He told party members that reclaiming “power from the APC is a must to save the nation from the current decay.” Tambuwal assured them that “if given the mandate to pilot the affairs of the nation as President,” he will ensure that “farmers get back to farm in all sincerity of purpose with adequate security and improved seedlings and mechanised farm equipment.” In Kaduna, Tambuwal said the only legacy left for the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), was to emulate ex-President Goodluck Jonathan by conducting free, fair and credible elections in 2023. The governor spoke to newsmen shortly after paying a courtesy visit on former governor of Kaduna State,  Ahmed Makarfi. He harped on unity, saying, “That is becoming our national anthem – unity, unity, unity all the way. It’s only when we are united that we can have a very strong force.”. On the conduct of the 2023 general election, the governor tasked the  Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, to conduct a free, fair and credible elections so as to leave a lasting legacy for himself and the President. Tambuwal said, “As I said before, the head of the electoral umpire – the  Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof Mahmood Yakubu has only one option. That option is to leave a lasting legacy. From my knowledge, he is from a very good family background. “So he needs to actually make sure that he did not soil that his family history and his own personal  history by ensuring he conduct a free and fair election.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com