No cap, Remilekun Safaru, aka Alaga Ibile, has become an authority in the genre of rap music in Nigeria. In this interview, the 41-year-old expressed delight being among the artists musically leading an African cultural reawakening across the globe. Five albums to your credit, the sixth is on the way, looking back over the years, what comes to your mind? Gratitude to God, my team, family and most especially to the fans who made it all worthwhile. It’s been over 10 years of doing this and it is always humbling to find that there are people all over the world who value my music and art. How do you feel being part of the leading artists successfully using home-grown language, among others to express yourself musically? Well, I choose to express myself in whatever language helps me drive home the message of the song I am on, so, whether it is English, pidgin or Yoruba, I just want to communicate with the audience. Good music of course transcends language. Have you ever felt struggles for acceptance as a rapper using local content as a means of expression? I have never struggled for acceptance. Yes, it took me a while, unlike some of my peers, before I became mainstream but I saw it as a refining process. It has helped me become a better artist who appreciates the value of process, hard work and support of fans. In terms of preserving our cultural heritage, you are part of the music artists doing well in that light, how do you feel? Music is an important part of global culture and it drives conversations and creates a bridge between various segments of people in a way that nothing else does. When I look at my journey and that of many other Nigerian stars who are making the country proud globally, I feel proud to be a part of this African cultural reawakening with Nigeria at the forefront. In terms of global reach, how will you rate people’s attraction to your music? I have got fans in every area code (laughs). I remember in 2014 when Time Magazine featured me, it brought a lot of foreign interests in my music. These days, social media platforms have removed the borders so music travels into places that will blow your mind. One of my little-known songs is quite big in the Caribbean and South America, and I know someone probably used it on Tik Tok and that’s how it blew up there. So, I don’t really want to go into rating the attraction of fans. I know it is there and it is strong. Also, what should people expect in the forthcoming album? There’s a lot of introspection and forward-thinking. My journey to this point has taught me a lot about people, a strong work ethic and the valuable support of my family and fans. You will hear a lot about that in the album. I am also collaborating with some exciting artists to help me give fans something they will totally enjoy. You showed great acting prowess with the character you played in the movie, King of Boys. What inspired you to dabble into acting? Was acting part of your plans? I am very versatile. It was time for acting so I decided to do that. I have been approached a lot in the past to act, but I wanted a story that was strong enough to put my brand behind. Kemi Adetiba is one of the most talented moviemakers out there and she along with Aunty Sola Sobowale, Nse Ikpe Etim, and other members of the cast made my job really easy. How was it so easy for you to be in the character you played? Ask around, that character is Reminisce, I really had a good time playing it and fans loved it. Your end game when all the dust settles, how do you want to be remembered? That I gave it my all. That I did not allow myself to be distracted at any point and continued to evolve and develop myself into a better artist and person. I want my kids to remember a father who embodied the spirit of hard work. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com