THE PUNCH has been selected to participate in the Washington Foreign Press Center’s 2022 United States Midterm Elections Virtual Briefing Series. The 11-month virtual programme, organised by the US Department of State, will provide participating journalists with access to leading pollsters, academic experts, and political scientists, who will offer exclusive insights into the US electoral process in the run-up to the 2022 midterms in November. “In a time of reduced travel due to global health conditions, the US Department of State is pleased to offer this virtual series to enable international media to remotely cover the 2022 US elections,” the invitation to our correspondent stated. Speaking on the topic, ‘Understanding the American Voter in 2022,’ during a zoom meeting on Thursday, a Senior Researcher with the Pew Research Centre, Bradley Jones, gave an overview of the US voting pattern, noting that since the 1950s, there has been a steady divergence of the Republican and Democratic Party. He said, “So, you have many Republicans that are to the left of the average Democrat and the same thing on the other side where you have a fair number of Democrats that are actually to the right of the average Republican in 1994. “Fast forward – the last time we did this in 2017, you see that there’s basically no – there are very few people who remain to the right or the left of the average Republican and Democrat.  So this slide sort of highlights that more clearly. “So in 2017, 97 per cent of all Democrats were more liberal than the average Republican, and 95 per cent of all Republicans were more conservative than the average Democrat.  So these distributions have really separated over the last 30 years we’ve been tracking it.” According to Jones, in 1994, the average difference between men and women was nine points, with women being a little bit more likely to take liberal positions than men, adding that by 2019, the gap had not changed much but merely increased to 11 points. The researcher further explained that there has not been a significant change in the voting pattern based on different demographic categories such as religion, education and age. He said there has been “a sorting” of the two parties where Republicans have adopted positions on the political right and Democrats have adopted positions on the political left. “And part of that is changing their views.  Part of it is generational replacement.  Part of it is people changing their party affiliation to match their views.  But it all adds up to this – to partisanship becoming the single dominating factor in American politics,” Jones explained.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com