A Thailand-based royal father, HRH Ndubuisi Kenneth Oti (Igwe Tawanna), Thursday stated that the Peoples Democratic Party Presidential aspirant of South-East extraction, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim, would make a good President if given the opportunity in the 2023 general elections. The monarch, who called on political parties to zone their Presidential slot to the South-East geopolitical zone, argued that the zone has what it takes to guarantee the economic transformation of the country. He said, “Again, I want to encourage all political parties in the 2023 general election to zone their presidential slot to the South-East because the region holds the key to the provision of a better and greater Nigeria. Disclosing this in a statement, Eze Kenneth pointed out the calibre of the person of the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation has the requisite qualification and experience to rescue the country from its present socio-political and economic quagmire. According to him, “If the presidential slot is eventually zoned to the South East, I am advocating that it should go to the person of Sen. Anyim Pius Anyim, who has been tested in both the Legislative and Executive arms of government and we have seen his capability and capacity in leadership and he will make one of the best and recommendable Presidents of this country if given the opportunity. “What is good for the Gentiles is good for the Jews; therefore, what is good for the Northerners is good for the South Easterners.” The Thailand-based Igbo leader further urged Nigerians not to sell their mandate to greedy and selfish politicians but rather utilize it “to provide a better solution for Nigeria, because Nigeria is almost collapsing and all we are looking for now is the solution to amend it; to remove the bad pillars and replace it with good ones.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com