• Aribo saves Rangers, Nwakaeme double fires Trabzonspor Correspondents KELVIN EKERETE and JOHNNY EDWARD write on the performances of Nigerian star players in Europe, over the weekend ENGLAND Ndidi, Iheanacho, Lookman (Leicester) Ademola Lookman was on target for Leicester City in their 2-1 loss to Wolves in the English Premier League on Sunday. The forward was impressive throughout but the Foxes, once again, were unable to get the desired result.It is the fourth league goal for the 24-year-old this season since joining on loan from Bundesliga side RB Liepzig in the summer. His compatriots Wilfred Ndidi and Kelechi Iheanacho were in action as well. Ndidi, who was in the starting line-up came off for James Maddison in the 74th minute, while Iheanacho was brought on for Patson Daka in the 73rd minute. Alex Iwobi (Everton) Iwobi made his 15th Premier League appearance of the season for Everton, who lost 2-0 to Southampton on Saturday. The Nigerian played for 65 minutes before he was replaced by Andros Townsend. He has one goal and an assist this term. Frank Onyeka (Brentford) Midfielder Onyeka was an unused substitute in Brentford’s 2-1 loss to Arsenal on Saturday. Second-half strikes from Emile Smith Rowe and Bukayo Saka lifted Arsenal to victory over Brentford as the Gunners moved to within a point of the Top 4. The former FC Midtjylland player has 18 EPL appearances since his arrival last summer. Dennis, Troost-Ekong, Etebo (Watford) Emmanuel Dennis ended his five-game goal drought in the EPL with the match-winner for Watford, who defeated Aston Villa 1-0 on Saturday. The striker beat Ashley Young to power home a cross from Ismaila Sarr in the 78th minute and hand new manager Roy Hodgson his first win in four games, although Watford remains in the relegation zone with 18 points from 24 matches. The 24-year-old has now been directly involved in 14 (nine goals and five assist) of Watford’s 24 Premier League goals this term. William Troost-Ekong was an unused substitute in the encounter while Oghenekaro Etebo was not included in the Hornets’ match-day squad. Semi Ajayi (West Brom) Nigerian defender, Semi Ajayi, was cautioned for the third time this season in West Brom’s 2-0 loss to Luton Town on Saturday. Ajayi has 18 appearances this season, scoring a goal in the English Championship. GERMANY Awoniyi, Ujah (Union) Taiwo Awoniyi made his 20th Bundesliga appearance for Union Berlin, who lost 1-0 to Arminia Bielefeld on Saturday. The Nigerian was replaced in the 75th minute by Keita Endo. Awoniyi has not scored in the Bundesliga in his last six appearances. He has nine Bundesliga goals in 20 games and 19 goals in 52 games for the Germans since joining from Liverpool. Super Eagles fringe striker Anthony Ujah was not listed for the encounter. FRANCE Moffi, Bonke (Lorient) Terem Moffi was in action for 20 minutes but failed to inspire Lorient to a comeback as they fell 1-0 at home to Montpellier in a French Ligue 1 on Sunday. It was Lorient’s 12th loss of the season and they currently sit 18th on the league table. Moffi has scored three goals and three assists in 23 league games this season. His countryman Innocent Bonke was in action for the entire 90 minutes and was shown a yellow card for a foul in the 47th minute. Moses Simon (Nantes) Winger Simon took his assist tally to seven as Nantes defeated Paris St-Germain 3-1 on Saturday. The defeat was PSG’s second in the league as Nantes profited from a superb opening 45 minutes to upset the leaders. Mauricio Pochettino’s side – unbeaten in Ligue 1 since October – fell to a smart Randal Kolo Muani finish and other strikes from Quentin Merlin and Ludovic Blas slammed in a penalty. Simon has played 22 league games, with three goals. SPAIN Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal) Chukwueze came on for Serge Aurier in Villarreal’s 4-1 win away at Granada. Arnaut Danjuma’s hat-trick helped Villarreal extend their unbeaten run to four matches, as the Yellow Submarine overpowered Granada at the Nuevo Estadio de Los Cármenes. Chukwueze, who has five goals in 20 games this season, was cautioned in the 68th minute. The winger now has 139 appearances since he made his debut for the club’s first team. SCOTLAND Aribo, Bassey (Rangers) Joe Aribo scored his seventh goal of the season in Glasgow Rangers 1-1 draw at Dundee United in the Scottish Premier League on Sunday. The midfielder struck in the 76th minute to cancel out Ross Graham’s 29th minute opener. It was Aribo’s 25th league appearance for the Gers and he has been an integral part of the side this term. His goal was assisted by compatriot, Calvin Bassey. Both players were on for the entire duration of the game. TURKEY Anthony Nwakaeme (Trabzonspor) Anthony Nwakaeme scored a brace in Trabzonspor’s 4-0 thrashing of Alanyaspor in the Turkish Super Lig on Sunday as they extended their lead on the league table to 14 points. It was Nwakaeme’s eighth goal of the season. He also has eight assists this season in 20 league games. The one-cap Nigeria international is one of the club’s most important players this season. Musa (Fatih), Olanrewaju (Sivasspor) Ahmed Musa was in action for 76 minutes in Fatih Karagumruk’s 1-0 win over Sivasspor in a Turkish Super Ligue game on Sunday. The win takes Fatih to 10th on the league table after 26 games, while Sivasspor are 12th. Musa’s compatriot Olarenwaju Kayode was on for the entire 90 minutes but was unable to salvage a point for his side.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com