A non-governmental organisation, Ede Unique Club, has appealed to the Governor of Osun State, Adeboyega Oyetola to ensure immediate reconstruction of the major road passing through Ede township in the state. The group said the reconstruction of the Akoda – Oke Gada road across three local government areas would save lives and reduce the untold hardships being experienced by people in the communities. Gbadebo Ayinde, who spoke on behalf of the group, made the appeal in Ede on Saturday during the grand reception organised by the group for four of its members who were recently elevated in their respective careers. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the celebrators are Prof. Dhkru Yagboyaju; Assistant Comptroller of Immigration, Musbau Bello; Prof. Mukaila Alimi; and Benue Commissioner of Police, Akinwale Abass. NAN reports that Yagboyaju was elevated to the position of a professor of political science while Abass was also elevated to the position of Commissioner of Police in Benue State . Ayinde, a former member of the House of Representatives, commended the present administration for its determined efforts at restoring sanity in the nation’s psyche after decades of national malaise. He said, “We, as a registered non-governmental organisation, however, decry the deplorable state of the major road passing through the length of Ede township, the Akoda – Oke Gada road. ”We are appealing to the Osun Government to ensure immediate reconstruction of this all-important road,” he said. According to him, the urgent widening and reconstruction of the Akoda-Oke Gada road which passes through three local government areas in Osun State would save lives and reduce the untold hardships being experienced by people in the areas. He said that many innocent lives and limbs had been lost while motorists and motorcyclists tried to navigate through potholes on the narrow road. According to the former lawmaker, Ede is among the most prominent and biggest towns in Osun and therefore deserves better attention by the present administration in the state. The chairman of the event, Major General Kamar Yusuf, commended the group for its numerous humanitarian and selfless service being rendered to the people of Osun. Yusuf said the grand reception had brought great minds in the state together towards channelling a common ground for socioeconomic development. He appealed to members not to relent in putting in their level best towards making meaningful contributions to the community. NAN