A group in the All Progressives Congress, under the auspices of the Osinbajo Grassroots Organisation, Ondo State chapter, has said the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, has the capacity to address the numerous problems facing Nigeria. The Director-General of Osinbajo Campaign Council, Ifeolu Fasoranti, said in Akure on Saturday that Osinbajo would turn around the socio-economic and political situations in the country if given the opportunity to rule. Fasoranti said, “We believe that as President, Prof Osinbajo will harness all the resources and rejig the system to work towards the interest of Nigeria rather than the interest of individuals. With his vast experiences in the academics, law, governance and administration, Osinbajo has fashioned out many programmes that will effectively address the challenges confronting this nation. “No doubt, he will be a bridge between the old and the new, between the North and the South, between the East and the west. He will be a connecting valve among all religious beliefs.” According to him, the choice of the Vice President was based on the belief that he would drive the economy of the country right and be totally detribalised, doing everything in the interest of the nation. He also disclosed that many prominent elder statesmen, notable selfless and patriotic leaders and compatriots across the country were committed to the course. ‘Tinubu has a lot to offer’ Meanwhile, a pro-Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu group in the state has said the former Lagos governor and National Leader of the APC had a lot to offer the country if elected as the next President of Nigeria. The group, Ondo State Network for Tinubu, through its Coordinator, Mr Femi Adekambi, said, “It is obvious that Asiwaju is the person that can do it. A person that transformed Lagos State’s economy. Even a former Minister of Finance confirmed that they were using Lagos State’s economic template for Nigeria. This is the template that Asiwaju set when he was a governor of the state. “A person that could transform Lagos State could handle Nigeria successfully. Apart from that, Asiwaju has developed many people in Nigeria. You know very well that he has embarked on human capacity building; many people have grown through him.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com