Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, has said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), might sign the Electoral Bill in a matter of hours. He made this known on Tuesday during an interview with Channels Television’s Sunrise Daily programme. “He (Buhari) will sign it (the bill) any moment from now,” he said. “It could be today, it could be tomorrow, it could be anytime, but within the 30 days. “It could be signed today; it could be signed tomorrow. In a matter of hours, not days. Hours could be 24 hours, it could be 48 hours; not days, not weeks.” Adesina had on Monday cautioned against cheap politics over the perceived delay by the President in assenting to the Electoral Bill. In a statement titled, ‘Assent To Electoral Bill: No Need For Saber Ratling,’ Adesina said some interest groups are cashing in on the perceived delay to foment civil disorder. This is as he pointed out that the President still has enough time to assent to the Bill which he said has to be thoroughly scrutinised and made as near-perfect as possible. Adesina said, “Some interest groups are cashing in on what they consider a delay in the signing of the Electoral Bill into law by the President to foment civil disorder and muddy the waters. “One can just pity their ignorance of Constitutional requirements, as the President has a window of 30 days within which to sign the Bill, or decline assent after it had been transmitted to him by the National Assembly. “It is on record that the amended Bill was sent to the Presidency on January 31, 2022, which means that the Executive could do due diligence on it till March 1, as prescribed by the Constitution. “A proposed legislation that has to do with the electoral fortunes of the country needs to be thoroughly scrutinised, and be made as near-perfect as possible. “Those playing cheap politics with it are, therefore, encouraged to hold their peace, knowing that the right thing will be done within the lawful time.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com