The President, Eko Centennial Lions Club, Mohammed Oyebanjo, has charged members of the club to be unrelenting in their collective efforts to serve humanity. Speaking during his inauguration in the Ikorodu area of Lagos State, Oyebanjo said he planned to focus on achieving five key Lion Club’s projects including vision, diabetes, cancer awareness, feeding the hungry, protecting the environment, among others. He said, “I feel overwhelmed with joy becoming the President as Lions club has imbued in me the capacity to be a leader. Before my emergence, I was the first Vice President of the club and I have been learning from my predecessors and other Lion leaders on the best approach to properly groom myself for leadership. “So, I am ready. As the club’s president, my plan for the year is to focus on improving members’ welfare; seek out partnerships that will address our five key areas in line with Lions Club International goals. These areas include vision, diabetes, publicity on paediatric cancer, feeding the hungry, protecting our environment. “Lions club is a group of civic-minded men and women who bonded together to do things one person cannot do alone. Lions club members are willing and anxious to give their time, treasure, and talents in service to others within our immediate community/metropolis. “As a member, I used to have this thought that instead of using my money to buy Coco-cola, I would rather use the money to buy a sachet of water and give to those who are in need to satisfy them at that particular point in time. “I always bear in mind that as a citizen of my nation, state and community, I will always give my unswerving loyalty in words, act, and deed to the service of humanity; to freely give my time, labour, and means to build up and not to destroy. “I will also be going on courtesy visits to three orphanage homes to donate food items, clothes, and relief materials to them; continued adoption of Owutu rehabilitation centre as the centre is one of the rehab centers that our club adopted.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com