A former Senator representing Bayelsa East Senatorial District, Ben Murray-Bruce, has lamented that young people now believe that money rituals can make them rich. This is as he advised government to build tech hubs so that young people can make use of their knowledge of technology for productive ventures. Sharing on Twitter, Ben Bruce called for a return to traditional family values, adding that family is where moral instructions are instilled in children. His words come days after four teenagers were arrested in Ogun State for beheading a young lady for money ritual purposes. The Senator said, “What has suddenly gone wrong with young people who now believe that rituals involving human blood will make them rich? “So many Nigerians go missing daily and while some are never found, some are found dead with body parts missing. “We must work to stop this trend. We must return to our traditional family values where charity begins at home. The family remains where the teaching of ethics begins. This is where moral instructions are embedded in children. This is where discipline and good morals are instilled in children regardless of their religion. “The government must do more to encourage young people to use their knowledge of technology for productive ventures. “With this, I am calling on the government to establish tech hubs and tech sharks to train young people in information and digital skills aimed at making Nigeria and the world a better place. “We must rebuild our families and inculcate love and tolerance among our children. We must teach them good virtues, hard work and patience. “I want young people to know that there is no shortcut to being wealthy without hard work. Killing a human being for ritual purposes will not make you rich overnight. It will only take you to hell. “We must not accept the narrative that poverty, hunger and unemployment get young people into ritual killings to get rich quick. “Our politicians and elite must show restraint in the way they flaunt their wealth both publicly and on social media. “The Nigerian police and other security agencies should also deploy intelligence and apprehend the perpetrators of these acts and bring them to justice while our worship centres must focus more on encouraging young people to embrace hard work, diligence and patience.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com