The Kwara State government on Sunday said it would meet with fish farmers working around the Asa Dam Waterworks over an alleged damage to the water equipment in the area. The State Commissioner for Water Resources, Alhaji Wahab-Agbaje, said the ministry would meet with fish farmers to resolve the issue in order to mitigate a major disruption to water supply to residents of the Ilorin metropolis. The ministry alleged that the damage being done to the waterworks through the activities of the fish farmers might soon cut water supply to most parts of the Ilorin metropolis, if not curbed. “The activities of the fish farmers over the years have affected the raw water supply to the treatment plant in Asa Dam works,” according to a statement by the Commissioner for Water Resources. It further said, “Let it be on record that the Asa Dam reservoir is not meant for fishing activities. It is solely for raw water impoundment for all year round use for treatment for the people of the Ilorin metropolis and surrounding settlements. “However, fishing activities and discharge of the effluent from these activities have been the order of the day over the past years. “The effluent discharge has now reached a situation whereby our treatment plant could not cope with it anymore as the sedimentation tanks are loaded after the coagulation processes. They are collapsing due to the load on the lamina plate, the filtration sand media are blocked, thereby reducing the rate of percolation. The treatment equipment components are being damaged. “This requires a drastic measure to save the populace of Ilorin metropolis and surrounding settlements from the erratic supply of water. So, we are having a meeting with the fish farmers to find a lasting solution to this. Public interest is paramount at all times.” In a swift reaction, the Chairman of the Kwara State Catfish Farmers Association, Mr Sulyman Buhari, denied the allegation that fish farmers were causing damage to the water equipment. He urged the state government to be cautious of it action and consider the economic benefits of fish farming in the state. “I think the government should be very critical about its decision because of the economic effect it would have on the state. “I don’t think the activities of the farmers is causing havoc to the water but that there is a need to sit down and find a lasting solution to the issue which will be how to properly channel the water, or how the inlet and outlet could be done in such a way that it will not cause much damage to the consumable water in the dam”, he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com