The Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, has said that the Peoples Democratic Party has no extraordinary chance of rivalling the All Progressives Congress’ accomplishments in the state in the last three years. He claimed that the infrastructure and people-centred programmes championed by his administration had earned him a high rating among the people at the grassroots. Oyetola disclosed this to our correspondent in Abuja on Thursday, shortly after submitting his nomination and expression of interest forms at the APC national secretariat. According to him, despite the effects of COVID-19 and the state’s meagre resources, his administration has kept faith with the electorate. He said, “Well, I can talk about my party, the APC; it remains the party to beat anytime, any day. I don’t see them (PDP) having any extraordinary chance of doing what we are doing. “The infrastructure that we have done is there for everyone to see. We have also received so many ratings from the people who are to decide in terms of what we have been able to do.” On his strides in the past three years, the Governor said, “We made some promises to the people. To a very large extent, we have fulfilled our promises despite the paucity of funds to take care of the welfare and security of the people as a matter of priority. “In terms of welfare, we have been paying the salaries and pensions of the people on a monthly basis since the inception of this administration. We have actually supported our people in the areas of agriculture and health scheme for the  underprivileged and vulnerable; taking care of the vulnerable using the social register. “In health, we have revitalised not less than 320 primary health care centres spread across the state. The intention is to ensure that our people have access to health care by having at least a health care centre per ward.” In terms of infrastructure, he said the administration had rehabilitated several roads that had remained deplorable for 30 years. He explained, “We just constructed the first flyover in our state. Many roads in Ife, Ilesha and Ijesha axes have been fixed. In addition, we continued the projects that we inherited from my predecessor.’’  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com