About four persons have lost their lives in a road accident in Ogun State and a clash between hoodlums in Ibadan, Oyo State. Three persons died in a road crash on Friday near Sagamu-interchange along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Ogun State. The fatal crash involved nine persons. The Federal Road Safety Corps spokesperson in the state, Florence Okpe, confirmed the accident. Okpe said out of the nine men involved in the road crash, three persons died while one person was injured. She said, “The injured victim refused to be taken to a hospital by the FRSC officials for treatment. The incident involved four vehicles: an Iveco truck marked SSU517XA; a Man Diesel container with registration number, T- 8493LA, and the other two vehicles with no registration numbers. “The suspected cause of the multiple crash was speeding which led to loss of control on the part of one of the vehicles. The three corpses were deposited at Idera Hospital mortuary.” The Ogun State FRSC Sector Commander, Ahmed Umar, cautioned motorists on speed violation. In Oyo, a clash between members of the Park Management System and some youths known as Federal Boys reportedly led to the death of a man known as Afees Agate. Agate, it was gathered, was a member of the PMS formerly known as the National Union of Road Transport Workers. The clash reportedly started at the Oremeji area of Ibadan on Thursday and continued until Friday morning. The clash was said to have caused panic among residents of the area and on Friday there was heavy shooting in the area. The Commandant of the Amotekun Corps in Oyo State, Col. Olayinka Olayanju (retd.), who confirmed the incident, said one person was killed. The Public Relations Officer of the Park Management System in the state, Alhaji Emiola Jelili, alleged that the Federal Boys “are not drivers but areas boys” who reportedly extort money from motorists. He said, “There is no fight between PMS members. What happened is that there are area boys called Federal Boys, they are not drivers but they extort drivers and steal from others. We have reported them to the police at Agugu in the past but nothing was done. “Some even told us that the police would not do anything to the boys because some of the policemen benefit from the boys. But yesterday, (Thursday), while the robbery at Idi Ape was going on, there was gridlock on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and other roads. These Federal Boys seized that opportunity to rob people in traffic. “Some of those who escaped from them ran to our park in the area to seek refuge. But these boys still pursued them there. We had to drive them back. They came back and attacked our offices after we had closed but security agents have taken over the place now.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com