MEMBERS of the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State loyal to Senator Magnus Abe have called on the Nigeria Police Force to investigate a viral video clip, where Abe and some party chieftains were allegedly defamed by unknown persons. Recall that two party members who claimed to be former loyalists of Abe, Tonte Amachree from Asari Toru Local Government Area, APC Ward 7 and Kelvin Obulo from Opobo Nkoro, APC Ward 4, had alleged that the faction and the Peoples Democratic Party in the state were planning the disintegration of the APC. They claimed that the state PDP chairman, Amb Desmond Akawor addressed a meeting called by Abe’s group in Port Harcourt on how the state government and the ruling party would help them (Abe’s camp) scuttle the chances of the APC in the governorship election in 2023. Briefing journalists on the allegation, in Port Harcourt, on Tuesday, Oko-Jaja, who was alleged to be the convener of the said meeting said no such meeting was held. He said that the two persons, who organised the press conference were faceless and the motive was to tarnish the image of Abe and those mentioned in the video. Oko-Jaja further said the purported press conference by the faceless individuals was a reflection of the frustration of the APC leadership in the state. “Accordingly, we call on the Commissioner of Police, Rivers State, to investigate these persons in the press conference and their allegations of illegality in the video clip and unravel the truth behind all of these. “The clandestine move to criminally defame others in the name of politics should not be allowed to stand. We also enjoin the party to join us to demand that the Nigeria Police investigate the allegations so that the law could take its course. “The allegations made by the unknown persons in the press conference, masquerading as Senator Magnus’ followers, if true, give rise to criminal responsibility, as they border on conspiracy to commit the crime of perversion of justice. “And, if they are not true as they obviously are untrue, the crime of criminal defamation has been committed. Either way, what stares at us all is a challenge to our criminal justice system. “This is politics taken too far. I hereby offer myself for investigation by the police for these allegations,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com