Insecurity: Centre for control of small arms to open base in Enugu Stephen Angbulu The National Centre for the Control of Small Arms and Light Weapons has said it would establish one of its six zonal headquarters in Enugu. The National Coordinator of NCCSALW, Major General Abba Dikko (retd.), disclosed this in Enugu on Tuesday when he led a delegation on a courtesy visit to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. NCCSALW disclosed this in a statement signed on Wednesday by Air Commodore Ewejide Akintunde, titled ‘Ridding the society of illicit small arms and light weapons: NCCSALW to establish zonal headquarters in Enugu.’ Dikko, who informed Ugwuanyi about the Centre’s decision to establish a Zonal Headquarters in Enugu, explained that the move would contain the spread of illicit small arms and light weapons. The statement read, “The courtesy call afforded a platform to discuss the impact of the circulation of illicit arms within the society and areas of cooperation between NCCSALW, Enugu State and indeed the Eastern geo-political zone in the whole-of-nation effort at preventing and controlling the proliferation of illicit Small Arms and Light Weapons in the society. “The Zonal Centre would serve as a solid platform for quick response and discharge of resources as well as ensure seamless implementation of policies and expeditious arrest and prosecution of criminals in possession of SALW. “Part of the Centre’s ongoing initiatives to actualise its mandate is the establishment of Zonal centres in the six geo-political zones for the achievement of a peaceful and arms-free Nigeria.” While commending the governor’s efforts towards ensuring a peaceful and secure Enugu, he called on Ugwuanyi to support the Centre’s vision of ridding Nigeria of illicit arms in the society. In his response, the Governor commended the timely initiative of establishing the Zonal Centre in Enugu. Ugwuanyi, who identified with NCCSALW – recognising it as the organisation mandated to prevent and control the proliferation of SALW in Nigeria – pledged his support in establishing the Zonal Centre in a choice area in a choice area Enugu. The PUNCH had reported that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), directed the establishment of NCCSALW on May 3, 2021, following the review and implementation of the security architecture of Nigeria.
Domiciled in the Office of the National Security Adviser, the Centre said it has since commenced efforts towards operationalising its core functions. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com