The British High Commission in Nigeria on Wednesday announced a contest for Nigerian women to mark the 2022 International Women’s Day. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘UK in Nigeria launches ‘British High Commissioner for a day’ competition.’ The statement partly read, ” To mark International Women’s Day on the 8th March 2022, and in the year of Her Majesty the Queen’s Platinum Jubilee, The British High Commission in Nigeria is offering Nigerian young women aged between 18 to 23 the opportunity to be High Commissioner for a day. “The competition winner will be given an opportunity to work- shadow the British High Commissioner for a day and will gain some insights into what it is like to be a leader. “The theme of this year’s International Women’s Day is “Equality today for a sustainable tomorrow”, which is why this competition is aimed at encouraging young women to become leaders and advocates for change.” Speaking on the competition, British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing said, “1 am delighted to launch the British High Commissioner for a Day competition. improving gender equality and empowering women is one of our top priorities at the British High Commission. “We aim to empower young women from across Nigeria to lend their voices to global issues that would help build a more sustainable future for all. encourage young women aged between 18 – 23 years to get involved in this competition and look forward to hearing your amazing ideas to make an impact in the world.” Participants for the contest are expected to record and upload a one-minute video describing “what positive change they would like to see in the context of climate action and how they can contribute to making that change happen.” Such videos are to be shared on social media and applications end on Monday, February 28, 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com