The Spiritual Director of the Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Rev Fr Ejike Mbaka, has condemned the decision of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State to ban the operations of motorcycles, popularly known as Okada, as well as tricycles and tipper lorries in three local government areas of the state without providing alternatives. The fiery Catholic priest condemned the governor’s decision without thinking of the consequences of the ban and its effect on the poor. He said Ugwuanyi showed that he was inept and incapable of finding solutions to the prevailing security situation in the state. The governor had on Thursday, after an emergency security meeting with five local government chairmen in the Enugu East Senatorial District and members of the state House of Assembly, traditional rulers and presidents-general of the affected local government areas, signed an Executive Order banning the operations of tricycles, motorcycles and tipper lorries in the Nkanu-East, Nkanu-West and some communities in the Enugu South local government areas of the state. Some of the communities in Enugu South are Amechi Uno, Amechi Awkunanaw, Amechi Uwani, Obeagu Main, Obeagu Uno, Centenary City/Obunagu, Obeagu, One Day, Garki, Akwuke, Ugwuaji, Ndiagu Onunyo, Maryland and Ikiriki. The government, in a statement announcing the ban, which was signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof Simon Ortuanya, did not provide alternative means of transportation in the communities or engage the operators in other meaningful ventures. Mbaka, in a video message obtained on Sunday, advised the governor to rescind the ban, warning of the dire consequences that might stem from it. The priest, who spoke to the admiration of his congregation during his Friday midnight adoration prayers, stated, “There are things we cannot accommodate in this land. So, anybody who makes a law that should not be made should be ready to face the consequences. The masses should not continue to suffer. And I am pleading with the leaders in the state; God will not forgive our leaders if we are watching our youths dying like this and our parents suffering. “There is no job and any government that cannot provide jobs for its subjects has failed from the federal to the state to the local government.” The cleric further stated that if more youths with means of employment were rendered jobless by government ineptitude, more crime would hit the city. “There are people that if they don’t go out with their keke, their parents, wives and children will not eat. Their sick mothers will not take any medicine. If you catch any keke person who committed any crime, punish the person. You cannot generalise the sin of one for everybody, no,” Mbaka stated. He pointed out that what the state government had done was a fallacy of hasty generalisation, while describing the reason for the ban as fallacious. Mbaka added, “We are awaiting the ban of Sienna in Enugu because those people who are killing the police and other security agencies are using Sienna. “They also use Lexus, Highlander, Mercedes, Jeep and they will always wind up. Most of the time, they use Hilux with tinted and un-tinted glasses. Therefore, God will punish all the leaders in the state if they keep silent, while the masses are suffering.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com