Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has admonished residents of the state not to be deceived by promises coming from untested politicians. Oyetola, who said he had stayed true to all the promises made before his first term election, promised to continue to place high priority on the welfare of the populace, if reelected. The governor spoke on Sunday at an engagement programme organised by the State’s Civic Engagement Centre, held at Ijimo Village in the Oriade Local Government Area of Osun State. Oyetola, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, dismissed insinuations by some people that he would stop working, if reelected. Noting that he had not reneged on any of the promises he made since assumption of office, Oyetola said he would not renege but would rather work hard to fulfill all his promises, if reelected for another term in office. He said, “On assumption of office in November 2018, I promised prompt and full payment of workers’ salaries as well as pension. And till date, the promise is well kept as workers and our senior citizens get their entitlement as and when due. “I also promised to embark on developmental projects and this is evident in the areas of roads rehabilitation, health, education, youth empowerment, as well provision of free monthly food for vulnerable groups, among others. “Aside Olaiya flyover, which is waiting for inauguration, we had embarked on other road rehabilitation and reconstruction across the state. We recently approved repairs of 25 roads, spanning 200 kilometres in the state. “On our free monthly food distribution, over 300,000 vulnerable households have benefitted from it since inception and we will not stop. In the area of health intervention, we rehabilitated, revitalised, renovated and upgraded 332 focal Primary Healthcare Centres across the state. “The administration had distributed drugs worth N50 million across the state Primary Healthcare facilities as well as several new beds to all health facilities across the state, among others. “If you give me your support again, which I believe you will, these good works will never stop but rather expect more of such. “You have tested me for close to four years now and you can see that I have not in any way failed you. I urge you not to allow kindergarten politicians, who are not tested to deceive you.” The governor then called on the residents to keep their voter cards well, being their power to ensure continuity of his work beyond this first term. A statement by Oyinyiloye on Sunday noted that the Onijimo of Ijimo, Oba Samuel Abe, commended the governor for the visit to villages in the area and encouraged him to sustain such gesture, as it serves as mean of connecting to the rural communities. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com