The United States Government has reiterated its commitment to support Nigeria and other countries around the world to address the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The U.S Ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Beth Leonard shared the country’s global action plan to help coordinate areas the world had identified as the most significant barriers to ending the COVID-19 pandemic. The U.S. Ambassador spoke at the flag-Off of the COVID-19 mass vaccination campaign in Imo State hosted by Governor Hope Uzodinma. The campaign, according to a statement on Tuesday will increase COVID-19 vaccine access and uptake amongst the people of Imo State. Leonard noted that the U.S. had recommitted increasing access to vaccines, boosting vaccine confidence by tackling misinformation, improving last-mile vaccine delivery, and supporting health workers to vaccinate people. She said, “Part of this commitment is reflected in the U.S. donation of over 21.8 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines, accounting for over 35 per cent of the total donations to Nigeria. “The United States Government’s commitment is reflected in the technical and logistics support to ensure vaccines get to all citizens who need them the most. U.S. assistance also focuses on getting vaccines into arms so that no vaccines expire unnecessarily when millions of people need them.  No one is safe from the pandemic until everyone is safe, and the only way to do that is through safe and effective vaccines.” Leonard commended Uzodinma for his efforts to make the vaccines available. She encouraged eligible citizens to get vaccinated in order to secure the health and well-being of the Imo people. The Ambassador also called on community leaders and other gatekeepers to join hands with the government to safeguard the people’s health in the state. “We need your support to champion the vaccination of the people of Imo and protect them from COVID-19.  The U.S. Mission in Nigeria stands with you,” she added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com