The Lagos State Residents Registration Agency has urged residents of the state to register for the state’s Resident Identity Card to maximise the benefits attached to it. It said the card for residents in the state had been embedded with more features and functions that enable the cardholders to enjoy and have access to faster and better services from the Lagos State Government. “The new LAGID Card is a multi-application smartcard that offers registered residents access to services ranging from a means of personal security and identity verification at points of accessing various government services, applying for loans from Lagos State Employment Trust Fund to payment for services across multiple vendors including BRT and LagFerry as well as cash withdrawals from banks’ automated teller machines,” it said. Speaking on the new LAGIDCard, the General Manager, LASRRA, Mrs Ibilola Kasunmu, described it as a smartcard with multiple security features and applications. While urging residents in the state to begin their registration on the LASRRA website www.lagosresidents.gov.ng and visit any LASRRA centre nearest to them for biometrics capturing to complete their registration for the new LAGID card, she said the registration is absolutely free. She also advised residents who registered in 2018 or before 2018-and those who changed their names and/or addresses-to also visit the LASRRA website www.lagosresidents.gov.ng to upload their updated information and proceed to the nearest LASRRA centre to complete the update process with biometric verification for validation and subsequent issuance of the LAGID Card. Speaking further on why those who registered before 2018 are required to update their data to get the new LAG ID card, the LASRRA boss said the new LAG ID Card is embedded with a multi-applet chip module that stores the updated biodata and biometric details of the resident for real-time validation and verification of identity. She said, ‘‘The old identity card with very limited functionality is being phased out and replaced with the multipurpose smart card, so holders of the old card need to update their records to obtain the new LAGID card with a validity period of five years. “The new card allows flexibility to onboard more features and expand usability in view of fast-changing technology trends.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com