Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel, has charged newly sworn-in permanent secretaries to live up to expectations and ensure they justify their appointments. He also charged them to work hand in hand with Executive Council members in charge of the various ministries to drive the attainment of his administration’s completion agenda. Emmanuel stated this while swearing in eight new Permanent Secretaries, with one designated as the Auditor General at the Banquet hall, government house Uyo on Thursday. The new permanent secretaries include James Edet, Godwin Udoh, Regina Okonko, Asuquo Edem, Udosen Udo, Effiong Nicholas and Joseph Esidem, while Isaiah Ntekim was sworn in as the State Auditor General. Emmanuel stressed that the position of Permanent Secretary is not just a rank in the service but a special appointment that required tested and proven personnel, found worthy in character, experience and capacity. He also hinted that the office of the Auditor-General has the same status as the office of the Permanent Secretary in the state public service. He said, “For people asking if we are swearing in Auditor-General or Permanent Secretaries, this Auditor-General has the full status of a Permanent Secretary, so with the power conferred on me, today we are swearing in eight Permanent Secretaries, one of which is the Auditor General of the State”. “Permanent Secretary is not a promotion. It is an appointment. We must test certain skills of yours over the years that will help you dispatch your duties. You must justify why you must be a Permanent Secretary,” the governor said. While congratulating the new appointees, he also admonished them not to see themselves as better than others, but to acknowledge God’s grace and favour in their emergence, and encouraging others who have been on the queue for such appointments to be hopeful as new vacancies keep opening. The governor reiterated his goal of creating a fully automated Civil Service by May 29, 2023, to ensure enhanced efficiency and accountability in the management of the state’s organisations and assets, as he sued for the support of the new permanent secretaries. The governor disclosed that his administration has already set up a committee to review some obsolete provisions of the Public Service Rules to allow for best practices place and challenged the new heads of administration to make efforts to bring about innovations that will better the service. Speaking to newsmen at the end of the event, one of the newly sworn-in Permanent Secretaries, James Edet, thanked God for his appointment. He particularly expressed appreciation to Emmanuel for giving him an opportunity to serve, pledging not to disappoint the people in his assigned responsibilities. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com