The Management of the University of Lagos has described reports (not by The PUNCH) about an attempted kidnap within the university campus as false. Some Internet users had uploaded a video online, saying some ritualists were apprehended at the UNILAG 2nd Gate while the suspects allegedly tried to kidnap a female student. But the school management, in a statement, said the claim by the social media users was not true. “The incident was a case of social misconduct and physical assault between students, in which one party attempted to flee the scene and was apprehended by the University security towards the Onike gate axis of the University. The case is being handled by the Security Unit and Division of Students Affairs. “The Vice-Chancellor and University Management wish to assure our dear students, parents and the public that the security and safety of all students remain a priority at the University of Lagos,” the university said in the statement. Also, the spokesman for the Lagos State Police Command, Adekunle Ajisebutu, confirmed that the case was that of assault and not kidnapping. “There was no kidnap. It was a case of misunderstanding between a female student and three others (one of whom is a UNILAG student) which led to an assault on the lady and some of the security guards,” he said. With the alarming rate of money rituals, kidnapping has become a sordid menace and a lucrative ‘enterprise’ in Nigeria as the West African nation’s security situation worsens. Hundreds of students have been abducted in different parts of the country in the last few months. Many Nigerians are disappointed in the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), who rode to power on the heels of combating the security challenges plaguing the country in 2015 but the situation seems to have been aggravated in the last six years. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com