A national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has congratulated Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, on his victory in the party’s governorship primary. The governor was declared the winner in all the 30 local government areas of the state in the primary that was held on Saturday. Tinubu, in a statement on Monday from his media office signed by Tunde Rahman, attributed Oyetola’s victory to his remarkable performance during his first term. He said, “Last Saturday, February 19, 2022, the All Progressives Congress members in Osun State rose in their large numbers to exercise their democratic rights. They voted massively to give Governor Adegboyega Isiaka Oyetola a clear mandate to contest a second term in office. Their decision was expressed in very unambiguous and unmistaken terms. For this overwhelming victory in the APC primary election, I wholeheartedly congratulate and rejoice with Governor Oyetola. “This resounding victory across the 332 wards in the state is an affirmation of the widely-acknowledged sterling performance of the governor in his first term. It is also an expression of the confidence our teeming party members in Osun have in his ability and capacity to propel the state to an even greater height in the second term.” Tinubu also thanked the leadership and members of the APC in the state for ensuring the success of the election. He added, “We thank the leadership of the Osun APC for ensuring the success of the primary election and for effectively mobilising their members to participate fully in the electoral process. The party members also deserve praise for they not only conducted themselves in an orderly manner, but they also ensured their choice was expressed freely, fairly and unreservedly. “This electoral victory is not only for him (Oyetola), but also for the APC and the APC members in Osun. They must all come together so that come July 16, the progressive ideals of the APC can continue to hold supreme in the state and Governor Oyetola can continue to deliver the dividends of democracy and good governance to our people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com