Most people spend their entire work week dreaming of the weekend, that beautiful opportunity to snooze the alarm clock, sleep in and not worry about getting up to head to the office for an entire two days. That is until Monday rolls around again. This is also a time where friends get together and maybe have dinner in a restaurant or make plans to trek out of town together. However, there are some weekends where you really just want to sit at home and be a coach potato for a full 48 hours, treating yourself to some much-needed R&R without a care in the world. If this sounds like you, listen up! Just because you’re choosing to stay home one weekend doesn’t mean you can’t still have fun in the process. Here are four enjoyable entertainment opportunities that can be had from the comfort of your own living room sofa. There’s a high likelihood that you, or someone you know, has a subscription to the world’s most popular video streaming platform, Netflix. The company has grown exponentially since its launch as a mail-based rental service back in the late 90s and, nowadays, a subscription includes access to everything from Oscar-award winning films to critically acclaimed documentaries, T.V. series, and even some free games. So, what better way to enjoy a Saturday night than with a big bowl of buttery popcorn and a great Netflix show? If you’re an avid gamer, you’re probably familiar with Esports or action-packed first-person shooter games, but what about the thrilling world of online casinos? These platforms are expanding their reach all across the internet and now provide a host of classic games for players to enjoy, like Blackjack, Baccarat, Roulette, slots, and more. Not to mention these sites also publish blogs and ‘how-to’ guides so that beginner players or those who are looking to sharpen their skills have quick and accessible resources at their disposal. For example, if you are looking to increase your chances to win at roulette, there are strategic tips that can be helpful for players should they decide to follow them. Regardless of the game, you end up choosing, playing online casino games is an exciting way to feel the electric, entertaining ambiance of the casino gaming floor without leaving your home. Instead of venturing out on the town to watch a sports game at a restaurant or a friend’s house, you can enjoy all the sports action from your own home with live streaming technology. If there’s a big game coming up, simply log onto a streaming service (many of them are free), and watch kickoff happen in real-time. Attend a virtual comedy show Fancy a laugh? Well, you don’t need to travel to a live comedy show to get one these days, as virtual events are all the rage online, featuring a variety of talented comedians from all over. A quick Google search will bring you face to face with some of the best options. For more info on where to watch, check out these upcoming events.