The Chief Executive Officer of Barrel’s Boat Club, Akapaikpe Uwem, tells ABIODUN SANUSI about his experiences as a boater When did you develop a love for boating? I have always been around the sea. While growing up, I used to envy my dad who was a marine engineer. He used to service boats and commercial vessels used by the Nigerian Port Authority. As children, me and my siblings used to join our dad in his office after school or when we were on holiday. He would take us around, and on those occasions, we used to observe the boats and other facilities at sea. Me and my siblings have always loved visiting water bodies. It was either we visited the beach, a river, lake or seaport. How and when did you become a boat owner? When it was time for me to choose a career, I did not have a second thought, other than to go into the maritime industry. I enjoy the fun around it because it gives an aura that is different from what one would experience on land. The sea is always cool, serene and peaceful. However, becoming a boat owner was a long process. Every child has a growing process. I developed an interest in running a boating business from my friends whom I worked with and helped to manage their boating businesses. Many people believe that boating is for the elite. Do you agree with that? Going by how things used to be, I could say yes. To enjoy the pleasure of sailing, one needs to have enough money. But, over time, we have found a way to make boating affordable for the middle class. These days, a lot of people can afford boat cruises. How do you maintain your boat? We always get engineers who routinely do carry out thorough checks on the boats. We always service the engines and other appliances in the boats. We also make sure there aren’t too many people boarding a boat at the same time. What challenges come with running a boating business? There are always challenges that come with every investment. The major challenge in running a boating business is not having clients. When one does not get enough patronage, the business would crumble. The worst thing that can happen to a businessman is not having clients, especially consistent ones. The other challenge is how to expand (the business). It is the patronage one gets that would determine how big one’s business would be expanded. What safety precautions do you take before going on a boat ride? For every boater, being safety conscious is very important because water bodies are different from being on land, where one could fall and get back up. We usually educate our passengers to stay calm, and use their lifejackets. We also do not overload the boats, and we as people not to drink too much before boarding our boats. What changes would you like to see in the boating industry? I think we need more publicity. We also need to educate people on the safety and swiftness of boats, compared to other means of transportation. The reason education is more important is that over the years, there has been a lot of miseducation and misinformation about water bodies and water transportation. In what ways can water transportation be developed in Nigeria? The government has done a lot in making the waterways safe. The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, and the National Inland Waterways Authority are really doing a good job in clearing the waterways. I also think more investors need to come into the business. What’s your most memorable boating experience? That was when we took some elderly people out for a cruise on the sea. It was an interesting experience. Some youths decided to take their elderly family members out to have fun, so they brought them to our boat club and we organised a tour for them. They had never had such an experience before and they really loved it. What is the longest boat trip you have ever been on? That was in Badagry; I travelled for three hours on sea. We even ventured into Cotonou (Republic of Benin) and did some sightseeing before returning. Have you ever feared being attacked on water? Not really. And, that is because we have good security measures. There are marine police officers stationed across the waters, and they are very active. It is easy to communicate with them using the radios on our boats. How do you feel when you’re on a boat? Boating is the best experience for me. Aside from being in my living room, there is nothing I love as much as boating. At a particular point, I feel bad when I’m not around water. Do you go on boat rides when you travel out of the country? Yes, I always do that. I went boating while I was in Greece. In developed countries, water transportation is as normal as road transport. There are some places that buses or taxis wouldn’t get to, so one would have to go there by boat. Why did you choose boating as a career? I chose boating as a career because it helps me strike a balance between work and pleasure. I love spending most of my time close to the water, so that pushed me into the boating business. What were you doing before venturing into boating? I am a mariner. I used to sail tanker vessels from Nigeria to some other West African countries. What do many people not know about water transportation? Many do not know that it’s faster and safer. There is also less hassle. There are no traffic snarls on water. It is cost-effective as well. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com