The agitation for power to shift to the South-East thickened on Saturday with a coalition of youth groups in the 19 northern states and Abuja demanding Igbo Presidency in 2023. The youths, under the aegis of Arewa Youth Federation, said for the sake of fairness, justice and equity, power should return to the South, particularly to the South-East region in 2023. This was as a former governor of Anambra State, Chief Chukwuemeka Ezeife, faulted the suspicion that Igbo politicians could not be trusted with power, perhaps for the fear of Biafra secession. The AYF leaders bared their minds when they met with members of the Igbo Elders Consultative Forum during an advocacy visit to Ezeife’s Abuja residence. Among those at the event were two former Ministers of Education – Prof. Fabian Osuji and Prof. S. C. Madubuike; Secretary-General of Ime-Obi Ohanaeze, Prof. Charles Nwekeaku; several other leading Igbo scholars as well as traditional title holders. The AYF President-General, Alhaji Aminu Mohammed (Kano), stressed the need for fairness in the country, noting that marginalisation and widespread poverty had become the loudest cry among Nigerians. Mohammed said, “The Igbo, from day one, have been marginalised. From the series of post-independence military coups to the popping of Shagari’s regime, it has been the South-West and the North (leading the country), but Nigeria was formed by the Yoruba, Hausa and Igbo. But as far as Nigeria’s economy is concerned, you cannot rule out the Igbo. “We, as Nigerians, are faced with the issue of insecurity, but shifting power to the South-East will cure 80-90 per cent of Nigeria’s insecurity (challenges). Any country that is not experiencing economic boom from the private sector will not make real progress. “The Igbo have the power and the spirit in them to even turn ‘sand’ to wealth. It is on this basis that we are solely calling for power shift to the South-East.” Speaking, Ezeife said Nigeria would experience an explosive growth and development under an Igbo President. He said, “It has become clear that the problem of Nigeria is with older politicians who have lost their consciences and are just plundering the treasury of the country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com