OSUN State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has admonished the residents of the state not to be deceived by promises from untested politicians. Oyetola, who said he had stayed true to all the promises made before his first term election promised to continue to place a high priority on the welfare of the populace if re-elected. The governor spoke on Sunday at an engagement programme organised by the State’s Civic Engagement Centre, held at Ijimo village in Oriade Local Government Area of Osun State. Oyetola, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, dismissed insinuations by some people that he would stop working if re-elected. Noting that he had not reneged on any of the promises he made since assumption of office, Oyetola said he would not renege, but would rather work hard to fulfil all his promises if re-elected for another term in office. He said, “On assumption of office in November 2018, I promised prompt and full payment of workers’ salaries as well as pension. And till date, the promise is well kept as workers and our senior citizens get their entitlement as and when due. “I also promised to embark on developmental projects and this is evident in the areas of roads rehabilitation, health, education, youth empowerment, as well provision of free monthly food for vulnerable groups, among others. “Aside from Olaiya flyover, which is waiting for the inauguration, we had embarked on other road rehabilitation and reconstruction across the state. We recently approved repairs of 25 roads, spanning 200km in the state. “On our free monthly food distribution, over 300,000 vulnerable households have benefitted from it since inception and we will not stop. In the area of health intervention, we rehabilitated, revitalised, renovated and upgraded 332 focal Primary Healthcare Centres across the state. “The administration had distributed drugs worth N50 million across the state Primary Healthcare facilities as well as several new beds to all health facilities across the state, among others.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com