AMID concerns over the increase in confirmed Lassa fever cases, an infectious diseases physician at the Federal Medical Centre, Abeokuta, Dr Ayanfe Omololu, has said Nigeria needs more specialised health institutions to manage the epidemic. Omololu, who made the call in an interview with our correspondent, added that the facilities would also be useful in the management of cholera, yellow fever and other infectious diseases. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control had disclosed that 40 deaths and 981 cases were reported in January 2022 across 43 local government areas in 14 states. It also said it had activated the national multi-sectoral and multi-disciplinary Lassa Fever Emergency Operations Centre in response to the outbreak in some parts of the country. Cases of Lassa fever infection have been reported in Edo, Delta, Taraba, Ebonyi, Ondo, Benue, Bauchi, Plateau, Kaduna,  Enugu, Nasarawa and Kogi states, among others. However, Omololu who is a member of the Nigerian Infectious Diseases Society, said, “Nigeria needs more health care institutions specialised in the management of not just Lassa fever, but all infectious diseases in general. This would greatly help in the management of epidemics like cholera, Lassa and yellow fever, which are quite endemic in our environment and have even led to very unnecessary deaths over the years, as well as in the management of pandemics like the current COVID-19 pandemic.” He also advised health workers to maintain a very high index of suspicion for any patient presenting with atypical symptoms, especially fever or unexplained bleeding while stressing the need for the provision of appropriate and adequate personal protective equipment at all times for health care workers to perform their duties safely. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com