Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has advised residents of the state against waiting for emergencies before seeking medical care, saying the best bet is to seek medical care early enough. Fayemi said the Ekiti State Ambulance Service was part of the administration’s bid to deliver quality, timely and life-saving health services to the people of the state. He said EKSAMS was part of our efforts towards ensuring safe cities and protecting the integrity of life in Ekiti State. The governor, who spoke in Ado Ekiti, while inaugurating EKSAMS, said, “I implore every indigene and resident of the state to seek medical care early and not wait till it becomes an emergency. In the event of an emergency, I encourage everyone to utilise this service and other health services available in the state. “We are launching this service with four focal ambulances stationed within the three senatorial districts. These four are in addition to the already existing fleet of over 15 ambulances available across all state-owned hospitals. In the near future, we will expand the fleet and scope of service. “The establishment of EKSAMS nicely complements our efforts in the health sector, specifically the massive renovation of secondary care facilities and the installation of world-class equipment to improve service delivery. We are now confident that with EKSAMS, we have further strengthened the health system value chain.” The Ekiti State Health Commissioner, Dr Oyebanji Filani, said, “Emergency medical service is very critical to mitigating preventable disability and mortality through an organised system that allows for timely response to medical trauma and related emergencies.” Filani said, “EKSAMS has been carefully designed to maintain the integrity of life and reduce injuries in emergency situations; provide capacity for the safe and swift transportation of persons requiring emergency medical attention; and to provide free emergency medical care for all patients within the first 24 hours of service.” The commissioner added, “With increasing rates of life-threatening conditions including road trauma that require urgent medical attention, it has become expedient to develop a functional emergency medical service and ambulance system in Ekiti State. “The provision of efficient and timely pre-hospital care for injuries, cardiovascular and obstetric emergencies has become more critical, due to an increase in disasters and dire medical situations.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com