The National Association of Seadogs (Pyrates Confraternity) has called on the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari(retd.) to take action against the spate of corruption and impunity among public officials in the country. The NAS Capoon, Mr Abiola Owoaje, stated this in a statement on Friday while reacting to the arrest of the embattled Deputy Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari, and four others for alleged drug trafficking. Kyari, who was suspended by the police last July for his alleged links to an international fraudster, Ramon Abass, also know as Hushpuppi, had allegedly been caught on video during a sting operation by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency attempting to sell part of the cocaine which was seized from some drug dealers in Enugu State, while his suspension was subsisting. But Owoaje, in a statement titled, ‘Abba Kyari Drug Scandal: Beyond the Drama,’ said, “He should immediately ensure that all the clogs that could impede the swift and efficacious dispensation of justice in this particular case are promptly dismantled. All indicted dramatis personae (in official and unofficial capacities) in this unfolding show of shame must be made subject to the tenets of the rule of law. “The President should as a matter of urgency ensure that at his instance, a high-powered independent and transparent probe reveal the extent of involvement of state actors, and those found culpable and still serving should be dismissed and prosecuted,” he said. Owoaje further stated that it was inconvertible that the Kyari drug scandal had once again exposed the grave dysfunction and decadence that permeates Nigeria’s security system, adding that the leadership of the Nigeria Police had shown that it was undeserving to be trusted to clamp down on crime and criminality among the rank and file. He added, “A system that affords state officials and custodians of the law the opportunity to compromise state institutions with impunity and accelerate the collapse of governance is one that must be repudiated by all right-thinking citizens.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com