Gunmen late Tuesday invaded the newly constructed cattle market in Omumauzor in the Ukwa West Local Government Area of Abia State. The state government confirmed that eight people were killed during the attack. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Eze Chikamnayo, in a statement on Wednesday, vowed that the state government would bring the perpetrators to book. He said, “On Tuesday, February 15, 2022, around 11.35pm, some yet-to-be-identified hoodlums allegedly invaded traders at the New Cattle Market in Omumauzor, in the Ukwa West Local Government Area of our dear state. “The government responded swiftly by mobilising the various security agencies to the scene that night to secure the lives and property of the innocent traders and fish out the assailants. “We are shocked and saddened by this mindless and barbaric act of violence that claimed the lives of about eight innocent citizens of our great country and we totally condemn this dastardly act together with its wicked perpetrators. “We are working assiduously to provide succour to the families of the victims. Those who sustained injuries are currently receiving medical attention. “We have equally started the immediate relocation of the traders while working out compensation for lost properties.” Meanwhile, the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, in a statement on Wednesday by its National President, Alhaji Yerima Shettima, called for the arrest of the hoodlums. He said, “As a group, we are still deeply concerned about the murder of Northerners resident in Abia, who are doing legitimate business. “We are also deeply touched by the report of scores of others sustaining varying degrees of injury and have now been hospitalised. “We condemn in totality this dastardly attack on innocent citizens from the North trading to earn a living.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com