Nigerians, almost on a daily basis, are greeted with news akin to absurd drama that compels them to either laugh loud in disbelief or weep inside for what their elected rulers have reduced this great country to. It is indeed difficult to read some of these news stories and not be traumatised. Abi how does one digest the news that after allocating huge salaries and undisclosed allowances to themselves, our overfed federal lawmakers are considering life pension for their presiding officers? “Again,” you want to ask. The eighth Assembly under Bukola Saraki and Yakubu Dogara tried this in 2016, but Nigerians rose in unison to shoot down the idea. The Yoruba have an axiom that captures this absurdity perfectly. They say, ‘the matter mess for person mouth and add salt to it.’ Seriously speaking, if this is a joke, they should stop it, abeg. There are other important national issues that need serious attention. Just so we don’t take anything past Naija politicians  in our own interest, you would ask yourself, is this greed taken too far or some spiritual manipulations are at play. Eavesdropper is actually at a loss on this matter: how do you serve for just four years in such a plum position and you want to be paid for life? Does that even sound fair? That means those who serve for 35 years should ask for the country to be named after them or they could as well drive away everyone from the country so they could claim ownership. Yeye dey smell. But frankly, it defies logic for any leader or conscientious individual to want to keep taking from a system that is evidently bleeding and struggling to survive. It’s bad enough that they earn so much, at the expense of the system, but it’s worse that the devastated Nigerians they claim to represent in those green and red chambers do not know how much they earn. Shall we call it ‘coded representation’ (laughs)? Naija is just an interesting country, honestly. However, Eavesdropper hopes the two powerful ogas in the chambers no join body for this thing, unless those statements they always release during festivities asking Nigerians to make sacrifices for the good of the nation are mere eye-service. But if they are part of this charade, no be good thing at all. Add to that the reputation this ninth Assembly has built for itself as the number one subservient Assembly in recent years. What a record! Abi una don forget the statement wey Dr Law make in 2019 say any request wey Oga retired soldier bring before dey good for Nigerians. If that is the case, maybe we really don’t need both chambers sef. But this is a matter for another day. We shall review their ‘service’ to Nigerians in due course. Back to the pension matter, one would wonder, could it be that both chambers are not aware of our current financial crisis, such that we now borrow to pay salaries while the bulk of our revenue goes into debt servicing? They likely may not be aware o. You never can tell, because if they are, such a proposal would have no place in the constitution amendment, even if there were attempts to smuggle it in by some greedy Nigerians who seem so committed to doing anything that compounds the hardship faced by helpless Nigerians. You see, we need to fear God in this country o. Anyway, we will wait and see if this clause survives during voting at plenary. If it does, hmm.. let me reserve my comment for now. But, let it not happen sha. To have come up with it is already a slap on Nigerians. However, like Eavesdropper noted earlier, the joke has been carried too far and has to stop now. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com