French President Emmanuel Macron, the first leader of a major Western power to meet Vladimir Putin since Russia massed troops near Ukraine, said on Tuesday he believed steps can be taken to de-escalate the crisis and called on all sides to stay calm. Macron, who in contrast to the U.S. and British leaders, has played down the likelihood that Russia may soon invade its neighbour, shuttled from Moscow to Kyiv on Tuesday in a bid to mediate a settlement and avoid war. The French president had no breakthroughs to announce but Macron said he thought his talks had helped prevent the crisis from escalating further. He said had never expected “for one second” that Putin would make concessions. Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy had told him they were committed to the principles of a 2014 peace agreement, he said, adding that this deal, known as the Minsk accords, offered a path to resolving their ongoing disputes. “This shared determination is the only way allowing us to create peace, the only way to create a viable political solution,” Macron told a joint news conference with Zelenskiy. “Calm … is essential from all parties in words and in deeds,” Macron said, praising Zelenskiy for the “sangfroid” he and the Ukrainian people were showing as Russia amasses more than 100,000 troops, tanks, and heavy weapons on Ukraine’s borders. Zelenskiy made clear he was sceptical of any assurances Macron may have received from Putin. “I do not really trust words, I believe that every politician can be transparent by taking concrete steps,” he said. Moscow denies any plans to invade but is seeking sweeping concessions from the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, the military alliance which has underpinned security in western Europe since 1949. The demands include a promise of no missile deployments near Russia’s borders, a scaling back of NATO infrastructure, and a ban on Ukraine ever joining the alliance. Russia’s military build-up gained momentum on Tuesday with the arrival of three warships in the Black Sea, according to a Reuters witness. Turkish sources said another three were expected to pass through the Bosporus on Wednesday, in what Russia’s Interfax news agency reported as a pre-planned exercise. Macron flew later to Berlin for meetings with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. In a statement alongside Macron before the talks began, Scholz told reporters: “Our common goal is to prevent a war in Europe.” “Our appraisal of the situation is united, as is our position on this: any further attack on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine is unacceptable and will draw wide-reaching consequences for Russia – politically, economically, and geo-strategically,” he added. Macron and Scholz also met in Berlin with Polish President Andrzej Duda. The French presidency said after the talks the three leaders expressed their joint support for Ukrainian sovereignty. The meeting further illustrated the European convergence on a “committed and demanding approach” toward Russia, the French presidency added. NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg, asked in an interview with CNN about the likelihood of a Russian invasion, said: “There’s no certainty but what we see is a continued military buildup with more and more forces… The warning time is going down and the risk of an attack is going up.” (Reuters/NAN)