Bauchi State government has flagged off a skill empowerment training of 575 commercial sex workers operating in the state to discourage them from prostitution and make them self-reliant. The training which is being done by the Hisbah Department of the Bauchi State Shariah Commission will empower the commercial sex workers in tailoring, hairdressing, make-up, catering, cosmetology, poultry and fishery, computer literacy and micro-enterprise enhancement. In his speech at the ceremony which was held at Bayangari area in Bauchi metropolis, the Permanent Commissioner in charge of Hisbah and Shariah Matters, Barrister Aminu Isa, said that the training which commences today(Monday), would last for three months. He said that 100 of them will be trained in tailoring and hairdressing while 75 will be trained in make-up, catering and cosmetology. According to him, 60 of them will undergo training in poultry and fishery, 50 will be trained in computer literacy while the remaining 40 will be exposed to micro-enterprise enhancement. Isa said, “It gives me great pleasure to be here with you on this auspicious occasion of the flag-off of skills acquisition training for 575 registered women residing in this area. The training is part of the state government’s effort to provide the prerequisite vocational skills to the trainees and empower them to achieve self-sustainability and independence. “You could recall that sometimes last year we were here to take your proper headcount with a view to advising the government on the next line of action as regards to your current social status of joblessness and indolence. “As the listening governor, Senator Bala Mohammed has responded to our request and mandated us to first, train you and equip you with the basic vocational skills for future empowerment programme under its popular Kaura Economic Empowerment Programme. “I have no doubt that after the training, we would still come back here to put a smile in your good faces by either providing you with the working tools or the seed capital to enable you to establish some micro-businesses to achieve self-reliance. “You are expected to undergo a three-month training in eight specialised skills as follows: Tailoring, hairdressing, make-up, catering, cosmetology, poultry and fishery, computer literacy and micro-enterprise enhancement. I call on you to make the best use of this opportunity by concentrating your attention during the training as we would issue you with certificates of attendance. “Let me stress the fact that whoever fails to measure up to expectation during the training will not be considered when we come to distribute the empowerment tools. You will definitely be examined after the training to determined your ability and capabilities in your areas of vocation.” The Hisbah Permanent Commissioner said that from the headcount carried out last year, there are a total of 589 commercial sex workers from 17 states and two African countries. “We have a comprehensive and authentic list of your names and your states and we will give you equal and fair treatment to make you more productive and inventive. “Going by our data, 48 of you are from Abia, Enugu and Delta states; 49 from Gombe; 56 from Borno, Kano and Kaduna; 26 from Jigawa; 41 from Plateau and Adamawa; 36 are from Taraba; 25 from Imo; 85 from Benue, Cross Rivers, Ebonyi, Akwa Ibom and 212 from Bauchi 212. “Those from outside the country are five from the Republic of Cameroon while six are from Chad,” he said. He charged them to continue to live in peace by respecting the society’s extant rules and observe decency and decorum by exhibiting the fear of God. He assured them that the administration of Governor Bala Mohammed has concern for their plight and would do everything possible to make their lives better. In his speech, the Commissioner of Religious Affairs, Umar Kesa, said the empowerment training was government’s fulfilment to the commercial sex workers during the headcount that was done last year. “After about a year that we promised you and after adequate planning, I am glad we are here to flag-off this training. “I want to assure you that you are important to the government and it cares about you more than you can ever think. And what this government expects from you is your continued support and cooperation just as you’ve always done. “This empowerment is geared towards making you self-reliant because nobody would want to see his daughter or sister in this kind of business,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com