The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, on Tuesday, informed Justice Inyang Ekwo of a Federal High Court in Abuja that it had been unable to serve a former governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, with the N2.9bn fraud charges filed against him. The agency had in January filed 17 counts against Okorocha, alleging that he conspired with others to steal N2.9bn public funds. During the proceedings, counsel for the EFCC, Cosmos Ugwu, said, “My Lord, we have made several but unsuccessful attempts to serve the charges on the first defendant (Okorocha). “We urge the court for an adjournment to enable us to serve the first defendant.” While the second defendant, Anyim Chinenye, was in court and was represented by Oba Maduabuchi (SAN), Okorocha, who represents the Imo West Senatorial District in the National Assembly, was conspicuously absent. The judge, therefore, adjourned the suit till March 28, 2022 for the arraignment of the defendants. The charges were filed about the same time Okorocha was declaring his intention to run for the office of the President in 2023. Okorocha, 59, was a two-term governor of Imo State from 2011 to 2019. He lost an intense political battle to install his son-in-law and ex-Chief of Staff, Uche Nwosu, as his successor. He, however, succeeded in winning the Imo West senatorial election for himself as a candidate of the All Progressives Congress. The Returning Officer had alleged that he was forced to declare Okorocha the winner under duress, which made the Independent National Electoral Commission to delay the issuance of his Certificate of Return. His co-accused, Chinenye, was the APC governorship candidate in the 2015 election in Abia State and currently serves as a commissioner at the National Pension Commission. Chinenye features in all the 17 charges and is accused of conspiring with Okorocha to steal and launder N2.9bn belonging to Imo State and its local government councils in contravention of the Money Laundering Act, 2011. According to the EFCC, the stolen funds were diverted between October 2014 and February 2016 from the Imo State Government House account and Imo State Joint Local Government Project account. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com