The Senate, on Tuesday, confirmed the nomination of Prof. Ayo Omotayo as director-general of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, Kuru, Jos, Plateau State. Omotayo’s confirmation followed the consideration and adoption of a report by the Joint Senate Committee on Establishment and Public Service Matters; and Federal Character and Inter-Governmental Affairs. Presenting the report on behalf of the Chairman, Ibrahim Shekarau, the Vice-Chairman of the committee, Senator Danjuma La’ah, described the nominee as “an asset who possesses the requisite legal requirements.” La’ah said there was no adverse security report on the nominee and his appointment as director-general of the NIPSS. “Both the DSS and Police reports submitted to the committee on the life of the nominee to date did not reveal any iota of crime or wrongdoing against him,” he said. The Senate consequently confirmed Omotayo’s nomination as recommended by the committee. Meanwhile, the Senate also, on Tuesday, referred the nomination of Chidinma Osuji as executive director of the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation to the Committee on Banking and Other Financial Institutions. The nominations for the board of the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority were referred to the Committee on Petroleum Resources (Downstream). The nominees are expected to appear before the relevant committees for screening. The respective committees were given two weeks to report back to the chamber in plenary. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had last week written to the Senate to seek confirmation of the appointments five persons as executive directors of the NMDPRA and Osuji as executive director of the NDIC, as well as four nominees as commissioners of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com