It was a feast of goals for Super Falcons players across Europe with many of the players hitting the right form ahead of their 2022 Africa Women’s Cup of Nations qualifiers. The nine-time African women’s champions host the Lady Elephants on Friday at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja in one of the two-leg qualifiers. Ahead of the mouth-watering clash, goalkeepers Oluehi Tochi and Chiamaka Nnadozie, as well as 24 other players have all arrived camp and took part in the team’s training on Monday. The Ivoirians had in 2019 stopped the Falcons from qualifying for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics after a 1-1 draw in Agege, Lagos having played a goalless draw in Abidjan in the first leg. Both teams are set to renew their rivalry as they seek a ticket for the 2022 AWCON in Morocco later in the year. In Spain, Rasheedat Ajibade maintained her fine scoring form for Atletico Madrid by grabbing her fourth consecutive brace in a 5-0 victory over Sevilla. It was her ninth start of the season in the Spanish Primera Iberdrola and she grabbed her brace in the space of five minutes to compound the woes of the visitors Her latest brace took her goals tally to nine in nine league starts and is now her team’s joint top scorer with Deyna Castellanos in the current campaign. Ajibade’s form will serve as a huge boost for Nigeria ahead of the game on Friday. Also, Falcons captain Asisat Oshoala continued her incredible scoring run of form for Barcelona after grabbing the Blaugrana’s second goal against Athletic Bilbao on Sunday to mark her 19th league goal of the season. Earlier in the week, the 28-year-old entered into the Catalans’ history books as she marked her 100th appearance in all competitions, grabbing a brace to hit 79 goals. Leicester City’s Ashleigh Plumptre, who could make her debut with Nigeria, also shone in England scoring with a fine header. The 23-year-old defender also helped keep a clean sheet in her side’s third win of the season. In Israel, Peace Effih grabbed a brace to maintain her hot streak for Maccabi Kiryat Gat. The Falcons midfielder scored in her fourth consecutive match as she helped her side thrash Bnot Netanya 3-0 over the weekend. The 21-year-old scored the first and second goals to ensure the Israeli champions open a four-point lead at the top of the table. She has now taken her tally to 10 goals in all competitions. Yetunde Aluko scored her fifth goal of the season in Hapoel Marmorek 3-1 over Bnot Netanya. The forward’s grabbed a brace in that win, the second she has scored this season. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com