Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has called on the two aspirants that contested the governorship ticket of the All Progressives Congress with him, to join him and move the state forward. Oyetola, who polled 222,169, had defeated ex Secretary to the state government, Moshood Adeoti, who was supported by the Interior Minister, Rauf Aregbesola and ex Deputy Speaker, Lasun Yusuf at the Saturday’s primary. Adeoti got 12921 votes, while Mr. Lasun Yusuf got 460 to place third. In his acceptance speech, Oyetola said the victory was made possible by the members of APC that gave him another opportunity to face the people of Osun and seek re-election. He then urged them to close ranks and eschew bitterness in whatever form, calling on aggrieved members to have a rethink and join hands with him to further strengthen the party and deliver outstanding results at the governorship poll. He said, “Today’s victory is made possible by the members of our great party who gave us another opportunity to face the people of Osun to seek re-election. The outcome of this primary election is victory for our party and members who have spoken loudly through their votes. “It is victory for our people who trooped out in large number during our strategic tour of the State to inform them of our intention to seek a second term. It is a restatement of their confidence in our Development Agenda which hope delivered in 2018 and performance sealed in 2022. It is evidence of their belief in sustainable development which we brought into governance and preached every inch of the way. “I thank you all our party members for your constant support, and especially for speaking eloquently today with your massive votes in favour of our administration’s restoration and consolidation agenda. “With this primary election now concluded, I invite us all to rededicate ourselves and the party to delivering an overwhelming victory at the gubernatorial polls holding on Saturday, 16th July, 2022. For me, we are all winners. I, therefore, extend my hand of fellowship to the other two aspirants to join me as we prepare for the July election. We are all brothers. Let’s join hands to build the Osun of our dream. “Let us close ranks and eschew bitterness in whatever form. Therefore, may I use this opportunity to also ask all our aggrieved members to have a rethink and join hands with us to further strengthen our party and deliver outstanding results at the gubernatorial poll.” He also commended the Chairman of the Osun Governorship Primary Election Committee, Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq, and other members of the committee for conducting a hitch-free exercise. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com