ENYIMBA fans have mounted pressure on coach George Finidi following their disappointing 1-1 draw with MFM in a Nigerian Professional Football League last Saturday, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Victor Mbaoma gave the Aba Elephants the lead after six minutes but Chukudi Ekeocha earned the Olukoya Boys a share of the spoils from the game with an equaliser for the visitors. The draw leaves Finidi’s side in seventh place with 21 points from 14 games — eight points behind table-toppers Rivers United on the NPFL log. Enyimba fans expressed their displeasure at the team’s recent slump, urging Finidi and the club management to salvage the blip before it ruined their title chances. One of the fans, John Okorie, believes current coach, Finidi is yet to solve the team’s scoring problems. The eight-time NPFL winners have found it difficult scoring this season, bagging 11 goals in their opening 14 games, and conceding 11 times. “If a team is not finding it easy to score, whose fault is it? This is the same problem we suffered in the hands of Fatai Osho, inability to score goals,” Okorie said. “If Finidi is finding it difficult to create a scoring team, then he is yet to discover the reason why Enyimba employed him. So, he has to find out what is the problem and solve it.” Emmanuel Otah wrote on Facebook, “These same draws in Aba cost us the NPFL title last season after winning six on the road and drawing seven in Aba. The team needs to buckle up.” Finidi’s side has recorded only four wins at the Enyimba stadium, drew two and lost one. Ifeanyi Emmanuel added, “When Heartland was misbehaving, everyone said it was because they were being owed salaries. Please why is Enyimba playing absolute nonsense? They’re not owed one naira, so why are they playing embarrassing football? This is very annoying.” Onyeamuma Ezekiel also added, “The boys need to be more serious. We are tired of this kind of performance mostly at home.” Meanwhile, Enyimba media officer of the team Zazi Bariza believes the poor form will end soon. “In recent games, the team has been unlucky not scoring goals. In our last game, we hit the cross bar about six times. I strongly believe we will bounce back and give the fans something to cheer. We are not losing anything to chance as we will work had to get it right,” Bariza said. Enyimba host Remo Stars in their next NPFL game on Sunday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com