Following the murder of a visually-impaired man, Mmaduabuchi Nnofu, from the Ekwulobia community in Anambra State, Governor Willie Obiano has inaugurated the Anambra State Disability Rights Commission. Obiano, while inaugurating the commission in Awka on Wednesday, assured the disabled community in the state that justice would prevail regarding Mmaduabuchi, who was allegedly murdered by his brother on January 30, 2022. Mmaduabuchi, the coordinator of the Joint National Association of Persons with Disability in the Aguata Local Government Area, was allegedly murdered and burnt beyond recognition by his brother, Onyedika Nnofu, over a family land. Obiano, who described the murder as barbaric and wicked, observed a minute silence in honour of the deceased, noting that the suspect was already in police custody. The governor charged members of the commission to collaborate with relevant ministries, parastatals and corporate bodies by issuing codes and directions for structural designs and building to make public utilities accessible to and usable by persons living with disabilities. He said, “Functions of the commission are implementing government policies in the law in line with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and all other disability matters; and issuance of guidelines for education, social development and welfare of persons living with disabilities. “Issuance of direction and guidelines to special schools for persons living disabilities, and issuance of direction and guidelines on all manner of disabilities, preventive or curative exercises, and other functions as stipulated in Section 12 (a-u) of Anambra State Disability Rights Law, 2018.” The commission, headed by Chukwuka Ezewuzie, includes other members such as the Deputy Director, Ministry of Justice, Chinenye Okeke, who will serve as the secretary; representative of the JONAPWD state Chairman, Ugochukwu Okeke; Director, Rehab, Ministry of Women and Children Affairs, Obianyo Anthonia; and the Unit Head, Ministry of Basic Education, Miss Victoria Okonkwo. Others are representatives of the Anambra State Sports Commission, Tony Oli; the Christian Association of Nigeria, Bishop Moses Ezedebego; the private sector, Dr Pat Okeke; the civil society organisations, Eucharia Anekwe; and a retired Director of Education and former Head of Department, Education and Social Development, Local Government Service Commission, Williams Umeh. Ezewuzie thanked the governor for being concerned about the plight of the disabled community through the provision of employment, disability rights law and others, and gave an assurance that with the commission in place, his achievements would be consolidated by the incoming administration and beyond. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com