The National Youths Service Corps has disclosed that it had punished no fewer than 18 corps members serving in Ondo State for violating the rules and regulation of the corps during the service year in the state. The corps said nine of the corps would repeat the service for absconding during the service while the other nine would have their service extended following their alleged involvement in some acts that contravene the rules and regulations of the service. The Ondo State Coordinator of the NYSC, Victoria Ani, stated this during the passing out ceremony for the 2021 batch ‘A’ (Stream 1) corps members held in Akure ,the state capital, on Thursday. She, however, stated that some corps members were rewarded for good behaviors. Ani said , “A corps member who distinguished himself extraordinarily have been rewarded with state honours award and 25 others received state coordinator’s commendation certificate. “However, nine corps members would have their services extended for various misdemeanor while nine members who absconded from service would have to repeat the service subject to the approval of the directorate headquarters, Abuja.” The coordinator called on the corps members to be good ambassadors and eschew acts of arrogance and rude if they wanted to achieve in life. In his speech delivered by the state Commissioner for Youths and Sport Development, Dele Ologun, the state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, said his administration would always provide security to corps members who chose to stay behind and the other residents of the state. He said, “As you now move into the larger society, I want to remind you that you are no longer corps members but mature youths who are expected to create a new identity for yourselves using all you learnt during the service year. “You are aware that due to the prevailing economic situation in our dear country, paid employment are very rare to come by. “Consequently, I charge you to use the skills acquired during the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Programme to be self-employed and become entrepreneurs that will assist to reduce unemployment in our society. “Let me use this opportunity to assure those of you who have chosen to live in Ondo State, that our government will continue to create an enabling environment for her residents to succeed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com