National leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has felicitated with the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum and Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, on his 57th birthday. Tinubu, in a statement by his media office on Wednesday, prayed to God to grant Fayemi many more years in good health and vigour. The statement read, “Warm congratulations to Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, as he turns 57. A progressive and leader in our All Progressives Congress, this birthday has again come at a time the governor is engaged in serving our people. “As he rounds off his governorship tenure in the state, I pray that God Almighty grant him many more years, good health and renewed vigour. I wish Governor Fayemi a most memorable 57th birthday.” Meanwhile, Fayemi, on Wednesday, prayed for the strength to finish his four-year tenure, which would end in October, well. Fayemi also prayed for God’s direction for his successor so that he would consolidate on the various developmental projects and programmes initiated by his (Fayemi’s) administration for the benefit of the people. The governor spoke at the Government House Chapel, Ado Ekiti during a thanksgiving mass organised to mark his 57th birthday. He said the successes he had recorded, privileges enjoyed and whatever he had become were not because he was the best in his generation, family or community, but God’s grace. Speaking at the service attended by top government functionaries, the governor said, “We have a lot to thank God Almighty for. He has used us to serve our people with commitment, with sincerity and with compassion in all of what we have been doing. “And as we roll into the twilight of our administration, we pray that Almighty God would continue to use us as his instrument of peace, instrument of progress and prosperity for our people. “And He will enable us to finish well and strong in the service of Almighty and to the benefit of our people and will give us the enablement to ensure that the goods that this government have been doing continue through the successor He will ordain to ensure that the gains are deepened and the gaps are covered.” The Vicar General, Catholic Diocese of Ekiti State, Rev. Fr. Adewusi Odesami, in his sermon, charged the governor to look unto God for guidance and inspiration on his political endeavour. Odesami said Nigeria was in dire need of people who would use leadership opportunity at their disposal to serve God for the benefits of the people. The cleric said, “If you are to take a review of your life at 57, it should be the one filled with confidence and hope to embrace the future. Your life has not been a waste; God has blessed you and through you blessed others. At this stage, you have to look up to God for direction to continue to be of good use in the hands of God. “We are in a very difficult time in our country. We need people that can use whatever opportunity they have to serve the people and God. Do not seek to please men, God called you to live your life for him.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com