The Kaduna State Police Command has arrested two notorious bandits terrorising the state. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammad Jalige, made this known in a statement on Wednesday. Jalige said it took the combined efforts of the operatives attached to the command along with the Civilian Joint Task Force men to apprehend the two bandits around Sabon Gaya in Chikun Local Government Area of the state. According to the police spokesman, the identities of the suspect were revealed by a victim who had one of his arms amputated by the notorious kidnappers while in their den on February 8, 2022. He said, “On the 15th February 2022, the Command’s operatives attached to Toll Gate Division alongside civilian JTF acted on credible intelligence and succeeded in apprehending two notorious kidnappers who are on the wanted list of many security agencies. “The criminal elements were apprehended around Sabon Gaya village in Chikun LGA of Kaduna state. “The suspects were identified by one of their victims who had his hand amputated by the said criminals while in their captivity on February 8, 2022. “However, preliminary investigation so far reveals the identity of the bandits as (1) Dini Samaila a.k.a yellow 15yrs and (2) Musa Bature. “The suspects have since confessed to having carried out several kidnapping activities around Sabon Gaya and Kaduna –Abuja road.” Meanwhile, Jalige added that effort was currently geared towards recovering their operating logistics as well as a possible arrest of their accomplices to face the full wrath of the law. He quoted the state police commissioner to have called on communities to partner the command “in ensuring that all security agencies get their maximum cooperation in stemming the activities of these marauding armed bandits.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com