•MFM woes continue •Pillars crumble in Plateau Ibrahim Yahaya’s 15th minute strike was enough as Gombe United put an end to Remo Star’s unbeaten run in the Nigeria Professional Football League with a 1-0 win in a match-day 12 fixture in Gombe on Sunday. Remo had gone into the game hoping to get a win, which would have taken them to the top of the league, but Yahaya had other ideas, hitting the back of the net to hand maximum points to the hosts at the packed Pantami stadium in Gombe. With the loss, Remo dropped to third position on the log with 23 points from 12 games, two points behind leaders Rivers United, who mauled Wikki Tourists 3-0 at the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium in Port Harcourt on Saturday. At the FC IfeanyiUbah International Stadium in Nnewi, Christian Nnaji scored a brace as Enugu Rangers came from behind to beat Abia Warriors 2-1 in an Oriental Derby on Sunday. Odoh Valentine had put the visitors in front in the 48th minute, but Nnaji gave the hosts a life line when he coolly slotted in the equaliser from the penalty spot in the 66th minute, before scoring his second in the 71st minute, with the hosts absorbing pressure from the Warriors to hold on for the win. Plateau United left it late as Sunday Anthony’s 84th minute goal proved the winner at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium in Kaduna, to snatch all three points for Fidelis Ilechukwu’s side. Pillars were wasteful in front of goal and the result will hit hard on their chances of grabbing a continental ticket, as they dropped to 14th, while Plateau leapfrogged Remo to go second with 24 points from 12 games. In Makurdi, Lobi Stars held off a late onslaught from MFM to win 2-1. Ogba Ifeanyi scored a brace in the ninth and 30th minutes to give the host a two-goal advantage, but they had to hold on for dear life as the visitors desperately searched for a late equaliser after they pulled one back in the 80th minute through Oladayo Alabi. Champions Akwa United played out a goalless draw at home against Heartland, while Nasarawa United held Sunshine Stars 1-1 in Lafia. Returnee Sunday Faleye scored the only goal as Shooting stars compounded Dakkada FC’s woes with a 1-0 win in Ibadan.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com