Evidently, one thing is clear about the youth category, the boundaries defining the transition from childhood to youth and from youth to adulthood are shifting and the crossover into each new stage is now manifested in different ways. True, the age range, 15-24, is often used by the United Nations and others for statistical purposes but, in many cases, this distinction is too narrow for countries like Nigeria, where youths at that category don’t even know about their future. In Nigeria, everybody is tired of the old people ruling the country but the fact remains no old politician is ready to leave the stage for the youth. For years the older generation has been in the saddle, enjoying the splendour and aura of power. However, the “Not Too Young To Run Bill” was signed into law by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Among changes to the electoral law was that it helped reduce the age for presidential candidates from 40 to 35 and for House of Representatives candidates from 30 to 25 years. As a result of the bill, there is a positive trend in youth participation in politics, with youth candidacy increasing from 21% in 2015 to 34.2% in the 2019 elections. Despite these changes, the number of youths aged 18–29 (based on the youth definition given by the National Youth Policy organisation), voted into elective positions in Nigeria is less than 1%. Imagine? Today, there are no youths in the new cabinet formed by President Buhari neither is there a youth in the National Assembly. Hence, youths are asking the question: why is the Not Too Young to Rule law not being implemented? Why are they not included in the house of powers? It’s not far fetched—Nigerian youths are still too young to rule, far too young. Our generation of youths are not capable of power yet, they are smart but they can’t handle the integrity of power. Notably, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo first held the reins of power when he was in his 30s; Tafawa Balewa ruled Nigeria at 34; Okotie-Eboh and Enahoro emerged political leaders at 27; MT Mbu at 23; Muritala Muhammed at 28; Buhari at 24, among many others in their 20s and 30s.  One thing must be noted about these generations of leaders, they were passionate about the emancipation of the people. They have a rounded political education, which inspired them. Can this be said of the present generation of youths? For many years, particularly after the country’s return to democratic governance in 1999, youths were at best seen as supporters, social media ranters, mobilisers or political foot soldiers hired to instigate violence, manipulate elections and intimidate opposing parties. While this image is not completely the fault of the older generation, these groups enjoyed the idea of youths as political mercenaries rather than competitors. Today, even where youths are at the helm of power, what do they do? Let’s go back to our Students’ Union Government in higher institutions, which were established in various institutions of higher learning in Nigeria to influence school management’s policy, promote orderliness and smooth relationship between students and authorities. The reverse has been the case for most of these student unions where many of the leadership have been accused of embezzling funds. On October 30, 2017, The Cable reported that the Students’ Union President of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Joshua Ezeja, was impeached for allegedly looting N4 million from the union’s account. Ezeja was impeached alongside two members of his cabinet for making withdrawals from the SUG account without the endorsement of the Students’ Union Representative Council. On April 22, 2018, the SUG of  Benue State University also suspended the speaker of the union, Fanen Anjie, for allegedly misappropriating N2.2m. On August 3, 2018, two SUG leadership in two universities in the South-West were in the news for misappropriation of union funds. On this day, the SUG President of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Ogun State, Ayobami Popoola, was suspended for two weeks over an alleged misappropriation of N612,000. We say politicians are corrupt but the bandwagons are seen in our students. So, what they do as soon as they get to office is to recoup the amount spent on campaigns— the pasting of posters, buying recharge cards for fellow students, etc—a similar scenario to the stomach infrastructure in Nigerian politics. It’s unfortunate: are Nigerian youths ready to rule? Are they not too young to rule? Not only are youths bad with leadership, we also have crime, especially cybercrime, which is perpetrated through electronic communication networks. How can youths be true leaders when they engage in various types of cybercrime at an early age? Also, remember when the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission declared Adewale Daniel Jayeoba, a 24-year-old investor wanted for allegedly defrauding people in a N935m Ponzi scheme. Again, 18 months after his arrest, Obinwanne Okeke, a celebrated Forbes Nigerian entrepreneur was sentenced for a multi-million dollar fraud in the US. And we still think we are not too young to rule? It is sad that when Buhari and others ruling us were youths, they were smarter, possessed quality vision and better in government than us, the Nigerian youths. Give a 25-year-old Buhari’s position today and he’ll go blank, bereft of ideas. Give a 35-year-old a governor’s seat, and I tell you, he will break the chair.  Now, I don’t say we don’t have eligible youths who are smart with great hands for leadership and passion for development, at least I know a few youths. In conclusion, maybe the responsible Nigerian youths should still continue to rant on Twitter, maybe the smart one amidst us should sit at home and continue to criticise Buhari, maybe they should not actively participate in the real politics and maybe Nigerian youths still needs another 40 years in the wilderness before we can know if we are ready to rule Nigeria. Ogungbile Oludotun writes via ndbking4ever@gmail.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com