The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria has set to partner with the Bank of Industry to strengthen its new entrepreneurship programme introduced in its resource centers across the country. The 57th President of ICAN, Comfort Eyitayo, disclosed this in Offa, Kwara state on Saturday during the inauguration of Awa Ibraheem ICAN Resource Center which is the latest of the five established centers to train and attract more people into the accounting profession in Nigeria. Eyitayo who said that the centers would train those who are already in the accounting profession as well as those that are interested from other fields stated that ICAN in its effort to be abreast of digital practice has established an IT Hub in which the entrepreneurship programme is included. She said, “The Institute’s online TV tagged ICAN-on-Air remains a veritable platform for enlightening our members and the general public on developments in the accounting and finance space as well as the economy in general. “We are poised to constantly enhance our value add to members and the public through competitive and globally relevant capacity building initiatives. In addition to our top notch training, we are establishing an ICAN Entrepreneurship Development Center. “The Center is aimed at enhancing the entrepreneurial skills of our members. I am pleased to also note that the Bank of Industry has shown interest to collaborate with us in the establishment of an IT Hub as part of the initiative under the entrepreneurship programme. The president explained that the Resource Center would provide an enabling environment for students preparing for ICAN examinations and would engender increased interests in the youths of the town to take accounting as a profession. In his address, past President of ICAN, Razak Jaiyeola, who said that the Resource Center was mooted in 2018 during his tenure stated that the center would serve as a factory for production of modern day accountants known as digital Accountants. Also speaking at the occasion, Alhaji Abdulwahab Ibraheem who partnered with ICAN on the establishment of the center said that he provided funds for the center to support the accounting profession in the training of youths for the accounting profession. Ibraheem said that the first set of 60 students to be admitted in the school would enjoy full scholarship while their examination fees would also be paid fully by him. Olofa of Offa, Oba Mufutau Esuwoye 11, who also attended the inauguration said that the Resource Center would complement other tertiary institutions that are already on ground in Offa. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com