ENL Consortium, the operator of Terminals C and D at the Lagos Port Complex Apapa, says it has vaccinated dockworkers working at its terminals. According to a statement, this is part of the firm’s effort to support the Federal Government in curbing the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of ENL Consortium, Vicky Haastrup, said, “The Federal and State Governments, as well as the World Health Organization, have told us that COVID 19-vaccines are effective and can lower the risk of getting and spreading the virus. “Vaccines also help prevent serious illness and death in children and adults even if they get infected by COVID-19.  Also, don’t forget that port workers, including dockworkers, are essential workers. The ports must keep operating round the clock in order to keep the economy moving and to ensure the continuous supply of essential commodities to Nigerians. “Dockworkers are important to ensuring continuity at the port, and we care for their wellbeing. These are the reasons why we deemed it necessary to invite health officials into the port and encourage dockworkers to get vaccinated in support of the effort by the government to put an end to this pandemic.” According to the firm, the dockworkers vaccination exercise was carried out from Thursday 27th to Wednesday 2nd February 2021. It added that 600 dockworkers were vaccinated during the exercise. A representative of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, Kunle Bamimodu, said, “First of all, we want to appreciate the gesture of our leader in the person of the Executive Vice Chairman of ENL, Vicky Haastrup, who brought this initiative to the workplace because it is not that convenient for workers to move around because of the nature of our work.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com