As the ongoing strike by clearing agents in Apapa entered the fifth day on Friday, freight forwarders associations have decided to resume clearing of cargoes while its suspension of the clearing of imported vehicles remains. The freight forwarders operating at the Ports & Terminal Multipurpose Limited and the Tin-Can Island ports had last Monday embarked on an indefinite strike over what they described as an improper implementation of the electronic valuation and e-invoicing policy of the Federal Government via the Central Bank of Nigeria. The group took the decision on Friday after a meeting in Apapa organised by the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers Council, Emmanuel Jime, the leadership of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents, the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders. After the meeting, the associations decided to resume clearing. They however insisted that the ban on the clearing of imported vehicles remained. Confirming the development, the Deputy National President, NAGAFF, Segun Musa, said the leadership of the association would discuss with their members to allow exit of general cargoes from the Tin-Can Island seaport. According to him, the blockage of the Roll-On-Roll-Off at the seaport would continue until the management of the Nigeria Customs Service gets the designing of the VIN valuation correctly. He said, “We will allow general cargo operation to commence immediately and by allowing this means we are shifting our ground. We will address our members and tell them to allow general cargo to exit the Tin-Can Island Port while RORO operation will remain on hold. “We will want the Customs to also go back and get their design right; we are tired of the bribery and corruption ongoing in the system.” Meanwhile, the NSC has told clearing agents that shutting down the ports is impeding economic development.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com