A former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Olu Falae, says Akure, the Ondo State capital, is ready to host the Federal University of Technology, Akure Teaching Hospital. Falae stated this at a public hearing of the Senate Committee on Health at the National Assembly, on the bill for the establishment of the teaching hospital for FUTA. He canvassed for a favourable consideration and timely passage of the bill. Similarly, the Deji of Akureland, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, expressed confidence that the senators will surely fast-track the passage of this bill when it finally returns to the hallowed chamber. All the submissions at the public hearing were contained in a statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the Akure monarch, Michael Adeyeye, on Sunday. According to the statement, Falae informed the Senate Committee that the Akure community is fully prepared to give maximum support for the immediate take-off of the teaching hospital. He noted that Akure was ready to serve as a role model to other communities on how to be a good and responsive host. “You can see that the site of the Hospital is strategic and it is just a few minutes’ drive from the Akure Airport, it is therefore going to serve the people of the country and not just Ondo State alone,” he said. Oba Aladelusi pointed out that Akure community catered for almost 52 per cent of the state population, saying this necessitated the need for a tertiary health care of a teaching hospital status being one of the state capitals without a teaching hospital. The Vice Chancellor, Prof Adeola Fuwape, in his remarks said the institution was fully prepared for the timely take-off of the hospital. Fuwape stated that the first set of the medical school had already been admitted into the university and they would be ready for clinical in about two years. He appealed to the Senate to expedite action on the bill considering its relevance and importance. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com