The suspended Chairman, Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission, Muhuyi Rimin-Gado, on Wednesday, challenged his suspension at the National Industrial Court. Rimin-Gado, who instituted the suit against the Kano State government and five others, also joined as co-defendants, the state Attorney General, including the Kano State House of Assembly and the state’s Accountant-General. Others are, the commission’s acting Chairman, Mahmud Balarabe; and the state Commissioner of Police, as first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth defendants respectively. The case came up before Justice Oyejoju Oyewumi, who adjourned to March 7, 2022 for review of processes. The claimant’s counsel, Muhammad Tola, who informed the court that all parties had been served processes, however noted that they were yet to enter appearance. Besides, he informed the court that he had two motions that he is intending to withdraw, adding that he had earlier applied for the withdrawal of a motion ex-parte dated and filed on December 3, 2021, including an interlocutory application dated and filed on December 3, 2021. Responding, counsel for the first, second and fourth defendants Abdulsalam Saleh, said they had filed a memorandum of conditional appearance. In addition, Saleh, who stated that they plan to file a motion for the litigation to be transferred to Kano Division of the court, noted that the cause of action and all the parties are in Kano. The judge Tola the reason the suit was not filed in Kano, adding that although she drew the attention of the President of the court to this fact, she was directed to entertain the matter. Tola submitted that the suit was filed in Abuja, following the security situation in Kano. The judge directed that hearing notice be served on the sixth defendant, the Kano State Commissioner of Police, who was absent in court.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com