The Coalition of Northern Groups has urged Nigerian youths to embrace unity and love for one another and shun money politics for national development. The Chairman of the group, Nastura Sharif, made the call during the Maitama Sule Leadership Lecture Series held at Bayero University, Kano, with the theme, ‘Role of the Youth in Shaping the Future of Northern Nigeria’, organised by the students’ wing of the coalition. He said the CNG resolved to educate youths on the nitty-gritty of politics so that future leaders could learn how to tackle the problems bedevilling the country. “This is the 18th lecture in the series and the aim behind it is to give our youths a chance to learn how to confront challenges politically,” Sharif stated. A former Deputy Governor of Kano State, Prof Hafiz Abubakar, also decried the dirty politics being played by Nigerian politicians. He stressed the need for the mindset of the youth to be changed for the better. Abubakar emphasised the need to inculcate new and responsible ideas in the youth to bring about a change in the leadership focus. He stated, “The money politics system is terrible and that is why we are here. We are playing wrong, dirty and unproductive politics. “Therefore, the youth as tomorrow’s leaders should be aware of this because they are victims of bad leadership at all levels. I am sure that they want better leadership for themselves and the coming generations. “So, every one of us should realise this because we are on the wrong path, and we have to chart a new course for a better Nigeria.” The National Coordinator of the students’ wing of the CNG, Jamilu Aliyu, reiterated the need for integrity and avoidance of money politics. He said, “We tagged the lecture series with the name of Maitama Sule, who is believed to be a man of integrity and honesty. “We are trying to eradicate the leadership of moneybags. Avoiding money politics at this level becomes necessary because the people are already feeling the wrath of rotten leadership. “We can all see the security situation, how people are living in abject poverty and below the poverty line, with some of them not even being able to pay their school fees, which are rampantly increasing and skyrocketing. “So, enough is enough. We have to build a country that we will believe in and that will compete with other countries, not only in Africa but in the world at large.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com