A midnight fire on Saturday gutted a shopping plaza in the popular spare parts market in the Ladipo area of Lagos State. It was gathered that the fire incident occurred early Saturday morning and affected a one-storey building, the Aguiyi Ironsi Plaza, in the market before dawn. According to an official of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency who spoke with our correspondent, no casualty was recorded. The official, however, said scores of shops and goods worth millions of naira were burnt in the inferno. LASEMA officials and other first responders including men of the Lagos State Fire Service and the Lagos State Police Command have been deployed in the incident scene. In a statement, the Director of the Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service, Adeseye Margaret, confirmed the incident. It was titled, ‘Lagos Fire Service Douses Fire at Ladipo Market’. The statement read, “The Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service has doused the inferno at the Hassan Ola Blocks of Aguyi Ironsi International Trade Centre, Ladipo Mushin, Lagos. “The fire, which was reported at 22:54 hours Friday following a series of calls, was swiftly doused by the nearby Isolo Fire Station of the Agency. “Upon arrival, firemen called for back-up from other Lagos Fire Service locations and other emergency responders. “It was discovered that the fire rapidly spread across three blocks that housed auto spare parts traders within the market and were aided by combustible substances stored around the affected locations. “The fire was, however, curtailed from further spread to other blocks through the swift professional intervention of firefighters and other emergency responders. “The situation would demand a thorough and collaborative investigation to ascertain the cause of the fire. “There was no report of injury or loss of lives during the incident. “The Agency sympathises with those who lost goods, wares and property in the unfortunate incident.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com