The Managing Director, Drekford Global Concept Limited, Mr Daniel Oparinde, has called on the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria to re-assess the mortgage system to reflect the current economic realities in the country. He admonished the FMBN to increase the current N15m mortgage cap in view of the high cost of building materials in the country. Speaking on the rising cost of construction materials, the real estate developer argued that the federal mortgage system is no longer adequate to address the housing needs of Nigerians, stressing that the private sector should be involved in bridging the housing gap by providing attractive mortgages to citizens. Oparinde stated, “Gradually, the Nigerian mortgage system is getting better but the mortgage system needs to start working with the reality of the current prices of construction materials. It also needs to work with the reality of how much it costs to deliver home. “The cap, for example, is N15m. A decent apartment located within the city would cost more than N15m except the government is encouraging people to go to remote areas to own a home. Even at that, the high cost of building materials is eating a large chunk of the money. “I would be saying at this point that it is important that the Federal Mortgage Bank be looking at these factors and consider and reassess how much an individual could access when it comes to the Federal mortgage.” The Drekford boss recommended the involvement of the Central Bank of Nigeria in the housing sector, noting that the apex bank could encourage Primary Mortgage Institutions to offer mortgages to subscribers. “Let the CBN talk to these people so that they can regulate the interest rate. If the rate can come down to about 15 per cent or even single digit, then everybody would be able to access these loans and it becomes less burdensome on the Federal mortgage system,” he reasoned. Oparinde also advised interested subscribers to take a commercial mortgage which he said could offer an individual up to N100m over the N15m given by the FMBN. “The interest on a commercial mortgage may be high but the limit of what you can access is up to N100m. If you check out the rental value of the property you are trying to buy and the interest you are paying, the difference in interest rate is almost the same. If you can access a commercial mortgage, by all means, I encourage you to take it,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com