Leaders of the All Progressives Congress faction in Osun state backed by the Interior Minister, Rauf Aregbesola, have rejected calls that the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, should intervene in the crisis rocking the party in Osun State. The group made their rejection known in a rejoinder to an article titled, ‘Open letter to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu: The Osun calabash must not be broken ” written by one Akanni Omo Oba. The factional APC leaders, under the aegis of The Osun Progressives, explained that Tinubu is an interested party in the crisis and should not be allowed to be a judge. The PUNCH had reported that Aregbesola, a former Osun State Governor between 2010 and 2018, and Governor Gboyega Oyetola, who is seeking reelection, had been at loggerheads over the control of the APC organs in the state. How previous interventions failed The TOP leaders narrated how previous interventions by Tinubu, a leader of the party Bisi Akande, and APC at the national level failed. According to them, Baba Akande could not give a decisive way forward after one of their reconciliatory meetings. Part of the rejoinder read, “Some concerned members of the party approached the Governor to have a rethink about His actions and inactions against His predecessor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, the Governor did not yield. The issues were brought to the attention of Baba Bisi Akande, the former Governor of Osun, for resolutions. “Though Baba Bisi Akande called the two of them to a meeting. Strangely, Baba Akande was not decisive in his actions towards the Governor and the campaign of calumny against Aregbesola continues till date. “At a stage, to be specific, December 3, 2020, Asiwaju intervened at a meeting held at the Ila Orangun residence of Baba Bisi Akande, with Baba Akande, Governor Oyetola, and Ogbeni in attendance where resolutions were agreed. Sadly, the resolutions taken at that meeting were jettisoned and the leaders have not since then raised a finger.” They also claimed that the governor influenced the Caretaker Extraordinary and Convention Planning Committee of the APC sent to resolve the crisis within the Osun APC. “TOP then petitioned the National Secretariat in the form of an appeal and eventually the Appeal Committee came, they were equally compromised by the Governor, using his influence as a member of CECPC. “But one significant thing about the Appeal was during its sitting, known thugs from the Governor’s group came to disrupt the proceedings. However, seven leaders of TOP were arraigned before the magistrate court instead of arresting and prosecuting thugs. The case was eventually dismissed,” they said. ‘Osoba, Buhari can settle the political imbroglio’ They also alleged that Tinubu was taking sides with his brother, Oyetola, adding that the APC leader earlier sent emissaries to resolve the crisis. Part of the rejoinder said, “As the crisis continued, especially in relation to the party Congress, Tinubu, who was then away on a medical trip in London sent Alhaji Massari and Mallam Nuhu Ribadu to intervene in the matter. “We heard that Alhaji Massari delivered the message to Tinubu, and was told not to contact us again. Several efforts to reach Alhaji Massari since then have failed. “We appreciate the writer’s intervention by calling on Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to settle the political imbroglio in Osun and we acknowledge the political sagacity of our revered leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “However, in this case, it is very clear that Tinubu has had many opportunities and interventions in this issue but as an interested party, Tinubu lacks the necessary courage to speak the truth to his nephew/half-brother. It is painful to say, that our Tinubu has refused to ensure fairness between a tested loyalist and his nephew/half-brother to the detriment of our great party. “We want to say that, it is clear to everyone that the resolution of this crisis is in the overall best interest of our party at the State and National Levels. We believe the persons with the character to resolve this crisis fairly and inclusively are, Aremo Olusegun Osoba, acting on behalf of the president, national leadership of our great party or our dear and amiable President Muhammadu Buhari.” Among the TOP leaders who signed the rejoinder are Former Chairman, Alliance for Democracy and ex-Secretary to Osun State Government, Osun, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti; former Osun speaker, Najim Salam; Adelowo Adebiyi. Others are Osun APC factional leader, Rasaq Salinsile; Alhaji Issa Adesiji; Kolapo Alimi; Adelani Baderinwa; Nureni Adebisi; Mrs. Aina Ogundare and Akeem Olaoye. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com