The Coalition of Northern Youth for Good Governance has endorsed Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) in 2023. According to the group, at 56, Amaechi does not have the burden of old age-related health challenges associated with some aspirants. Addressing journalists in Abuja on Monday, the National Coordinator of the group, Bilal Dakiyak, said Amaechi is the best man to sustain President Buhari’s momentum of diversification and economic reform. He, however, called on Amaechi to waste no time by formally declaring his intention to contest for the top job in the country. He said, “The process for the selection and eventual election of this successor in the 2023 General Elections is already on. “For the purpose of continuity, the Coalition of Northern Youth for Good Governance has a preference that the All Progressive Congress continues its run in office. “That way Nigeria will not suffer losses that arise because of the government of different political party deciding not to press ahead with the policies and projects inaugurated by the outgoing government. It is on record that Nigeria has lost much to the lack of continuity in government. “We have consequently critically assessed the eminent Nigerians that have indicated their interest to contest for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and have zeroed in on the Honourable Minister of Transport, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi. “Mr. Rotimi Ameachi straddles the age divide as he is between those that are considered too old for the job or too young and inexplicably inexperienced. At 56 years, he is easily the connection between the youth and the older generation. As a bonus, while we concede that it is God that gives good health, Ameachi does not have the burden of old age-related health challenges that Nigerians are concerned about in some candidates. “Amaechi is a friend of the north in addition to having the right connection with the South-West, South-East and his south-south geo-political region. He is a fair-minded person and will be kind to all Nigerians, especially when he has repeatedly proven that has no religious discriminations.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com