The Ogun State Government, in partnership with the Federal Government, has commenced the distribution of free Corporate Affairs Commission certificates to over 6,500 successful Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. A statement by the state government said the MSMEs applied through the formalisation track of the MSMEs Survival Fund. The Governor, Dapo Abiodun, said his administration’s genuine commitment to providing economic support to MSMEs, especially the vulnerable, made the state key into the Federal Government’s survival fund towards increasing productivity and output of micro-enterprises. He said this during the symbolic presentation ceremony in Abeokuta to herald the distribution to beneficiaries drawn from 20 Local Government Areas of the state, according to the statement. Abiodun, represented by the Secretary to Ogun State Government, Mr Tokunbo Talabi, said the state had embarked on the distribution of grants to artisans and business owners in recent times but found out that a lot of business owners could have benefitted but for lack of business registration. “That is why we have put this together to facilitate your registration and create wealth for MSMEs especially those who cannot afford it,” he added. The governor assured small business owners and artisans that his administration would continue to leverage various economic reforms to create identity and provide platforms for branding and packaging that would make MSMEs’ products more accessible and acceptable in the world market. He called on the beneficiaries to seize the opportunity to educate and encourage other business owners around them to key into the policy towards engendering inclusive growth. The Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mrs Kikelomo Longe, said, “The distribution of the free CAC certificates was significant to the agenda of the Prince Dapo Abiodun-led administration.” According to her, the Formalisation Support Scheme is an initiative geared towards supporting vulnerable MSMEs to register their business name formally, reduce the adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and safeguard jobs. Longe said the over 6,500 certificates approved quota for Ogun State would be delivered to all the beneficiaries, saying the collection process continued until all selected entrepreneurs were attended to. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com