Justice Lewis Allagoa of the Federal High Court in Lagos, on Friday, granted bail in the sum of N20m to a defendant, Rosita Anyaso, charged with possession of 4.25kg cannabis. The defendant was arraigned on January 28 by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, on one count-charge bordering on drug trafficking. She had pleaded not guilty to the charge. In his ruling on Friday, the court granted the defendant bail in the sum of N20m with two sureties in like sum. The court also held that the sureties must be owners of verifiable landed properties within the court’s jurisdiction and adjourned the case until February 18, 2022 for trial. According to the charge, signed by the prosecutor, Mr Augustine Nwagu, the defendant was said to have committed the offence on November 30, 2021. The prosecutor alleged that she was arrested at the Lekki area of Lagos following a tip-off. According to him, the cannabis was found with the defendant when she was arrested, the News Agency of Nigeria reported. He said that the offence contravened Section 20(1) (c) of the NDLEA Act, Cap N30, Laws of the Federation 2004. The Act stipulates a penalty of life imprisonment for a person convicted of drug trafficking. In a related development, the court also admitted a man, Osakwe Evbuomwan, charged with alleged exportation of 1.55kg of tramadol to bail in the sum of N50m. In his ruling, Justice Allagoa held that “it is trite law that an accused person is presumed innocent, until proven guilty before a court of law,” adding that the defendant has shown that he would attend his trial. The judge also ordered the defendant to produce two sureties in like sum. He held that the sureties must be owners of verifiable landed properties within the court’s jurisdiction and a grade level 15 civil servant. He adjourned the case until February 18 for trial. Earlier, the NDLEA Counsel, Mr Augustine Nwagu, opposed the bail application filed on behalf of the defendant by his counsel, Chief Benson Ndakara, on the grounds that investigations were still ongoing. The NDLEA alleged that the defendant committed the offence on December 18, 2021, at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport. He said the defendant was arrested at the Gate ‘C’ departure hall of the Airport, during the outward clearance of passengers onboard an Ethiopian Airline flight. 