Nigerian sprinter Blessing Okagbare has hinted that she will be appealing the 10-year ban handed to her by the Disciplinary Tribunal of the Athletics Integrity Unit for doping Sunday PUNCH reports. The AIU in a statement on Friday stated that after the completion of investigations, it came to the conclusion that the 33-year-old had taken multiple prohibited substances, Okagbare was provisionally suspended at the Olympics after her blood samples returned positive for a banned substance – human growth hormone which led to her missing the 100 meters semi-final at the Olympics in Tokyo. The AIU had revealed that she had tested positive for the prohibited substance in an out-of-competition test on July 19, 2021. But on Friday, her 10-year ban was confirmed by the body. “The Disciplinary Tribunal has banned Nigerian sprinter Blessing Okagbare for a total of 10 years, five years for the presence and use of multiple prohibited substances and five years for her refusal to co-operate with the AIU’s investigation into her case,” part of the statement read. Reacting to the news of the ban, Okagbare in a Twitter post stated that her lawyers have been informed and are currently studying the document in order to determine their next line of action. “My attention has been drawn to the statement issued by the AIU regarding its disciplinary panel decision. My lawyers are currently studying it for our next line of action which we will inform you soon.” Okagbare, a celebrated sprinter in Nigeria won an Olympic bronze medal at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing in the long jump event. She has also achieved reasonable success in sprints. Okagbare, according to the AIU has 30 days to appeal the ban at the Court of Arbitration for sports. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com