Three days to the deadline, the All Progressives Congress has still not notified the Independent National Electoral Commission of its intention to hold its national convention which comes up on February 26, 2021. INEC National Commissioner for Voter Education and Publicity, Mr Festus Okoye, said this during a chat with The PUNCH on Tuesday. “The commission has not been notified of any convention,” said Okoye. The Electoral Act mandates all political parties to notify INEC of any planned convention at least 21 days before the event. With the party’s convention expected to come up on February 26, the APC has till February 5 to submit its notification. It remains unclear why the ruling party has yet to do so. Attempts to get a response from the party proved abortive as the Secretary of the APC Caretaker Committee, John Akpanudoedehe, did not respond to an inquiry on Tuesday evening. The Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led peace committe,e which was set up to reconcile warring factions in over 13 states, had while submitting its interim report on Monday, pleaded for a one-week extension to complete its work. The party has been engaged in crisis in several states including Osun, Ogun, Kwara, Zamfara, Delta, Bauchi, Akwa Ibom, Oyo, Kaduna, Rivers and Benue where there are factions. A crisis has also recently cropped up in Kebbi State. We are not aware of any inauguration of APC executive – Ogun, Kwara police Also,  Ogun State Police command says it has not been informed on the proposed inauguration of state executive council by the APC scheduled for Thursday (tomorrow). The Police Public Relations Officer in the state , DSP, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said this on Tuesday while responding to  questions  from one of our correspondents in Abeokuta. Oyeyemi said “we are not aware of any inauguration . But, once we are aware we will ensure adequate security of lives and property.” The Kwara State Police Command also said that it had yet to be informed of the inauguration of the state Executive Committee of the APC The Spokesperson for  the Command, Ajayi Okasanmi said that the Command had not been be informed of the inauguration by the party. He said, “The state police command has not been informed of any activity or inauguration of the APC executive committee. We are ready to maintain peace in the state but as at now, we have not been informed. I will call you back when we receive such information.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com