The Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, has reiterated that education remained one of the top priorities of his administration, adding that he will not relent in ensuring that the sector is given the best. He said since the inception of his administration, no fewer than 600 schools had been renovated to enhance the standard of learning of pupils in the Sunshine State. Akeredolu stated this while speaking at the diamond jubilee celebration of Akoko Anglican Grammar School in Arigidi-Akoko, Akoko North-West Local Government Area of Ondo State. The event was organised by the old students association of the school. The governor said, “This school has produced many great men; this ceremony is meant to mark a great milestone. “We have renovated over 600 schools. I don’t believe in mega schools, though I am not condemning it, at least the one in Owo is useful for the polytechnic. I believe in the renovation of schools. We have touched over 600 schools in Ondo State “We are committed to tackling infrastructural deficit in Ondo State. However, funding is a big problem but we will continue to do our best.” Akeredolu commended the old students of the school for face-lifting some dilapidated classrooms in the school, saying the 60th anniversary had heralded a new dawn. In his remarks, one of the old students of the school and Minister for Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, hailed the Ondo State Government for the rehabilitation of moribund structures on the premises. He also described Akeredolu as a committed servant of the people. The former governor of Osun State said aside from the state government’s timely intervention, the removal of structural defects in the school was solely done by the old students. He urged other old students to give back by partaking in the uplift of the alma mater. The National President of the old students association, Adewole Saba, amplified the gestures of Aregbesola as he disclosed that the minister had single-handedly renovated most of the school buildings. “One of us rose to become a minister in the country and some rose to become permanent secretaries in the federal and state governments. I thank God for all these achievements,” he applauded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com