Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, on Wednesday, expressed worries over what he called palpable mindlessness that accompany the get-rich syndrome in the state. The governor said he was traumatised over the involvement of the youths in the act, declaring that measures would be put in place to nip the menace in the bud The governor said this while presenting staff of office to the newly crowned Orimolusi of Ijebu Igbo, Oba Lawrence Jaiyeoba Adebajo . The governor sought the support of traditional rulers in the state to curb the menace. He said “I am always traumatised beyond words when I hear of our youth’s involvement in the spate of killings and dismembering of human beings for ritual purposes. I am particularly scandalised these young ones – teenagers – are being fingered as perpetrators of these dastardly acts. “Let me use this opportunity to solicit the support of our Traditional Rulers, Parents, Teachers, Heads of Various Institutions of Learning, Community leaders, Religious leaders and indeed all of us, to always preach and act as a good moral compass and mentors to our children and youths. “Money should not be the sole determinant of success. Integrity should count more. But, let me also warn that we shall deal decisively with anyone involved in any heinous crime in accordance with the relevant laws. “There is no compromise on this. Ogun State is known over the years for being at the vanguard of ‘Omoluabi’ ethos. I wonder when this malady l became the norm! “Let our elders, parents, and guardians do their own to inculcate the right attitude into their wards to help the moral fibre of our society. We all owe it a duty to stop this scourge by whatever legal means possible. I can assure you that we will fight this menace with everything at our disposal. We will not be identified by this notoriety. “Our culture frowns at this and we must bring propriety back into the psyche of the children who we will leave the future behind for. For us, we have emplaced security measures in schools and all the villages, hamlets, and towns to ensure zero-tolerance for ritualists. “We will trail them, apprehend them, investigate them and make them serve as examples for those harbouring such sinister routes to wealth acquisition”, Abiodun submitted. While admonishing the new monarch, Abiodun urged him to champion all efforts that will enhance peaceful co-existence with other royal fathers within Ijebu Igbo and its environs. He enjoined him to be accessible, receptive, and responsive to the yearnings of his people in order to justify the mandate and trust reposed in him by the Ogun State Government “I know that the new Orimolusi of Ijebu-Igbo possesses the requisite skillsets, experience, and exposure required to steer the ship of Ijebu-Igbo. Let us, therefore, see today’s ceremony as an opportunity to come together and move Ijebu-Igbo, Ijebuland, and, by extension, the entire state, towards attaining more socio-economic development. “Kabiyesi, as a father, you are expected to be accessible, receptive, and responsive to the yearnings of your subjects at all times. You are to note Kabiyesi that you should continue to champion all efforts that will enhance peaceful co-existence with other Royal fathers within Ijebu Igbo and its environs in order to justify the mandate and trust reposed in you by Ogun State Government. “Kabiyesi, by your appointment, you have become a member of the Ijebu Traditional Council and Permanent Member representing Ijebu Traditional Council at the Ogun State Council of Obas. Kabiyesi, I urge you to regard this appointment as a call to greater duty and responsibility. “I implore you to extend magnanimity in victory to all and sundry in Ijebu-Igbo and reconcile all contending parties.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com