The Anambra State chapter of the All Progressives Congress said it would drag its candidate in the 2021 governorship election, Senator Andy Uba, and the factional Chairman of the party, Basil Ejidike, to court. The party stated this during a press briefing on Wednesday, noting that Uba and Ejidike conducted a state congress in contravention of a state High Court judgment stopping them from conducting it. The state Secretary of the party, Mr Chukwuma Agufugo, and other stakeholders dismissed Uba as the leader of the party in the state, and affirmed the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, as the authentic leader. Agufugo accused the faction led by Uba and Ejidike of conducting the state congress in contravention of the High Court judgment and an Appeal Court order, which sacked Ejidike and installed a former Chairman of the party, Emeka Ibe. Agufugo said, “The APC in Anambra State is under siege. Some anti-democratic forces have taken over the party in the state, but we will not allow them. “We hold this press conference today to dispel some information that enemies of the party have been dishing out to unsuspecting members of the public. The problem of the party started during the last governorship primary election, which was meant to elect and not select a flag bearer.” He stated that it was unfortunate that Uba sidelined every other aspirant of the party to impose himself as the flag bearer, leading to a woeful outing by the APC in the governorship election. Agufugo said, “That election registered a very devastating outcome and it is the worst election our party ever had since 2013 when the party was formed. The truth is that those who led the party to such a poor outing should have long resigned, but they still carry on, purporting to be leaders of the party. “They ignored the resolution of the party to install Emeka Ibe as chairman and blatantly refused to obey the Appeal Court order, which removed Ejidike and installed Emeka Ibe. Our members, who instituted that court case, are here, and we have advised them to go to court and apply for forms 48 and 49 against both Andy Uba and Basil Ejidike. “The law is no respecter of man; they have run afoul of the order of court and that is contempt; they must pay for it.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com