The COVID-19 pandemic could reverse decades of global progress in stamping out Female Genital Mutilation, United Nations agencies warn ahead of the International Day to eliminate the harmful practice. International Day of Zero Tolerance for FGM is a UN-sponsored annual awareness day that takes place on Feb. 6 as part of the UN’s efforts to eradicate female genital mutilation. In his message for the International Day, UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, underscored that FGM, which is a “lagrant manifestation of gender inequality, must be stopped”. He urged people everywhere to join UN efforts to end FGM and uphold the human rights of all women and girls. “With urgent investments and timely action, we can meet the Sustainable Development Goals target of eliminating female genital mutilation by 2030 and build a world that respects women’s integrity and autonomy,” he urged. Shuttered schools, lockdowns and disruption to services that protect girls, have put millions worldwide at increased risk of being subjected to FGM. This means an additional two million girls could be affected by 2030, according to the UN children’s agency, UNICEF, resulting in a 33 per cent reduction in global efforts toward eradication. “We are losing ground in the fight to end female genital mutilation, with dire consequences for millions of girls where the practice is most prevalent,” Nankali Maksud, UNICEF Senior Advisor, Prevention of Harmful Practices said. Maksud added, “When girls are not able to access vital services, schools and community networks, their risk of female genital mutilation significantly increases – threatening their health, education and future.” In marking the 2022 International Day of Zero Tolerance for FGM, UN agencies are appealing for stronger action to uphold the human rights, health and integrity of women and girls. At least 200 million across the world today have undergone FGM, which refers to all procedures that involve altering or injuring the female genitalia for non-medical reasons. FGM is mostly carried out on young girls between infancy and age 15, according to the World Health Organisation and for a variety of cultural and social reasons which vary from region to region.