The Enugu State Government has invited leaders of transport unions, including tricycles, motorcycles, and trucks in the state for a security meeting on Tuesday following last week’s ban on their operations. The government had on Friday banned the operations of tricycles, motorcycles, and trucks in all the communities in Nkanu East and Nkanu West local government areas of the state. The ban also extended to the neighbouring communities of Amechi Uno, Amechi Awkunanaw, Amechi Uwani, Obeagu Main, Obeagu Uno, Centenary City/Obunagu, Obeagu, One Day, Garki, Akwuke, Ugwuaji, Ndiagu Onunyo, Maryland, and Ikiriki, all in Enugu South Local Government Area. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Information, Steve Oruruo, announced the meeting in a statement titled, ‘Gov. Ugwuanyi invites Enugu State leaders of Tricycle, Tipper, Motorcycle unions to a security meeting on Tuesday’, on Sunday. The statement reads: “The leaderships of the following Associations are hereby invited to a security meeting with His Excellency, the Governor of Enugu State, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, on Tuesday, 1st March 2022, at Government House, Enugu. “Association of Tricycle Riders Transport Union (ATRTU) Enugu State. “Enugu State Tipper Union. “Motorcycle Transport Union of Enugu State: Nkanu East and Nkanu West Local Government Branches. “All invitees to this meeting are expected to be seated by 2:45 pm on Tuesday, the 1st of March, 2022, at the Government House, Enugu.” The PUNCH had earlier reported that the Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu Nigeria, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, condemned the decision of Governor Ugwuanyi to ban the operations of motorcycles popularly known as Okada, tricycle, and tipper-truck in three local government areas of the state. The Catholic priest claimed the governor took the decision without thinking of the consequences of the ban and its effect on the poor. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com