The Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, has promised medical doctors and other health workers that his administration would review and approve improved welfare and salaries packages befitting of their services. He gave the assurance during his visit, alongside Senator Kashim Shettima, to the border town of Gamboru in Ngala Local Government Area, where they undertook humanitarian responses, from Sunday to Tuesday. This was contained in a statement by his spokesman, Isa Gusau, on Tuesday, titled, ‘Two days in Gamboru: Zulum, Shettima share food, cash to 60,803 returnees’. The governor who visited the General Hospital in Ngala town, and a primary healthcare centre in Gamboru town, after coordinating humanitarian responses, appreciated the health workers for their sacrifice and selflessness. While interacting with medical doctors, Zulum announced that he will approve salaries that will match International NGOs payment plans attracting doctors to operate in Ngala. Earlier, Zulum and Shettimah supervised the distribution of food and non-food items to a combined number of 60,813 internally displaced persons in camps and those resettled in communities. Zulum and Shettima traveled with the Member of House of Representatives representing Ngala, Bama, Kala-Balge Federal Constituency, Dr. Zainab Gimba, Commissioners for Reconstruction, Rehabilitation, and Resettlement (RRR), Engr. Mustapha Gubio, Agriculture, Engr. Bukar Talba, and Poverty Alleviation, Nuhu Clark, a number of humanitarian workers, officials, and some APC chieftains. They were received on arrival by some key stakeholders of Ngala LGA comprising the member of the State Assembly representing Ngala, Bukar Mustapha Dalhatu, Commissioner of Religious Affairs, Abacha Umar Ngala, Special Adviser, AbdulRahman AbdulKarim, and Special Adviser on Events and Hospitality, Bintu Sheriff. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com