Suspected terrorists in separate attacks killed seven persons at Kuriga, along the Birnin Gwari-Kaduna highway, in Kaduna State. A pupil of Government Science Secondary School, Birnin-Gwari, was reported to have escaped with a bullet wound on his way to register for Joint Admission Matriculations Board’s Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination in the state capital. This was contained in a statement issued by the Birnin Gwari Vanguard for Security and Good Governance and signed by its Chairman, Ibrahim Nagwari, in Kaduna on Saturday. The statement added that three other people escaped with mild wounds, while 57 persons were abducted by the bandits. The statement titled, ‘One student of Science School, Birnin-Gwari travelling for JAMB registration attacked, seven others killed on separate attacks,’ read, “The nightmare of armed banditry along Birnin-Gwari-Kaduna highway has further deteriorated in the last 24 hours. Today(Saturday) around 10am, a final-year pupil of Science Secondary School Birnin-Gwari escaped with bullet wounds on his shoulder while on his way for the JAMB -UTME registration in Kaduna. “The dreadful armed bandits sprayed bullets on the vehicle conveying the pupil and others at Manini village after Kuriga along Birnin-Gwari Kaduna Highway. The student is awaiting surgery for the removal of the bullet in his shoulder at Jibrin Maigwari General Hospital in Birnin-Gwari. “Similarly, armed bandits killed seven people at Unguwar Bula, Unguwar Dafillo and Ijinga in Randagi district, Birnin-Gwari on Saturday. The bandits on motor circles numbering fifty attacked the communities around eleven O’clock in the morning on Friday and lasted for four hours, preventing people from conducting Juma’at prayers.” As of the time of filing this report, neither the state nor the state police command had confirmed the attacks. When contacted, the spokesman of the command, ASP Mohammad Jalige, neither returned our correspondent’s call nor responded to the text message.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com