The police in Lagos have arrested two suspected cult members at separate locations in the state, recovering a stolen Hilux pick-up and a locally-made gun with live ammunition. City Round learnt that one of the suspects, one 32-year-old Adekunle Ojo, was apprehended on January 30 by a police patrol team attached to the Epe division while driving the van along Epe-Ijebu-Ode Road. The team was said to have been alerted to the stealing shortly after the vehicle belonging to a construction company in Epe was stolen from where it was parked. Ojo had reportedly used a ‘master key’ to steal the vehicle. A police report obtained by our correspondent stated that the suspect had perpetrated the act in connivance with other accomplices still at large. It stated, “Realising that the game was up, the suspect tried to escape but was promptly arrested and the vehicle recovered from him. Investigation has revealed that the suspect and cohorts have stolen several other vehicles using the same modus operandi. Investigation also revealed that the arrested suspect is a member of the deaded Aiye Confraternity gang responsible for terrorising innocent members of the public in Epe and its environs.” In another development, an alleged member of Aiye Confraternity, one Ejiofor Apeh, 27, was reportedly arrested in the Trinity area of the state with a locally-made cut-to-size single-barreled gun and one live cartridge. He allegedly confessed that his gang was planning an attack on Buccaneer Confraternity, a rival cult group, when he was nabbed on January 28. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, CSP Adekunle Ajisebutu, who confirmed the two arrests to our correspondent, said the Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, had directed that Ojo’s case be transferred to the Special Squad of the command for further investigation. He added, “Consequent upon his (Apeh’s) arrest, the CP immediately directed that the suspect should be properly investigated with a view to arresting other members of his gang. The two suspects will be charged upon conclusion of investigations.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com