Infidelity is a major challenge in many relationships and entertainers have had their fair share of such experiences. Saturday Beats takes a look at some celebs who have been involved in infidelity scandals 9ice Siinger, Abolore Akande, aka 9ice, was caught cheating on his wife, Olasukanmi, in 2020 and unsurprisingly, the news made its way to social media. Soon after, the singer made a video apologising to his wife for his unwholesome conduct. He described his behaviour as ‘terrible and shameful’. He said, “I apologise for what I have done and I need you guys to help me beg my wife. She is my backbone. That 9ice you always see that brings out the best in our culture and tradition is because I have a backbone. I apologise for my wrongdoing and I need you guys to help me beg my wife.” Evidently, the ‘Gongo Aso’ crooner has since reconciled with his wife as they recently welcomed their second child. Sammie Okposo Gospel singer, Sammie Okposo, got entangled with a lady simply identified as African Doll, during his tour of the United States of America in 2021. Consequently, the lady got pregnant and she claimed that the singer asked her to abort the baby, which she refused to do. She went on to give an interview where she gave details of what transpired between her and the ‘Wellu Wellu’ singer. Subsequently, Okposo took to his Instagram page to inform his fans of what happened. The post read in part, “On my recent trip to the USA, late 2021, I got intimately involved with a lady, knowing that this was not appropriate as a married man and a minister of the gospel. I am ashamed and regret my actions as it has caused a lot of pain to my dear wife, Ozioma, my family and I.” The singer later deactivated his Instagram and Twitter accounts as he was heavily criticised for his action. However, he is back on social media, making posts about his ‘redemption’. He also celebrated his wife on Valentine’s Day. TeeBillz Tunji Balogun, aka TeeBillz, the former husband and manager of singer, Tiwa Savage, was accused of infidelity in 2016 while he was still married to the singer. Savage alleged that TeeBillz was having a relationship with an unknown woman. She said, “I was sleeping and somebody was calling him (TeeBillz). He saved the number as ‘Edible caterer’, I wondered why a catering service would be calling him at 2am. I picked up the phone and went through it. I saw a long WhatsApp conversation with the same person saying, ‘Can we meet at the hotel’? “I woke him up and asked what was going on. I asked him if it happened on our bed, he said it was in a hotel. I asked him if he took another woman to a hotel and he said ‘yes’, but that nothing happened. What hurt me the most was that this happened when I was in a hospital in Jamaica. He was busy in a hotel while I was in the hospital and he couldn’t find out what happened to me. At this point, I packed my stuff and took my son to a friend’s house.” Meanwhile, Teebillz also accused Tiwa Savage of infidelity. In a Twitter rant, he claimed that she had affairs with Don Jazzy, 2Baba and Dr Sid. Both parties have since moved on. Uzoamaka Ohiri Uzoamaka Ohiri, the ex-wife of actor and comedian, Chinedu Emmanuel, aka Nedu, was accused of infidelity in 2021. Nedu stated that he had to carry out paternity tests on his children as a result of that. This was after Uzoamaka accused him of physical assault. Nedu said, “Our marriage was one plagued with a lot of issues. One of which was continuous infidelity from her side that made me conduct paternity tests on our kids, which led to the revelation that our first child is not my biological son, even though he was born during our marriage.” Reacting, Uzoamaka stated that if she knew another man was the father of the child, she wouldn’t have claimed it was Nedu’s son. She said, “I was seeing someone before Nedu. He (Nedu) was on the side disturbing me. He had invited me a couple of times (but) I turned him down. After the relationship ended, Nedu and I met up. “Along the line, I found out I was pregnant. If I knew my first child was not for him, I wouldn’t have married him.” Toyin Abraham and Adeniyi Johnson Actress, Toyin Abraham, and her ex-husband, Adeniyi Johnson, had a messy break up in 2015, as they accused each other of infidelity. Recall that in August 2015, Toyin had filed for divorce, citing infidelity on Niyi’s part. However, in an interview, Niyi also claimed that Toyin cheated on him. He said, “I was accused of cheating. I heard and read a lot (but) till now, (there is) no evidence. The Internet never forgets. Seun Egbegbe said in an interview that as of May 31, he started seeing Toyin, yet we still celebrated our wedding anniversary in July.” In another interview, Johnson said, “Ignorant people think I cheated on my ex-wife, Toyin Abraham, with her colleague, Seyi Edun. The truth is that Seyi used to follow me to the lady I dated after my divorce, not knowing she would end up being my wife.” Oritsefemi Singer, Oritsefemi Ekele, aka Oritsefemi was accused by his wife, Nabila Fash, of cheating in early 2021. Nabila had written on Instagram, “Whoever the imbecile is that went to my house while I was at work to have sex, you need to identify yourself. On a Monday morning, when people are out to look for daily bread, (to) some people, it is sex that is their problem. In his response, Oritsefemi swore that he never cheated on his wife. He wrote on Instagram, “If I had sex yesterday with anybody, let me die untimely.” Janemena Dancer and Instagram influencer, Jane Orezimena, aka Janemena, was accused of sleeping with actress, Tonto Dike’s ex-lover, Joseph Egbri, aka Prince Kpokpogri. However, Janemena denied the accusation and filed a lawsuit against the actress, demanding N500m for alleged libel. But, an audio recording later surfaced, with someone, identified as Kpokpogri, boasting that he had had sex with Jane, even more than her husband. But, an audio recording later surfaced, with someone, identified as Kpokpogri, boasting that he had had sex with Jane, even more than her husband. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com