The Management of Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company Plc says the Oyo State Government has illegally sealed off its offices following the disconnection of electricity supply to the State Secretariat which also houses the Governor’s Office. The electricity distribution company said the state owes it N450 million and it disconnected supply to the State Secretariat over its failure to pay but the company said the state, through its officials, retaliated by sealing its offices over some contrived debts. This was contained in a statement signed by the Chief Operating Officer, John Ayodele, on Wednesday and made available to our correspondent by the Lead, Media Relations of IBEDC, Busolami Tunwase. The company said the state government claimed IBEDC is owing revenue bills and personal income hence the action, but Ayodele said this claim is quite suspicious. Ayodele explained that the company, as part of efforts to get the outstanding paid, initiated several engagements through correspondences and physical meetings, but all these efforts yielded no positive result. The statement reads, “The management of IBEDC hereby informs its esteemed customers of the retaliatory and illegal action of the Oyo State Government over the issue of its huge indebtedness. “The Oyo State Government on Wednesday 9 February 2022 commenced the sealing of our offices within the state over some suddenly contrived debts labelled revenue bills and personal income without due notification. “This issue of revenue bills and personal income arising now is quite suspicious. “Oyo State Government is owing IBEDC a whooping consumption outstanding of N450 million for over a period of three years. “No business in this country can run successfully with such a huge outstanding, the power we distribute to customers must be accounted for and paid for, we have no choice but to disconnect the Oyo State Secretariat, so it is worrisome to see that the government has sealed off our offices with this underhand and arm twisting tactics, instead of paying the debt owed. “This was not done in good faith and it would have a damaging effect on the business and service delivery to our customers.” Ayodele appealed to the State Governor, Seyi Makinde, to look into the matter in the interest of all concerned as this would further exacerbate the power challenges and pressure on residents and commercial activities within the state. He said IBEDC engages in essential services to the public, and the effect of this arm twisting tactic can at best be imagined if not quickly arrested. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com