The crisis rocking Delta State over governorship zoning has taken another dimension as a group has called for ethnic nationalities confab to resolve the crisis. The political pressure group, Deltans Live Matter, insisted that Delta Central Senatorial district must not start the assumed zoning of the second round of the governorship seat, since there was no defined order or sequence in 1999 when Delta Central took the first shot of the seat. The Coordinator of the group, Moses Abeh, stated this on Tuesday in Asaba while reacting to the crisis rocking the state on the zoning of the governorship seat. He said, “We believe in zoning based on good conscience and morality. Any of the Zones can start this second round since there was no defined order or sequence in 1999 when Delta Central took the first shot. “In 1999, Delta Central took the first shot; it is not mandatory as of right that it must take the first shot again. Our submission on this first option is that the governorship seat is open to all the Zones. “The zone that took the last shot deserves to begin the second round. The reason is obvious: Delta North waited for 16 years (18 years unofficially, plus two years of Chief Ibru inclusively). “Delta South was second in the first round. It is not out of place for it to take the first shot in the second round. It must not be Delta central.” He canvassed for ethnic nationalities confab to give an opportunity for stakeholders to discuss the burning issue of zoning the governorship seat in the interest of Deltans. He added that people are aware of how Delta Central aggressively contested the governorship primaries against Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan (South) in 2006 and Dr Ifeanyi Okowa (North) in 2014 in a bid to take power. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com