Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested five suspected cultists for allegedly killing a policeman, Akeem Oseni. The suspects, who were said to have been on the wanted list of the command, were arrested on Tuesday in their hideout along the Molipa Road, Ijebu-Ode, while planning another attack. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, in a statement on Sunday, identified the suspects as Segun Olabiyi, Musa Atanda, Olorunjuedalo Adewale, Olamide Odewole and Peter Akinyemi. He noted that the men were arrested following information received by policemen attached to the Obalende divisional headquarters, Ijebu-Ode. Oyeyemi said the police were told that the hoodlums, who were members of the Aiye Confraternity, were gathering in groups at the back of De Prime Hotel in preparation for an attack. “Upon the information, the DPO, Obalende division, SP Salami Murphy, mobilised his men and headed for the scene. “On sighting the policemen, the hoodlums engaged them in a gun battle, but they were subdued by the superior firepower of the policemen, which eventually led to the arrest of five among them, while others escaped with bullet injuries. “Recovered at the scene of the encounter were one locally-made shotgun, two live cartridges and assorted criminal charms. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspects were actively involved in various cult clashes that had claimed many lives, including that of a serving policeman, Sgt Akeem Oseni, attached to Igbeba division. “Their trademark, according to their confession, is to cut off the right hand of their victims after killing them. “They also confessed to have been involved in some robbery operations in Ijebu-Ode and its environs and that one of their prominent leaders, simply known as Perth, was killed in one of the robbery operations,” the police spokesman added. The PPRO said the Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole,  applauded the professional performance of his men and directed that the suspects be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com