Globally renowned Barbadian singer, Rihanna Fenty, broke the internet on Monday when the news of her pregnancy emerged, together with photos she took with her lover and American rapper, A$AP Rocky. The duo was photographed in Harlem as Rihanna displayed her baby bump in loved-up photos with A$AP Rocky, to mark black history month. Shortly after the announcement, rumours emerged that popular Canadian rapper, Drake, who once dated Rihanna in 2009, had unfollowed the singer on Instagram following the news of the pregnancy. The rumour began when a Twitter user, identified as The Pop Tingzz shared a screenshot that Drake had unfollowed Rihanna, as the pregnancy buzz was still intense on the internet. “Drake unfollowed Rihanna and A$AP Rocky on Instagram,” the tweet read. See tweet below:  The tweet became viral, which led people to believe that it was actually true. However, that wasn’t the case as Drake had earlier unfollowed Rihanna a few years ago. For almost four years now, Drake has not followed Rihanna on Instagram. According to HiTC, the Canadian rapper unfollowed the Diamonds singer after the latter expressed her displeasure over an event that occurred at the 2016 MTV Awards. Drake had publicly revealed that he had been in love with Rihanna, who was his then ex-girlfriend, while presenting the iconic Vanguard Award to her. “She’s someone I’ve been in love with since I was 22 years old. She’s one of my best friends in the world,” he had said. Speaking in an interview with Vogue in 2018, Rihanna stated that she felt “uncomfortable” about Drake’s speech at the award ceremony two years ago, stating that she didn’t like being “put on blast”. Clearing the air on their relationship, Rihanna had said, “We don’t have a friendship now, but we’re not enemies either. It is what it is.” Confirming the end of their friendship, Drake unfollowed Rihanna on Instagram shortly after the interview and had not followed her back since then. Rumours have also flooded the internet that Drake also unfollowed A$AP Rocky after the news of the pregnancy. Though Drake may not be on good terms with Rihanna, he had never revealed any form of dislike for A$AP Rocky as they follow each other on Instagram. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com