A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress and Adviser to Governor Bello Matawalle on Inter-Governmental Affairs, Sani Shinkafi, tells MAIHARAJI ALTINE that security challenge in Zamfara State was inherited by the governor The PDP has called on Governor Bello Matawalle to resign due to  the security challenge affecting the state. What is your comment on this? The 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended has clearly stated how agovernor can resign his position, how he can be impeached, how he can be declared incapacitated or how the House of Assembly can as well pass vote of no confidence in him and impeach him with two-third majority. So, if the PDP leadership in the state is calling for the governor’s resignation or removal, for what reason? They said he has failed as a governor to restore peace in the state. He was also accused of non-performance in the area of projects execution. If I can refresh your memory, the deputy governor who is still with the PDP is still the deputy governor of the state under Matawalle’s government as enshrined in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria because they were elected together on the same platform. So, if automatically the PDP is accusing the governor of non-performance or unable to solve the security problem, it means both the governor and his deputy have failed at the same time. Also, if the governor has performed wonderfully, it means both he and his deputy have performed wonderfully together. To my greatest surprise, both the Chairman of the PDP, Colonel Bala Mande (retd.), the Deputy Governor, Aliyu Gusau, and the Deputy Chairman of the PDP, Kabiru Jabaka, were in Governor Matawalle’s government. Bala Mande was the Chief of Staff at the Government House, Gusau, while Kabiru Jabaka was the immediate past chairman of the state Zakat and Endowment Board. The PDP secretary, Faruku Rijiya, was also with Governor Matawalle before the governor defected to the APC. So, I wonder why these politicians are deceiving the people of the state. Who is fooling who? If the so-called PDP officials in the state were also PDP officials of yesterday who have been with Governor Matawalle before his defection to APC, I wonder what motivated them to call for his removal now simply because they are no more in the same political party. What type of politics is this? If the governor has not performed, I think they have failed together and if the governor has performed very well, they have also succeeded together because they were together for more than two years under the PDP. What about the issue of insecurity that the PDP said nothing tangible had been done to stop killing and kidnapping of people’? Don’t forget the fact that the governor inherited security challenges from the past administration of former AbdulAziz Yari. Don’t forget that there were persistent kidnapping, killings and cattle rustling before Matawalle took over. But when he came on board, he instituted peace dialogue with the bandits. Some of them accepted the dialogue and repented, while other bandits refused to repent and the governor went ahead to apply military action against them. So, when the governor came on board, he applied both kinetic and non-kinetic approaches. Those who accepted the dialogue were incorporated into the society and those who rejected it were fought through military action. The seeds of insecurity were planted by Yari. This is not time to apportion blame; it is time to end the insecurity problem in the state. It is very unfortunate that somebody who has been in the government for two years is now castigating the governor for non-performance. They should also know that when the governor came on board, he inherited a lot of liabilities running into N400bn. Budget-facilitated support loans from pensions that were supposed to be remitted to pension administrators running into billions of naira which were not remitted by the past administration. Value Added Tax which was supposed to be remitted to the Federal Inland Revenue was not remitted. Local contractors were not paid. There were also more than N67bn commercial banks’ loans. All these loans are tied down to the state government’s monthly statutory allocation. So, the Federal Ministry of Finance in collaboration with the CBN deducts more than N1.8bn from the state government’s monthly statutory allocation and the governor will end up getting money for payment of salary only. And if he is lucky enough, he will end up with only N90m. What are you talking about when there is a backlog of pension arrears and gratuities left by the previous administration, when the former governor had misused the money for excess crude oil and that of the Paris Club? The PDP is also saying that since the governor defected to the APC, he should as well vacate his seat. How do you view this? There are many people who want Governor Matawalle lose his seat. Those trying to unseat the governor have forgotten that God gave give him the mandate. They also forgot the rules of the federation. God has destined Matawalle to be the governor of Zamfara State and nobody can stop that because it is his destiny. That is what I want them to understand. So, unless and until the constitution is amended and a clause is inserted to say that “if the governor defects to another party, he will lose his seat and his deputy will take over”. It has clearly shown that the PDP members are ignorant of the Nigerian Constitution. How do you see your chances of winning in 2023 going by the crisis that has created three factions in your party? A layman who does not know the happenings in Zamfara State can categorise the APC as having three factions. But somebody who knows the rule of law, who is law-abiding and who knows what is called court judgement knows that there is only one APC in Zamfara State. The Federal High Court in Gusau, the Zamfara State capital, has declared that the APC in the state has no faction and there is only one leadership recognised by the national headquarters of the party; it is that of Alhaji Tukur Maikatako with his executive members. So, anybody talking of factions in Zamfara State like Yari faction, Marafa faction or Matawalle faction is just trying to play with the people’s intelligence. In reality, there is no faction in Zamfara State APC because the court has delivered judgement in favour of APC members loyal to Governor Mattawale. On the issue of 2023 elections, it is only God who knows who will be the governor. They are only wasting their time. What will happen in Zamfara State is clear. You know it and I also know it because we know the incumbency plays a big role in the politics of Zamfara State, unless somebody doesn’t know the intrigues of politics in Zamfara State. Even if you have money and you think you can manoeuvre your way, it is not possible. You can understand that all those who matter in the political configuration of Zamfara State are now with Governor Matawalle. The two-time governor of the state, Alhaji Sani Yarima Bakura, a one-time governor, Alhaji Mahmuda Shinkafi, all the former speakers of the state House of Assembly who served from 1999 to date are now with Governor Matawalle.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com