American socialite and business mogul, Kim Kardashian, has revealed the reason behind her divorce. Gracing the cover of Vogues’s March 2022 issue, Kardashian talked about how she qas charting the new waters of life as a co-parent, businesswoman and Law student. While she has been mostly quiet about her relationship with her estranged husband, Kanye West, Kim shed more light on the reason she was parting ways with the father of her children. In the interview with Jen Wang, Kim stated that she was unapologetically “choosing” herself and making herself happy even though this comes at the cost of her marriage. “For so long, I did what made other people happy. And I think in the last two years I decided, I’m going to make myself happy. And that feels really good. “And even if that created changes and caused my divorce, I think it’s important to be honest with yourself about what really makes you happy. I’ve chosen myself. I think it’s okay to choose you,” she said. The 41-year-old billionaire said her forties will be about being “Team Me.” “I’m going to eat well. I’m going to work out. I’m going to have more fun, spend more time with my kids and the people who make me happy. I’m going to put my phone down. Unfollow if I don’t want to see something on Instagram,” she said. Speaking on co-parenting, Kim who shares four kids with West said despite their rocky relationship, she tries always show him in the best light to their children. In her words, “You could be so hurt or angry at your ex, but I think in front of the kids, it always has to be ‘Your dad’s the best’. Make sure you are your co-parent’s biggest cheerleader, no matter what you’re personally going through.” The reality TV star also confessed that while her divorce felt liberating, a part of her was scared as to what the future holds, especially in the fashion world where her husband had been her major influence. “I always think, What will be next? Because I always had Kanye, who knew exactly what the next fashion era would be for me. And there’s something scary about being out there on your own, but also something so liberating,” she said. Reacting to the interview, Kanye West, now legally known as Ye, shared a picture of Kim and the kids on Instagram, and pleaded that the family be reunited. “God please bring our family back together,” he wrote in the caption. While the couple have seemingly moved on with new partners after their split in February 2021, West has repeatedly and publicly made it known that he wants his wife back. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com