The Bureau of Public Enterprises announced on Friday that it would execute 42 transactions in five different sectors of the economy in 2022. The BPE said the National Council on Privatisation, chaired by the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, had approved its 2022 workplan, according to a statement by the Head of Public Communications, Ibeh Chidi. The statement said the NCP also approved the revenue expenditure of the bureau. It said, “The transactions are 11 in the energy sector, 10 in the industries and services sector, eight in the agriculture and natural services sector and 13 in the infrastructure and public-private partnership sector. “Rising from its first meeting for year 2022 at the presidential villa, after its inauguration last week, council also approved 2022 revenue and expenditure of the bureau including the 2022 workplan risks and mitigation plans.” The BPE said it always carried out a postmortem review of its activities and achievements at the end of every year. It said the BPE also prepared a detailed workplan containing the deliverables and the cost and revenue estimates for the incoming year for consideration and approval by the NCP. “The workplan provides the framework for tracking the implementation and realisation of the approved projects contained therein. It is a compendium of the various projects and reform initiatives which the BPE intends to carry out in 2022,” it said. The bureau also said the Senate Committee on Public Accounts, chaired by Senator Mathew Urhohide, had described allegations of financial impropriety against it by the Office of the Auditor-General of the Federation as spurious. The statement said the committee cleared the bureau of the allegations when the Director-General of BPE, Alex Okoh, appeared before the committee. Okoh, according the statement from BPE, told the committee that the OAuGF did not reconcile its records before going public to accuse the bureau of financial misdemeanor. The OAuGF had accused the bureau of some financial infractions, especially the non-remittance of revenue on ports concessions in the sum of $679,403,172.00. On the port concession payments, Okoh said the bureau was only a party to the concession as all revenues generated from the exercise were paid directly to the Nigerian Ports Authority. He said the bureau was never part of revenue collection during and after the concession, adding that the OAuGF arrived at the figures by merely looking at the contract documents and assuming the revenues were paid to BPE. Okoh regretted that the allegations against the bureau had put a smudge on the reputation and integrity of the BPE and demanded a retraction and apology from the OAuGF. The statement said after listening to the presentation by the BPE boss and the inadequate response from the OAuGF, the committee exonerated the bureau from all the allegations. “The committee, therefore, advised the OAuGF to always meet with relevant agencies for post audit reconciliation before going public. It berated the OAuGF for not diligently carrying out its duties,” it added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com