A political think tank, Centre for Democracy and Development on Saturday said that the FCT Area Council elections was characterised by buying and selling of votes for N1,000 and other electoral malpractices. The Director of CDD, Idayat Hassan, represented by its Senior Program Officer, Austin Aigbe, said this on Saturday evening while presenting its preliminary statement on the conduct of the elections. She said, “As in previous elections, vote-buying was very rampant during the polls. CDD observers reported cases of vote-buying in Gwagwalada, Abaji, AMAC, Kwali, Bwari and Kuje. However, vote-buying was more pronounced in the five other area councils compared to AMAC, with vote trading for as low as N1,000 and up to N3,000. “CDD finds it disturbing that the security agents looked away as the party stalwarts canvassed and bought votes during the elections. In fact, in Abaji/ward 001 PU 003, party agents were seen doling out money to voters who displayed their ballot papers indicating the party they voted for.” The CDD also asked the Independent National Electoral Commission to ensure effective and timely upload of polling units results on its result viewing portal. Hassan said that when election results are uploaded on the electoral umpire’s portal in time, it would enhance transparency, credibility and confidence in the process. She told security agencies to demonstrate neutrality by creating the enabling environment for a fair contest by all contestants in the race. Hassan who recalled that the last Anambra State governorship election, earned security agencies huge commendation from all and sundry, charged the security officers on duty to be above board in their dealings before, during and after the poll. She said that the CDD deployed observers to all the six area councils to monitor the election and ensure improved and quality exercise. Hassan also lamented late commence of voting due to poor logistics, as officials arrived late at PUs. She said, “CDD’s analysis put early arrival at 22 percent as at 8am. But unfortunately, over 50 per cent of poll officials arrived after 9am, leading to late commencement, which was eventually exacerbated by the hiccups encountered with the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System.” Hassan said that analysis from the CDD field report showed that the BVAS functionality was highest in the AMAC compared to other Area councils, with most cases of non-functionality recorded in Kuje and Abaji area councils. She also lamented the low or no voter turnout, especially in the AMAC, with a Polling Station with four polling units in Ward 5 in AMAC not recording a single voter turning out to cast any vote. On critical incidents including disruption and violence, the CDD boss, said that at Abaji Southeast Ward PU 003, the aged and persons with disabilities could not vote due to disorderliness and the inability of security personnel to curtail the situation. “Ward 03 South East Abaji PU 002 (Ndamazari) had poor crowd management, which led to INEC officials being overcrowded by voters, thereby disrupting the electoral processes and leading to fight among voters. In Abaji Ward 06 PU 003, a group of thugs invaded the PU and carted away the ballot box and other electoral materials”, she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com