Socio-political organisations in the South have urged the two major political parties, the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party, to zone their presidential tickets to the South and allow the region to decide the sub-region to produce the candidates. This is coming days after the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufia, said leaders of the APC were having discussions of zoning the presidency to the South. Speaking during the weekly ministerial press briefing organised by the Presidential Communications Team at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, El-Rufai said, “The discussion we are having is that the presidency is zoned to the South. It is not zoned to any particular place in the South. The South will have the first go at it. But we are waiting to see who the aspirants are.” He also said the zoning arrangement presented to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), which he approved, was ‘only sending a signal about the party’s direction’. “It is not zoning any presidency to anyone yet. But we have sent a signal,” he added. Reacting on which region should produce the candidates for the parties, the spokesperson for the Igbo socio-political organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Chief Alex Ogbonnia, said, “Ohanaeze has congratulated the APC for considering zoning the presidency to the South. That is the major first step. The region in the South it should go to is the second step, which has to be followed up. Southern and Middle Belt Leadership Forum and the 19 southern governors share that position. “Now that this has been done, we in the South will hold a meeting and decide on what region it should go to. However, all the indices are there to indicate that the ticket should come to the South-East. I advise the PDP to follow this move and do the needful. “As we had earlier said, we would not support any political party that doesn’t zone its presidency to the southern region. That is the equity, justice and fairness we are talking about.” On his part, the Pan Niger Delta Forum’s spokesperson, Mr Ken Robinson, agreeing with Ohanaeze, said, “The position of PANDEF is that the power should return to southern Nigeria. “We have also maintained that whether it is South-South, South-East or South-West, it should be left for the region to decide. If it is true that the APC is considering zoning the presidency to the South, then PANDEF would commend the leadership of the APC for that. “It is the right and proper thing for them to do.  PANDEF maintains that it doesn’t matter where it goes to. We are comfortable if it goes to any of the sub-regions in the South. They should leave that decision to us.” He further urged the PDP to follow in the footsteps of the APC and do the “rational and proper thing for Nigeria’s interest” by zoning their own ticket to southern Nigeria, stressing that any party that failed to zone its ticket to the region should not depend on any support from the regions. Similarly, Afenifere’s Secretary-General, Sola Ebiseni, said, “The decision of the forum is that the rotation of the presidency is on the basis of North and South. When it went to the North, there were no specifications as to what part of the North. “The decision of the leaders is that the presidency is zoned between the North and the South. When it gets to the region, whatever they want to do is their business. We are not partisan to that extent.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com