A medical doctor working with Dowen College, Lekki, Lagos, Dr Mojisola Bisiriyu, on Tuesday, narrated to a coroner inquest how she treated 12-year-old Sylvester Oromoni (Junior), a pupil of the school who died in controversial circumstances. The news of Sylvester’s death went viral following a social media post by his cousin, Perry Oromoni, who alleged that some senior pupils of the college beat him up in his hostel because he refused to join a cult. But the school denied the claim, saying the boy complained of leg pain following an injury he sustained while playing football. A coroner inquest was set up to look into the circumstances surrounding the death. Bisiriyu, while being cross-examined by the deceased’s family counsel, Femi Falana (SAN), told the inquest that the deceased complained of side pain, which she treated. She said, “As the school doctor, my duty was to take care of students in the school and for whatever we see that demanded attention, we usually call the parents. I saw the deceased on November 22, 2021; he came in with pain on his right side and that was what I saw him for. He came in with a limp and no other complaints. “I spoke with the deceased’s mother, Mrs Oromoni to come to pick her son for further treatment and they came the next day. I didn’t refer him to our partner hospital in Lekki because his case was not considered an emergency.” The doctor, who noted that she had been with the school for five years, told the inquest while being cross-examined by one of the defence counsel, Izuchukwu Ohadinma, that she was surprised that the deceased’s parents did not take him to any hospital after they took him away from the school. She maintained that she did not refer the deceased to the Lekki hospital because he was not in any critical condition at the time he visited the sick bay. Earlier, the Investigating Police Officer, Bamidele Olusegun, while being cross-examined by the counsel representing Dowen College, Anthony Kpokpo, confirmed to the coroner that he found nothing in his investigation regarding the murder case against the students accused of assaulting the victim. Magistrate Mikhail Kadiri adjourned the inquest till February 28, 2022. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com