The House of Representatives’ Committee on Petroleum Resources (Downstream) has summoned suppliers of the adulterated Premium Motor Spirit (petrol) that has caused a crisis in the nation’s fuel supply chain, Weekend PUNCH has gathered. The suppliers, MRS, Emadeb/Hyde/AY Maikifi/Brittania-U Consortium, Oando and Duke Oil, are to answer queries from the panel over the recent importation of adulterated PMS into the country. Chairman of the committee, Abdullahi Gaya, disclosed this to our correspondent on Saturday. “We have invited them. They are coming on Tuesday next (this) week,” Gaya said. On Thursday, the committee grilled the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, Mele Kyari, during which he indicted Duke Oil, a subsidiary of the NNPC. The lawmakers had insisted that those responsible for the contaminated fuel must be sanctioned. Earlier, the House on February 10 demanded a probe of key stakeholders allegedly involved in the matter. The NNPC Ltd., and MRS Oil Nigeria Plc., had traded blame on the issue. Many representatives, who spoke on the development, called for sanctions against the Federal Government agencies and officials, who didn’t carry out due diligence before passing the product for onward distribution to marketers. The House Majority Whip, Mohammed Monguno, moved a motion of urgent public importance, titled “Need to Investigate the Release and Sale of Adulterated Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) in Petrol Stations Across Nigeria.” Adopting the motion, the parliament mandated the Committee on Petroleum Resources (Downstream) to “investigate the release of adulterated PMS across the country, with a view to ensuring that culprits are brought to book, as well as make recommendations towards curbing a reoccurrence of such incident.” The lower legislative chamber also asked the committee to “ascertain whether the Nigerian specification concerning importation, distribution and dispensing of the alleged toxic petrol in Nigeria, from January till date, complied with international standards.” Also, the lawmakers further asked the committee to “investigate the roles played by the NNPC, Standard Organisation of Nigeria, Nigeria Customs Service, Nigerian Navy; any other government regulatory agencies, limited liabilities companies, and individuals in the unfortunate episode.” Furthermore, the parliament asked the NNPC to suspend the four companies involved in the importation of the adulterated PMS. Kyari’s defence on matter On his part, Kyari said that the NNPC was filing claims against the suppliers, while alleging that Duke Oil shares in the blame. Kyari had partly said, “What we have done is that we put all our suppliers on notice that there will be liquidated damages. It is the practice that once you file liquidated damages, the supplier will transfer that to the next person until it gets to the originating supplier. “I agree with you that I should not speak about the suppliers and all the adverts that you have seen in the media but it is good for me to clarify this. Duke Oil is a company owned 100 per cent by the NNPC. It is a trading wing of NNPC. Every national oil company has a trading company. This is our trading company. There is no way Duke Oil will come out and claim lack of responsibility for what happened.’’ Kyari also noted in a statement that preliminary discoveries by the NNPC showed that on January 20, 2022, NNPC received a report from its quality inspector on the presence of emulsion particles in PMS cargoes shipped to Nigeria from Antwerp-Belgium. Petrol sells for N300 in Anambra, transport fares rise On Saturday, it was observed that queues persisted in Abuja, Lagos, Port Harcourt and many other states nationwide. Besides, a litre of fuel sold for N300 in Anambra State; a development which increased transport fares and soared prices of foodstuff. Transport fares, prices of foodstuffs and other commodities rose by over 60 per cent as petrol sold above N300 per litre in most filling stations in Anambra State. Before now, petrol sold for around N180 in the state, but filling station owners and managers blamed the price hike on the current challenges in the petroleum industry. One of our correspondents, who went round the state on Saturday, observed that transporters had increased their fares. A journey from the Oba junction to Upper Iweka in Onitsha, whose fare was N100 as of last week, attracted N200, while commuting from Onitsha to Awka, which was formerly N500 rose to N800. In major cities such as Nnewi, Onitsha, Oba, Idemili, Nkwelle and some parts of Awka, tricycle riders also increased their fares. The food and other commodities markets were not left out as prices of foodstuffs rose significantly with sellers and buyers exchanging hot words. Passengers, motorists decry discomfort as shortage persists in states Sunday PUNCH spoke with some passengers and motorists who expressed frustration over the development as fuel shortage persisted in some states on Saturday. A resident of Lugbe in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Mr Ben Okoro, said that it was terrible for him spending about 12 hours to buy fuel at NNPC, Lugbe. In Lagos, commercial vehicles charged double for fares after spending several hours at filling stations to buy petrol. A surgeon identified only as Terrence, said he bought fuel for N400 per litre at a Total filling station in Akoka, Yaba, Lagos after spending five hours in the queue. He added, “I spent five hours and paid N1000 to gain entry into the station.’’ Also, a bus passenger, Mr Musliu Idowu, complained of the increase in transport fare. NSCDC clamps down on fuel stations hoarding product The Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps in Edo on Saturday clamped down on fuel stations hoarding fuel and those selling above approved pump price of N165. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the exercise took the corps round fuel stations on Airport road, Akpakpava road, Sapele road and Ugbo road all within the state capital. RTEAN laments damage to vehicles The Chairman of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria in Kwara State, Olayinka Onikijipa, said the dirty fuel in circulation had damaged some members’ vehicles. Onikijipa also told the NAN in Ilorin on Friday that the fuel scarcity had given some unpatriotic people the opportunity to exploit Nigerians. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com