Some youths in Plateau State under the aegis of the Berom Youths Moulders Association, have written to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo over an alleged neglect by the Federal Government of communities affected by crises. The group lamented that more than three years after the Federal Government stated its desire to release the sum of N10bnn to victims of crises to enable them to bounce back, the promise had remained unfulfilled. Noting that the development had worsened the conditions of the people in the affected communities, the group demanded the immediate release of the fund. The letter signed by the group President, Solomon Mwantiri, and Secretary General, Nature Adazaram, which was copied to the Inspector-General of Police and eight others, was made available to The PUNCH in Jos on Sunday. It read in part, “Your Excellency, you may wish to recall that following attacks on villages in the Barkin Ladi and Riyom local government areas of Plateau State on June 23 and 24, 2018, you visited the state to commiserate with the state government and, indeed, the survivors of the massacre that resulted in the loss of over 200 lives, destruction of property worth millions of naira as well as the displacements of over 17,000 people. “While on that visit, Sir, you were briefed by the state governor and also had a direct engagement with leaders of the affected communities. “In your assessment and response to the situation, you did not only condemn the killings and destruction, but also promised that justice would be meted out to those responsible for their horrible and heinous crimes. “Furthermore, you assured community leaders that the N10bn approved by the Federal Government for the welfare and rehabilitation of the affected families and survivors would be released through the state government in order to bring relief and succour to the people. “In addition, the stationing of a permanent mobile police squadron as well as the increased deployment of security agents to the general area were some of the security measures you directed. “Unfortunately Sir, since June 2018 when you visited the state till now, the affected communities and villages have yet to receive or experience any of the actions you promised either directly from the Federal Government or through any agency of the state. Rather, the affected communities have been relegated to further acts of criminality, while their living conditions continue to worsen.” The group urged the vice president to intervene in the situation and “rescue the people from the continuous reign of terror, intimidation and increasing impoverishment imposed on them by the enemies of peace, who are bent on capturing and dominating territories.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com