The Edo State Police Command has arrested two persons, Lucky Clark,52, and Destiny Tibhor, 22, who were caught with rubber lumps belonging to Okomu Oil Palm PLC, which were allegedly stolen when the company was attacked by gunmen on February 2, 2022. Parading the suspects in Gelegele, Ovia North East LGA, the State Command Police Public Relation Officer, Bello Katongs said, the Edo State Police Commissioner, Philip Ogbadu, launched a manhunt in an attempt to unravel those behind the attack on rubber plantation belonging to Okomu Oil Palm PLC, where two workers were shot dead, arrested the suspects on Okomu water ways. He said, “The Edo State Police Commissioner, Philip Ogbadu, in an attempt to unravel those behind the attack on the facilities and personnel of Okomu Oil Palm PLC launched a manhunt, and on February 15, the marine police under SP Courage Ogonmwan, while on patrol, intercepted the suspects on Okomu Water Ways. “They were arrested with lumps of rubber that was stolen from Okomu plantation. The two suspects during interrogation have confessed their involvement. The police after the attack on the facilities of the company did not seat back but swung into action to arrest the perpetrators. “Further investigation will determine whether they were among those involved in the attack on Okomu Oil Palm plantation or otherwise.” Speaking, one of the suspects, Destiny Tabhor, said he was hired by Lucky Clark to transport the lumps from Okomu Ijaw to Sapele before they were arrested. “I was seating at home when he (Lucky) came to call me to help him carry rubber from Okomu Ijaw to Sapele. We were on the way when police arrested us and brought us here.” he said. The PUNCH earlier reported that two workers of Okomu Oil Palm Plc, in Ovia Southwest Local Government Area of Edo State were on the February 2, killed by gunmen. The gunmen were said to have invaded the palm plantation, where about seven workers working in the premises of the company were shot and two had died instantly. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com