Thousands of youths from across the six states of the South-West, on Saturday, converged in Lagos State to draw Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi out to contest the 2023 presidential election. The youths, who insisted that it was Bello or no other person for President in 2023, vowed to rewrite what they described as “Nigeria’s political history” of “recycling politicians”, saying that they were ready to also disgrace money bags in 2023. The youths, who disclosed this under the umbrella of Rescue Nigeria Mission, said, like their counterparts in the Northern states, they were ready to mobilise heavily for the Kogi governor, no matter what happened within his party, the All Progressives Congress. The Coordinator of the youths in the South-West, Mr Shola Saheed said: “We are excited today that all our youths are keying in. As we speak today, over 20 million Nigerian youths (PVC holders), at home and abroad, are already actively involved in the struggle to install our own, Bello, as President. Others are already trooping in. “We are set to rewrite political history of Nigeria. We will collect their billions if they bring it, but we assure you, we will put Yahaya Bello there with our numbers. Don’t ask me how we will do it. Just watch and see how we will rescue this nation resolutely and peacefully.” The youths said their involvement in politics was not tied to any political party, noting that with the capacity Bello had displayed in Kogi and within his party, they would queue behind him to rescue Nigeria. “Mark today’s date. This is the Lagos declaration of Nigerian youths for Yahaya Bello. We will say we said so after his inauguration in 2023,” he noted. The Chief of Staff to the governor, Alhaji Abdulkareem Jamiu Asuku, who was invited to witness the South-West declaration, thanked the youths for their unflinching support for his principal and promised that he would not let them down on the call on him to contest. ”Bello is the face of the youths in the Nigerian government system. Kogi is the centre of Nigeria, being the only state bordering 10 states, including the FCT. The governor came on board as governor and governed Kogi without a porous border. “The economy and IGR of Kogi tripled within the short period. Such a man who has been able to transform the economy of Kogi, unite the people and fix security issues in record time is the man Nigeria needs. “The South-West youths of Nigeria are here in Lagos to call for a replication of what is happening in Kogi in the larger Nigeria. Thank you for standing by the truth. Only the truth can address the challenges of Nigeria,” he noted. (NAN)