Petrol subsidy is consuming more funds than the combined federal budgets of some key economic sectors vital for the growth of the country. Experts see this as an unsustainable burden caused by government’s failure, Okechukwu Nnodim writes The amount spent on subsidising Premium Motor Spirit, popularly called petrol in 2021, was higher than the combined federal budgets for education, works and housing and agriculture in same year. Although there was little or no petrol subsidy in 2020 following the crash in global oil prices, occasioned by the deadly outbreak of COVID-19, Nigeria spent about N1.5tn as subsidy in 2019 and has projected to spend N3tn for same purpose this year. This financial burden on the country’s limited revenue has been described as unsustainable by experts, who condemned the government for failing to put in place the right policies and infrastructure to nip this challenge in the bud. In the over N11.73tn budget for 2021, the government allocated about N742.52bn for education, N435.32bn for works and housing, N179.56bn for agriculture, amounting to a total of N1.36tn. The amount spent on PMS subsidy in 2021 was N1.43tn, according to figures obtained from the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited. Also, the budgetary allocation of N546.98bn for health in 2021, as well as the budgets for many other sectors, proved to be far less than the N1.43tn which only petrol subsidy consumed last year. This year’s appropriation bill has a budget of N875.93bn for education, N481.96bn for works and housing, and N711.28bn health, while the government proposes to spend N3tn on petrol subsidy, a sum that is again higher than the combined budgets of some key economic sectors. Humongous petrol subsidy spending had persisted due to the inability of government to fix Nigeria’s refineries, for instance, in April 2020, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Ita Enang, reportedly stated that N1.5tn was spent on subsidy in 2019. Also, the Federal Government had in March 2020 removed petrol subsidy after reducing the pump price of the commodity to N125 per litre from N145 following the plunge in global crude oil prices. Oil prices crashed drastically in early 2020, crumbling below $20 per barrel as most nations of the world were on lock down. High crude oil prices lead to high cost of refined petroleum products, translating to high subsidy on petrol. The low oil prices warranted little or no subsidy spending in 2020, for instance, an analysis of different monthly reports from the NNPC indicated that from June to December 2020, nothing was recorded as under-recovery (subsidy). However, following concerted efforts by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies in shoring up crude oil prices, Nigeria’s spending on petrol subsidy eventually jumped in 2021. It leaped to as high of N1.43tn in 2021. The NNPC, however, described its petrol subsidy spending in 2021 as under-recovery of PMS/value shortfall. The NNPC is the sole importer of petrol into Nigeria and sells the commodity at a rate lower than the actual price, hence incurring less than the required cost, which it then deducts from its remittances to the Federation Account. This year, the NNPC is requesting  N3tn as subsidy for petrol. This was recently revealed by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed. She said NNPC had submitted a N3tn budget for subsidy for 2022, adding that only N443bn was currently available in the 2022 budget meant to cater for petrol subsidy from January to June. Economists, CSOs, oil marketers fault govt This exorbitant spending on petrol subsidy at the detriment of other key sectors has received condemnations from economists, Civil Society Organisations, as well as operators in the downstream sector. “This is a terrible and unfortunate development which the failure of successive governments has got the nation into,” a former President, Association of National Accountants of Nigeria, Dr. Sam Nzekwe, stated. He added, “This is because by now we should not be talking about subsidy or no subsidy. Our refineries have not been working. Who’s fault is that? We lack good transportation system and road networks, if one is to consider subsidy removal. “So this financial huge burden of petrol subsidy on our scarce resources is basically because of the failure of government over the years. If the government had made efforts to put these things in place, then it can go ahead to remove subsidy.” Buttressing the position of the economist, the President, Civil Society Group for Good Governance, Ogakwu Dominic, charged the Federal Government to speed up the rehabilitation Nigeria’s refineries. He also urged the government to secure the country’s porous borders to mitigate the smuggling of petroleum products from Nigeria to neighbouring countries. Reacting to the projected N3tn to be spent on subsidy in 2022, Dominic said Nigeria’s fuel subsidy bill was growing faster and bigger than what the economy could carry. He stressed that a fast revamp of refineries would reduce imports and ensure local PMS production, adding that the Nigeria Customs Service should stop the smuggling of petrol out of the country. He said, “It is unbelievable we are consuming over 65 million litres of petrol per day. Our cheaper fuel is very attractive to smugglers and something drastic needs to be done to address this ugly trend. “And this will hopefully crash the daily PMS consumption, hence lead to a cost reduction in subsidy claims.” Nigeria’s refineries in Warri, Kaduna and Port Harcourt have been dormant for decades amidst several turn around maintenances done on them by the government in a bid to revive them. Currently, the government is rehabilitating the Port Harcourt refinery and has made an initial payment of $194m to Technimont SpA of Italy for the rehabilitation exercise. It had also process $98m and N17.2bn as part payments for the rehabilitation of the facility in River State, while in August last year, the Federal Executive Council approved the sum of $1.48bn for the rehabilitation of both Warri and Kaduna refineries. Also speaking on the matter, the National Public Relations Officer, Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria, Chief Chinedu Ukadike, decried the huge sums spent on petrol subsidy annually. He insisted that the government must address key issues in the oil sector to effectively manage petrol subsidy concerns. Ukadike stated that the country’s refineries and pipelines must first be fixed before the government could remove subsidy on petrol. “We have said on several occasions that this huge amount spent on subsidy can be stopped. But before you effectively stop it, our refineries should be fixed and the construction of modular refineries should be encouraged,” he stated. On his part, the National President, Petroleum Products Retail Outlets Owners Association, Billy Gillis-Harry, stated that oil marketers, especially PETROAN had repeatedly voiced out its readiness to work with government in addressing this concern. “It is obvious that we cannot continue to spend this much on petrol subsidy. It is definitely not sustainable and has to stop. Our education sector and others are suffering from paucity of funds and we are spending trillions on petrol subsidy,” he stated. Gillis-Harry added, “The government must fix refineries and many times we’ve made it open that we are ready to partner government in getting these assets running as fast as possible. This will help stop petrol imports and cut down on subsidy. “Nigeria has to channel this trillions spent on subsidy to fixing roads, revamping education, improving our health and agricultural sectors, among others. Government needs to do something drastic about this issue and it must be fast!” From the positions of analysts, it became obvious that the failure of government to get Nigeria’s refineries running had tremendously contributed to the continued subsidy spending on petrol. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation  recommends that between 15 per cent and 20 per cent of the nation’s budget should be allocation to education to address decayed infrastructure in schools and raise the standard of education, but Nigeria has never met the standard. The effects of low funding of education and health could be seen in dilapidated classrooms and poor health infrastructure. Recently the Academic Staff Union of Universities criticised what it described as the “definitive, sad, and systematic decay” of the nation’s educational facilities and “the deliberate and progressive decline in the annual budgetary allocations to education in the last two decades or so.” Commenting on the huge funds spent on petrol subsidy, the Executive Director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, Auwal Rafsanjani, said the government had not only failed Nigerians but was committing fraud through the scheme. He noted that other sectors of the economy such as education, health, agriculture, etc, were suffering due to government’s failure with respect to the issue of subsidy, insisting that the Nigerian masses were not benefitting from petrol subsidy. Rafsanjani said, “This government has betrayed Nigerians after it promised to end subsidy fraud, because that is what the current called it in 2014 and 2015. “So for it to continue to finance what it called fraud, it means that it has betrayed its own self after accusing the previous government of committing petrol subsidy fraud. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com