A fresh letter has surfaced online seeking support for the royal wedding involving the Oluwo of Iwoland, Oba Abdulrosheed Akanbi, and a princess from Kano State. The letter was signed by the Babalaje of Iwoland, Alhaji Ismaila Kudaisi, demanding financial support to the tune of N50 million for Oluwo’s royal wedding. Kudaisi confirmed the letter to The PUNCH on Friday, saying it was an arrangement among chiefs to honour Oba Akanbi. The PUNCH had reported that a letter, which had been debunked by Iwo’s palace, earlier surfaced online showing the monarch soliciting N20 million support from the Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, for the wedding. Reacting to the fresh letter on the telephone, Kudaisi said, “We don’t know about the first letter allegedly written the governor, but the second one with my letterhead is authentic. “A couple of chiefs in Iwo have decided to arrange a befitting wedding for our monarch. It is an idea among the chiefs, it has nothing to do with Kabiesi (Oluwo).” A copy of the letter dated February 7, 2022, was titled, ‘Notification of royal wedding of HRM, Oba, Dr. AbdulRasheed Adewale Akanbi Telu 1, and a princess of Ado Bayero dynasty’. Part of the letter read, “A few of the high chiefs of Iwoland have consequently mandated me to constitute a committee to plan and see to the success of the wedding with a befitting royal ceremony. “At the inaugural meeting of the committee, we arrived at a modest tentative budget of N50 million to cover the traditional wedding Tambaya (introduction); Kai Kaya (engagement), and aqdu Nikkai. The royal traditional wedding in Kano will be rounded up with a reception for the princess.” Osun reacts, claims mischief-makers at work Osun State Government has denied that Oluwo wrote a letter to the governor demanding N20 million to finance his wedding ceremony. The state government said the letter was the handiwork of mischief-makers, who wanted to bring the governor and the government on a collision course as the governorship election draws nearer. A statement by the Commissioner For Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs. Funke Egbemode, said that, the state government would not be disturbed or distracted by the development. She said, “We are aware that the Oluwo has denied writing the letter, and as a government, it is important to stop those making negative insinuations in their tracks. “This fresh attempt by mischief-makers to bring the governor and the government on a collision course with the citizens did not come as a surprise especially as the state draws closer to its gubernatorial primaries and election. “The community of sadists is increasing the tempo of their shameless propaganda machine. However, this is another dead-on-arrival plot!
“For starters, it is an established fact that this is a government that has put the welfare of its citizens ahead of personal or group interests. “It is also established that Gov. Adegboyega Oyetola is a prudent manager of resources, who is focused on the development of Osun and everything that translates to public good. “These mischief-makers have come up empty again, and all their attempts will come to nothing! “We will not be disturbed or distracted by the noise of political miscreants whose only job is to grab their phones, get on social media every morning to cause bad blood. “We implore the good people of Osun State, to ignore all insinuations targeted at maligning this governor and government. “We can see through the thin veneer of those, whom out of desperation, will do anything to get the attention of Osun people. ”We know they are running out of oxygen, but we will not descend to their level.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com