The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation is at it again, frustrating Nigerians by halting the smooth running of their daily activity. Everywhere, one sees frustration on the faces of people, the anger, the sense of helplessness. It’s not the first time NNPC messes Nigerians up like this; on this occasion it says imported off-spec fuel causes the latest fuel scarcity. But I seize the occasion to call attention to why I don’t see NNPC as one of the levels where Nigerians harm Nigerians. No, I cannot. Nigeria’s problems are always caused by ‘the other tribe,’ the other religion, their man who occupies the State House. A saying among the Yoruba about Amunkun (K-legged man) means nothing to me when it comes to the issue of who harms Nigerians. Amunkun is told that the load on his head inclines to a side. Amunkun responds by saying, “You look at the top, ignoring what happens below.” So, I’m a Nigerian who can point to the State House and insult the man who occupies it, blaming him, his tribe, his religion for all of Nigeria’s problems. I’m justified to insult the man in the State House because no member of my tribe works with him there, and none in the NNPC that couldn’t handle a task as simple as importing good fuel. In fact, only members of my tribe aren’t recruited by NNPC. This is a good enough reason for me to sit in my comfort zone and insult the government that I believe belongs exclusively to the other tribe, since only members of the other tribe occupy every office at NNPC. I’m certain of this, so whoever expresses a view different from mine is “stupid.” Never mind that I don’t have a head that can digest any point of view in a column that’s more complicated than insulting the occupant of the State House, his tribe and his religion. It’s what I like to read. The columnist who expresses a different view doesn’t know what he’s talking about. How could he? Here, we’re talking about NNPC Group that has seven operational units, including the Upstream Company, Downstream Company, Refining Company, Ventures Company, Gas & Power Company. Others are Finance and Accounts, as well as Corporate Services. Each unit is headed by a chief operating officer, group general manager, or managing director; none of these decision makers or any staff member is from my tribe. So we aren’t part of the rot that led to the importation of off-spec fuel. NNPC has several subsidiaries and 16 associated companies. None of them has on its payroll members of my tribe. When these entities do what we have all come to associate NNPC with, no member of my tribe is in the boardroom where the decisions are taken. As such, I have the right to insult these companies and NNPC that import bad fuel and, particularly, the Federal Government. I must insult the Federal Government because only members of ‘the other tribe’ that I hate work in all the Federal Government offices. Tell me why I shouldn’t insult NNPC’s owner and ‘the other tribe’ that fills its offices. Tell me why not, when no member of my tribe was involved in the inefficiency and the looting going on as at the time the following cases were brought to the fore: In July 2004, ABB Vetco Gray, a US company, and its UK subsidiary ABB Vetco Gray UK Ltd, admitted to paying over $1 million in bribes to officials at NNPC subsidiary, NAPIMS, in exchange for obtaining confidential bid information and favourable recommendations from Nigerian government agencies. No member of my tribe was at NNPC when those bribes were collected. The man in the State House at the time was from ‘the other tribe’ and he belonged to the other religion as well. So I’m justified to insult ‘the other tribe’ whose members were the only ones involved. In May 2008, Willbros Group Inc., a US company, admitted to making corrupt payments totalling over $6.3 million to officials at the NNPC and its subsidiary, NAPIMS, in return for assistance in obtaining and retaining contracts for work on the Eastern Gas Gathering System.  In December 2011, a forensic report conducted by the KPMG was published. It detailed the NNPC’s sharp business practices, violation of regulations, illegal deductions of funds belonging to the state and failure to account for several billions of naira that should go to the federation account. Auditors found that between 2007 and 2009 alone, the NNPC over-deducted funds in subsidy claims to the tune of N28.5 billion. In November 2013, after a report was published by the Swiss Non-governmental advocacy organisation – Erklärung von Bern – allegations of heavy fraud surfaced, placing the NNPC under suspicion of syphoning off $6.8 billion in crude oil revenues. On 9 December 2013, a letter from the Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, to the President, dated 25 September 2013, detailed that the NNPC had not remitted over $49.8 billion proceeds of crude oil sales to the government. A Reconciliation Committee  estimated that unremitted funds from the NNPC stood at $10.8bn. An independent Forensic Audit by PwC finally estimated that the NNPC and NPDC should refund $1.48 billion. My tribe didn’t work in NNPC at the time. Certainly, the man in the State House that time belonged to ‘the other tribe’ and the other religion. Why shouldn’t I insult them? Those are few of the many cases in which NNPC has been accused of being a partaker in how this nation doesn’t work as it should; that’s not to mention the fuel scarcity and the long queues at the pump to which the corporation has subjected Nigerians to over the years. For the simple reason that no member of my tribe is involved in the malpractices the NNPC and its companies are accused of, I always rage against the Federal Government that owns it. It’s the reason I also hate with all my heart the only tribe that occupies all Federal Government offices and agencies, including the NNPC. The facts speak for themselves. If there’s no electricity supply, it’s the other tribe that works for the FG that’s to blame. If there are no good roads, the FG and the other tribe that works in all its MDAs should be blamed. Did anyone notice that lawmakers recently accused MDAs of monumental looting of public funds? No member of my tribe works in the MDAs. When there are no jobs for those who don’t know important people, the other tribe that works in all the MDAs and which is responsible for selling all job slots should be blamed. When a certain ’Tunji Ajibade wrote that no Nigerian should insult any tribe because we’re collectively responsible for Nigeria’s problems. Of course, it’s the other tribe that makes Nigeria’s economy to be in tatters. My tribe doesn’t  have smugglers of rice, importers of fake and banned drugs. My tribesmen aren’t international  cocaine dealers. The other tribe and the FG it owns are responsible for how there’s no electricity supply. No member of my tribe was among the board members of Abuja Disco who mismanaged the company until workers went on strike; the President had to sack the Board. When covid-19 palliatives were mismanaged and stashed away by corrupt government officials recently only the other tribe was involved, only the Federal Government was responsible. The list is endless. So no one should tell me to not insult the other tribe and its government as well as its NNPC that’s frustrating Nigerians. No one should tell me that, because I’m not involved and no member of my tribe is. Others are always the cause of Nigeria’s problem. Hasn’t the case of imported off-spec fuel at NNPC where no member of my tribe works amply demonstrated it? Lest we forget. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com