A former Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso, on Tuesday announced the formation of Third Force, under the aegis of The National Movement, thereby lightening the political temper of Nigeria towards the 2023 Presidency. Others in the team with him include Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi of Kaduna State; former Minister of Youths and Sports Development, Solomon Dalung; popular Northern critic, Buba Galadima; and other prominent Nigerians. According to them, the Third Force would take over power from the All Progressives Congress in 2023. The TNM said it was conscious of its strong duties to save Nigeria from disintegration. While promising to save democracy and rescue the nation, the TNM said it was set to battle for the soul of Nigeria from the hands of APC and the Peoples Democratic Party. Prominent Nigerians at the International Conference Centre, venue of the event were elder statesman, Tanko Yakasai; Air Vice Marshall Ifeanaju; Solomon Edoda; Nweze Onu; Falasade Aliyu; Rufai Alkali; Suleiman Hunkuyi; Grace Ben; Umale Shittu; Ibrahim Ringim; Ali Gwaska; Paul Okala; Rufai Hanga; Idris Wada; Abdulrahman Abubakar, among several others. Speaking at the occasion, the Convener of the event, Kwankwaso said it was a collective desire to rescue the country. “We all left our comfort zones to grace the occasion. It is a special day in the life of our nation. A special day to redeem the nation. “For too long, Nigerians have been waiting for this day. For too long friends of Nigerians abroad have been waiting for this day and the time is today and now. “Today, all Nigerians cut across all social, religious and regions have gathered. It is our collective resolve to rescue our nation from this difficult situation.” Kwankwaso said he met with his friends during the COVID-19 lockdown and resolved that a step must be taken to rescue Nigeria. “We resolved that there must be a Nigeria first before politics. While some of us will want to contest, we must work together to rescue the country. “The National Movement has members in every local government area and outside the country,” Kwankwaso said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com