Rapper, Victor Odu, aka Vic O, has said that contrary to what many have said on social media, he did not make advances at singer and disc jockey, Florence Otedola, popularly known as DJ Cuppy, because of her billionaire father, Femi Otedola’s wealth. He told Sunday Scoop, “People can say whatever they want. I am based in Italy and I have dated many rich Italian girls. I don’t covet people’s properties because I was not brought up that way. I have driven many cars and I’ve seen many things. Things like that do not excite me. “All those saying I am after her wealth do not understand life. Whatever one has, one would die and leave them behind one day. It is important to cherish what one has because life is not all about competition. I did not make advances at Cuppy because of money. It is not a big deal to me though everybody needs money.” Maintaining his seriousness about wanting to date Cuppy, he said, “I am serious. I have been in love with her for a long time. It is just that I have never met her. I am looking for how to meet with her, so I can inform her about my intentions. We chatted on Instagram recently. She also reposted a video I did on her page. I have told her that when she has the chance, we need to talk. Love is what I can offer her. Love demands respect, understanding and care. When one has all these things for a woman, it is more than enough.” Speaking about his recent projects, Vic O said, “I have an album now which is titled, Music Messiah Reloaded. I am still shooting the videos for the songs on the album. People who say I do not associate with other rappers are just saying what they feel. If I see any rapper or singer that I want to work with, it is just a matter of time (before it happens). I have only worked with four singers (throughout my career). I am working on new tracks with other singers but they are not out yet. That is one of the reasons I am coming to Nigeria.” On how he feels about the negative comments about his music, the rapper said, “As far I am concerned, no music is bad. It is the way one presents it. If one produces controversial material, one would get negative comments. Even those that were there before me got negative comments. At times, I just freestyle; not because I don’t know what I am doing but because I want to get the attention of people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com