The Benue State Government has finally cleared the air on the issue of non-payment of compensation for the 2,420 hectares of land acquired by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, saying that he did the needful. Speaking to journalists on Wednesday, the Director of Agriculture in the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Thomas Unongo, who spoke on behalf of the Commissioner, Dr Kester Kyenge, said the former President followed the due process to acquire the land and settled all the interest groups in the community. Unongo said the land in question and a few others scattered across the state were acquired by the past administration of late Aper Aku between 1976 and 1983 with the understanding that it would be to the benefit of the host communities. The ministry added that at the time Obasanjo came to invest in the community through the orchard farm, every interest group was taken care of, adding that the host community had started benefitting from the farm. Unongo stated, “The state government under the late Governor Aper Aku acquired some farm plots of land in almost all the local government areas of the state; there was no initial compensation paid to the locals, but the government had an understanding with the benefiting communities that the land would be developed for the benefit of farmers, and for whosoever wanted to invest in agriculture, such land would be made available to such investors. “Over the years, the Taraku Vegetable Company had been using the land to produce soya beans and several investors had come to Benue to see how they could invest in agriculture and Obasanjo Farm was one of the investors that approached us here that they wanted to operate in Howe and another one near Naka. “The state government sat down with the community and representatives of Obasanjo and agreed that the farm would be leased out to Obasanjo Farm for 25 years for a token and one of the things that the state government felt about having Obasanjo Farm was engaging the people of the community on the farm; in fact, as I am talking to you, the manager of the farm is from Gwer; 95 per cent of the workforce is from the community; the women in the community who are cooking for the farmworkers there are making the economy to begin to boom in the area and the government is happy that the economy of the area is coming up.” “During the signing (of the agreement) ceremony, the governor was there; the chairman of the LG with all the traditional rulers from Ter and all the Tars, women, youths and all the interest groups, including the then commissioner were there; it is (recent attack on the farm) a surprise to us because something was given to each group. “They (Obasanjo Farm) are working there so that at the end of it, they are going to hand over the orchard to the community; the entire land is almost 2,000 hectares; I didn’t know that you (our correspondent) were coming I would have gone to the archives to bring those things (documents). When asked if the said land was not part of the ones on which there were court cases, the director said, “There are some cases where the communities went to court. but I don’t know of the one in Howe.” “They had been living in peace for the past three years. I was there towards the end of last year and some of the mangoes had started bringing out flowers and fruits and they were using dry leave to conserve water; good work has been done in that place and the good thing is that the farm has also given foreign specie of the seedlings that are good for export to the locals and at the same time transferred some techniques to the community.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com