The Delta State Government has presented cheques to 32 victims of police brutality and extrajudicial killings in the state as compensation for their ordeals. Making the presentation on Monday in Asaba, the Secretary to the State Government, Mr Patrick Ukah, stated that the compensation was as a result of the report of the judicial panel of inquiry constituted by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on the matter. Ukah said the judicial panel submitted its report to the government on July 9, 2021, adding that in all, 87 petitions were received and decided upon. The SSG stated, “The state government was not unmindful of the fact that no monetary payment will assuage the losses suffered, but the gesture will afford the government the opportunity to elicit from them commitment to forgive and allow healing to take place. “Though they might not have got the outcome of the full extent of their prayers before the judicial panel, but they should be rest assured that their voices have been heard and such incidents will not happen again under the watch of the government.” He stated that the state government had constituted a Human Rights Committee headed by Okowa to receive complaints of excesses and human rights violations by the Nigeria Police Force and other uniformed services when they arise. Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, Martins Mukoro commended the state government for the gesture, noting that police brutality was on the increase again and appealed that the issue should be taken seriously to avoid future occurrence. Meanwhile, a member of the Delta State Human Rights Protection Committee, Israel Joe, commended the governor “for making his promise to implement the White paper report a reality.” Joe, in a statement made available to journalists in Warri on Monday, recalled his earlier statement in which he threatened to resign his membership of the committee if the government failed to implement the report of the panel of inquiry. Joe stated, “On January 25, I had issued a press statement calling on the Delta State Government to pay compensation to the victims of #EndSARS as recommended by the judicial panel. In my press release, I stated pressure from the victims as the reason, which informed such a decision.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com