Oyo State Commissioner for Works, Public Infrastructure and Transport, Prof. Daud Sangodoyin, on Monday, said the administration of Governor Seyi Makinde was determined to deliver quality projects that will stand the test of time. The commissioner spoke when he inspected the Ajia-Airport Road with spur to Amuloko with the Quality Assurance Team of the ministry and site engineers. According to a statement by the Special Assistant (Print Media) to the Governor, Moses Alao, the commissioner and his team inspected a spot of the road on Odeyale-Amuloko axis to which a resident had called the government’s attention. He declared that the state government and the contractors had noticed the challenge on the spot along the 2.9 kilometre Ajia-Amuloko axis since October 2021, and had since instructed the contractors to address it. The statement added, “The commissioner maintained that the spot is a valley and that whenever it rains, the convergence of water is always too much and that water is being retained, stating that the state has had to adjust the design to accommodate the water. “He added that the contractor had been directed to increase the stone base on that axis of the road from 100mm to 120mm and that this was in addition to increasing the hard rock base of the project, among other improvements. “The commissioner stated that the contractor will also put a binding course in place after the stone base had been increased, noting that the fears expressed by the resident had since been taken care of before the alarm was raised. “The commissioner equally stated that contrary to fears that the road might be handed over with challenges, the section of the road is only about 56 per cent completed and that residents should rest assured that the government will deliver a quality project.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com