Two persons were confirmed dead during the violence that broke out in some parts of Osun State during the ad hoc ward delegates’ congress of the Peoples Democratic Party on Wednesday. It was learnt that one of the victims, Toib Mutallib, was hacked to death by suspected political thugs that stormed his ward in Agberire, a community in Iwo Local Government Area. It was further learnt that another resident of Agberire, a 28-year-old man simply identified as Sheriff, who was also injured in the attack, was rushed to hospital. Two persons were also reportedly injured during the congress in Oba Oke, in Olorunda Local Government Area and Ipetumodu, in Ife North Local Government. Another death was recorded in Koso Area of Ipetumodu, when one Olamide Aremu, was shot in the leg and rushed to a hospital, where he later died. It was learnt that the suspect accused of firing the shot was later arrested by residents and beaten before police operatives rescued him. But a vehicle said to belong to the suspect was reportedly burnt. The spokesman of the state police command, Yemisi Opalola, confirmed the death of two persons in an interview with our correspondent. Opalola said in the first attack which occurred in Agberire, “two people were hacked; the assailants attacked them with broken bottle and machete. “One Amoo Oyeniyi led some hoodlums in a Suzuki mini bus to the venue of the ward congress. Immediately they got to the venue, they launched an attack on the people they met there. “Police operatives immediately rushed down to the place and evacuated two people that were seriously injured and took them to the hospital. It was at the hospital that a doctor confirmed one of them, Toib Mutalib, dead. The other injured victim, Sheriff, is said to be responding to treatment. “Lawal Ibrahim and Ibrahim Akande had been arrested alongside Amoo that reportedly led the attack. Police also recovered their vehicle and weapons they used during the attack.” Speaking on the incident that occurred in Ipetumodu, Opalola said, “a man, Olamide Aremu, was reportedly shot in the leg by a suspected thug. They were at a collation centre when gunshots were heard. The man that fired the shot was seized by the residents and beaten. Policemen later rescued him and took him to hospital. His vehicle was also burnt.” The exercise was however largely peaceful in Osogbo, Olorunda, Obokun and Oriade Local Government Areas. Bisi, Ojo factions battle for control Meanwhile, supporters of Sunday Bisi and Wale Ojo factions, who are struggling for control of the PDP in the state, held parallel congresses in some wards. A chieftain of the PDP belonging to Wale Ojo faction from Ife North Local Government, Funmiso Babarinde, while speaking with journalists, said parallel congresses were held by the two factions in the local government But the Director of Research and Publicity of the Sunday Bisi faction, Oladele Oluwabamiji, said there was no parallel congress. Although he admitted that there were pockets of violence in some of the local government areas, Oluwabamiji said the exercise was largely peaceful. As of 8.30 pm when our correspondent left the collation centre, chairman of the PDP ward congress, Governor Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa State and his team were yet to arrive WOCDIF Centre, Osogbo for the commencement of the collation of results.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com