Seven political parties in Osun State on Thursday signed a peace pact with the police in the state and promised to ensure that peace reigns during the period leading to the governorship election, just as the police declared zero tolerance for violence. At a meeting held with the leadership of Osun Police Command in Osogbo, the parties whose representatives signed the pact include All Progressives Congress, represented by its Secretary, Kamoru Alao, and the Peoples Democratic Party, also represented by its secretary, Bola Ajao. Other parties present at the meeting were Young Progressives Party, Labour Party, African Democratic Congress, Social Democratic Party, and Action Democratic Party. Addressing party representatives at the meeting, Osun police Commissioner, Wale Olokode, who was represented by Deputy Commissioner, Valentine Kanayo, warned that the command would not tolerate rallies and procession without permission and blocking of roads during political events, as well as, assault on security men or people, among others. He said, “It very important to state that political activities, party primaries, consultation visits, campaigns, and others are legal so far they are within the confine of the Electoral Act and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I want to urge the youth not to allow themselves to be used as political thugs or as destructive agents. I equally advise the so-call political thugs too, in their interest, to vacate the state immediately the command will not condone any act of indiscipline or anybody to truncate the peaceful atmosphere in the state. “Osun Police command has zero tolerance for violence by any political party or group, so anybody caught trouble would be decisively dealt with as the command condone any act of indiscipline and lawlessness.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com