Using ‘substitute’ as a noun can be easy. It is, at least, easier than using it as a verb. For instance, in the recent Super Eagles’ match against the Carthage Eagles of Tunisia in the just concluded Africa Cup of Nations, Alex Iwobi was a substitute as he was brought in in the second half to replace Kelechi Iheanacho. But when we need to use it as a verb, extra care must be taken. By the way, what is the difference between the two clauses below? The difference has to do with the use of the prepositions,  ‘for’ and ‘with’. In the context of Iwobi replacing Iheanacho, which is what really happened during the match, the correct preposition is ‘for’. This means that the first clause is okay while the second is circumstantially erroneous.  This is a major difference between ‘substitute’ and ‘replace’. Although they are synonyms, they remind us that synonyms are words with similar meanings and not necessarily the same meanings. Even when you can interchangeably use them in some contexts, you cannot do so in others. Apart from the fact that the meanings of both terms may no more be the same, the grammatical elements around them may no more be predictable. In the case of ‘replace’ and ‘substitute’ , the preposition that usually goes with the latter is ‘for’, while ‘replace’ normally selects ‘with’ in the context: Although a substitute is also a replacement, as in the football match (and with both as nouns), what you normally do is substitute the one you want for the other, or replace the one you don’t want (again) with the one you desire. Just imagine how odd it would be if you use ‘for’ with ‘replace’: First, the sentence has becomeaambiguous. Does it mean that it is no more the writer who needs the white handkerchief, but another person for whom he wants to do a favour? But, based on the circumstance we have been considering, this is not what he means. He has only committed a prepositional error, as he now makes the clause sound pidgin – replace for. Still on ‘substitute with’ Yet, there is a situation we can correctly have ‘substitute with’: usually when the order of the replacement and the replaced is reversed. In other words, we often say ‘substitute with’ when the object replaced comes first in the clause.  Again, remember that Iheanacho started the match. Iwobi was brought in to replace him. So: Nominal substitute vs verbal substitute This is a quick note on the pronunciation of ‘substitute’ as a noun and ‘substitute’ as a verb.  They should be treated the way we do many other words that serve in both capacities (noun and verb). These include respect, accord, approach, advance and comfort. When used as nouns, the first syllable is stressed, but as verbs, the second is stressed. This means that the way you pronounce (stress)  ‘substitute’ as a noun has to be different from the way you do the verbal form: Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com