Nigeria’s version of democracy shares common features with the human brain and immune system. The two, in my view, had something important in common. First, medical professionals believe that neither the brain nor the immune system is fully formed at birth but continues to develop rapidly during infancy. Humans have the longest extended period of infancy of any creature in nature, with a profound tendency for absorbing vast amounts of culture, tradition and belief into the operating system of the brain. Likewise, democracy in Nigeria has recorded over two decades of unbroken practice yet, like the brain and human immune system, it is far from fully formed but continues to develop slowly. Presently, it will not be an overstatement to conclude that Nigeria’s democratic experiment is among the world’s longest extended period of infancy, with a profound tendency for absorbing vast amounts of undemocratic culture, tradition and belief into the operating system. In this clime, “youths are the leaders of tomorrow” has become a sermon by our leaders that can be described as gospel without the truth. They preach this without taking pragmatic steps to develop or design strategies that will help it see the light of day. It has become an epigrammatic tale that revolves around a particular plot constructed around the electioneering, with the sole aim of achieving electoral victories. In most cases, this becomes more of a slogan for political parties. It lasts as long as the electioneering period and fizzles out as soon as winners emerge. Youths are never assured again that they are “the leaders of tomorrow” till the next election period. And the cycle goes on and on. This has been the grim fate and burden that successive generations of Nigerian youths have grappled with since 1960. However, it is of considerable significance to state that, apart from the above concerns, there exist other factors preventing the youths from achieving political offices despite their demographic advantage or the glamour that graced their much-celebrated #EndSARS protests. A friend recently argued that the present crop of Nigerian youths cannot get to the next phase of the nation’s political project or achieve their leadership vision without a grinder mindset. To support the above idea, the need for a shift in the nation’s leadership structure has become inevitable to accommodate young technocrats who can take responsibility for their actions and results, be accountable where previous administrations were not and tell the truth about their failures without blame games. But, one fundamental obstacle that will prevent this from coming to fruition is the subjective view of the electoral process/positions by the youths as a right that must be given, even in the face of obvious inabilities and gross absence of planned programmes and pragmatic strategies to making a positive impact by the power-seeking youths. To Nigerians with discerning minds, electoral exercise as practised the world over is both programme and strategy based and a keen contest where the candidates with the best programme and realistic strategies for achieving that programme is favoured by the electorate. The youths at the moment, have neither been programme specific nor strategic. Also, from investigations, seeking an elective position with the aim of effecting political and socioeconomic change is synonymous with fighting for emancipation from captivity, which is never voluntarily given without personal sacrifice, as the beneficiaries of the old order will do everything to thwart the moves. Nigerians are yet to see such sacrifice, be it ideological or material, from the youths. The situation is even made worse as some of the youths, for pecuniary benefits, work across purpose while others have settled for political crumbs that fall from the masters’ table. It will, however, be antithetical to support a movement based on sentiment or allow sentiment to determine our actions. What the youths currently project is well-intentioned but pragmatically vague to be taken seriously as their actions and strategies are masked in ambiguity with unclear vision and blurred goals. For the youths to be taken seriously, therefore, what Nigerians expect is a development of potentials that are politically new, which will establish new political configurations. This is an imperative demand as their political survival should not be left to chance just as anyone that fails to search for his potential leaves his survival to chance. Very instructive also, the argument for a generational change from the head and the placement of our fate in our youths who had integrity, energy and the drive to recognise that extraordinary conditions call for extraordinary solutions is indispensable but must be accompanied by a reassurance from the youths. Another contentious challenge that may, in the estimation of the vast majority scuttle this ambition, is the belief that the electoral project in Nigeria is capital intensive while Nigerian youths are financially placed at the base of the pyramid. The assertion about the huge financial involvement in my views is in order but may not be completely correct, as the argument was not only sophistry but antithetical to building a nation devoid of corruption and goes against the global warning on corruption. To make an impact in the forthcoming general election, therefore, what the youths urgently need is the creation of innovative ideas that the electorate can buy into, building alliances/coalitions with various pressure groups and being ecumenical in movement with already existing coalitions or political parties. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com