The Baale of Okoolomi in Ibeju Lekki area of Lagos State, Chief Lateef Eleku, has accused a company, Toll System Company Limited, of hijacking his community’s land. He said the firm on Thursday engaged the services of land-grabbers who demolished houses. He explained that over 10 houses had been demolished and three cars destroyed in Oko Olomi, Itapanpa and Jegi Villages since Thursday. Eleku also explained that in 2016, the firm invaded the 14 villages in Oko Olomi and claimed that their allocation was more than the 308.165 hectares which the government gave them. He said during the 2016 invasion, the firm demolished over 1,000 houses, saying only the communities’ shrines and burial sites were not pulled down. He said, “Lagos State government should help us; Toll System and land-grabbers are stealing from us. We want to go back to our village. My houses were demolished in 2016 when they came. On Thursday, they brought police to arrest 22 people in our community and they are all in police custody till now.” Solicitor to the community, Mr Kunle Fakayejo, said, “I was briefed on this matter in 2021 and from our findings, we discovered that the area was aggressively encroached in 2016 by Toll System Development Company Limited, who engaged the services of land-grabbers and demolished over 1,000 houses in 14 villages under Oko Olomi. “We wrote a petition to the Inspector-General of Police who assigned the case to an Assistant IGP in Alagbon Police Station and through police investigation, it was confirmed that it was 308.165 hectares that the Lagos State Government allocated to them and not 1561.20 hectares, which they hijacked.” Reacting, the legal officer of Toll Systems, Mr Ugochukwu Ndubusi, said the Oko-Olomi community did not have a title for the lands in question. He said, “It is a blatant lie that the Lagos State Land-grabbing Taskforce came to clear that place on Thursday; if I don’t have the Certificate of Occupancy, is it possible for the Attorney General to do an intervention on my behalf? “I have the Certificate of Occupancy; they do not have the land title; ask them if they have any document for the lands.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com