The National Association of Nigerian Students has decried the arbitrary tuition increment across Delta State-owned universities, saying students will not hesitate to resist the move if the management of the affected institutions fails to reverse the increment within 48 hours. The leadership of the association called on Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to urgently intervene so as to avert anarchy and breakdown of law and order in the affected campuses and protests across the state. These were contained in a statement made available to journalists in Warri on Thursday by the Deputy Coordinator, NANS, South-East and South-South, Dio Rex. NANS said in the statement titled, ‘The hike in school fees across Delta State-owned universities: Extortion taken too far’, that its intervention had become necessary after obtaining and critically analysing details of the fees to prevent statewide protest. The statement read in part, “The attention of the National Association of Nigerian Students (Zone B), South-East and South-South, has been drawn to the reckless and insensitive hike in school fees across Delta State-owned universities, which are the Delta State University, Abraka, and the Delta State University of Science and Technology, Ozoro, in particular. “We are, therefore, in swift response to the agitation of the affected and prospective students, compelled to resist the hike in the interest of the general public, the parents, and the students. “We dare state that this action by the respective school management is, to say the least reprehensible, callous, insensitive, and repugnant to natural justice.” NANS demanded that the implementation of the new fees for the DSUST be suspended forthwith and be reviewed downward to a total amount not higher than the sum of N70,000. It also recommended, “The increment in the school fees for the Delta State University, Abraka, be reversed to the status quo with immediate effect. “That any other state-owned institution in Delta State planning any hike in school fees should jettison that intention as any action not in the interest of the Nigerian students will be met with an unimaginable resistance and uprising.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com