Sixty-four-year-old Mr Adeniji Ogunsola is the father of Sergeant Adeleke Ogunsola, who recently died after being knocked down by the gate at the residence of former Ogun State Governor Gbenga Daniel while opening the gate for one of the ex-governor’s drivers. The bereaved father speaks to DAUD OLATUNJI about the tragic loss of his son How did you receive the news of your son’s death? I heard that my son had an accident and he died. He left three children and two wives behind. Even, GNI (Gboyega Nasir Isiaka) has called me this (Thursday) morning to sympathise with me. Are you planning to fight for justice over his death? There is no need to fight because what happened to him was an accident and it can happen to anybody. Nobody killed my son, it is God’s doing.  All I want is just for everybody to assist me in whatever way they can, particularly to take care of the children that he left behind. I want the governor to give the three children scholarships and he should also help in taking care of Adeleke’s wives. That is what I am after. If they will help me sponsor his children’s education, I will be happy. How old are his children? His children are young; they are still in primary school. The eldest among them is eight years old.  So, they should help me to sponsor his children’s education by giving them scholarships, and also provide empowerment for his wives. As his father, what does his death at this time mean to you? Leke’s death is really painful. He was supposed to put dust on my grave, but now he is dead (weeps). He was my lookalike; once you see me, you don’t have to ask for what he looked like. He was just as slim in stature as I am. He was my third child. His death is painful. I just can’t hold back tears whenever anyone calls to commiserate with me on his death. He had a big dream. He was expecting his promotion to the rank of an Inspector; he told me he would be promoted this year. Leke used to boast in our community that he would become an important person in the police force. But man proposes while God disposes (sobs). Did you support him to join the police? Yes. I supported his police career. When I was young, people used to call me a policeman. I am the one that was supposed to be a cop, but he was the one that ended up being one. There was a DPO at zone D, Mushin where I lived while I was raising my children; he persuaded me to join the police whenever I interfered in cases then. The DPO was always saying: ‘You must join Nigeria Police.’ What kind of a policeman was your son? He was a gentleman. Leke was not a corrupt officer; his death was just accidental. It was not like he was taking bribe on the road or went to rob when he died. He did not stain the family’s name. Sometimes, when he was on special duty, I would go there to advise him on how to behave; preaching to him that life is not fair. He was very obedient to me. Whatever I asked him to do, he would always oblige. If he had a contrary opinion to what I was suggesting, he would explain things to me in a way I understand. When was the last time you saw or spoke with him? He died on Saturday but I got the news on Sunday (sobs). I spoke with him on Wednesday and Thursday. He told me he wanted to see me and said he would visit me. That was our last discussion, not knowing that we would never see again. What will you miss most about him? He was the one supporting me since his mother died 20 years ago. Right now, I am looking up to God to provide for me. When I had prostate cancer and came to Sagamu to have an operation, he was always checking up on me. Leke would check up on me twice a day. In fact, if he wasn’t working, I am sure he would have stayed permanently by my bedside. Now that he’s gone, I need the assistance of government from the local to federal level. I need their assistance, especially the Nigeria Police Force because he died in the Nigeria Police uniform.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com