Troops of the Nigerian Army have arrested 12 vandals and also discovered and destroyed a total of 45 illegal refining sites in Rivers and Delta States respectively. The Director, Defence Media Operations, Major General Benard Oyeuko, disclosed this while briefing journalists on the troops’ operational activities and other security agencies conducting operations to tackle insecurity in the country between 20 January – 10 February 22. Oyeuko, in a speech shared on the Nigeria Army official Facebook page, said that the vandals were arrested by troops of Operation Delta Safe. He added that the troops conducted operations at different locations, in creeks, villages, and towns in Obelle, Rumuekpe, Oduoha, Isiokpo, Ibas in Emohua Local Government Area, Samkiri Community, Idodha/Ozochi Communities in Ahoada West Local Government all in Rivers State. Other locations, he said, include; Opuama, Warri North Local Government Area, Madangbo Creek in Warri South Local Government Area, Gbene Community, Abalama Community in Delta State. “Accordingly, in the last 2 weeks, troops discovered and destroyed a total of 45 illegal refining sites, 72 cooking ovens, 127 metal storage tanks, 30 dug-out pits, 23 Cotonou boats, 47 pumping machines, 9 tankers. “Consequently, a total of 2,531,000 litres of illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil and and2,807,000 litres of stolen crude oil were recovered in the course of the operations in addition, 20 coolants, 9 tankers were recovered. “Also, 50 galvanized pipes illegally connected to pipelines were excavated, 12 economic saboteurs associated with pipeline vandalization were arrested within the period. “All the apprehended criminals and recovered items have been handed over to the appropriate authorities for further action.” Oyeuko, however, commended the troops in the frontlines of operations in the various theatre for their sacrifices in combating the various security challenges confronting the nation. Aside from the troops, the army spokesperson also appreciated Nigerians for the cooperation given the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies in the course of our operations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com