A former governor of Anambra State, Chief Chukwuemeka Ezeife, on Wednesday said Nigeria and its citizens were too blessed by God to be disintegrated. He stated this when he hosted a presidential aspirant, Adewale Adebayo, who paid him a condolence visit at his Abuja home over the death of his wife, Njideka. According to him, although the country is going through insecurity and other challenges, Nigerians will overcome the situation. The ex-governor called on Nigerians, especially the youth, to unite and fight their common enemies, saying the people should expect a new Nigeria after the next general elections. He said, “We have a gem of a country, God gave us more than he gave any other country, no country have what we have, the men and some of the women in Nigeria’s politics messed up God’s design for unequal greatness, for a superpower among nations. “Man messed up the design but can the will of man dominate over the will of God? So, be ready to receive a new Nigeria. “With you the younger ones, I am very happy. The problem is that our political leaders do not have conscience. Conscience is dead in Nigerian politicians and that is the problem. We have to pray to God to resurrect conscience in Nigeria. “If we have conscience, we can bring back Nigeria, we can still be a superpower and we can make all Africans and black people to respected and have dignity because our failure is the failure of all blacks. It is not over, Nigeria is not about to disintegrate but we have to go back to God and pray that he restores his plan for Nigeria.” Adebayo described Ezeife as a stabiliser in the country. He said, “You are a national leader that reminds us what the country should be and what we should also be. When you were the governor in Anambra, you tried to unite the country as a family, showing that you want us to be united as a country. “You are known to be a planner and you left a solid foundation of what Anambra State is today. You have been an example to the country in many ways. “At a moment like this, we have come to you, you must feel the vacuum of losing a loved one but you must fill that vacuum with all the many children you have produced. “Your duty is to give us direction, the country needs unity and you have an answer to that.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com