The All Progressives Grand Alliance has said that there is a complete misrepresentation of facts on the issue of revenue collection in Anambra State. In a statement in Awka, on Monday, the National co-ordinator, APGA Media Warriors Forum, Evang Chinedu Obigwe, dismissed the rumour that revenue contractors were set for a showdown with the incoming governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo. Obigwe described the report published in a national daily, not The PUNCH, as a planted news report, done with an evil intention. He said, “To put the records straight, there is a complete misrepresentation of facts on this issue of revenue collection in Anambra. It is a well-known fact that workers pay their tax on a monthly basis because it’s normally deducted from their salary at the end of the month. “But business owners pay at the end of the year or latest beginning of the year and it covers for one year. They don’t pay monthly tax, so the impression that it is strange that they are being asked to pay for one year tax now is wrong. They pay yearly tax and this year’s own will not be different.” He stressed that the rumour about revenue collection was a politically motivated attempt to pit the outgoing administration of Governor Obiano and the incoming administration of Soludo against each other. He added that there was a need to put the information in the right perspective and to correct the misrepresentation of facts with regards to the tax payment in the state. The statement read in part, “It is important for me to say it boldly that Soludo will not tolerate or spare anybody that attempts to frustrate the implementation of his radical change plan in Anambra when he takes over the reign of leadership on March 17. “As for revenue contractors that collect tolls in parks and markets, they pay their agreed fee to the government purse at the end of every month hence the reason their contract can be terminated at the end of the month. They don’t have a legal yearly contract with the state government. “What we know is that Soludo would explore more tax windows in Anambra to increase the state IGR and he will not spare those that are not paying their tax. He will also block any leakages that serve as a drain pipe of Anambra IGR. “He will do that to the benefit of the masses because the money that will be recovered from the blockage of revenue leakages will be channelled to the execution of people-oriented projects. “Therefore, people should stop looking for an excuse to avoid paying their tax. They should pay their tax as responsible citizens because that is the only way they will help to develop their state. Company and business owners taxes are paid on yearly basis and not on monthly basis. “As for me, I will say that mischievous elements are raising unnecessary dust on this issue of tax payments and it is in their own interest for them to retrace their evil steps. “I repeat, the incoming administration of Soludo will explore more tax window to increase Anambra IGR for the benefits of ndi Anambra and we will support him as patriotic citizens to achieve that target.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com