For those familiar with the writings of Bertrand Russell, the eponymous British mathematical genius and one of the defining philosophical figures of the twentieth century, the title of this piece would seem to suggest a false dichotomy between Russell’s hardboiled philosophical template and spirituality. British philosophical tradition was founded on empiricism as a defining framework. Starting from John Locke and down to Russell and many successors, empiricism latches on to a scientific mindset that sees reality in terms of hard sense data, rather than spiritual essence that defines the rationalism of Plato, Descartes and Hegel. However, this essay is not about the philosophical differences between empiricism and rationalism, or even the fine grains of Russell’s empiricism. On the contrary, it is to outline the paradoxical effect that Russell’s hardboiled scientific empiricism had on my philosophical and spiritual maturation as a scholar and a person. In doing so, I am responding to passionate requests from a growing number of my readers who, being believers, want me to share some perspectives on how my seminal orientation had shaped my Christianity. I must however apologise upfront, that tried as I did to make this piece the most reader-friendly, it ended up more a seminal than a general reader’s delight By now, those who have followed my public commentaries are aware of those historical figures that have had the most fundamental influence on my intellectual coming of age. References to Plato have peppered all my public writings. And that is because Plato constitutes a singular most important philosopher that initiated my first philosophical wondering. It is from Plato that I got my first inkling of what it means to think about reform. But it is from Martin Luther and Thomas More that I learnt not only about the depth of activism but also the content of the utopia that reform aims at. With Bertrand Russell—mathematician, philosopher and Nobel Prize winner—I got a different kind of motivation. My journey into Russell’s essential works, outside of Principia Mathematica and other contributions to the philosophy of mathematics and logic, began at a point when I was getting acutely confused about the multiplicity of religious practices to which I had been exposed, the contentions in their claims, and how they could be arranged to form a coherent whole for someone like me who was looking for spiritual meaning. My mind has always been conditioned by a search for spiritual enlightenment and existential coherence within which I could fit my wondering queries about the world and all its manifold realities. There have been two sides to my spiritual wanderings. The first has to do with my confused attempt at understanding the relationship between Christianity, mysticism and occultism. In other words, how does the desire to know Christ, for instance, lead Christianity into mysticism? How does, for example, Tibetan occultism and its interest in self-consciousness relate with the abasement of the self in Christianity? When I eventually unearthed Albert Einstein’s connection with Rosicrucianism, I became all the more perplexed as to how such a genius could be wrong in his choice of spiritual path. How could Rosicrucianism be wrong? Indeed, how could the Ifá corpus by which the Yoruba lived for centuries not be a means by which one could understand one’s world? The second dimension to my spiritual wandering came as a result of my early encounter with Pentecostalism and its brand of theological exclusivity. Pentecostal Christianity seems to have satisfied my youthful search for religious puritanism. I was however seriously offended by the common knowledge that Christian clerics dabbled in occult practices to enhance their religious status. But then, I came short when I confronted the simplistic fixation with the miracle mentality that gave Pentecostalism its leeway into postcolonial sensibilities, as well as prosperity theology and all its obscene manifestations. It was at this point that I started dangling at the precipice of agnosticism after all, I had read all of Lobsang Rampa’s Tibetan mysticism and dabbled in Rosicrucianism in my student days. All these offered their own unique spiritual titillation for my wandering mind. How then do I deal with the absolutism of Pentecostal Christianity, and its puritanical exclusivity? How then do I reach the divine? And this was the worst possible time to be fascinated with Bertrand Russell as a budding intellectual and believer. This was a philosopher and professed atheist. His Why I Am Not a Christian (1927) outlined his many logical arguments against Christian theology, Christ, immortality and even God. He argued, till death, that religion was essentially harmful to human flourishing because it was founded on fear. However, it is Russell’s philosophical methodology that paradoxically assisted in my achieving a religious open-mindedness that opened my path to spiritual enlightenment eventually. Russell was instrumental in the founding of the analytic school of philosophy, alongside Ludwig Wittgenstein, Gottlob Frege, Karl Popper, W. V. O. Quine, G. E. Moore, and many others. The tradition is characterised by its dependence on analysis, logical argumentations and clarity of thought. Analysis implies taking an issue and focusing philosophical reflection on its constituent parts in a way that enables an understanding of the whole. Analytic philosophers aim for conceptual clarity. Philosophical puzzles are the result of linguistic misuse. With Bertrand Russell, logical argumentation became the foundation of clarity in social and political matters. At the core of my fascination with Russell’s empiricism is an epistemological skepticism that insists that we see our beliefs as just a starting point for any actions we wish to take; beliefs are just guides that should be scrutinised seriously. They are not absolute in any way. Russell called on what Alfred Henry Lloyd, the American philosopher, called the “will to doubt.” This principle of skepticism led Russell to agnosticism. On the contrary, it led me to faith. Agnosticism was too steep a commitment for me. But I saw the logical point of Russell’s argument. With the will to doubt, fundamentalism becomes an epistemic position that cannot be sustained. On a supposition, it excludes all other possible alternatives of faith. Thus, with Russell’s relentless dedication to logical inquiry and philosophic curiosity, I gradually began to surmount my leaning towards religious puritanism in ways that gave me spiritual clarity. A significant part of that derived from my upbringing as a Yoruba Baptist who grew up within a context of traditional inter-faith relations, what Ali Mazrui famously regarded as Africa’s triple heritage. This was a tradition that implicitly insisted on “live and let live” in terms of religious tolerance. Without the need for Russell, the traditional Yoruba epistemic framework provides an accommodationist ambience that allows religious manifestations to coexist peaceably. Under the deep influence of a good dose of Russell’s philosophical arguments for fallibility, there was no way I could afford religious fundamentalism, even with my attachment to Pentecostal Christianity and its absolutist theology. Indeed, I began to see clearly how I could begin to relate to my fascination especially with Yoruba spirituality. The implication of fallibility for me is that I could hold on to my belief while not disdaining other beliefs. In other words, being a Pentecostal Christian, for me, is my own leap of faith and mine alone. It doesn’t commit me to an absolutist rejection of the religious beliefs of others. This has some far-reaching implications for my intellectual and spiritual maturation. Most significantly, Russell’s counsel of rigorous logical argumentation and the idea of fallibility makes me a more reflective and, I think, better Christian. This means that it opens up within me an open-minded space that allows for more empathetic relationships with those whose beliefs are unlike mine. This becomes a sine qua non not just for me as a private individual with a religious belief, but also as a public intellectual with an aspiration to mediate in the making of a freer and more flexible marketplace of ideas and opinions. This is where Bertrand Russell’s opposition to public censorship and rabid support for freedom of opinion becomes a cornerstone. Being a public intellectual comes with a range of intellectual and epistemic burdens. Being trusted to distill ideas on several realms of thoughts makes her an embodiment of a fundamental striving between personal prejudices and public requirements; essentially, she is confronted with a limitation of her knowledge even to the extent that she wields the power to influence others. To borrow the title of Robin Sharma, a public intellectual is a “leader who had no title.” This appeals to me tremendously, especially within the context of the craze by Nigerian elites for political appointments that do not amount to any fundamental transformation of people’s lives, and that are riddled with ethnic biases and religious prejudices. The public sphere—the home of the public intellectual—offers a more significant space for fundamental ideational conversations that are founded on a fallibility-induced humility, unconditioned by petty ethnic rivalries. This for me represents a microcosm of what, in my little book, The Joy of Learning (2010), I called an enlarged mentality that enabled learning to live together in society. This kind of learning goes beyond learning to know and learning to do to a broader understanding of the interdependent relationship among people of different persuasions and values. In a final sense, Bertrand Russell sowed into me the seed of an epistemic humility that flows from my religious open-mindedness to the significance of ideational reciprocity for the effectiveness of my reform advocacy. No reform idea can ever survive if it fails to tap into the open space where the global and the local, the government and the nongovernmental are relating coherently. That is how far Bertrand Russell drove me to engage with my own thoughts and biases. I am the better for it, trust me. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com