Google has announced that 5000 small and medium-scale enterprises and entrepreneurs in Nigeria, Kenya and South Africa will be receiving free training to help their businesses thrive through its newly launched Hustle Academy. In a statement, the company said the academy is a boot camp-style training programme designed to help entrepreneurs and small businesses owners position their businesses for investment opportunities and building viable business models for the future. The Head of Brand and Reputation, Sub-Saharan Africa, Mojolaoluwa Aderemi-Makinde, said, “SMEs are the engine that drives growth for any economy. “In Africa, SMEs account for around 80 per cent of jobs and are a significant source of economic growth. In order to grow the economy and increase employment, it is crucial that small businesses have access to the right tools, training and funding to scale up. The Hustle Academy’s mission is to assist entrepreneurs to navigate the business challenges they face by providing them with the appropriate tools and knowledge. “Our hope is that through the Hustle Academy training this year, we will be able to assist 5,000 SMEs and entrepreneurs across Africa take their business to the next level and find ways to scale our efforts to help even more businesses going forward.” The company added that business owners will undergo five days of hands-on training and receive 3000 hours of training on fundamental aspects of the business to help them navigate the challenges faced by SMEs in Africa. It said the training curriculum includes strategic growth sessions including business growth strategy, building digital marketing roadmaps, discovering and evaluating funding routes, and how to pitch for success among other topics. It added that the program is open to only businesses that have been in operation for more than a year, have a developed business strategy, defined product or service offering, are aiming to scale, and have made a profit in the previous 12 months or be within 1-3 months of breaking even. The Executive Secretary, Lagos State Employment Trust Fund, Teju Abisoye, said, “The Google Hustle Academy Program is a laudable initiative that will help improve business prospects and also create the impact we desire at the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com