Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, has challenged professionals in the building sector to evolve new safety techniques to mitigate incessant building collapse in Nigeria. The governor also hinted at plans by the state to create a building control agency. He spoke at a one-day symposium organised by the Kwara State Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, themed: “Building Control in Kwara State: A synergy between Kwara State Government and Stakeholders.” The governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for Communications, Olabode Towoju, lamented the incessant building collapse, saying it “has reached an alarming crescendo. On several occasions, it led to unnecessary loss of lives and property, thus becoming an issue of major concern since it poses threat to the nation’s development.” AbdulRazaq said his government in its determination to ensure sanity in the building sector, had created the new Ministry of Housing and Urban Development. He added that the government “is set to initiate the creation of a functioning building control agency that will inspect, approve and certify every stage of building construction in the state. “This agency is expected to sanitise the building sector and encourage sustainable housing development in the state.” While acknowledging that government alone cannot do it, the governor also asked professional bodies to regulate the activities of their members. “Part of the key roles of the stakeholders in this move, particularly the professional bodies is to determine the standard of educational qualification of their members and regulate their activities in the building and construction industry,” he said. In his address, the Kwara State Commissioner for Housing and Urban Development, Ibrahim Akaje. asked participants at the workshop to “take advantage of the symposium to learn new ideas toward world-class building techniques that will help in putting an end to building collapse in the country.” Akaje said the essence of the symposium was to expose participants to new techniques and tap from the experiences of professionals and stakeholders to develop the sector. The Speaker of the Kwara State House of Assembly, who was represented by his deputy, Felix Awodiji, assured stakeholders that the government would get legislative support to drive its policies on sustainable housing projects.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com