Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, has restated the commission’s commitment to bridging identified gaps and shortages in critical telecom infrastructure in the country. To achieve this, Danbatta said, the NCC would ensure the implementation of various regulatory initiatives and programmes, in collaboration with all stakeholders in the telecom ecosystem. Danbatta gave the assurance during an in-house interview that took place at the commission’s Head Office in Abuja recently. This was contained in a statement by the NCC Director, Public Affairs, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, titled ‘NCC committed to tackling telecom infrastructure deficit – Danbatta’. He said the steps were aimed at supporting extant and emergent policies and strategies of the Federal Government focused on providing accessible, and affordable broadband services in Nigeria. According to him, the availability of broadband in sufficiency was non-negotiable and irreducible in the nation’s strategy towards delivering pervasive telecom services. Danbatta also commended both state and non-state actors for the vision, diligence, and continued dedication to the implementation of the Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NNBP) 2020-2025. He added that one of the identified gaps to robust connectivity was the fact that inadequate infrastructure remained a bane to achieving desired broadband penetration to boost access to services that would enhance economic growth and development. “The commission is committed to ensuring inclusiveness by ensuring the provision of affordable and pervasive access to the internet as emphasised by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the United Nations (UN). “We are aware that until commensurate infrastructure is deployed in the country, the country may not hit the required target necessary for the desired economic development,” the EVC added. Concerning NCC’s pioneering strides in the deployment of the Fifth Generation (5G) network in Sub-Saharan Africa, Danbatta explained that the rollout of 5G network in Nigeria would require more infrastructure for the service to reach all parts of the country. He called for concerted efforts and unwavering commitment of all stakeholders for the nation to achieve steady, timely, and accurate deployment of 5G services because of its benefits to individuals, businesses, and the growth of the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com