Nigerian actress, Kemi Korede, has praised popular Nollywood star, Funke Akindele-Bello,  for helping people without announcing it. Korede who gushed on her Instagram page on Wednesday said that although Akindele preferred to keep her selfless contributions private, she could not help but thank her publicly. Thanking Akindele, Korede wrote, “I have been struggling to find the appropriate words to use but I am not sure there are good enough words to express the joy I feel(tears of joy) rolling down my cheek. “I know you don’t like publicity but @funkejenifaakindele I am so sorry I have to do this. You are one of the few people I know who go out of their way to help without announcing it to the world. “You are a rare gem. A woman of substance. A true definition of a Queen. Those who are blessed with the opportunity of knowing you personally can attest that your heart is even more beautiful than your outward appearance. “Ah,Funke Akindele Bello Oremi atata (my good friend). You will never know shame in your lifetime. You will never fall nor fail Insha Allah. “Your leaf will never wither. May God continue to bind your family together with love. God will never give you more than you can bear. You will not cry over your children. You will never lose your smile. Eníyàn lásó, eníyan rèrè ni e Funke (Funke is a good person). “May God continue to enlarge your coast, bless your territory and adorn you with his grace. Olorun Baba Agba will continue to protect you and your family. Thank you! Thank you!!Thank you!! I love you so much, my darling sister and friend.” Veteran actor, Jide Kosoko, also responded to her Instagram post. He said that Akindele had different sides to different people, “but in all, she is a woman of honour.” Although the details of Akindele’s recent act of kindness had not been disclosed, Korede had praised the actress last year for giving veteran actor, only called Pa James, a brand new house. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com