A governorship aspirant, Dumo Lulu-Briggs, has said the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, will be happy to have him contest and succeed him as governor of the state. This was as Lulu-Briggs disclosed that he would run for the governorship office of the state in the 2023 elections. Lulu-Briggs, an oil mogul and a former governorship candidate of the Accord party in the state, spoke on Friday at the Port Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa, on arrival from Lagos after receiving an award in the oil sector. He noted that Wike was his friend and would be happy to have him succeed him as the next governor of the state. Lulu-Briggs stated that his interest was to sustain the developmental strides of the incumbent administration and to give attention to agriculture and youth development. He said, “He (Wike) is a friendly man. The governor is my friend. He is a very good friend. I know he would want me to run and he would want me to become the governor of the state because he knows that if I become the governor of the state, he is rest assured there will be development. “He will rest assured that nobody is going to look behind anybody’s back. There is so much work to do.” Lulu-Briggs emphasised that the state had many qualified persons for the governorship position of the state, adding that for the interest of cohesion, the riverine section should be given the opportunity. He said, “I don’t know why nobody has declared, but I think that they are all consulting. Rivers State is blessed with a lot of capable hands and I am very certain that in no time you will see them out in their numbers. “Do you think I am qualified to contest the election? So why shouldn’t I contest? There are works to be done. What I have been trying to do over the years is to try to give my best at all times. I will run by the special grace of God. “We need to try and have a state that is an inclusive place for everybody. So, if Dumo Lulu is running, everybody settled that we can have a state where both Nyesom Wike and Amaechi can dine together.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com