Terrorists have invaded some communities in the Magama Local Government Area of Niger State and allegedly killed some residents, abducted others, mostly women and children, as well as rustled cattle. The Chairman, Magama Local Government Council, Safiyanu Ibeto, who confirmed the incident, revealed that the terrorists invaded Mabirni, Zoma, Bado,Yangalu, Buga and  Zabbi communities on Saturday. “The incident happened on Saturday and the bandits came in large numbers through the Mabirni community,” Ibeto said. He stated that the affected communities had been deserted, while some women and children were hiding in the bushes and others taking refuge in Kontagora, and appealed for the provision of food and other basic needs for the displaced victims. “Majority of our people have abandoned their homes and ran away as a result of the attack. Some are in the bushes, while others have fled to Kontagora,” the council boss noted. An elderly woman, Malama Abdullahi, said two of her daughters were among those abducted, adding that the family had been contacted by the bandits for ransom. She said, “My two daughters were among those abducted; one of them has three children, while the other one has five children. “Their abductors have already contacted us for ransom and they are requesting the sum of N3m.” Abdullahi added that the bandits said they would call back for the continuation of negotiations for her daughters. As of the time of filing this report, the Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy Affairs and Internal Security, Emmanuel Umar, who is authorised to speak on the issues of insecurity, had not taken his calls. However, the state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, confirmed the incident. He said in a statement, “The Niger State Police Command wishes to inform members of the public that on February 12, 2022, around 4.30pm, armed bandits/terrorists attacked some villages around Nasko, Magama LGA, and rustled a large number of cattle. Abiodun stated that 20 abducted persons had regained their freedom, adding that many of the bandits were killed. “Consequently, scores of bandits were neutralised and the large number of rustled cattle recovered, while about 20 abducted victims regained freedom,” Abiodun added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com