Usually, we use a comma when listing items in a clause. In such a situation, the process is often concluded with ‘and’. This means that the comma ceases to appear after listing the second to the last item. That is why you don’t have it after ‘torch’ in the statement below: She needs a bag, a torch and a laptop. But there are occasions you put a comma before ‘and’ too! It could be a matter of choice, but in certain contexts it could be vital to achieving clarity. I know there are circumstances some of us use commas when the punctuation mark is not required – like putting one after ‘although’: Although, she was there, she didn’t say anything. No. While the second comma is okay, the one after ‘although’ is useless.  There are also situations it is unacceptable after ‘and’, like the one after ‘John’ below: John, and Tiri are around. But there are some major you can correctly place the comma before the conjunction – ‘and’. When the items listed are at least three: In the sentences, the writer listed not less than three items in each. The comma before ‘and’ is therefore acceptable though NOT compulsory. As a matter of fact, some experts deride it as they believe it is odd – to say the least. In the grammar/academic class, it is called the Oxford or serial comma. ‘Oxford’ because ‘it was traditionally used by printers, readers, and editors at Oxford University Press.’ Despite the mixed feelings it commands, the idea is not that it is a wrong usage. You need to know this so that, even if you do not fall in love with it, if you encounter it in some expressions, you will not think it is wrong. Here are two more examples: When ‘and’ joins two complete sentences When you have two complete sentences joined by ‘and’, you can have the comma before the conjunction. But note that the key word here is ‘complete’ – complete with the subject and verb, with or without the object, depending on whether or not the verb is transitive: They washed the plate, and they were still the ones who prepared the dish. Governor Obiano said he would be leaving behind a more prosperous state, and he challenged anyone who says he did not perform well to come out with facts. The idea of contributing money to fix the road came from Joel, and that is why everyone is praising him. Give me a broom, and you can help sweep the floor if you like. In the examples above, the two clauses or sentences connected by ‘and’ are clearly independent. This is to the extent that the statement can be broken into two, separated by full stops. Consider these two pairs: They washed the plate. They were still the ones who prepared the dish. Governor Obiano said he would be leaving behind a more prosperous state. He challenged anyone who says he did not perform well to come out with facts. Don’ts When the items listed are less than three, don’t put a comma before and: She bought a dress, and a pillow. (Wrong) She brought a dress and a pillow. (Correct) I was there on Monday, and Wednesday. (Wrong) I was there on Monday and Wednesday. (Correct) Don’t put it before the ‘and’ before a dependent clause: If you compare the second Obiano example with the first, you will discover that we have two independent clauses in the earlier example but only one in the second. The absence of ‘he’ in the second sentence, though implied through ellipsis, has now affected the status of the second part of the latter expression. This means that even if the combined clauses are independent, you should not put a comma before ‘and’ once both (clauses) are short and closely connected: In both, you need not put the comma before ‘and’ based on the crisp lengths and connectedness of the independent clauses. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com