SUPER FALCONS duo Asisat Oshoala and Uchenna Kanu are joint No.1 in the African Women’s Power Rankings for the month of January. It was a great start to the year for Nigerian women, with five of them listed in the Top 10 of the continent’s top female footballers. The rankings featured players plying their trades in Mexico, Spain, Portugal, Italy and France. Oshoala returned to action after two months out, after she suffered a rupture of the posterior cruciate ligament in her right knee against Hoffenheim in November. The Falcons captain returned with a bang as she bagged four goals and assisted two more in January with a hat-trick in Barcelona’s 4-0 Primera Iberdrola drubbing of Real Betis on Saturday the highlight of her performance. Upon her return earlier in January, Oshoala scored in the 7-0 win over Granadilla Tenerife and assisted Lieke Martens in wins over Atlético Madrid and Sporting de Huelva. Four goals and two assists in the month under review made her one of the top candidates for the number one spot. Meanwhile, in Mexico, Kanu was also in hot form for Tigres UANL in the Liga MX Femenil. She scored the same number of goals in January and just like her compatriot, she also scored a hat-trick in a 5-1 win over Atlas, having found the back of the net against Deportivo Guadalajara. Rasheedat Ajibade, who plies her trade with Atlético Madrid in Spain, was ranked fourth in the power rankings. The striker scored twice in a 5-0 thrashing of Villarreal on January 12, picking up from where she left off last year after she scored a brace in a 6-1 drubbing of Real Betis. Ranked sixth in the Power Rankings is Nigerian Sevilla winger Toni Payne. She’s has been in great form for the Spanish club, rounding off her fine display with a goal against Valencia in their 3-1 win in the Primera Iberdrola. Payne already has four goals from 18 appearances this season – one short of her tally for the entire 2020/21 campaign. Goalkeeper Chiamaka Nnadozie put in another classy performance for Paris FC in the French Division 1 Féminine to earn herself eighth place in the rankings. The Falcons keeper conceded just a goal in the month of January to help Paris FC consolidate on their third position, behind only giants Olympique Lyonnais and Paris Saint-Germain. Worthy of mention is Vicky López of Madrid CFF who ranked seventh.  The 15-year-old, who has a Spanish father and Nigerian mother, has had a remarkable start to life in Madrid’s first team. She registered one assist as Madrid snatched a late point in the Primera Iberdrola clash with Sevilla in January. Completing the Top 10 are South Africa and Braga’s Jermaine Seoposenwe in third position, while Cameroon striker Ajara Nchout is ranked No.5.  Fleury 91 defender Jeannette Yango (Cameroon) and Zambia’s Racheal Kundananji occupy the ninth and 10th positions respectively. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com