Ahead of the forthcoming 2023 general elections, a group under the auspices of North West Coalition for Democracy and Good Governance has said it has completed plans and strategy to mobilise millions of voters across the federation against any candidate from the North because it is now the turn of South to produce President. The group also said it’s working with several political groups across the country to ensure that all political parties zoned the seat of the President to the South, especially the South-South geo-political zone. A press statement jointly signed by the Chairman and Secretary, Alhaji Musa Mohammed Ringim and Mal. Ahmadu Shehu respectively, and issued to Journalists in Kaduna over the weekend, alleged that the “North in collaboration with the South-West geo-political zone ganged up against former President Goodluck Jonathan, noting it was unfair. “This amongst many reasons was why we endorsed the Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, who is from Delta but from the Igbo extraction, as our preferred candidate from the South to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. “We based our argument on the fact that the east was yet to produce a President after Nigeria became a Republic,” the group said. The group, however, hinged its appeal on the commendable giant strides Governor Okowa has recorded in the areas of infrastructural development in the state. While stating that the country needs visionary leaders such as Governor Okowa to take her out of the shackles of poverty, underdevelopment and youth restiveness, it stressed, “At this critical period of stirred up tensions due to insecurity, secession agitations, ravaging poverty and dwindling economy, Nigerians need a leader who has the capacity to unite the country. The statement further read, “We are, therefore, ready to mobilise Nigerians irrespective of political linings for the emergence of Governor Okowa, especially for his impeccable landslide achievements in the state through his unbiased governance. ‘’This is why we are calling on our brothers of Igbo origin in different parts of the country to come together and work with NWCDGG to make this dream of Igbo Presidency a reality come 2023. “At this point, we strongly believe Nigerians will accept Governor Okowa for his inclusive government and passion for infrastructural development in Delta State which brought unity, peace,​ cohesiveness and reduced youth restiveness in the state.” However, the group urged the Delta Governor to accept the call for National assignment and reciprocate the level of good governance and patriotism he has demonstrated in his state at the national level for the country to benefit and​ move forward. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com