Gunmen have invaded Barakallahu Community in Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State and killed the Director of Operations of the state Geographical Information Service, Mallam Dauda. It was learnt that the attackers targetted the residence of the victim in the area located along the Zaria-Kaduna highway, killing the director. They left without picking any valuable in the house, it was further gathered. Though there was no official confirmation of the attack either by the state or the state Police Command, but the District Head of the Community, Alhaji Muhammad Abdullahi, did. Abdullahi, while confirming the attack, said the Divisional Police Officer, Rigachikun and Barnawa, both residents of the area, had since visited the scene of the crime which occurred in the early hours of Friday. He said the attack was a case of an assassination, maintaining that the hoodlums went straight to their target and carried out their operations without hindrance. The district head said, “This is simply a case of assassination because they went to only the victim’s house, killed him and left the community. They did not take anything in his house neither did they attack the guard and his wife. “Even the other village that was attacked, no life was lost. They just caused commotion and left. We feel they just did that to make it look like an attack. “We have been facing various security breaches in the community informed by the vast ungoverned land taken over by the Nigerian Air Force. You know we were in court; we won at the High Court but they appealed the case at the Appeal Court here in Kaduna.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Muhammad Jalige, neither answered calls put across to him nor replied a text message sent to him to respond to the matter. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com