There was tight security around the Osun State All Progressives Congress secretariat along the Osogbo-Gbongan Road on Friday evening as the Governorship Primary Electoral Committee met the three aspirants and their supporters. The three aspirants battling for the party ticket are Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, Moshood Adeoti and Lasun Yusuf. During the meeting, guidelines for the Saturday’s (today’s) primary were rolled out to the aspirants and their supporters. Ten patrol vans belonging to the Department of State Services and an Armoured Personnel Carrier were stationed near the gate of the secretariat. Osun Amotekun corps officials were also on hand. The seven-man election committee, headed by the Governor of Kwara State, AbdulRahman AbdulRazak with Senator Julius Ucha as the secretary, was led to the premises by security personnel. While addressing the aspirants alongside their supporters, Abdulrahaman described the contest as a family affair and urged members of the party to come out in large number to vote for their preferred candidate. He said, “Since yesterday (Thursday), we have communicated necessary information to all the aspirants and that was done through SMS, WhatsApp and other means and all the aspirants willingly agreed to come and they were informed to come with 10 supporters and their agents in the 332 wards. “We came here with peace. Our party is a peaceful party and we are going to do everything to ensure that peace is maintained throughout the entire process. Fairness, equity, justice, credibility and peace are our watchwords. “I want you all to come out peacefully and in large number to vote for your preferred candidate. What we are looking for is peace and I can assure you that we will leave no stone unturned to ensure a peaceful, free and fair exercise. “To us as a committee, peace, love, unity and oneness are our watchwords. Let’s be our brother’s keeper. What we should be celebrating is peace, love and oneness and as we are moving into the field, we should go in peace. We are here to do justice to all aspirants.” Rolling out guidelines for the exercise, secretary to the committee, Ucha, explained that accreditation would commence by 8am at recognised wards or voting centres and end by 12pm. He said voting would start immediately and end by 2pm or two hours after the end of accreditation. He added that agents of the aspirants could go to the voting centre with their posters, but they would not be allowed to canvass for votes. According to him, direct primary mode, whereby members would queue behind their favourite aspirant or his poster would be adopted for the exercise. In his remarks, Adeoti raised concern over unavailability of party register that would be used for the exercise, while Lowo Adebiyi, the chairman of The Osun Progressives, a faction in the APC backed by a the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, also said state political appointees should not be made local government returning officers. Ucha, while responding, said party membership register to be used was brought from Abuja by employees of APC national secretariat and he presented a copy to Adeoti for verification. He also said retuning officers were appointed by the national leadership of the APC. Primary not a do-or-die affair, says Oyetola In his remarks, Oyetola assured the gathering that adequate security had been put in place to ensure a peaceful exercise that would produce a candidate that would be elected by the majority members of the party. He said, “Necessary mechanisms have been put in place to ensure a credible poll. Osun State is known for peace. It is an exercise that is not new to us and I want to assure you that we are going to have peace. I want to implore the members to allow peace. This is not a do-or-die affair.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com