The President, Major General Muhammdu Buhari (retd.) has emphasised the need for African leaders to work in unison and put all modalities in place to discourage coups across the continent. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, titled, ‘Africa needs stronger, better leadership to grow, President Buhari, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed agree at AU meeting’, Buhari said that there was a need for the leaders to disincentives conflicts and coups. According to the statement, Buhari said this on Sunday in Addis Ababa, at a meeting with the Ethiopian Prime Minister, Abiy Ahmed, at the Headquarters of the African Union. He said that African growth and development will require strong, visionary leadership that caters for the needs of the people, and effectively strengthens institutions that encourage peaceful co-existence. Buhari also commended the efforts of the Prime Minister in maintaining peace and unity in the country, and dedication to ensuring fairness and justice in development. “You are leading a country that is large and diversified, just like Nigeria, and I know the sacrifices required to make the desired impact, especially in maintaining peace,” the President said. Furthermore, Buhari urged the Ethiopian leader to stay focused on keeping the country together, in spite of the difficulties, assuring that Nigeria will continue to support efforts in peaceful co-existence and unity. The President said Ahmed had provided strong leadership for the country, encouraging him to sustain the good work in ensuring even development. In his remarks, the Prime Minister thanked Buhari for support to the country over the years, on national and personal endeavours, particularly in encouraging unity and stability. Ahmed noted that the African continent had been slow in growth due to conflicts, adding that the larger economies, like Nigeria and Ethiopia, should provide the leadership that will deepen progress and prosperity on the continent. The Prime Minister said the resurgence of coups on the continent could further weaken institutions and reverse the gains of democracy while appreciating Buhari for his position on zero tolerance for military interference in governance. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com