Healthtech startup firm, Wellahealth Technologies Limited and diagnostics startup firm, MDaaS Global have partnered to provide affordable diagnostic services and treatments to health care consumers and insurers in Nigeria. Wellahealth, according to a statement on Tuesday offers health insurance for common health care conditions such as malaria, typhoid, and viral illnesses, via a network of pharmacies, while MDaaS Global builds and operates modern, technology-enabled diagnostic centers in clinically-underserved communities. The partnership would enable the public and health insurers to access an integrated, quality-assured service that provides laboratory testing and medications rapidly and efficiently across over 2,000 locations in every state of the country. The Chief Executive Officer of Wellahealth Technologies, Dr Ikpeme Neto, said, “This partnership between our companies heralds a new era in technology-enabled, high-quality patient care in Nigeria. Leveraging both companies’ commitment to affordability and innovation, insurers, the general public, and other businesses can now access lab tests and medications from thousands of locations on both our networks. Our combined experience of managing hundreds of thousands of patients across every state allows us to meet the basic lab testing and medication needs of millions of Nigerians.” Also, the Chief Executive Officer of MDasS Global, Mr Oluwasoga Oni, said, “Given our shared mission, we at MDaaS Global are excited to partner with Wellahealth to bring modern, high-quality diagnostics to their beneficiaries across Nigeria through our fast-growing network of diagnostic centers. This partnership will see thousands of Nigerians gain access to quality diagnostic and treatment experiences, with the ultimate goal of improving health outcomes and quality of life for Nigerians across the country.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com