Northern youths, under the aegis of the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, have asked prominent Nigerians to intervene in the ongoing face-off between the Kano Emirate Council and the management of Air Peace. The group expressed grave concern over the impasse, noting that the misunderstanding must not be allowed to continue unabated. The face-off followed a complaint by one of Kano Emir’s cousins, Prince Isa Bayero, in which he demanded punitive measures from the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority against Air Peace over what he termed as disrespect for the monarch, Aminu Ado-Bayero, and the people of Kano State. Isa had allegedly called on the Chairman of Air Peace, Allen Onyema, to delay the airline’s morning flight to Kano because a flight from Banjul, The Gambia, which the Emir and his entourage were on, was delayed, thereby preventing them from arriving at the Lagos airport on time. The management of Air Peace, however, denied the claim that it disrespected the monarch. The AYCF called for a truce, urging notable Nigerians to intervene. A statement by the National President of the AYCF, Alhaji Yerima Shettima, in Kaduna on Sunday, said the matter had yet to be resolved because elders had not intervened or made peace moves in the interest of peace. Shettima expressed shock that the Air Peace chairman was alleged to have disrespected the Emir, saying, “The Onyema I know has never ever been linked to have disrespected any monarch in the North, let alone the Emir of Kano.” According to him, the Peace Air Chairman has made business sacrifices by evacuating Nigerians from trouble spots around the world, the most recent being South Africa during xenophobic attacks on Nigerians, adding that it was his hope that the incident would not obliterate such sacrifices on Onyeama’s path. On the issue of the delayed flight, the AYCF boss stated, “Two years ago, when I humbly asked the Air Peace chairman to delay a flight for us; in the entourage were the Chairman, Northern Elders Forum, Prof Ango Abdullahi, and the Chairman Board of Trustees, CNG, Nastura Shariff, he promptly did. “I can recall vividly that we were travelling by road from Ibadan to Lagos in order to catch the Air Peace plane for our return to Abuja that time; and he did that favour by delaying the flight for over an hour, notwithstanding that I’m not a revered monarch like the current Emir of Kano. “The Air Peace chairman later told me why he did that favour. He said he delayed the flight because Ango Abdullahi and I were doing peace shuttles around Nigeria to douse certain tensions and we were about missing another important peace shuttle in Abuja if that flight was not delayed.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com