Worried by the deplorable state of New Road in Sabon Gari area, which was abandoned for over five years by the successive Kano State Government, Dunamis International Gospel Centre has commenced the re-construction of the neglected road. Shortly after a guided tour of the reconstruction work, which is still in progress, the State Pastor, Usman Yakubu, said the church embarked on the reconstruction project as part of its corporate social responsibility to add value to the society. Yakubu said, “It is a thing of joy to see you here today and happy that we are working together. When we flagged off the project last December, a few of you were present on the occasion. “Somebody may ask what informed the decision of a church to embark on road rehabilitation. The church is a charitable organisation and as part of giving back to the society, as we have seen that happened at our base Church in Abuja, where we are coming from. “It is part of our modus operandi, reaching out to the people through the Church. Gospel is good news and one of the ways to demonstrate the good news to the people is good work, as Gospel is not just preaching. “Gospel is the light of the world, which cannot be hidden. We spread the good news from this vicinity, which must be accessible. “We have constructed drainage on both sides of the road, covering not less than 549 square metres to avoid flooding during the rainy season”. According to the State pastor, the church’s mission in Kano is to replicate what has been done by their headquarters in Abuja, adding that the reconstruction of the abandoned New Road started in December, after the construction of a culvert, completed within one month, in the vicinity. Worried by the deplorable state of the road, the church embarked on the reconstruction work, promising that within the next three months, the reconstruction work would be completed and handed over the Kano State Government for inauguration and use of commuters. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com