Vehicular and human activities were disrupted along Murtala Muhammed Way in Benin, Edo State on Wednesday as youths protested against the activities of the Niger Delta Development Commission. The protesters called for the inauguration the already cleared members of the board, while urging the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to remove the commission from the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs and return it to the Presidency where it was originally domiciled. The protesters, under the auspices of Concerned Edo Citizens, in conjunction with Coalition of Edo Volunteers Groups, displayed placards of various inscriptions accusing the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, of allegedly personalising the commission. They alleged that all those calling the shots in the intervention agency are from Akwa Ibom State like the minister. In a statement jointly signed by Eni Balulu, Eshiefaotsa Sylanus and Kola Edokpayi, the group demanded, “The immediate inauguration of the substantive board of the NDDC as presently constituted, screened and confirmed by the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, since November 2019. “Remove the agency from the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs and return it to the Presidency. “Release of government’s White Paper on the forensic audit report submitted to government on September 2, 2021 and take punitive actions against all those found wanting and indicted by the forensic audit report to serve as deterrent to others.” They alleged that the noble intention of the President to clean the NDDC has been hijacked by some individuals to the detriment of the Niger Delta people. They said they suspected that the report of the forensic audit may have indicted some “big fishes” and that is why the government is reluctant to make it public. “Mr President, the people of Niger Delta see you as the father of modern day Nigeria and hold no grudges against you. Just as the North East Development Commission is tackling the challenges of the North East region, we expect and demand that the NDDC be inaugurated to tackle the Niger Delta region’s challenges,” the group added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com