Prof. Odarosa Uhunwangho is a consultant ophthalmologist and vitreoretinal specialist at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital, Benin City, Edo State. She tells ALEXANDER OKERE how her childhood and the virtues she learnt from her parents shaped her career You were appointed a professor in 2018 at the age of 42. Would you say it was an elevation you saw coming? It was a goal I wanted to achieve and I went ahead to work towards it. I took the necessary steps to achieve that and with God on my side, crowning my efforts with success, it came to pass. What were the challenges that came with rising to that position? The medical profession can be quite a huge task and when you have to combine it with family life, it can be daunting. Challenges came with having to combine raising a family with work. Many times, women are slow in rising because they have to combine many things at the same time. I don’t want to use the word, ‘compete,’ but in the workplace, nobody thinks about the family, so women are on the same level playing field with their male counterparts.  At the workplace, there shouldn’t be any gender issues limiting women. They should be able to give their best shots to achieve their dreams and the change or difference they want to make in society. How did you manage the challenges? We, in the medical profession, lecture students who become doctors. We run clinics; I have a theatre where I operate on patients and I have to research my publications.  I also have to carry out my administrative duties. I was the head of a department. So, to do all that, I need to be a good time manager. I do not want to rob Peter to pay Paul. So, I have to do the right thing at the right time, not procrastinating. What role did your family play? I have a very supportive family. I couldn’t have achieved this (professorship) without my supportive husband, my family, my parents and my siblings. You said it was not easy working and taking care of your family. How did you balance the two? I know I have been fortunate. I have a supportive family. For example, I had to travel out of the country for fellowship training for 15 months. My family was there for me; my husband supported me. He told me to go ahead because he would not want to stop me from becoming what I want to be in life. Each time I had to do something work-related, my family was there to fill in that gap. So, understanding and communication are vital in a family because it is a team. What sparked your interest in ophthalmology? At the end of JSS2, we were given a form to take home and fill out what we wanted to become. I recall having that discussion with my dad and what stood out was the desire I had to become a medical doctor. I guess it was because my dad was a medical doctor. He was a clinical pharmacologist. He played a role in our discussion. I had that interest in the care for the eyes and I wanted to know more about the eyes. So, I had ophthalmology or paediatrics in mind but as I progressed, I became more certain that ophthalmology was the way to go, for me. Also, I remember that I loved sitting in the front row in my class when I was in secondary school. I recall that on one of those days, I went to sit and interact with some of my friends before the teacher came to  the class. When the teacher came and told me to remain where I was seated, I noticed that I could not see the board the way my classmates could. I realised something was wrong and got to know that it was a refractive error; so I had to use a pair of glasses. So, I had that interest to know more about the eyes. I wanted to know why some people are able to see while others aren’t and have to use glasses. I don’t regret choosing ophthalmology – there is medicine, surgery, cosmetics and opticals. How exactly did your father’s profession influence yours? He always told us while growing up that diligence, perseverance and hard work always pay. He instilled those virtues in us. My mum is a retired and seasoned nurse/educator. She always told us to do things early and right. My parents supported us to pursue our dreams and goals. They told us there is nothing one cannot achieve if one works towards it. Being a girl child did not make any difference as to what I could become or not become. Actually, growing up, I didn’t have the mindset that I could not achieve certain things because of my gender. There is no barrier against what a girl child could be in my family. My father was a disciplinarian and my mother also wanted us to do well. They believed it was important to train a child in the right way so the child would not veer off course. You said not procrastinating has helped you in your career. Did people around you not think you were hasty in the way you did things or the career decision you made? Of course, that happened, especially when it seemed like others were taking their time and I just wanted to get things done and move on to the next goal. Why delay? That is what life is about. Some women complain about gender discrimination in the workplace. Did you face any? No, I didn’t. In the medical field what matters is what you can bring to the table. What people believe about themselves is what comes to them. People’s opinions will not determine how far you will go. A woman should be self-motivated. She should believe in herself. They should convert stumbling blocks to stepping stones to greater heights. So, it’s their choice on how they respond to situations and circumstances they face. As they say, the same heat that hardens the clay melts the wax. So, they should get their responses right. If they have doubts, they should go back and inculcate the right virtues so they can deliver. Many girls find it difficult to make career choices due to peer pressure and social, cultural and economic factors. What do you think should guide their choices? If they can get someone who can guide them, like a counsellor or good mentor, that would help them. Sometimes, one may have a mentor one has not met one-on-one but has read about their life. They should believe that if that mentor can do it, they, as girls, can do it. Women should break the glass ceiling; it doesn’t have to be the status quo. Women who break the glass ceiling are courageous, not overambitious. Making sure that nobody stops you and you do not stop yourself is courage not being overambitious. It is not a competition with another person but self-improvement. As an ophthalmologist, how would you assess the attitude of Nigerians towards maintaining good eyesight? I think the awareness is low among Nigerians. Yes, everybody knows that the eyes are important; even in some cultures, it is believed that when the eyes are gone, beauty is lost. We don’t go out of our way to check our eyes. There are many preventable diseases of the eye and forms of blindness that can be prevented. The only time most people go to a hospital is when they cannot see well with their eyes and by then, it would have been too late. The awareness generally is low and that is why there are awareness campaigns about diseases of the eye.  For example, the World Glaucoma Week is aimed at raising awareness twice a year – in March and October – about glaucoma. But some would argue that vision care is not accessible and affordable in public health institutions. What is your take on that? There is a lot of bureaucracy in governance but I know there are many policies in place for eye care. Now, we have the National Eye Health policy which was not available previously. We are moving on gradually but we can be better. There is a need for funding and infrastructure for eye care services delivery from the primary level to the tertiary level. We need to fund health and provide facilities that patients can access to reduce medical tourism. We have a lot of good hands but we don’t have all the required facilities to work with? Earlier you expressed appreciation to your husband for his support. Can you tell me how you met? (Laughs) I got married just after my National Youth Service Corps programme. That was in 2001 and I was undergoing my internship when I met my husband. Our meeting was actually a funny scenario. I was on the bridal train of a colleague, so I went to a shop to have my measurements taken for the attire and met him there. He was talking to a lady. When I came, I had my measurement taken and left. When I was outside the shop, it was so strange that I waited for a long time for a commercial vehicle to take me home and the sun was scorching. I became bothered and uncomfortable that all the buses that passed by were full. Eventually, he came out and said, “Oh, you’re still here?” I couldn’t explain it but all of a sudden, a vehicle came and there was space for two and we were headed in the same direction. That was how we started talking and the rest is history. How did he express his interest in getting married to you? He invited me for an outing one evening and proposed. I was shocked because I didn’t expect it. Were you ready to settle down at that point? I actually wanted to because I was thinking of settling down after my internship. Were there other admirers then? There were other people but I just liked him. So, how did he stand out? What stood him out? I like his composure and above all, he was Godfearing; I noticed that he loves God. I felt comfortable about it. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com