The Peoples Democratic Party on Saturday cautioned the Zamafara House of Assembly against fresh moves to impeach the Deputy Governor, Mahdi Gusau. The party, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, in Abuja on Saturday, called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressive Congress (APC) to immediately intervene in the problem. The party described the alleged move as undemocratic and illegal, saying any assault on democracy should be halted forthwith in Zamfara State. According to the PDP, the process of impeachment is currently on in spite of a subsisting order of the Federal High Court, Abuja, in suit number FHC/ABJ/CS/ 650/2021. He warned that such a move portends what he called “grave implication for peace and security not only in Zamfara but also in the entire North West region as well as the continued sustenance of democracy in our country”. Ologunagba also advised the State House of Assembly not to allow itself to be pitched against the people and destroy the State. The party also called on the Inspector-General of Police to note how the situation is becoming a security threat in Zamfara and the entire North West region, “where the lives of PDP members and other well-meaning citizens of Zamfara are being threatened”. Recall that the Zamfara House of Assembly said it received from its Deputy Speaker, Musa Bawa, a document seeking to impeach the deputy governor, Alhaji Mahdi Aliyu. Meanwhile, the Principal Private Secretary to Zamfara State Deputy Governor, Malam Umar Aminu has called on the Zamfara State House of Assembly to respect the rules of the law on the planned impeachment of the Deputy Governor, Barrister Mahdi Aliyu Gusau. The PPS who spoke to Sunday PUNCH on Saturday said there was an existing Court’s order which restricted anyone to take action or move to impeach the Deputy Governor, Mahadi Aliyu. He said, “Members of the state House of Assembly needs to respect the Nigeria’s Judiciary because the court has restricted them from impeaching the Deputy Governor.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com