Endorsement of candidates may be seen as the heartbeat of democracy. For many voters, it is the only basis for choosing. They assume that the endorsers have done their homework and determined who is best for the country — at least for that constituency. Alas, that assumption is not always correct. Like voting itself, endorsements can be rigged. Or putting it differently, the endorsing organisation maybe nothing but a front for the endorsed candidate. A case that continues to live in infamy is the establishment of the Association for Better Nigeria with the sole purpose of scuttling a transition to democracy in the mid 1990s. It was merely a front for the Babangida/Abacha regime. Today, it is hard to see the current spate of endorsements and not wonder which is spurred by principles and which by machinBoations. Even then, endorsements collectively remain the most reliable vane for ascertaining the direction of the political wind. That granted, this could be the most unpredictable election in Nigerian history. Could be. Let’s begin with the most notable endorsements (or lack thereof), and that’s that of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd). For long, the prevailing view was that he had committed to the All Progressives Congress’ chieftain Bola Tinubu. That was his tradeoff to regain Tinubu’s support for a second term, it was reported. So then, when Tinubu went to Aso Rock to seek Buhari’s blessings, it would have seemed like a mere formality. But Buhari declined to endorse him. It wasn’t just that he wanted to play the role of the elder statesman in the APC, it was out of concern that his endorsement would backfire on the candidate. Coming from a president who has projected a fortress of self-confidence the past seven years, it was a shocker. In any case, the acknowledgement that he would be an electoral liability points to an unpredictable election. But Tinubu probably doesn’t have much to worry about. The wind of endorsements is swirling considerably in his direction. In fact, other Northern political heavy weights may well be speaking on Buhari’s behalf. Among them are Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State and Senator Kashim Shettima of Borno State, who recently declared that Tinubu is the only option for Northern voters. It is a matter of reciprocating Tinubu’s role in galvanizing the Yoruba vote for Buhari in 2015, they say. “If I ask you to give one person who supported the Northern candidate, Muhammadu Buhari, there is nobody else you can mention other than Bola Tinubu,” Ganduje said in a statement issued through his aide. “So, this is the time we are with Bola Tinubu.” Even in the South-East, there’s some support, though it could well be “manufactured.” A recently unveiled South Eastern group led by Chief Ekene Enefe has also endorsed Tinubu for president. While addressing journalists in January, Enefe said that his South-East Destiny Movement for Bola Ahmed Tinubu deems Tinubu an ideal candidate because he is committed to merit. “We cannot continue to advocate for a president based on ethnicity,” Enefe said.“What we need in Nigeria is a good leader, who is informed and who can harness and allocate the resources of this country equitably.” In his geopolitical zone, the South-West, Tinubu is undoubtedly garnering much of the endorsements, from the Oba of Lagos to the Alaafin of Oyo. There are a few holdouts, such as Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, who only wished Tinubu well during the latter’s visit. On the whole,Tinubu may very well have that zone in his grasp. That is quite unlike 1999, when native son Olusegun Obasanjo could only get a fraction of the Yoruba vote. He was elected because of the support of other regions, including especially the North. It is quite ironic then that Obasanjo’s stance on the 2023 elections precludes Tinubu’s candidacy. The one-term military head of state and two-term president recently declared that his cohorts should stop running for office. “The Murtala/Obasanjo group should be stepping aside,” he said at a recent conference. Rather than compete with the young cadre of candidates, there should be “intergenerational collaboration” that would help younger cadre learn from the experience of the older generation, he said. That would preclude the candidacy of Tinubu, whose official age of 69 is publicly disputed. Incidentally, it also precludes Atiku Abubakar, Obasanjo’s former vice president who remains coy about his candidacy.Through comments and engagements, however, he has not hidden his interest. For example, his assertion that zoning is not in the constitution was clearly aimed at those who say that Northerners like him shouldn’t run in 2023. The most curious endorsement may well be that by APC members of the state Houses of Assembly in the South-South. Their choice, they said in a communiqué issued on Tuesday, is the Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello. The justification is “to give room for marginalised zones to produce the next President.” “Consequently, we appeal to the national leadership of our party, the APC, to zone the Presidency to North Central for fairness and a sense of belonging to prevail,” the communiqué states. That raises the question, of course, as to how the North Central could have been more marginalised than the South-East. If we consider that Generals Yakubu Gowon and Ibrahim Babangida were both from the North Central, we could say that the zone was at the center of power for a considerable period during Nigeria’s recent history. That contrasts with the South East which has produced an executive head of state or head of government for just six months in the life of the republic. So, why, pray, is it more urgent to assuage the North Central? It just happens, incidentally, that there is a crop of capable candidates and potentials from the South East. (More about this in another column.) Suffice to say that electing one of them would not only redress a major inequity in Nigerian politics, it would also meet Obasanjo’s criteria of fresher hands at the helm. “Thus, going by equity, natural justice and good conscience it is the turn of the South-East,” said Osita Okechukwu, the Director General of Voice of Nigeria and a founding member of APC. “Zoning to the South East will be the end of the civil war and end of IPOB. It will give Ndigbo renewed faith in Nigeria, sense of belonging and national loyalty.” Okechukwu is unduly optimistic, of course. Even if Nnamdi Kanu is moved from detention at SSS quarters to preside in Aso Rock, there still would be some IPOB holdouts. Still, there’s no discounting the sense of political deprivation as a factor in IPOB’s fervor. Besides, Okechukwu said also that zoning the presidency to the South East is in Buhari’s and the APC’s interest. “To a large extent, allowing a person from the South-East to succeed President Buhari would be APC and Mr. President’s greatest legacy, ”Okechuku said. Alas, in Nigerian politics, such appeals to principles and patriotism usually succumb to partisan interests and personal ambitions. If that changes in 2023, it will be a transformational year. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com