The Oyo State Government has said it will do everything possible to stop Female Genital Mutilation and other harmful traditional practices anywhere in the state. The wife of the Governor, Tamunominini Makinde, explained that the state government would intensify the sensitisation and awareness programmes against Female Genital Mutilation. The First Lady who spoke through the Commissioner for Special Duties, Joke Sanni, during a programme to commemorate International Day on zero tolerance for Female Genital Mutilation with the theme ‘Accelerating investment to end Female Genital Mutilation’ said the state would end the practice with the collaboration of every stakeholder. She noted that the investment which the state government put in place to eradicate the FGM in the state since the inception of this administration had started yielding positive results. Makinde stated that it was very important to put the eradication of FGM at the forefront by intensifying efforts to make sure that the negative effects of this harmful practice were well known to the people. She said, “The prevalence of FGM in Kajola Local Government Area of Oyo State has been reduced and more effort will be made to ensure that there is the total elimination of FGM on every community in the state. “Those still involved in the practice should desist from such an act because there is a bill that prohibits violence against any person which included FGM. Anybody caught in the act or violating the right of any person in Oyo State would be prosecuted under the existing law.” The Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Inclusion, Kafilat Olayiwola, said a lot had changed positively since this administration came into office about three years ago. Olayiwola said religious leaders, as well as influential members of the society, should join to create awareness and sensitize girls and women on the need to end Female Genital Mutilation. The Director, Centre for Population and Reproductive Health, University College Hospital, Ibadan, Oladosu Ojengbede, said ignorance was responsible for the practice. Ojengbede said the negative effects of Female Genital Mutilation were numerous, including contracting HIV and other diseases. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com