Pandemonium broke out in Oja-Odan in the Yewa-North Local Government Area of Ogun State on Saturday when an angry mob broke into a police station cell, took away two suspected ritualists and burnt them to death. The incident occurred shortly after the news filtered into the town that two persons were arrested with fresh human parts and have been detained by the police in Oja-Odan. An eyewitness who identified himself simply as Olakeye told our correspondent that the two suspects ; Idowu Afolabi and Johnson Adebiyi were  caught by some youths in the area with fresh human parts . Olakeye said the youths had handed them over to the police in Oja-Odan who promptly detained them. The situation however, changed when some youths assembled and matched to the police station, demanded that the suspects be released to them to pass their instant judgement. Olakeye said, “The police refused to release the suspects to the angry youths which angered them and decided to set them ablaze. “The angry youths were angry with the decision of the police who said they wanted  to investigate the allegation against the suspects . “They got annoyed; they forcefully entered into the station, broke into the cell and took them away. They took them out of the cell and burnt them to death in front of the police station.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident. Oyeyemi said the command would issue a release on the incident on Sunday after he got the detail of the incident . He said, “Yes. It is true. We will issue a release tomorrow on the incident.”  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com