The Edo State Government has barred external candidates from writing West African Examinations Council and National Examination Council in its schools. The Commissioner for Education, Dr. Joan Osa-Oviawe, who disclosed this after Wednesday’s Exco meeting, said that the new regulation applied to government-owned and private schools in the state. She said, “The EXCO mandated the Ministry of Education to put out a public announcement to inform parents and proprietors of private schools as well as public schools’ principals that effective immediately, no external candidates will be allowed to write any exams in Edo. “This affects West African Examinations Council and National Examination Council, Junior Secondary school as well as primary six exams. The EXCO is only reinforcing this message for the ministry implementation extant policy; this is not a new thing.” Osa-Oviawe continued, “The government wants to enforce it as part of a determined process to eliminate exam malpractice in our schools. The general public should please take note. “The expiration for WAEC registration deadline is 25th of February and I am using this opportunity to tell private school owners who are yet to clear for the WAEC exam to do so as a matter of urgency. “The Council also mandated that beginning from the next academic year, which is 2022/2023 this year, grace skipping will no longer be allowed. That policy will be enforced by the state Ministry of Education. That means learners will not be allowed to skip primary six to move on to JSS one or write WAEC in any of our public schools.” Also, Governor Godwin Obaseki, has sent five bills to the Edo State House of Assembly, including the Disability Rights Bill which seeks to end all forms of discrimination against persons with disabilities. He also sent the Electricity Commission and Agency Bill that aims to increase access to electricity to all Edo residents. Other bills are the Edo Property Development Agency (EDPA) Bill, the Criminal Law Bill of Edo State, and the Justice Reform Bill. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com