HUNDREDS of students of the  Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba Akoko, Ondo State on Friday trooped out of their campus to protest against the incessant road accidents in the town, mostly involving trucks. The protest was ignited by the killing of a former student of the institution identified as Michael Akinniyi on Thursday evening by an articulated truck. It was gathered that after killing the deceased, the driver of the truck attempted to run away but was arrested and handed over to the police in the community. The protesters, who gathered at the school gate, barricaded the Owo-Ikare Akoko Expressway, chanting solidarity songs. It was gathered that for several hours, the busy Owo-Ikare Expressway was on lockdown as the movement of vehicles was halted, leading to serious gridlock until security operatives cleared the barricades. Sequel to the development, the management of AAUA has postponed the examination scheduled to hold on Friday to a later date. The AAUA, in a statement issued by its Registrar, Mr Olugbenga Arajulu, expressed serious concern over the incessant auto accidents claiming the lives of students of the university. The statement read, “ In view of the accident that claimed the life of a former student late evening of yesterday, Thursday, 3rd February, 2022, management has decided to postpone today’s (Friday) examinations. This is to honour the departed soul. A new date for the examinations will be announced later. “The management is currently engaging all relevant stakeholders on what should be done to address the ugly trend, and put an end to vehicular accidents in the university town.” Meanwhile, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, who sympathised with the family of the deceased, has ordered the enforcement of the mounted barricade on the road. This was contained in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Richard Olatunde. The governor said the incident was not expected given the steps that had been taken to forestall such occurrence after the accidents that have claimed indigenes and students in the past. The statement read, “It is disheartening that some people have turned the barricade mounted by government to prevent these heavy trucks from plying the road, into a money-making venture. If people truly value lives, and understand that, whatever money you made at the expense of people’s lives is blood money. This particular incident was highly avoidable.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com