GRACE EDEMA writes on decayed infrastructure in some legacy schools in the country and how alumni associations are assisting in lifting the institutions, some of which are in ruins A  former Minister of Defence, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, was sad and close to tears when he visited his alma mater, Anwar-Ul Islam College, Agege and discovered its infrastructural ruins. He was not happy with the decay and even educational standard of the school, which according to him, made him the achiever he is today. Likewise, Dr Aina Odusola, and other members of his set, 1979-1984, visited their alma mater, Lagos Baptist Secondary School, Agege, Lagos, and discovered that the Biology laboratory did not have a skeleton and other biological items. The doors  were also dilapidated. He also said the library lacked modern books while the Physics laboratory was unkempt. Igbobi College Old Boys’ Association on its part lamented that the school’s hostels were converted to offices. It noticed that there were teaching and learning challenges in the college. In an interview with The PUNCH, the Chairman of the Board of Governors, ICY, Mr Foluso Phillips, spoke  on the values they got in the school, the academic and sport achievements, saying these were lacking in the college currently. In the same vein, Vice-President of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo,  during the N1bn fund raising gala night of the ICOBA for the refurbishment of the college, disclosed that the college shaped him. On his part, the National President, New Era Girls’ Secondary School, Surulere, Lagos Alumni Association, Professor Tamra Runsewe-Abiodun, complained bitterly that sexual immorality among the students was on the rise, saying this would greatly affect their academic performance. Without doubt, some alumni associations are now making efforts to contribute and change the status or challenging situations of their alma maters . Basic Education, which comprises  secondary and primary schools, lay the foundation for success in tertiary institutions. Also, the desire for students to further their education is determined or influenced by the experiences garnered at the basic level. But some of the alumni, who spoke to our correspondent, argued that the government alone could not  repair the dilapidated infwrastructure, monitor academic standards and performances in the schools. For instance, Obanikoro didn’t leave his observations as he found it, he ensured he brought together other students and they refurbished the school’s library and promised to invest more in the school. Lagos Baptist Secondary School Alumni  took it upon itself to refurbish the laboratory and equipped it with all the necessary  items that would aid teaching and learning of Biology and also better performance in WASSCE and NECO. On their part, Phillips said  ICOBA over the years had made efforts to improve the infrastructure and condition of living in the school. He revealed the giant stride was the N1b fund raising  targeted at overhauling both infrastructure and quality of education offered in the school. Alumni speak on challenges Phillips said, “I think the starting point has got to be the value that the Old Boys have, the experience at Igbobi College. If you’re to gather old students in any school both males and females together in a room, they will always have positive experiences to share especially those periods of 1960’s, 70’s and 80’s. It is very painful for a lot of us to step out, look back and see that the kind of quality education that we received is different to what we see now, there is a huge disparity. The irony of it is that the disparity is what we see in terms of character of individuals that come out of schools today. “I think the fundamental thing is the soul coming out to say I know that this school formed me. You know when I finished my A’ levels and I had the opportunity to go abroad and ended up in a university in a foreign land. “Now going through all this, trying to answer why I would try to raise a billion naira for my school today, it is because of the value and things that I got from the school. Sometimes you feel you owe somebody something because of the value he gave you and that’s what the college has done. Igbobi College lost a lot   not through any poor administration of the school but just the government’s policy whereby a school was taken from its owners. “When the government came then and took over, the boarding houses were turned into offices. Igbobi college must have lost at least 20 per cent to 50 per cent of its land; the land that belongs to the mission.  That itself is something that we lost. The character and the pride of the school was gone, so all of these things were very painful to the old boys and the old boys said this in not just a school some person’s started commercially, this is a school that was started by missions and one of the roles that the missions  played in our society was adding value.” On his own part,  the President General of Anwar-Ul Islam College Agege Old Students Association, Mr Lawal Pedro,  appealed to the Anwar-Ul Islam Movement of Nigeria for the privatisation of the college. Pedro advised the movement to consider handing over the college to professionals to run  as a purely private school. Pedro said, ‘’Despite the huge financial interventions of the old students, the college is not within the bracket of the first 50 mission secondary schools or colleges in Nigeria. “This is obviously because the college has continued to be managed as a mission school and not a private secondary school like its contemporary Christian mission schools in Lagos State. These Christian mission schools have now been developed and built with much trust and quality.‘’ Obanikoro funded a  remodeled library to celebrate Alhaji Jimoh Gbadamosi whom old students fondly called ‘Oga’ for his huge influence and impact in their lives as Principal of the college. He stated, “Ahmadiyya College now Anwar-ul Islam College made me what I am today. I feel sad looking at this school today. Some people paid for us to get education. As much as I agree with the President of old students association that the environment is a huge influence on the school; we will see ways to raise this school to the level it deserves.” On its part, the  Old Students Association of the Oduduwa College, Ile-Ife, lamented activities of land grabbers encroaching on the school land. The old students promised to embark on construction of perimeter fencing to check the perpetrators.  They inaugurated the science and technology laboratories with equipment worth N25m as well as the statue of late Ooni of Ife, Oba Adesoji Aderemi, who was one of the founders of the school. From the foregoing, it shows that if successful old students do not rise to give back to the their alma mater, these schools will continue to depreciate morally, physically, academically and be irrelevant to modern day demand. Things old students can do to improve alma mater Runsewe-Abiodun said, “We hope to partner  LASG and NGOs within and outside the country in getting teachers in technical subjects for the school. Ad hoc teachers could be engaged to give virtual teaching sessions in which case the audio visual hall is useful”. Phillips suggested, “The old boys have realised that we are spending so much money on infrastructure, so we have an Infrastructure Master Plan for the school which we are following. Looking at the quality of education itself, we got a consultant to come in, review the standard of our education and the teachers were involved in drawing up an Education Quality Master Plan for the school. “There are some activities we have every year so they will automatically run. We have about 20 or more activities all over the world.” The Chairman of the N1bn fundraising,  Mr Seni Adio, revealed that the Igbobi College legacy projects included the Tech Hub, hostels for students, accommodation for the masters and an e-library. The Chairman, Igbobi College 90th Anniversary Planning Committee, Mr Femi Olubanwo, added, “We are putting up an e-library side by side with the old library. The Technology Hub is not just for Igbobi students, Igbobi College is in Yaba which is supposed to be the Silicon Valley in Nigeria.  We want to put up a hub so that technological companies, start-ups, tech people can actually come to incubate there.” Member, Board of Governors of the ICY, Mr Yomi Badejo-Okusanya, advised other old students to emulate ICOBA’s initiatives and bring secondary education back to glorious times. Odusola stated, “I implore other sets and old students to also emulate this gesture. We need more of this. We can’t leave everything to the government. Everyone should inculcate the culture of coming back to give to their alma mater.” The Chairman, Baptist Academy Old Students Association ‘84, Mr Akin Dosumu, whose set  gave scholarships to some students said, “We still remember most of the moral instructions that were inculcated in us, particularly during the morning assembly. Aside from the awards, we have taken up some projects in the school. “We have realised that we cannot afford to leave everything to the government or the Baptist Mission. So the old students feel challenged and they want to maintain the standard of the school. We do this by encouraging the current students and give them the necessary support to excel and that’s just what we are doing. We also assist in the area of sports because this is a school that is known for sports in Nigeria.”   ,,  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com