The Head of the Department of Counselling and Human Developmental Studies, University of Ibadan, Prof. Oyesoji Aremu, has identified lack of personal development as a major cause of the inefficiency of some information managers and office administrators. Aremu delivered the lead paper at the maiden conference of the National Institute of Office Administrators and Information Managers in Ibadan on Tuesday. He said the 21st-century administrators and information managers needed be upskilled continuously in order to remain relevant and efficient in discharging their duties. According to him, with technology taking over jobs hitherto meant for human beings, everybody who wants to be relevant in their fields should develop themselves and make themselves relevant wherever they are. He said, “Organisations need to embrace technology in order to remain in business. Technology has become a sine qua non of modern professional emancipation owing to its enormous contribution to alleviating human sufferings occasioned by analogue practices. “Across varied contexts, technology has been referred to as “saviour” owing to the roles it plays in facilitating simplicity, easiness and speed in human activities. The dichotomy often witnessed between developed and developing nations, advanced and struggling economies is motivated by technology. “For office administrators and information managers to be part of the e-Tech in the 21st-century, they have to seamlessly integrate into it and avail themselves of continuing education and training which a conference like this gives.” The Vice-Chancellor of Lead City University, Ibadan, Prof. Remi Adeyemo, described efficient information management as critical to the survival of any organisation. Adeyemo said, “A university or polytechnic, for example, needs a framework for their information systems to accommodate instantaneous changes in student enrollment, across-the-board changes in tuition fees and balances, occasional changes faculty data, and so forth. Information management strategies influence the relationships between information, technology, and the larger society. “It may interest you to know that office administration and information management provides innovation, helps in retaining talent and inculcating sense of loyalty in office staff, provides leadership, managing change and maintaining public relations. It will also enable candidates to have knowledge of the main features of integrated packages with reference to word processing, database, spreadsheet and PowerPoint.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com