National Assembly member and Peoples Democratic Party governorship aspirant in Ekiti State, Senator Biodun Olujimi, has given on the possibility of dumping the party alongside her supporters. Olujimi said the shoddy way her faction of the party in the state was treated by the national leadership in the build up to the January 26 primary election which she described as a sham, had left her supporters embittered about the PDP. The PDP chieftain, who spoke after a meeting of her supporters on Monday, said her team had set up a committee chaired by a former acting governor of the state, Tunji Odeyemi, which would report back within three days. She said, “There are two options on the table. One is that we would all go and kneel down and beg former Governor Ayodele Fayose that we have sinned and we are returning back to his fold. “The second is that we should pull out of the party (the PDP). And we say that can’t be done in a hurry because tempers are high and we need them to calm to be able to talk and hold a big meeting on Sunday when we would announce to the public where we are going.” Olujimi, who said the PDP national leadership cheated her because of her gender, said nobody in the party had called her since the January 26 governorship primary. She dismissed a claim by former Governor Ayodele Fayose that he had reached out to her for reconciliation, saying neither Fayose nor anyone called her for peace talk. She said the claim was part of Fayose’s plot to deceive unsuspecting members of the public and portray himself in good light. Olujimi said, “It was pure falsehood. Fayose didn’t call me. All he only did was to send pictures of Bisi Kolawole’s entry into Ado Ekiti unto my phones. I saw them and I didn’t reply. It is when they speak to you that you know something is happening. I am not bothered because we have been in this business for a while.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com