THE Akwa Ibom State Commissioner of Information and Strategy, Ini Ememobong, on Tuesday defended Governor Udom Emmanuel’s choice of Pastor Umo Eno as the preferred candidate for the 2023 governorship elections, saying that the governor only acted as a medium of God’s revelation. Criticisms from different groups have continued to trail the choice of Eno as the preferred candidate for the 2023 governorship election in Akwa Ibom State. Briefing newsmen at the Nigeria Union of Journalists Secretariat in Uyo, Ememobong appealed to the people to stop hurling abuses on the governor and heating the polity unnecessarily He maintained that the governor’s action was “a normal phenomenon,” adding that the desire to have a successor has always been a source of concern even in the churches, and traditional circles. According to him, “If biologically, traditionally and even in churches people are interested in succession, then it is practically impossible that people should not be interested in succession in politics, especially the occupant of the office who understands the pains, challenges and nature of the office, and it is the governor who wears the shoe and understands the burden of the office in this case. “The governor only acted as a medium and it takes a lot of humility for a person of power at the level of the governor to publicly admit that he submits to a higher power like God before making critical decisions such as who should succeed him at the end of his tenure”. He called on the media to stop vilifying the governor whom he described as humane enough to reveal to the people who God wants to succeed him in office. “ Akwa Ibom is our only state, and if we heat the political space and things degenerate, we have nowhere else to go; therefore, I want to call on every one of us here to continue to support the governor and his succession plan for the state “, he added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com