JOHNNY EDWARD and KELVIN EKERETE bring you the performance of Nigerian players for their various clubs across Europe, in this report ENGLAND Dennis, Troost-Ekong, Kalu, Etebo (Watford) Emmanuel Dennis made his 25th Premier League appearance for Watford, who secured a valuable point at Manchester United on Saturday. The Nigeria international was in action for the entire duration and had 39 touches, with three successful dribbles. However, they still sit 19th on the EPL log, two points off safety. The trio Willian Troost-Ekong, Samuel Kalu and Oghenekaro Etebo did not feature in the encounter. While Troost-Ekong was listed on the substitute’s bench, Kalu and Etebo weren’t. Alex Iwobi (Everton) Iwobi played for 87 minutes as Everton suffered a 1-0 defeat to Manchester City at Goodison Park on Saturday. He was replaced by Egyptian Anwar El-Ghazi as the Toffees lost their ninth straight match against the Citizens and their 12th in their last 16 Premier League games. Frank Onyeka (Brentford) Onyeka was an unused substitute for Brentford, who lost 2-0 to Newcastle United on Saturday. The 24-year-old is yet to make an appearance for the Bees since December. FRANCE Moffi, Bonke (Lorient) Super Eagles duo Terem Moffi and Innocent Bonke were on the starting lineup for Lorient in their 1-0 win away at Brest in a French Ligue 1 encounter on Sunday. Moffi who fired blank in the encounter was in action for 70 minutes before coming off for Ibrahima Kone while his compatriot who was shown a yellow card in the 43rd minute only lasted 54 minutes as he made way for Sambou Soumano. TURKEY Azubuike Okechukwu (Yeni Malatyaspor) Former Nigeria U-23 captain was in action for 90 minutes as Yeni Malatyaspor lost 5-2 at Hatayspor in the Turkish Super Lig on Sunday. Azubuike has made 17 league appearances for the side this season, providing one assist. Malatyaspor are currently bottom of the league table. Obinna Nwobodo (Goztepe) Former Enugu Rangers midfielder Nwobodo was booked in first half added time in the 3-1 defeat to Giresunspor in the Turkish Super Lig on Sunday. Ahmed Musa (Fatih Karagumruk) Musa scored his second league goal of the season as Karagumruk came from a goal down to beat Istanbul Basaksehir 2-1 at the Başakşehir Fatih Terim Stadyumu. Egyptian forward Mamoud Trezeguet gave Basaksehir the lead in the 25th minute, but Fabio Borini levelled score 14 minutes later, before Musa completed the comeback two minutes after, with his third goal of the season in all competitions. Anthony Nwakaeme (Trabzonspor) Nwakaeme scored one goal and assisted another to lead title-chasing Trabzonspor to a 3-2 win over Kayserispor in the Turkish Super Lig on Friday. Goals from Mario Gavranovic and Mame Thiam had the visitors 2-0 up at the break, but Edin Visca’s strike halved the deficit five minutes into the second half. Nwakaeme assisted Djaniny 10 minutes later for the equalizer, before the Nigerian wrapped up the win with a stoppage-time winner to complete a remarkable turnaround. His performance took his tally for the season to nine goals and nine assists in 21 appearances for Trabzonspor. The 32-year-old has now scored three goals with three assists in his last three matches. ITALY David Okereke (Venezia) Okereke grabbed his sixth goal of the season in Venezia’s 3-1 loss at Hellas Verona in the Italian Serie A on Sunday, to end to a run of three games without a goal. The former Nigeria U-23 player was on for the entire duration of the game. Okereke would be hoping to help 18-place Venezia escape the drop at the end of the season. The 24-year old is on loan from Belgian giants Club Brugge. Ola Aina (Torino) Aina was an unused substitute in Torino’s shock 2-1 home loss to Cagliari in the Italian Serie A on Sunday. The defender, who has made 16 league appearances this season, has not featured in his club’s four Serie A games since returning from the 2021 African Cup of Nations. Success, Udogie (Udinese) Left-back Udogie came off the bench to score his first goal for Udinese, who held giants AC Milan 1-1 at the San Siro on Friday. The 19-year-old defender scored in the 66th minute to restore parity for his side, but the ball appeared to have struck his arm before it crossed the line, but despite checks from VAR, the goal was allowed. Udogie, born in Italy to Nigerian parents, now has one goal and one assist for Udinese this term. Nigeria international forward Isaac Success also featured for the final 24 minutes of the clash for Udinese. Simy Nwankwo (Parma) Simy had an assist in Parma’s first goal in their 4-0 win over Spal in a Serie B clash at the Stadio Ennio Tardini in Parma. The Nigerian has scored once in six games since joining Parma from Salernitana in January. GERMANY Taiwo Awoniyi (Union Berlin) Awoniyi scored his first goal in 2022, thus ending a six-game goal drought for Union Berlin in their 3-1 win over Mainz on Saturday. It was his 10th goal of the season, with the win also bringing to an end the club’s run of three games without a win. SPAIN Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal) At the Estadio de la Cerámica, Chukwueze was in action for 15 minutes in Villarreal’s 5-1 mauling of Espanyol in the Spanish LaLiga on Sunday. The game was his 16th league appearance for the Yellow Submarines this season, where he has scored twice with two assists. He came on for Yeremi Pino, who was the Man-of-The-Match, after scoring four goals in the encounter. Umar Sadiq (Almeria) Sadiq took his season’s tally in the Segunda Liga to 13 goals in 24 games on Friday, when he scored a thumping header to inspire Almeria to a 3-1 win over Fuenlabrada on Friday. The 25-year-old also had an assist in the encounter – his ninth of the season. His latest strike took his tally to 36 goals in all competitions for Almeria, pushing him into the club’s top eight all-time goalscorers list. Raul Sanchez leads the chart with 57 goals, Leonardo Ulloa is in second place with 48 goals, while Spanish duo Jose Ortiz and Soriano have scored 47 and 46 goals respectively. Former Nigeria international Kalu Uche completes the top five with 45 goals. BELGIUM Paul Onuachu (Genk) Onuachu scored his 16th goal of the season in Genk’s 2-0 win over Kortrijk in the Belgian league on Sunday. The Nigeria international put his side in front in the 17th minute before providing the assist for Joseph Paintsil in the 22nd minute. Gent are currently eighth on the league table after 29 games. SCOTLAND Aribo, Bassey (Glasgow Rangers) Midfielder Joe Aribo and left-back Calvin Bassey were in action for 90 minutes as Glasgow Rangers suffered a huge blow to their Scottish Premiership title defence following a 2-2 draw against Motherwell at Ibrox, after going 2-0 up in the first 24 minutes. Centre-back Leon Balogun was an unused substitute in the encounter. NETHERLANDS Maduka Okoye (Sparta Rotterdam) Maduka Okoye failed to keep a clean sheet in his 50th senior appearance for Sparta Rotterdam in the side’s 2-1 loss to PSV Eindhoven in the Dutch Eredivisie on Sunday. He has conceded 29 goals so far in 19 league games this season. DENMARK Paul Mukairu (FC Copenhagen) Versatile forward Mukairu was on for 80 minutes in FC Copenhagen’s 2-0 win at Viborg in the Danish Superliga on Sunday. The 22-year-old was replaced by Lukas Lerager. Stephe Odey (Randers) Stephen Odey was in action for the entire duration of the match and fired blank as FC Randers were held to a goalless draw by hosts, FC Nordsjaelland in the Danish League on Sunday. The game was Odey’s 12th league appearance this term and he has found the back of the net five times. In all competitions however, he has scored 12 goals in 22 appearances. AUSTRIA Arase, Aiwu (Rapid Wien) Rapid Wien winger Kelvin Arase was on target in the 23rd minute as the visitors beat WSG Tirol 2-0 in the Austrian Bundesliga on Sunday. The little-known forward, who scored his side’s second goal, was born in Benin City but moved to Austria at a very young age and has represented the European country at youth level. Also in action for Wien was Emanuel Aiwu, who was born in Austria to a Nigerian father and has also played for Austria at youth level. SWITZERLAND Francis Momoh (Grasshopper) Grasshopper forward Francis Momoh was pulled out for Sang-Bin Jung in the 46th minute of the 2-0 defeat at St. Gallen in the Swiss Super League on Sunday. Twenty-year-old Momoh, who was born in Kaduna, joined the Swiss giants in 2019 with the youth side. He made his debut for the first team same year but has largely featured for the reserves.  On February 5, he started for the main squad for the first time this season in a 3-1 defeat to city rivals FC Zürich. A week later, he was in the starting line-up again and scored his first two goals in the Swiss topflight league, in a 2-0 victory over Lausanne-Sport. He boasts eight goals in 23 games in all competitions this season. Tosin Aiyegun (FC Zurich) Aiyegun provided the assist for teammate Blaz Kramer’s 16th minute goal, to fire FC Zurich 2-0 up against visiting Basel in the Swiss topflight, after Antonio Marchesano had converted an eighth minute for the home side. Valentin Stocker pulled one goal back for Basel before half time but Wilfried Gnonto made it 3-1 for the hosts in the 78th minute. Basel’s Michael Lang then scored in the first minute of added time as the visitors searched for an equalizer but it was the homers that laughed last after Nikola Boranijasevic grabbed a 95th minute goal to eventually make score 4-2. Twenty-three-year-old forward Aiyegun joined Zurich in 2019, after a two-year stint at Latvian side Ventspils. CZECH REPUBLIC Peter Olayinka (Slavia Prague) Striker Olayinka was not on target as Slavia Prague hammered Hradec Kralove 5-1 away from home in the Czech topflight, but had an assist, delivering the pass to Stanislav Tecl for his side’s third goal.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com