A consultant obstetrician and gynecologist at the Unversity of Uyo Teaching Hospital, Dr Udeme Denis, speaks to GODFREY GEORGE about some causes and remedies of ectopic and breeched pregnancies W hat are ectopic pregnancies? As the name implies, these are pregnancies that occur when the conceptus (fertilised eggs) implants outside of the uterine cavity (the womb). Ideally, when the egg is fertilised, it should move from the fallopian tube, where fertilisation occurs, to the inner layer of the womb (endometrium) to implant. But in ectopic pregnancies, it does not happen like that. It is either it implants where it was fertilised (i.e. in the tube) – which occurs in a greater percentage of ectopics – or sometimes, in the cervix (the lower part of the womb) or even outside the womb (the abdomen). How does this relate to having a bridged pregnancy? When we say pregnancy is breeched, we are talking about the presentation of the baby. In breeched pregnancies, the baby is in the womb but the baby sits instead of his head being down. It is quite different from ectopic pregnancies. What really causes ectopic pregnancy? There are a number of (risk) factors. One of them is a history of previous ectopic pregnancies. Another is when there is an untreated or poorly-treated pelvic inflammatory disease that may have affected the fallopian tubes. The concept is that the baby is not able to move from where it was fertilised to the womb because there is a blockage. The infection must have affected the fimbriae (a part of the tube which moves the ovum to the tube). There are some things that look like rings on the tube that move this fertilised ovum towards the womb. If there is any poorly-treated infection, that could affect the normal function of this pregnancy. Those are the main risk factors. There is a myth that some supernatural forces can also cause this kind of pregnancy. How true is this? I am a medical doctor even though I am a Christian. There has not been any medically-proven risk factor stating that witchcraft or wizardry can cause this kind of pregnancy. I wouldn’t want to comment much on that. But I am sure that some lifestyle choices can predispose one to have ectopic pregnancies. For example, if a woman smokes, it may affect the womb of the woman. Naturally, smoking adversely affects pregnancy, in that it can affect the baby. Some will come with miscarriages. Some babies may come down with low birth weight; the growth of the baby may be restricted or stunted. So, smoking is not advised at all in pregnancy (or any other time). Can these ectopics lead to stillborns and what exactly causes stillbirths? Stillbirths are quite different from ectopics. In stillbirth, it means the baby was in the womb (the uterus) but either die before delivery or just at the point of delivery. That is very different from ectopic pregnancies which occur basically in the tube and do not go beyond one trimester (the first 12 weeks). You know as the week increases, the baby grows, but the tube is so small and there is an extent to which the baby can grow. So, if it is not noticed on time, the pregnancy may become ruptured. This is what we call ruptured ectopics. That is life-threatening. What are some of the symptoms to look out for? There are three classical symptoms a woman with ectopic pregnancy may present with. There may be a period of early pregnancies when the woman may not see her menses. Then, there may be abdominal pain and then virginal bleeding, although most women may not have these three symptoms all at the same time. Some may just come with the pain. Some with the bleeding and the period where the woman has not seen her menses must be there. Some women come down with dizziness, nausea and/or shock. Some may bleed so much that when they are presented in the hospital, they in shock. It depends on how these women present to us in the hospital. At what point do you think women with ectopics should present at the hospital? They should do so as early as possible. Every pregnant woman should always visit the hospital for regular antenatal checks. Most times, we advise that when as a woman you miss your period twice, you should visit the hospital. I am always surprised when women in our environment present themselves to the hospital after five, six, or even seven months, coming to book for antenatal care. These are part of the issues. If it (ectopic) is noticed early, when it has not ruptured, there are different ways to diagnose it. What are usual diagnostic approaches? We make use of scans a lot; they really help. The scan can be done abdominally (from the abdomen) or trans-vaginally. The vaginal scan may pick up the ectopic pregnancy earlier than the abdominal scan. We also check the Beta HCG, which is produced in pregnancies. It is expected to double every 48 to 72 hours. But in a woman with ectopic pregnancy, the rate would be altered. So, if you routinely do that for pregnant women to a particular gestational age, it really helps. There is a check in the blood that shows a corresponding number in a normal pregnancy, but in ectopics, this would not increase. It would be lower than expected. What are the remedies for this kind of pregnancy? The lines of management in this kind of pregnancy are three. We have expectant management. Here, you just watch serially and check the Beta HCG. If the woman continues to come for follow-up and is stable (i.e. not bleeding actively), then this treatment can be used for them. We also have medical treatment. Here, we give the patient some medication that is injected and monitored to check if is declining. This is also for women who are stable, too. But unfortunately, we find out that most women with ectopic pregnancies usually present themselves at the hospital in a very bad state, necessitating that we resort to the last option, which is surgery. We have to open them up and remove the pregnancy with that part of the tube because if it stays beyond a particular time, it could burst open. If that happens, it is life-threatening, and until the pregnancy is removed, they would keep bleeding. If not attended to on time, the woman may lose her life. It is usually an emergency. How do you handle difficult women who initially refuse the option of surgery but later come back later in a very bad state? As doctors, we are called to save lives. We see these cases a lot. As doctors, we try to explain to them that even if the baby stays… and most times the baby does not even stay beyond the first three months. Where the baby is, there is an extent to which the baby can grow. So, the baby cannot stay up to nine months. It is impossible. Except for the abdominal ectopics which occur inside the abdomen. Those ones may stay up to nine months, but those ones, if they survive, have congenital abnormalities. Most die in the first one week of life. Some of the babies die immediately after they are delivered. If she says she wants to carry the pregnancy, the doctor must counsel her on the pros and the cons. But for the ones in the tube, they will, at some point, rupture. So, if she doesn’t want to accept your counsel, then there is very little you can do. But, whenever she comes back, her life is paramount. Is it possible for one to have more than one ectopic pregnancy? There is an increased risk of having an ectopic pregnancy if you have had one before. So, it is possible to have ectopics continually for some consecutive years when one is actively trying to conceive. What advice would you give to women who have had multiple ectopics? Though I said the chances are increased, I have not come across any woman in all my years of practice that has had ectopic more than once even with the increased chances. Sometimes, during the surgery, the whole tube would be removed, depending on where the ectopic pregnancy was. Even with one tube, one can have a normal pregnancy. But if this keeps occurring, they need to find out what the problem is. What is predisposing her to this? She should check with a medical practitioner. IVF is another option for them. Adoption and surrogacy are also options even though women in Nigeria do not want to hear about adoption and surrogacy, but they are options. Most women may resort to using traditional means to handle their ectopic pregnancy. What will you advise in such cases? I have actually seen some of such women come to us in the hospital after many failed attempts in the hands of these traditional womb setters. There was one that came, and when she did, the baby was not lying well. We told her that the baby was breeched. Being close to her ninth month, the chance of the baby turning for the head to face down was very slim. It is not like babies that are breeched cannot be delivered vaginally but most times, the baby’s head will be hung up there and refuse to descend. In such a situation, we may have a lot of issues. So, we don’t usually love to take that chance. So, most times, we just do a Caesarian section for the woman. So, she was counseled but she went back to her traditional womb setters to turn the baby for her. When she came back the next week, she told us to check and that she was sure her baby was now facing down. We did, but the baby was the same way it was the previous week. She was so angry because she has paid a lot of money to this woman. There is something that we call External Cephalic Version where medically, the baby can be turned by a skilled obstetrician so that the head would be down. But you need to monitor the woman with some instruments, because, in the process of doing this, the cords may go round the neck and strangulate the baby. So, most of these traditional birth attendants may not have such ideas and they would just be turning and turning, but may not be doing it right. In most babies that present bridged, there are things that prevent them from presenting their heads down. There may be fibroids or some other things. So, the chance that the baby would go back to the most comfortable posture is still there. This is why we don’t always believe all this traditional birth attendance. But, if we see women who believe in them, what we do is counsel, counsel and counsel. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com