The coalition of Civil Society Groups in Taraba on Monday, urged the Muslim Council of Taraba State and the State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria not to build tension in the state but to work together to promote harmony and ensure peace. This is coming on the heels of recent fireworks between the two major religious bodies in the state over allegations of marginalisation of Muslims in the administration of Governor Darius Ishaku. A joint statement issued in Jalingo and signed by Onyeka Nwigwe, Executive Director, African Resilient Initiative for Community and Sustainable Development and four others, acknowledged the concerns of the two religious bodies and advised them to employ dialogue and find a peaceful resolution of their differences. The statement read in part, “As concerned organisations committed to social cohesion and violence prevention, we watched with dismay, the recent tirades between the Taraba State chapters of the Christian Association of Nigeria and the Muslim Council. “We acknowledge the role of faith leaders in nation-building and their impacts cannot be overemphasized. We advise that they seek better avenues to dialogue and find a peaceful resolution of their differences. “As the election circle begins, stakeholders, especially religious organisations and their leaders should endeavour to douse tensions and promote harmony and unity as their actions or inactions tend to impact the political atmosphere negatively or positively. “We were all witnesses to electoral violence that was recorded in the state after the 2019 general elections and the resultant loss of lives and property, which necessitated the government to impose a two–week curfew. “We don’t want a repeat of that as we build up to the 2023 elections. The recent tirades between the religious organisations are early warning signs that should not be overlooked.” The CSO, called on the people of Taraba state, especially the youths, to be wiser and commit to building peaceful societies based on ideas that unite rather than divide, so as to foster a common ground against poverty, unemployment, banditry and other socio-economic challenges that cripple development Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com