Pupils and parents in Ondo State are feeling the pain of stoppage of free shuttle buses that eased transporation problem of schoolchildren in the past, PETER DADA writes It is no longer news that the free shuttle buses, which used to convey pupils of primary and secondary schools to and from schools in Ondo State, are no longer on the roads . The impact of the unpalatable development is obviously more than ever before being felt as the nation is currently battling with fuel scarcity. The free shuttle bus project was initiated by the immediate past administration of Dr Olusegun Mimiko in 2012 to ease the movements of the pupils across the 18 local government areas of the state and also to reduce the amount the parents spend on the transportation of their wards to and from schools from Monday to Friday. When the project started in the first term of the last administration, it was described as a mere political Greek Gift designed by the then governor to curry the support of the people of the state for the 2012 election governorship election . It was however applauded in some quarters on the grounds that it would go a long way to reduce the amount being spent on the pupils by their parents and guardians. The free shuttle buses ran successfully through the second four years of the Mimiko administration up to the first term of the current government of Mr Rotimi Akeredolu. Without any prior announcement to explain  reasons, the government allegedly stopped the operation of the shuttle buses.  It was observed that for several weeks after the operation had been stopped, many pupils always reached their schools late as they would first wait at the designated bus stops, for the buses to convey them to their various schools but the buses would not come . Up till the present moment, the reason behind the discontinuation of the project is not known to the residents and the beneficiaries. The  buses  were parked at the designated centres across the state. Some were parked on the premises of the state Ministry of Transport, Akure while some were parked at the council secretariats in the state . To this end, the development has triggered  many different arguments from various quarters. A school of thought believes that the government has not done anything spectacular by providing the buses to ameliorate the daily transport hiccups being experienced by the pupils of Sunshine State, since it is part of the social responsibility of the government. A source said the government could no longer bear the cost of daily maintenance of the buses , hence the discontinuation of their operation .  The source added that the COVID-19 pandemic was also a factor for the alleged cancellation of the scheme. Some of the buses in the Okitipupa Local Government Area of the state,  were burnt down by some hoodlums during the  EndSARS protest that took place in almost all the major cities of the state in 2020. A source said, “ The governor suddenly lost interest in the free shuttle buses when he saw that the state did not have much money to sustain their daily operation. It is clear that the government is struggling to pay workers salaries, struggling to carry out the developmental projects across the state. It is the issue of money for maintenance of those buses that led to stoppage of that project . Though it may be painful but that is just the fact of the matter. The COVID-19 was another factor but not the main factor.” Now , the pupils are back to their old system of trekking long distance to their various schools while some parents were said to have forcefully withdrawn their children from far away schools to the ones that are close to their houses. The current petrol scarcity in the country, particularly in the state which has consequently led to the hike in the transport fare, has made people to call for the return of the buses.. Some of the parents who spoke with our correspondent appealed to the state government to return the school buses to ameliorate the burden of school transport particularly, those that are civil  servants. For Mr Seun Salako, said, “ We don’t have any option  but to be begging our governor, Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu to bring back the buses. This is the time we need the bus most . The petrol scarcity has caused the increase in transport fare . I spend over N2,000 on transport on my two kids every week unlike before that I spent N800 weekly. The state governor should be merciful on us parents because we are the ones bearing the burden most.” Mrs Alimat , a civil servant and widow, stated that since the fuel scarcity began  some days ago in the state ,  her children have resorted to trekking for almost four kilometers to and fro school , Monday to Friday, because she could not afford the hike in the transport fare again. She stressed that she might not be feeling the  impact if the shuttle buses were functioning. A secondary school principal, on condition of anonymity, hinted that the number pupils who came late to the school had increased on a daily basis and the school had stopped punishing such pupils. The school head was of the opinion that if the buses were at work, the pupils would be resuming to school on time . When contacted, the Special Adviser to Governor Akeredolu on Transport, Mr Tobi Ogunleye, said the government had not cancelled the project but had to suspend it . He explained that the action of the government was premised on the advice of the National Council for Disease Control on the need to prevent the spread of the deadly coronavirus among the school children. He said, “We all know that the pandemic paralysed all sectors globally, we should know that the pandemic has its own rules and regulations and one of the ways to prevent it is to avoid crowd and these buses are object of crowd because it conveys about 90 students at a time . As we are trying to render services to the people, we should not be spreading the disease. That was what warranted the suspension. “The NCDC gave us some requirements, for us to continue the operation which included maintenance of social distance. Where the buses hitherto convey 90 at a time , it has to be reduced to 30. That means a route that would take one trip for a bus to go , will now be three trips and six for to and fro instead of three . Second we need to be sanitizing the vehicles thrice a week . Three , we need to be giving the children disposable nose masks .There requires additional cost . so in the face of the economic challenges facing the country, that can not be sustained , so it has to be suspended till the Covid 19 issue would go down . “The vehicles are there , we are servicing them . it is not true that the vehicles are being branded to be used for political purposes . The buses are not used for any other purpose, it is dedicated to the school children. The buses are still maintaining their original color. You will see the buses at the stations where they are parked except in Okitipupa where some of them were burnt down during the EndSARS protest .” Ogunleye , however expressed optimism that the vehicles would soon be back on the road and a token would be charged as arrangement has been concluded by all the stakeholders, including the PTA ( Parents Teachers Association) to ensure the buses come back of road. “We are servicing the vehicles, for us to have a sustainable program, we are going to introduce a token , it is not going to be absolutely free again. The government is going to subsidise it and there would be an expansion of the buses to some local governments that are yet to benefit from the scheme. We are coming anew,” the governor’s aide stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com