The factional chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Ifelodun Local Government Area of Osun State, Solomon Alatayo, and four others were on Wednesday remanded in Ilesa Custodial Centre for attempted murder and membership of an unlawful society. Others arraigned alongside Alatayo were; Akinlade Abayomi, 38, Sodiq Atitebi, 25, Azeez Adejimi, 28, Solomon Alatayo, 36, and Siju Oyewumi aged, 68. It would be recalled that there were skirmishes leading to injuries at the venue of the Ifelodun APC factional Federal Constituency meeting in Ikirun on Tuesday. The meeting was organised by the Rasaq Salinsile-led factional state leadership of APC, which is enjoying the support of Interior Minister, Rauf Aregbesola. The defendants, who were arraigned in connection with the Tuesday incident on three count, were accused of attempt to kill one Fatai Asimiyu. Addressing the court, the prosecutor, Jacob Akintunde, said Alatayo, the other four defendants and others at large on Tuesday, February 1, at about 1.45pm in Ikirun involved themselves in an unlawful society. He also said the defendants conspired and attempted to murder Asimiyu when they allegedly inflicted machete cuts on him and thereby engaged in act that constituted breach of public peace. According to him, the offences committed contravened Sections 516, 320 (1) and 249 (d) of the Criminal Code Cap. 34 Vol. II Laws of Osun State Nigeria 2002. In their plea, the defendants all pleaded not guilty. Defence counsel, Olatunbosun Oladipupo, urged the court to admit them to bail. But the prosecutor opposed the bail application of the defence, as others involved in the crime had not been arrested, insisting that release of defendants may jeopardise the matter. In his ruling, the magistrate, Mr Asimiyu Adebayo, said the defendants be remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre and adjourned the matter till February 23, 2022, for ruling on bail application. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com