A man in his early 30s from Mgbakwu community in the Awka North Local Government Area of Anambra State, Ikenna Asiegbu, has been accused of killing his 22-year-old girlfriend, Chidimma Christopher. Our correspondent gathered that the incident happened on Saturday at Urutolu village, Mgbakwu. PUNCH Metro gathered that the suspect allegedly always beat up Christopher, despite interventions from their neighbours. An eyewitness and neighbour, Mrs Ngozi Nwude, said the victim gave birth to a baby about six months ago. She said, “The girl had been living with the suspect for some months now, even though the bride price was not paid. She was from Enugwu Agidi, in Njikoka LGA of the state, but her mother is from Mgbakwu. “The boy was in the habit of beating her for reasons we don’t know, even though he had been cautioned on many occasions, now see the result.” It was also learnt that the suspect was allegedly beating the girl when she suddenly collapsed and was rushed to a hospital, where she was confirmed dead. Some angry youths in the community, upon seeing her corpse, descended on Asiegbu and beat him to a stupor. They reportedly tried to set him ablaze before the intervention of some vigilantes, who took him to their office and contacted the police. As of the time of filing this report, the remains of the young girl were still in her room, while youths stormed the vigilantes’ office and demanded the release of the suspect for lynching. Some of the community youths said there was an agreement in the community that anyone who killed should be killed as well. They explained that the decision followed a similar incident that occurred in the town, adding that a young man who killed a woman was set ablaze and his house burnt. The police spokesman, Tochukwu Ikenga, who confirmed the incident on Sunday, said the suspect was in police custody. He said, “On Saturday, we received information that the suspect beat and murdered the victim in his house at Mgbakwu. The victim was rescued and rushed to a hospital where she was confirmed dead by a medical doctor on duty. “Meanwhile, the case has been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department for discreet investigation. Further development shall be communicated please.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com