A Civil Society Organisation, Committee for the Defense of Human Rights, Ogun State chapter, on Wednesday, staged a protest over what it called incessant occurrence of ritual killings and internet fraud among the youths in the state. The CDHR in coalition with Human Rights and Grassroots Development Society called on concerned authorities to make effort to address the increase in ritual killings and Internet fraud in the state. The group, which assembled at the Kuto Under Bridge, moved round some places in Abeokuta and later marched to the governor’s office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. The group during the protest carried placards with various inscriptions such as “Kidnapping is a crime, stop it now,” “Security is our rights”, “Internet fraud destroys our pride”, and “Shun ritual killing, protect human rights and prioritise security in Nigeria”. The rights groups decried that ritual killing, kidnapping, Internet fraud, drug abuse and other social vices are against humanity. They condemned the increase in social menace in the state, urging the government to rise to the occasion. Speaking at the campaign, one of the leaders, Yinka Folarin, noted that the increase in ritual killings in the state is worrisome, and therefore demanded an urgent need to act against it. He said, “We have come out this morning to say no to the ravaging, rampant and the increase in social vices in our schools, our communities and that act has been sabotaging our efforts in collectivity. “We are here to condemn the increasing rate of kidnapping in our state and country. To condemn the increasing rate of ritual killings, drug abuse in our society. “These are crimes against humanity. These are crimes that we all must act against. We have come out to condemn Internet fraud otherwise known as ‘Yahoo Yahoo’. There is no more ‘Yahoo-Yahoo’; it has become ritual killing and it is obvious to all of us in the society.” “We call on critical stakeholders to act now, put things at the necessary measures that will curtail excesses in our society so that right to lives of the people will not be deprived of them. “Right to life is a fundamental right of the people. It is germane to the survival of any nation, economic growth, and even our peaceful coexistence.” Folarin added that parents should also properly bring up their wards, stating that it is vital for a better society. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com