A former Ekiti State governor, Chief Segun Oni, said on Tuesday that he would contest the June 18 governorship election on the platform of the Social Democratic Party following continued calls by his supporters for him to stand as a third force. Oni, who dumped the Peoples Democratic Party after losing the January 26 governorship primary election after citing irregularities and manipulation of the exercise, said necessary paperwork by the SDP national leadership for him to be the party’s candidate would soon be concluded with the Independent National Electoral Commission. The former governor, who spoke in an interview on a private radio in Ado Ekiti monitored by our correspondent, said, “For those who are in the All Progressives Congress, four aggrieved aspirants are working with us. Also, we are working with members of the South West Agenda for Asiwaju 2023. SWAGA is a strong force in the APC with a strong membership base. “In the PDP, the majority of the people in the Repositioning Group are working with us. It is going to be a grand coalition that will definitely benefit the people of Ekiti. I believe the goodwill of the Repositioning Group, SWAGA and Segun Oni is almost enough to win elections in Ekiti. “I want to say without any form of contradiction that we politicians are coming together for this project, coupled with the opinions of people on the streets. I have been around for some time; my antecedents are there for us to see; I am not looking for what to eat, but service to the people. That is how I see politics.” However, the SWAGA Coordinator in the state, Bamigboye Adegoroye, faulted Oni’s assertion, saying, “That is not true. Members of SWAGA cannot form a coalition with Segun Oni to win any election,” adding that it showed the former governor’s desperation. Adegoroye said, “The Chairman of SWAGA in Ekiti State is Senator Tony Adeniyi; I am the coordinator of SWAGA in Ekiti State. So, nobody else could have moved SWAGA in Ekiti anywhere. Nobody has that capacity. Segun Oni was in the PDP and left the PDP; Segun Oni has no capacity to talk about SWAGA at all. He can’t talk about SWAGA at all. “Last week, he (Oni) was talking about the All Progressives Grand Alliance; this week, he is talking about the SDP; maybe he will be talking about the Labour Party next week. That is the act of desperation of Segun Oni that we are talking about, which people have to guard against. He should not be taken seriously. He sounds a little confused and you don’t take him seriously.” An aggrieved former PDP aspirant, Senator Biodun Olujimi, who had last week spoken of the discontent of her supporters with the party, on Tuesday, said she was being pressured by governors and senators of the party against dumping the PDP alongside her supporters.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com