A presidential hopeful, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim, has asked the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to exploit the crisis in Ukraine in demonstrating that the country cares for all Nigerians, particularly those in distress outside the shore of Nigeria. The former President of the Senate said the Buhari-led Federal Government must rise to the occasion and ensure the safe evacuation of Nigerians studying in Ukraine who have been trapped in the war between Russia and Ukraine. Anyim made the call in a statement titled, ‘Developments in Ukraine’, which he personally signed and made available to journalists on Sunday night. While expressing worry over the wellbeing of Nigerians in war-ravaged Ukraine, Anyim urged the administration to intervene, at the appropriate time, in the matter by evacuating Nigerians trapped in the crisis before they come harms way. The statement reads: “We are watching with apprehension, the unfolding events in Ukraine. Our thoughts and prayers are with our citizens residing in Ukraine at these tensed and uncertain moments. “I join all Nigerians, particularly parents of young people who are studying in Ukraine, in praying for your safety. “I call on the Nigerian government to watch the developments closely and not to spare any efforts to ensure the safe evacuation of our citizens as quickly as it becomes possible. “The Federal Government has given assurances that it is abreast with the latest developments and I earnestly urge all our officials, at home and abroad, to rise to the occasion with the sense of urgency it deserves. “Now is the time to show all our citizens, that our nation cares for every Nigerian in distress; and that we shall spare no efforts to reach out to all law-abiding Nigerians, here and abroad, whenever they are in need.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com