The United States chapter of the All Progressives Congress has appealed to all aggrieved aspirants in the just concluded governorship primary of the party in Osun State to sheathe their swords and support the APC flagbearer in the state for the July 16, 2022, governorship election. In a statement signed by its leader, Adesegun Labinjo, the US APC chapter, congratulated Governor Gboyega Oyetola, who, over the weekend, clinched the ticket of the ruling APC for the governorship in the state. Announcing the result very early on Sunday, the Chairman of the governorship primary committee and Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, said Oyetola won the election, having garnered 222,169 votes, against 12,921 votes that his closest challenger, Moshood Adeoti got. He also said another of Oyetola’s challenger, Lasun Yusuf, got 460 votes and placed third. He said a total of 408,697 voters registered in the primary election of the party, while 247, 207 voters were accredited to vote. The total vote cast and valid votes were 235,550. Abdulrazaq said Oyetola won in all the 30 local government areas in the state. In its statement, the US APC chapter called on Oyetola’s challengers, Adeoti and Lasun, to immediately join forces with the governor for a resounding victory in the coming governorship election. The statement partly read, “APC-USA applauds the peaceful conduct of the primary election and commends the party for allowing the aspirants to test their popularity amongst the party members in a free and fair election. The Chapter said that since a winner has now emerged from the primaries, it is now time for unity in the party in Osun State so that the APC can face the PDP with a united force. “APC-USA commends Gov Oyetola for his humility and strong leadership in Osun and urged him to continue to reach out to the aggrieved members and secure their support for the party. APC-USA also commends the leadership of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande, Otunba Jumoke Ogunkeyede, and other APC leaders in Osun and thank them for their support for Gov Oyetola.”