A member of the National Youth Service Corps, Joy Ehinome Ihenyen (AD/20B/1932), serving in Adamawa State, has converted an abandoned building to a clinic in Kpogno community, a remote village in Girei L0cal Government Area of the state. The Director-General of the NYSC, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, said on Monday evening that
the idea of the clinic came up when the corps member was participating as an enumeration officer in the National Home Grown School Feeding Programme, which entailed corps members touring remote villages of the state to enumerate and register primary school pupils for the school feeding programme. While registering the pupils in this village (Kpogno), Ihenyen observed that several people, particularly the children and the elderly, were not looking healthy enough. After some inquiries, she realised that the rural dwellers had to travel 14 kilometers away to access the nearest clinic at another village called Borong. Ibrahim said, “She became disturbed and took it upon herself to change the ugly situation. “Using her orientation on NYSC’s Community Development Service Programme, she strategized, secured the necessary support and approval of the NYSC scheme, mobilised the relevant stakeholders, particularly the Adamawa State Primary Healthcare Development Agency and most importantly collaborated with the people of the community. “Seeing and trusted her as a messiah, the community happily and willingly donated a four-bedroom dilapidated building for the project in addition to other contributions towards its success. “And finally it is mission accomplished for Copa Joy!!! As the people of Kpogno Community no longer have to travel 14 kilometers to access simple medical care. Copa Joy, an indigene from far away Edo State, Ekpoma LGA, has come to their rescue through the human scheme, NYSC. “To ensure continued sustenance, management and viability of the health care centre, corps member Joy partnered with the State Primary Healthcare through the Girei LGA PHC which is to continue providing drugs, services as well as other medical consumables and non-consumables.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com