The Ekiti State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Wale Fapohunda, SAN, on Monday, said 15 convicted sex offenders had been publicly shamed by the state government since it began the policy of naming and shaming convicted rapists in 2019. Fapohunda said the state government had also registered their names in the register for sex offenders and would ensure that they did not benefit from the state governor’s prerogative of mercy, as part of efforts to discourage potential rapists and child molesters. The commissioner spoke in Ado Ekiti against the backdrop of two convicted sex offenders publicly shamed in the state on Sunday. He identified them as 27-year-old Dayo Asiwaju and 37-year-old Samuel Adebamigbe, whose names had been registered in the ministry’s sex offenders’ register, just as their photographs were published in banners in public places. A public notice from the Ministry of Justice stated, “Asiwaju, a 27-year-old native of Ikoro-Ekiti, formerly resident on Ikoyi Street, Ikere Ekiti, is a convicted sex offender and is currently serving a life sentence in the Nigeria Correctional Centre, Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State.” The convict on March 29, 2019, in Ikere Ekiti, used a charm to rape a 200-level student of the College of Education, Ikere Ekiti. Another notice stated that Adebamigbe, a native of Ikere Ekiti, was serving a life sentence for raping a 13-year-old girl. The convict on November 3, 2020, in Ado Ekiti, raped the victim when she delivered a loaf of bread to him from her mother. Fapohunda said, “All persons living in Ekiti State should be aware of our zero-tolerance policy for all forms of gender-based violence, especially sexual violence. We will aggressively prosecute offenders and on conviction, they will be publicly shamed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com