In recent times, sex tapes, as well as nude pictures and videos of some celebs have made it to the public domain, with the latest being that of singer, Oxlade, which went viral during the week. Saturday Beats takes a look at some of those instances Oxlade Singer, Ikuforiji Olaitan, popularly known as Oxlade, became a trending topic on social media when his sex tape was leaked on social media platform, Snapchat. The video showed the 24-year-old ‘Away’ crooner having sex with an unidentified lady. Though it dominated discourse on several social media platforms, neither Oxlade nor his management have made any comment about it. Contrary to what many would expect, many youths actually praised the singer for his sexual prowess. This is even as social commentators berated the singer and other celebs who have been in similar situations. Tiwa Savage Popular singer, Tiwa Savage, is known for her sonorous voice and her ability to keep fans glued to her stage performances. However, one of the reasons she dominated social media trends in 2021 was the release of her sex tape on social media. The video caused an outrage among her fans as many expressed divided opinions. While she got bashed for allowing such as intimate encounter to be recorded, some people stood by her, claiming that sex was a natural activity and she should not be criticised for it. However, the singer did not allow the incident set her back as she performed at various events within and outside the country. However, some also alleged gender bias in her case as they felt she would not have been that criticised if she was male. Chidinma Okeke A former beauty queen, Miss Anambra, Chidinma Okeke was in the eye of the storm when a sex tape of her with her alleged lesbian partner was released in 2016. After facing intense backlash from the public, the beauty queen explained that she was coerced to do the video by the organisers of the beauty pageant who later blackmailed her with releasing the video if she did not meet their demands. Wande Coal Singer, Oluwatobi Ojosipe, aka Wande Coal, became the butt of jokes when his nude photos were released in July 2010. The pictures were allegedly released by a lady the singer had one-night sexual encounter with. Though his then record label, Mo’Hits Records, released a statement claiming that the singer was not the one in the picture, many argued that the singer’s face was clearly shown in them. Salawa Abeni Veteran singer and self-acclaimed ‘Queen of Waka music’, Salawa Abeni, released her nude photos in April 2020 after she was blackmailed by one Jason who threatened to release the pictures if she did not pay him some money. Refusing to give in to the demands of the blackmailer, Abeni released the pictures herself. Her action attracted commendation for many, who praised her for standing up to the blackmailer. Cross A former Big Brother Naija housemate, Cross Okonkwo’s nude photos and a short video clip of him in the shower were uploaded on Snapchat in October 2021. They were deleted shortly after and the reality star apologised for his actions, claiming that it was a mistake. However, some were of the opinion that the reality TV star intentionally released the materials in order to go viral on social media. 9ice Singer, Abolore Akande, aka 9ice, got himself in a mess when his nude pictures and videos went viral. In the video, the married singer could be seen with a lady, even as he warned Internet fraudsters not to lure his girlfriend with money. Shortly after the pictures and videos went viral, the singer made a video where he apologised to his wife for betraying her trust. Apparently, his wife has forgiven him as they recently welcomed a baby.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com