The Government of Hungary has extended a hand of fellowship to Nigeria by waving aside the presentation of visas for all Nigerians in Ukraine seeking entrance into or passage through the country. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Gabriel Aduda, disclosed this on Sunday via his Twitter page in a Public Travel Advisory. Russian President, Vladimir Putin, in the early hours of Thursday, ordered an invasion of Ukraine. The invasion was marked by shelling and rocket attacks on several Ukrainian major cities, including the capital, Kyiv, leading to dozens of deaths. The invasion created widespread panic and saw many fleeing Ukraine. However, the core requirements for admission into Hungary from Ukraine included a valid Nigerian passport and a Ukrainian resident permit. The Federal Government also advised that interested persons should carry some Euro currencies along. The tweet read in part, “The Embassy of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Budapest, Hungary wishes to inform Nigerian nationals arriving from Ukraine, that the Government of Hungary has enacted Decree 56/2022 (24.11), which permits third-country nationals with valid Ukrainian resident permits to enter Hungary temporarily, without a Schengen visa. As such, Nigerians arriving at the Hungary-Ukraine border can enter Hungary, either on transit to Nigeria, or temporarily reside in the country. “Consequently, arrangements are underway for the transportation of Nigerian nationals, to enable them to stabilise. To that effect, therefore, affected Nigerian nationals wishing to be admitted into Hungary are advised to have their travel documents (valid Nigerian passport and Ukrainian resident permit) with some money in Euros and cooperate with the Hungarian border authorities.” Similarly, the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, on Sunday, announced that the Nigerian Embassy in Romania was ready to receive Nigerian students from Ukraine. This was disclosed in a statement released by the commission on Sunday. According to the Nigerian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there were no fewer than 5,600 Nigerians resident in Ukraine, the majority of whom are students. Ukraine is a choice destination for many Nigerian students, especially for those in medical-related fields. But the Nigerian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffery Onyeama, said while the country was concerned about the safety of the 5,600 Nigerians resident in Ukraine, he confirmed that rescuing the Nigerians during the height of the Russian aggression might involve risk, Saturday PUNCH reported. Meanwhile, the Presidency, on Sunday, kicked against the denial of Nigerians and other Africans safe passage into neighbouring Poland and other safe territories, saying “all who flee conflict have an equal right to safe passage under UN Convention and the colour of their passport or their skin should make no difference.” The Presidency’s position was made known in a statement signed late Sunday by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, titled, ‘Statement on Nigerian and citizens of other African countries in Ukraine.’ Citing video evidence, first-hand reports, and those in contact with their wards and Nigerian consular officials, the Presidency noted that there had been unfortunate reports of Ukrainian police and security personnel refusing to allow Nigerians to board buses and trains heading towards the Ukraine-Poland border. Russian President Vladimir Putin on Sunday  ordered the country’s nuclear forces to be on high alert as the war with Ukraine enters the fourth day. In a video of him on Sunday during a meeting with security chiefs, the Russian President hinged the decision on “unfriendly” economic sanctions against Russia. “Dear colleagues, as you can see, not only do western countries take unfriendly economic measures against our country — I mean the illegal sanctions everyone knows about — but also the top officials of leading NATO countries allow themselves to make aggressive statements with regards to our country,” Putin was quoted as saying according to a translation by Channel 4 news. “That is why I order the defence minister and the chief of the general staff to put Russian army deterrence forces on high combat alert.” A country’s “nuclear deterrent means nuclear weapons available as a form of defence to prevent attacks from other nations.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com