The Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, has approved the immediate implementation of the N30,000 minimum wage for the state workforce with partial consequential adjustment. The Secretary to the State Government, Folashade Ayoade, disclosed this after a meeting with the organised labour in Lokoja on Tuesday. Ayoade attributed the delay in the implementation to the inability of the committee to meet regularly because of the COVID-19 pandemic. She commended the organised labour for their understanding and patience which she said had resulted into the signing of the implementation of the new minimum wage. The Deputy Governor, Chief Edward Onoja, expressed appreciation to the organised labour for their understanding and commitment towards reaching the agreement amicably. Onoja described Bello as passionate about the welfare of civil servants, saying the governor would continue to give priority attention to workers in the state. The Head of the State Civil Service, Hannah Odiyo, said with singing of the agreement on the new national minimum wage, the committee had completed its work peacefully without recourse to an industrial action. Speaking after signing the agreement, the State Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Mr Onuh Edoka, said Kogi State civil servants had been brought to the same level with their counterparts in other states. According to him, the earlier notice of strike served on the state government has been suspended with immediate effect. Edoka commended the state government for signing the agreement with the mandate of immediate implementation to give civil servants in the state a new lease of life. Also present at the signing of the agreement was the State Chairman of the Trade Union Congress, Ranti Ojo; State Chairman, Nigeria Union of Journalists, Adeiza Momoh-Jimoh; and Chairman, Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees, Tade Adeyemi, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com