Many people are familiar with foundations. They are aware that they do good work for society. Some even plan to set up a foundation when they ‘blow.’ Foundations are part of organisations called nonprofit. A nonprofit organisation is defined as one that qualifies for tax-exempt status because its mission and purpose are to further a social cause and provide a public benefit. Some examples of nonprofit organisations include religious organisations and churches, universities, foundations, and hospitals among others. For an organisation to qualify as a nonprofit, it must serve the public good in some way. Nonprofits, typically, do not distribute profit to anything other than furthering the advancement of the organisation. The financial records of nonprofits are public information such that donors can see how their contributions are being used. Donations to nonprofits are tax-deductible and nonprofits do not pay taxes on monies received through fundraising. In Nigeria, as in many parts of the world, many not for profits, particularly the ones not founded by or affiliated with known billionaires struggle. The reasons why they struggle are as diverse as the purpose they are established to pursue. One essential thread is the lack of effective communication. So, why do nonprofits struggle in Nigeria? First is the lack of accountability and transparency. In general, nonprofits rely on the public trust to do their work. To remain in operation sustainably, it is important to continuously earn and keep the public’s trust. It is usually achieved through a strict commitment to ethical principles, transparency, and accountability. Trust is an invaluable currency in the nonprofit sphere. Nonprofits must constantly demonstrate trustworthiness. So, beyond being accountable and transparent, nonprofits must show that they are indeed accountable and transparent. Where accountability and transparency are missing or perceived to be absent the nonprofits would suffer trust issues. It would subsequently be unable to raise funds or get volunteers. It would struggle. In addition, at the minimum, nonprofits must work for the public benefit. It should never be “operated for the benefit of private interests.” This is the essential guiding principle of nonprofits. Another reason nonprofits in Nigeria struggle is the absence of a clear message. Communication is the soul of business, whether for profit or nonprofit. The nonprofit must have a clear and distinct message.  When you hear of MTN Foundation, you think, “improving the quality of life in communities across Nigeria.” Nonprofits that seek to reach a bigger audience, meet goals and stand out from the rest need to develop and actively pursue their message. Through consistency in messaging, the public will begin to recognise the organisation and what it stands for. Crafting the message is the first step to engaging with the target audience.  What does the nonprofit want to be known for? What is the end goal? How will the organisation know that it has won? Nonprofits without a clear message will naturally struggle. Finally, the failure to engage qualified public relations professionals will make nonprofits struggle. Like all other organisations and companies, nonprofits need to connect with the public and promote their cause. The public needs to understand what they do and the significance. The most cost-effective way to do this is to build, promote and create a positive image that the public appreciates, likes and accepts – a persona that they can relate to, engage with and be willing to do business with. This is what public relations are all about. Public relations appreciate the fact that nonprofits rely heavily on donations and contributions. To receive those donations and contributions, they need to get the word out to the public about what they do and why it is a great cause to support. To get attention for a nonprofit, public relations will help it explore opportunities to volunteer and to get volunteers, educate the public about their cause or situation and create avenues to raise funds through donations by promoting a positive public image that explains why the organisation is necessary, and that it is doing great things. PR is essentially about promoting the organisation through the media to engage a broader audience, raise awareness of the cause and impact, manage fundraisers and attract more volunteers and ambassadors.  A nonprofit without a public relations professional will struggle. In general, public relations can promote the nonprofit’s overall mission while developing multiple channels for communicating with members as well as seamlessly integrating fundraising efforts through traditional and online methods. An experienced public relations professional will help a nonprofit in many important ways. Public relations will help publish the financials following the work of the auditors. It will help the nonprofit craft its key message. And public relations will promote nonprofits improving awareness. The struggle is real. The solution is within reach. Engage a public relations professional today. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com