The amicable resolution of the crisis rocking the All Progressive Congress in Kano State is far from being realised as the Senator Ibrahim Shekarau faction is insisting that fairness, justice and all inclusiveness must be ensured. The Shekarau faction had written to the party headquarters on February 7, 2022, rejecting the sharing formula of the party structure for Kano and has now forwarded another letter to the APC headquarters titled, ‘Re: Guidelines for harmonisation of the party structure in Kano’ dated February 10, 2022. In the latest letter, the faction is demanding 55 per cent of the party structure as well as the chairmanship position. The letter was jointly signed by Shekarau (APC, Kano Central), Senator Barau Jibrin (APC, Kano North), Tijjani Jobe (APC, D/Tofa/Rimingado Federal Constituency), Nasiru Gabasawa (APC, Gezawa/Gabasawa Federal Constituency), Haruna Dederi (APC, Karaye/Rogo Federal Constituency), Sha’aban Sharada (APC, Kano Municipal Federal Constituency) and Shehu Dalhatu (Chairman, Buhari Support Group). The Shekarau faction emphasised that any reconciliation committee and/or reconciliatory engagement must not be headed by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje as he was party to all the disagreements. In continuation of the reconciliation process, the Shekarau group demanded the withdrawal of all appeals filed by the governor’s side as evidence of a transparent process capable of strengthening and rekindling its confidence. The letter read in part, “We are in receipt of your letter dated February 8, 2022 in respect of the above stated subject matter. It was served on our leader, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau (Sardaunan Kano, on February 9, 2022, and it is in response thereto we hereby write to you. “We will continue to recognise your genuine intention to strengthen the APC through initiatives of reconciliation and peace building whenever the party faces internal disputes. Furthermore, we are confident that you are competent to make all the right decisions to move our party generally and the Kano State chapter particularly forward and restore it to the path of progress. “The constitution of our great party has clear and unambiguous provisions in respect of the different caucuses of the party. We find it inappropriate to be subjected to any other suggested composition of the LG caucus. “It is because of the aforementioned reasons and more that we forwarded to you our response to your letter of February 7, 2022 and now hereby reaffirm that: “We still stand by our proposal of 55 per cent with the state chairman in our favour, while conceding 45 per cent of the party positions to the governor’s side without any further compromise. “Any reconciliation committee and/or reconciliatory engagements must not be headed by the governor, as he is a party to all the disagreements. “The continuation of the reconciliation process must be subject to the withdrawal of all appeals filed by the governor’s side as evidence of a transparent process capable of strengthening our confidence. “We urge you, to have a deep introspection on the fault-lines in the Kano State chapter of our great party and do all that is necessary by following legal and constitutional means to redeem our situation. “As always, we pray for Allah’s guidance and protection for you and your able team in your endeavours.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com