Apart from the intense competition for admissions into federal universities, especially the highly reputable ones, recurring strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities is another major factor that makes some parents and guardians enrol their wards in private universities. Over the years, embarking on industrial actions has become an inglorious trait of the Nigerian university system. ASUU strike is now as frequent as the borrowing binge of a government lacking robust economic ideas.  On Monday, scholars in the ivory towers embarked on another one-month ‘journey’ away from classrooms, leaving helpless students to either return to their various homes or idle around the campuses. If the one-month warning strike ends as planned, it would ramp up the number of days the union has spent on strike since the return of democracy in 1999 to 1,543 days or four years and 22 days in about 22 years. Are you shocked? This is Nigeria where weird events compete for attention. The Federal Government and ASUU have been at loggerheads over the failure of the former to fulfill some of the agreements it made as far back as 2009. The lecturers complained that none of their demands, including funding for revitalisation of public universities, earned academic allowances, University Transparency Accountability Solution; promotion arrears, renegotiation of 2009 ASUU-FGN Agreement, and the inconsistencies in Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System Payment, had been met. While ASUU is complicit in the impact of their action particularly on students, many of whom have had their years of academic programmes extended for no fault of theirs, the government’s lukewarm attitude to public institutions can’t be overlooked. Like plants starved of water and other nutrients required to germinate, the country’s citadels of learning have been largely underfunded by the government and left in a shambles. Many public institutions once regarded as premier varsities in Nigeria have outlived their glory and no longer in sync with modern global standards. Trust the government; they’re better at making promises than bringing them into fruition. In fact, if empty promises were scorecards, Nigeria may top the global chat by a landslide. That is why the commander-in-chief of education could say that ASUU suddenly went on strike while a committee was looking at the 12-year-old agreement and that he was looking “for their leaders because all the issues are being addressed.”  The education boss even said the government was ready to meet the union on all issues it had raised. But one wonders why the strike keeps resurfacing like an abiku, a reincarnated child, if the previous meetings were productive. If you’re still in doubt of how low our public universities have sunk in terms of state-of-the-art infrastructure, research capacity and staff strength, look at the rate at which ‘executhieves’ and rich individuals send their children overseas to acquire knowledge in a conducive academic space. To graduate in Nigerian public institutions is now the survival of the fittest for students. A fellow recently marvelled at the disturbing spate of sadist lecturers in varsities deliberately standing in the way of students’ success. Lecturers who will tell their students unabashedly that scoring an ‘A’ in the courses they take is a goal dead on arrival and getting a ‘B’ is like attempting to climb the Kilimanjaro; those who will insist you either regurgitate exactly what they taught you in the class during exams or fail woefully if you attempt to be creative.