Ex-Glasgow Rangers forward, Greg Stewart, insists influential midfielder, Joe Aribo, is currently worth around £15 to £20m, should the club decide to sell him. Aribo has been in superb form for the Scottish champions this season, scoring six goals and providing six assists in 33 matches across all competitions. The Nigeria international joined the Super Eagles for their Africa Cup of Nations campaign and impressed despite seeing the team crash out in the round of 16. He returned to Rangers over the weekend and provided an assist in the Ger’s 3-3 draw at Ross County. The 25-year-old had been a subject of transfer speculation in the January window but new manager Giovanni van Bronckhorst had hinted at his importance to the setup. However, Stewart who currently plays for Jamshedpur in the Indian league, has charged the side to hold on to the creative midfielder or ensure they sell him for the right price. “Does it surprise me that teams want to sign Joe? Absolutely not. Nothing surprises me with Joe to be honest. I’ve seen him close up and know what he can do,” Stewart told dailyrecord.co.uk. “And for me, he can only get better and better. “Joe has the ability to score goals, create chances and dominate a midfield. He can play in a variety of positions – I even remember him playing at left-back against Braga and scoring a goal. “He has so much versatility that you could ask him to play anywhere on the park and he’d just get on with it. His ability with the ball is frightening. “If a top-flight team from down south comes calling it’s difficult to turn them down. For Rangers, it will be hard too considering they only signed him for £300,000. “But I can’t see them selling him for any less than £15m. Maybe £20m.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com