The Gombe State Government has vowed to prosecute those behind attacks in the state. Condemning the incidents, Commissioner for Information Julius Ishaya, said the Muhammadu Yahaya’s led administration would not tolerate breakdown of law and order. Atiku campaign office, Peoples Democratic Party Secretariat, and All Progressives Congress office were attacked by suspected hoodlums. Ishaya said, “Government of Gombe State condemns in strongest terms the ugly activities of some political thugs acting under the clear instruction and supervision of the enemies of the peace-loving people and Government of Gombe State by setting ablaze an APC office and another political party’s office. “This show of desperation is the trademark of some power and bloodthirsty people who lost control of the State treasury and are hell-bent on returning, and so have resorted to unleashing violence on the peaceful polity of the State which is the envy of other states. “We wish to remind all and sundry irrespective of political affiliation that we are in a democracy and the only means of getting to power is through the ballot box which time is yet to come. We also wish to state categorically clear that the Government of Alh. Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya will continue to do everything to ensure the protection of people’s lives and property. “We will bring all the perpetrators of this dastardly act to book. We wish to commend the security agents in the state for promptly bringing the situation under control. We will continue to give all security operatives in the state the needed support to deal decisively with everyone that will bring about the breaking of peace In the State. “For the avoidance of doubt, our Government will not spare anybody regardless of his or her position who intends to disrupt the current peaceful coexistence which this government labored to create and sustain.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com