In light of Valentine’s Day, we celebrate the day in a very special way by taking a look at Nigerian footballers and their partners.
More often than we know, our favourite sportspeople get their support system from their significant others and today we appreciate them all in the name of love.
PUNCH Sports Extra takes a look at the love lives of some Nigeria’s top athletes and their partners… Ngozi Okobi-Okeoghene Super Falcons midfielder Ngozi Okobi-Okeoghene is one of Nigeria’s most successful women footballers of the current era, winning four AWCON titles as well as being named in the IFFHS CAF Women’s Team of The Decade (2011-2020). The 28-year-old, who currently features for Eskilstuna United in Sweden, married real estate mogul Ahmed Okeoghene on December 9, 2017. Last December, she celebrated their four-year union on social media. “Happy anniversary to us. It has been an amazing journey all these years, distance and all, you’ve been so supportive. I love you baby, thanks for being my strength,” she posted on her Instagram page with pictures of the couple. Daniel Akpeyi Kaizer Chiefs goalkeeper Akpeyi married his long time girl friend Emmanuella Ebert-Kalu in a traditional ceremony in December 2016, before their white nuptial in June 2017. In July 2018, they welcomed their first child, Prince Jason Akpeyi, who was born in Port Elizabeth. Ogenyi Onazi Al-Adalah midfielder, Ogenyi Onazi, survived a road accident on his way from Benin City in June 2016, a day after his traditional wedding ceremony with long-time Sandra Ogunsuyi. The 2013 AFCON winner was returning to Lagos to prepare for his white wedding, when one of the tyres of his car reportedly burst after it ran into a pothole. Onazi escaped unhurt and went ahead with the white wedding in Lagos, on June 18. Taiwo Awoniyi Union Berlin striker Awoniyi married his partner Taiwo Jesudun in an engagement and traditional wedding in Kabba, Kogi State on June 15, 2018, followed by a white wedding a day later in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital. William Troost-Ekong Super Eagles defender Troost-Ekong on Sunday, October 17, 2021 tied the knot with his long-time girlfriend at a private ceremony in London. The 28-year-old defender had some of his Eagles teammates Kelechi Iheanacho, Wilfred Ndidi and Leon Balogun, as well as his Watford teammate Moussa Sissoko present at the ceremony. The couple welcomed a son earlier in 2018. Moses Simon Eagles star Simon and his wife, Ibukun Adenuga, met when they were in secondary school. Reports say she stood by Simon, when the Nantes winger was passing through trying times. Simon later traveled to Europe, where his career flourished and never forgot Ibukun’s sacrifices. The couple married in a traditional wedding ceremony on December 29, 2015 in Ibadan. Ahmed Musa Super Eagles skipper Ahmed Musa reportedly tied the knot for the third time, when he married a Shuwa woman identified as Mariam in a secret ceremony last July. This came four years after his marriage to his first wife Jamila ended and he married Juliet Ejue from Ogoja, Cross River State. His marriage to Mariam officially makes her his second wife. Musa has four children: two from Jamila and two from Juliet. Peter Olayinka Slavia Prague striker Olayinka married Nigerian actress, model, beauty queen, actress and film producer Yetunde Barnabas June 2021, three months after the lovebirds held their traditional wedding in a low-key event, after about two years of dating. Barnabas won The Most Beautiful Girl in Abuja pageant in 2017, and was crowned Miss Tourism Nigeria in 2019.She is best known for role as Miss Pepeiye on Nigeria’s long running sitcom, Papa Ajasco and Company, as well as several leading roles in the Yoruba movie industry. Wilfred Ndidi Wilfred and wife Dinma Fortune have known each other since childhood, and started dating during their late teenage period. What followed was years of togetherness, marked by unconditional love and mutual support through thick and thin. In 2019, the couple tied the knot in Abuja with two wedding ceremonies to commemorate the holy matrimony. Ndidi and Dinma have been happily married ever after! Henry Onyekuru Olympiakos forward Onyekuru tied the knot with his wife Esty in a traditional wedding ceremony in Benin City in 2019 and a year later, in celebration of their anniversary, the footballer bought her a 2019/2020 Range Rover Sport worth about N60m. The couple, who dated for several years before they got married, are blessed with two kids: a boy and girl. Eagles’ second choice keeper Uzoho dumped bachelorhood December 26, 2018, after he married his long-time girlfriend Soomie in a traditional wedding at the Anglican Cathedral, Egbu in Owerri, Imo State. The wedding rounded off a remarkable year for the shot stopper, who made his debut for the Eagles and also featured at the Russia 2018 World Cup as his country’s first choice. Uzoho and his wife welcomed a son early last year.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com