The Tinubu Support Group says the All Progressives Congress leader, Bola Tinubu, is interested in serving Nigerians and not making money. The Head of Media and Publicity of the group, Tosin Adeyanju, stated this in a telephone chat with The PUNCH on Monday. Adeyanju also said the two-term former governor of Lagos State is physically and mentally fit to occupy the office of the President in 2023, adding that the Jagaban of Bourdillon “works like a machine”. He was reacting to a statement by a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Afe Babalola, who last Thursday, educated voters on qualities to look out for before adopting or voting anyone to become Nigeria’s next President. Babalola had advised voters that the candidate must demonstrate that “he is willing and prepared to serve the nation without earning salaries, as it was the case between 1960 and January 15, 1966”. On age, Babalola had explained that any candidate for the post of Nigeria’s President should not be more than 60 years old so that if he has the opportunity of serving two terms of four years each, he would still be leaving office before he turns 70. “The President should not be a person who will be looking for medical treatment from hospital to hospital around the world. “He must be so healthy that he should be able to work for a minimum of 14 hours a day,” the senior lawyer had said. Reacting, the spokesman for the pro-Tinubu group said leadership should not be tied to age, noting that most of the Presidents in the world are over 60 years old and are doing excellently well. He said, “I don’t think leadership has anything to do with age. Most of the leaders across the world like the United States are above 60 and they are doing well. We can see what (79-year-old US President Joe) Biden is doing, creating jobs for the American people. So, for anybody to use age as a yardstick for leadership, I don’t think it is right.” Adeyanju also said the 69-year-old APC leader has the capacity to work 24 hours per day. “Asiwaju has the capacity to work 24 hours a day, he works like a machine. The man has energy,” he stated. “This man (Tinubu) has lived for others. God has blessed him. Earning salaries is not important to him but making lives better for people. His priority is service to the Nigerian people and the country. “Our focus now is the primary but I can tell he is not interested in making money but service to the people and to give dividends of democracy to everyone in the country,” he noted. The PUNCH had reported that the APC presidential hopeful returned to Nigeria on Sunday about 10 days after he travelled to the United Kingdom. Tinubu had also stayed in the United Kingdom for over three months in 2021 when he underwent surgery and therapy for knee injury. He, however, returned to the country in October of the same year and travelled to some parts of the country to meet political juggernauts and stakeholders ahead of the next election. Tinubu had declared his presidential ambition on January 10, 2022 when he visited the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in Aso Rock. The former governor of Lagos had described his presidential ambition as a “lifelong dream”, saying there is nothing wrong with a kingmaker becoming a king. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com