Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State has expressed delight that there was no violence during the governorship primary election of the All Progressives Congress in Osun State on Saturday. He lauded the election as being peaceful, noting that he would emerge victorious. There was an uneasy calm in the state ahead of the fierce battle for the sole ticket of the party between Oyetola, and a former Secretary to the State Government, Moshood Adeoti. Adeoti, a former state chairman of the party, is the anointed candidate of the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. Ironically, Oyetola was the Chief of Staff to Aregbesola when the latter served as governor of the state for eight years. However, the relationship between the governor and the minister has deteriorated to the extent that they now belong to different camps of the party in the state. Aregbesola has vowed that the incumbent will not be allowed to serve another term. Also in the race is a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Lasun Yusuf. Speaking at his ward in Boripe LGA, Iragbiji, Oyetola said the election should not be seen as a battle. He said, “I want to appeal to all our people across the state to maintain peace. Election process should not be a battle field or a do-or-die affair. Let everyone exercise their choice in determining who represents them at the party level and ultimately at the general election. “So far so good, I think this process has gone well contrary to the speculation of violence. We have been in contact with a number of places and we have received positive signals of peace. “Really, I don’t see why choosing a candidate to represent the party should bring violence.” Oyetola said the election should not be seen as a battle. He added, “I will win by the grace of God. The other choice is not there. I want to appeal to all of us to see this issue as a family affair. We are APC all through. “We should brace ourselves the challenge ahead. We are going to face another party whose candidate we don’t know yet. I want to appeal to us to ensure that we have an opportunity for reconciliation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com