Investments remain the way individuals, groups or countries can survive sustainably. Every saving should translate to investment and eventually revenue or income. That is why banks are always eager to lend money to borrowers instead of keeping savings in their vault. Lending is one of their investments choices because they earn lots of revenue through interest rates charges. Customers, who keep money in banks in the form of savings, are only assisting the banks to make profits. The same happens to a country that keeps all her reserves only in foreign currencies. There are near monies or short-term financial instruments that individuals or a country can invest funds that can be recalled within a short term just as there are longer term financial instruments. Of course, when one looks at his or her account and sees a huge amount, the tendency to buy goods on impulse, whether desirable or undesirable, is always very high. When civil or public servants look at the account of their agency and find a huge fund, the tendency to help themselves to reduce the volume of the fund for personal aggrandisement can be very tempting. So, it is always good to think of ‘investment’ rather than saving. Wise governments invest in their people in order to reap the multiplier effects of human capital development. The converse is also true. Let us take the foregoing as free tutorial or unsolicited advice. More often than not, developing countries in particular, are interested in rapid growth of foreign direct investments. The view is that these investments are sources of capital inflow to bridge the gap created by shortage of domestic savings and investment. The vital benefits of such foreign investments or capital inflows have been demonstrated in the case of such countries as Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and other countries in Asia since the 1970s and Latin America in more recent times. This is not just in terms of rapid industrialisation but also in terms of technology adoption, adaptation and transfer generally. Rapid and sustainable benefits have not followed foreign direct investments in Africa as witnessed elsewhere not just because it was not a massive movement as it was with other continents but also because the FDIs into Africa are not directed at the manufacturing sector but tailored towards exploitation of natural resources which are narrow in scope, physically challenging and capital intensive with little room for employment generation. Even then, the little drop would have led to some technology transfer but most African countries have large masses of illiterates or unskilled labour or, where skilled, are in the area of commerce rather than science and technology. Lately and as explained some eight weeks ago, there has been a decline in foreign direct investments in Africa generally, including Nigeria. The EY’ 11th Africa’s Attractiveness Report shows that foreign direct investment into Africa dropped by 50 per cent in 2020 as the continent recorded its worst recession in 50 years due to COVID-19. The service sector including technology, financial services and consumer attracted 72 per cent of the continent’s FDI, about four per cent for the extractive sector and much less for the manufacturing sector that is expected to generate the highest employment. This situation should compel the African countries to encourage more domestic investments as the condition is not likely to change very soon. The unfortunate aspect is that most African governments, including those in a country like Nigeria that prides herself as the giant of Africa or largest economy on the continent, are culprits in the underdevelopment of Africa. The citizens transfer much needed funds through illicit capital outflow or in plain language, stealing, to other continents, denying their countries of investible funds. The qualities of education and health, which are supposed to promote productivity, have been on the decline. Skilled citizens are encouraged to migrate abroad to go and service labour deficient factories in Europe, America, Canada and as far as Australia with the hope of bringing foreign currencies in form of remittances which invariably find its way back to the banks in these foreign land through second round of illicit flows or round tripping. Infrastructural deficiencies and the need to rebuild these create two levels of incongruity. First, it makes domestic production expensive, resulting in citizens’ preference for cheaper foreign goods such that Nigeria imports food and finished products in billions of dollars every year and, secondly, it creates jobs for foreigners, particularly the Chinese, who bring in their machines and materials to construct unending roads, rails and airports leaving our local, experienced engineers in limbo because they do not have the funds and equipment. There is the need for a re-think to do things differently. Why should we not give jobs to only foreign companies that are able to team up with Nigerian companies that have proven records of experience, competence and accountability, and possibly listed on the Nigerian stock market? Why shouldn’t State governments team up with industrialists in some industrial parts of the State to reconstruct roads with some tax relief for them instead of the State awarding contracts and paying for full reconstruction? Such joint efforts would be economical, quick and promote cooperation between private and public sectors in management of the economy. For a large proportion of the 16 years the Peoples Democratic Party governed this country, we witnessed economic growth without jobs. Price of crude oil started rising in the international market sometime in the first term of President Olusegun Obasanjo and reached a crescendo during the time of President Goodluck Jonathan. Actually, the country earned N51 trillion from crude oil under the Jonathan presidency. Fortunately, Obasanjo had paid the country’s debt and left behind about $60 billion in reserve and some $15 billion in sovereign wealth fund. According to statistics from the National Bureau of Statistics, the volume of Nigeria crude oil production between 1961 and 2014 was about 32.7 billion barrels valued at about N118.4 trillion! In fact, since democracy began in 1999, the data indicate that crude oil production was valued at N116 trillion or about 98% of total crude oil since 1960. Looking at it from another angle, between 1999 and 2014, Nigeria earned N7.2 trillion per annum from crude oil sales. There was no sustainable fund intervention for the local industrial businesses like Innosun and other vehicle assembly plants, some petrochemical firms and mechanised agricultural and agro-allied businesses, et. cetera. The record of revenue under the incumbent President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), cannot be compared with that of President Jonathan but it was not as bad as we are made to believe. OPEC record for July 2020 shows that Nigeria earned $206 billion from petroleum export between 2015 and 2019. The details of the breakdown can be gleaned from the OPEC record. If we add all these revenues to the ‘debt revenue’(?) and non-oil revenues, you can imagine the total amount. The question here is not so much about the earnings from crude oil alone and the so-called increasing non-oil revenue but what investments can we show for it. Presently, crude oil prices are on the rise and our revenue is increasing again. Since 2014, Nigeria has witnessed two recessions due largely to global problems linked to COVID-19 and partly due to debt-managing the economy, unbridled looting and pretences. And the Federal government is not taking the report of the Auditor General of the Federation seriously! Whether APC or PDP, it is business as usual. Specialised banks like the Bank of Industry, Bank of Agriculture, Energy Bank and Bank of Information and Technology are typical of development banks found in developing countries to assist in engineering growth and development of agricultural, industrial, energy, technology sectors, et cetera. They are referred to as specialised not just because they take care of specific sectors of production units but also because the staff employed are technically competent in the areas a bank specialises in. As catalysts, which is one of the thesis of the banks, they are to assist business under their portfolio to grow. They need funds to fund private sector entrepreneurs in such businesses. Earnings from oil, non-oil and central bank sources should be channelled through these banks to support and develop these sectors rather than the CBN playing such roles as if there is a lack of trust between the management of the special banks and the central bank. The CBN would traditionally supervise the activities of the special banks. Promotion of local investments, particularly in the area of industrial or manufacturing will not only generate massive employment in industry, agriculture or extractive industry and the service sector but will also strengthen the confidence of foreign investors to commit their funds into the local economy. Possibly, our next president should be an entrepreneurial person and show how many domestic businesses he has and how much employment he has been able to generate in the Nigerian economy over the years.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com