The Senate on Wednesday confirmed the nominees of the President, Major General Muhamamdu Buhari (retd.), as members of the Judicial Service Commission. They include Nnamonso Ekanem of Akwa Ibom who will represent the South-South while Mahmoud Abubakar Magaji of Niger State will represent the North Central Zone. The confirmation of both nominees followed the consideration of a report by the Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters. Special Assistant(Press) to the Senate President, Ezrel Tabiowo, disclosed this in a statement titled ‘Senate confirms Buhari’s nominees as members of Judicial Service Commission.’ According to him, Chairman of the Committee, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, in his presentation, said their nominations were made by President Muhammadu Buhari pursuant to Section 154, subsections (1) and (3) in conformity with Paragraph 12 (e) of the Third Schedule to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended). Senator Bamidele said the nominees “are fit and proper persons for appointment as Members of the Federal Judicial Service Commission.” He disclosed that there was no petition or adverse report against the nominees, adding that “record checks and other forms of investigations by security agencies did not reveal any negative trace against them.” Bamidele expressed satisfaction with the qualifications, experience, competence and integrity of the nominees as Members of the Commission. Meanwhile, the Senate has forwarded the names of four to the Committee on Power. They were nominated by President Buhari to be made Commissioners in the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission. “The nominees who are to appear before the panel for screening include Dr Yusuf Ali (North Central), Engr. Chidi Ike (South East), Mr Nathan Shatti (North East) and Mr Dafe Akpeneye (South-South). “The Committee was given two weeks by the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, to report back to the chamber in plenary. “Meanwhile, the chamber, on Wednesday, stepped down the consideration of a report by the Committee on Aviation on the Nigerian Safety Investigation Bureau (Establishment) Bill, 2021. “Chairman of the Committee, Senator Smart Adeyemi, gave a presentation on the report. “The consideration of the report was, however, suspended midway after the lawmakers identified a “mix-up in the Committee’s report on the bill. “The motion for the report to be stepped down was moved by the Deputy Whip, Senator Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi (Niger North) and seconded by Ahmad Babba Kaita (Katsina North),” the statement concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com