The All Progressives Congress has won the House of Representatives the bye-elections in Ondo, Cross Rivers and Imo states. But the opposition Peoples Democratic Party won the bye-election in Plateau State. The National Working Committee of the PDP in its reaction said Ondo and Imo elections were rigged by the APC. The candidate of the APC in the Ogoja/Yala Federal Constituency bye-election, Jude Ngaji, was declared the winner of the election conducted on Saturday. Ngaji defeated the PDP’s candidate, Mike Usibe, with 22, 778 votes. The PDP candidate got 20,590 votes. While declaring Ngaji winner, the Returning Officer, Dr. Eno Eno, said the APC candidate had more votes than Usibe and was the elected representative of the federal constituency. INEC declares APC winner in Imo The Independent National Electoral Commission returned the candidate of the APC, Blyden Amajirionwu, as the winner of the Ngor Okpala House of Assembly bye-election which was held on Saturday in Imo State. Announcing the result of the election on Sunday, the Returning Officer, Prof Dennis Akor, said the APC got 9,248 votes to beat its closest rival, Jeff Nwachukwu of the PDP who scored 7,071 votes. Reacting, the PDP called on INEC to cancel the election, alleging that the state governor, Hope Uzodinma, compromised the electoral process. Briefing journalists after the results were announced, the PDP chairman in the state, Charles Ugwu, called on INEC to redeem itself by cancelling the election. But the state Publicity Secretary of the APC publicity, Cajethan Duke, said the PDP was crying foul because it failed in its attempts to manipulate the process. Duke said the PDP faithful came from outside the constituency to rig the election but were resisted by the masses who were “voting en mass for the APC.” APC wins in Ondo Mr Mayokun Lawson-Alade was on Sunday declared the winner of the bye-election in Akure North/South Federal Constituency of Ondo State. According to INEC, Lawson-Alade of the APC won the election after polling 26,379 votes to beat five other contestants. His closest rival, Mr Olumuyiwa Adu of the PDP, scored 24,201 votes. INEC’s Returning Officer, Prof  Deji Ogunseni, of the Federal University of Technology Akure, announced the result at the state headquarters of the commission on Sunday morning. PDP floors APC in Plateau bye-election In Plateau State, INEC declared Musa Agah of the PDP the winner of the bye-election for Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency in Plateau State. INEC’s Returning Officer who is a senior lecturer with the University of Jos, Dr Yinka Oyerinde, announced the result of the election in Jos on Sunday. According to the returning officer, the PDP candidate, who currently represents Irigwe/Rukuba State Constituency in the Plateau State House of Assembly, scored 40,343 votes to defeat his closest rival, Muhammad Alkali of the Peoples Redemption Party, who scored 37,757 votes. Meanwhile, the state governor, Simon Lalong, has lauded the conduct of the electorate during the two bye-elections held in the state, describing the elections as peaceful. Lalong, in a statement on Sunday, shortly after INEC declared the results, commended the electorate for coming out to vote for their candidates of choice and conducting themselves in a peaceful and orderly manner which ensured that there was no breakdown of law and order throughout the process. The statement signed by the governor’s Director of Press and Public Affairs, Macham Makut, appreciated INEC for conducting the exercise in a transparent manner. But the state chapter of the PDP on Sunday rejected the victory of the APC in the Pankshin State constituency bye-election. The state chairman of the party, Chris Hassan, who addressed a press conference in Jos on Sunday, said the outcome of the election did not reflect the wishes of the people. Meanwhile, former Governor Jonah Jang has described the victory of the PDP at the just-concluded Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency bye-election as an indication of what will happen in the state in 2023. The National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, Mr. Debo Ologunagba, said the APC rigged the elections in Ondo and Imo states. The PDP spokesman noted that there was violence in Imo State leading to the abduction of an official in INEC while in Iju Ita Ogbolu in Ondo State, a serving federal appointee led thugs in snatching ballot boxes. The PDP spokesman said the violence was evidence that the APC had already found a way of undermining the gains of the newly signed Electoral Act 2022. He stated, “Imo became a state of war. In Ondo where I was, they unleashed terror and went from unit to unit to cart away ballot boxes. In Imo State, the REC came out to explain his frustrations. An INEC official was abducted. The APC continued in their old ways. Old habits die hard. They brought violence to the process and Nigerians should know there will be difficult days ahead but we must guard polling units.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com