Members of the Abisogun Ruling House of the Oniru Royal Family have reconciled with the Oniru of Iruland, Oba Gbolahan Lawal, and demonstrated their acceptance of him as their ruler. The monarch disclosed this in a statement on Monday during a reconciliation meeting with the Omowunmi-Abisogun faction of the family who was aggrieved over his installation as the 16th Oniru of Iruland at his palace on Victoria Island. Lawal, in the company of his chiefs and other members of the Ewumi-Abisogun family, said he was committed to an all-inclusive kingship for the continued unity, prosperity and growth of Iru Kingdom. He said, “I express delight at the steps taken by the aggrieved family members and direct that all their entitlements as members of the Oniru royal family be given to them.” The counsel for the Omowunmi-Abisogun family, Mr Monsur Babatunde-Dauda, said the family had come together to make peace with the monarch, and appealed to the aggrieved members to withdraw their case against the throne. “We are ready to withdraw the case against the throne and we appeal to other aggrieved members to drop the case against the monarch. This is the first step in the reconciliation process. All members of the Omowunmi-Abisogun family are in support of Oba Lawal and are ready to join hands together for the good of Iru Kingdom,” he said. The head of the Abisogun royal family, Alhaja Afusat Kabiawu, said the entire members of the family would work together for the development of the kingdom. Recall that following Oba Lawal’s emergence as the 16th Oniru on June 20, 2020, the Omowunmi family of the Abisogun Ruling House had challenged Oba Lawal, who is from the Ewunmi faction of the family in court, saying their faction was more suitable for the Iru stool. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com