A former Secretary-General of The Commonwealth, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, and members of the Anambra State Elders’ Council, have condemned the continuous rise in the rate of crimes in the state. The elders said there were too many idle youths in the state and that empowering and engaging them in profitable ventures would take their attention away from crimes. The group stated this in a communiqué after its meeting at the Governor’s Lodge, Amawbia, on Saturday. The communiqué was signed by Anyaoku, who is the Chairman of the council, and the Secretary to the State Government, Prof Solo Chukwulobelu. The group also commended Governor Willie Obiano for his various legacy projects and enjoined traditional rulers and presidents-general of communities and other stakeholders to ensure that youths imbibed the right values and avoid destructive vices like violence and drug abuse. The communiqué also acknowledged that the people of Anambra State successfully and transparently voted in the governorship election held in November 2021 and also congratulated the state government, the Independent National Electoral Commission, the law enforcement agencies and all organisations and citizens who combined to ensure that the result of the election reflected the wishes of the citizens of the state. The council also congratulated the incoming-governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, on his electoral victory. The communiqué read in part, “The council, after an in-depth deliberation on the current security challenges decided that to address the increasing security crisis in the state; it wishes to advice that traditional rulers of various communities and presidents-general, as well as religious leaders and all the stakeholders to ensure that the youth imbibe the right values in order to avoid destructive vices like violence, killings and drug abuse. “Reflecting on the prospective change of baton at the apex of the state governance on March 17, the council welcomed the fact that the state will be passing from an administration that is leaving behind it an admirable legacy, to a new dawn that is pregnant with great expectations and high hopes that the development of the state and the welfare of the citizens will be taken to the next level by the incoming administration of Prof Soludo.” Earlier, while thanking the elders for the advice and support to his administration in many ways, Obiano recalled the vision and mission statements of his administration, which he said he had lived and worked with. “Anambra is an oil producing state with 15 wells; it gives me the confidence that the 13 per cent derivation will come to the state,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com