Nedogas Development Company Limited, a joint venture company between Xenergi Limited and NCDMB Capacity Development Intervention Company, has successfully completed the construction and technical commissioning of Kwale Gas Gathering and Injection Facility located in the Umusam Community, near Kwale in Delta State. The facility, with a capacity of 300 million standard cubic feet per day, was completed in partnership with the Nigerian Gas Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company. The NCDMB said in a statement that the facility was designed to handle stranded gas resources in Nigeria’s OML 56 oil province by providing the opportunity for independent operators in the area to monetise natural gas from their fields through the gas gathering, compression, injection and metering infrastructure of the KGG for quick access to market. According to the agency, the KGG hub, which had been tied in to the NGC-owned and operated 48-inch OB-3 gas trunk line, is now fully commissioned with an initial gas injection capacity of 25 MMscfd from the Nedogas Plant located 3km away in Energia’s Ebendo field. “Injected gas volumes are gradually being ramped up. This project represents a significant milestone in Nigeria’s decade of gas as well as a major achievement in the quest to provide gas into the OB3 trunk line and monetise natural gas resources from the OML 56 producer cluster,” it said. The NCDMB said with the successful injection of gas from the Energia-operated Ebendo field into the OB3, the KGG Facility was poised to receive additional gas from nearby fields including those operated by First Hydrocarbon Nigeria, Pillar Oil, Chorus Energy and Midwestern Oil & Gas. The Managing Director, NDCL, Mr Debo Fagbami, said with the completion of the KGG Facility, the proof-of-concept to readily monetise gas had been established to the extent of eradicating the pain of seeing an invaluable resource being wasted. According to him, there are opportunities to harness the potential of the flare sites from the oilfields which will ultimately convert a “wasting” resource into an economic asset used to generate cleaner energy. The Executive Secretary, NCDMB, Mr Simbi Wabote expressed his delight to see the completion of another project under the series of projects being catalysed by the board to realise the Decade of Gas initiative of the Federal Government. “Our partnership with NDCL to complete the Nedo Gas plant and construct the KGG hub represents another important achievement in our 10-year Strategic Roadmap to utilize local resources, develop in-country capacities, and create job opportunities in line with the mandate of the Board,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com