The agitation for the 2023 Presidency heightened on Tuesday with a coalition of 85 support groups supporting the ambition of the South East to succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). They however pitched tent with a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim. The organisations under the aegis of United for Better Nigeria Initiative said that the next President of Nigeria should come from the South-Eastern part of the country, saying Anyim remained the most qualified and ready for the job. The Director-General of UBNI, Nkolika Mkparu-Okeke, during its inauguration in collaboration with Northern and Southern coalition groups in Abuja, said Anyim understood the dynamics of building Nigeria, having served as SGF and Senate President among other responsibilities. She advised that the country should support the group in electing a President of South-East extraction for inclusiveness and fairness. Mkparu-Okeke said inclusiveness was what would bring Nigeria together and make the country grow. She said, “The President of Nigeria should come from South-East and must be credible and well acceptable personality.” According to her, at the latest count, about 85 such groups had agreed to form an irrevocable alliance with UBNI with a multi-dimensional force across Nigeria with about two million members, operating in about 85 chapters across the world. She said, “We worked judiciously to select the best candidate. We have many candidates from South-East, Nigeria. We have good candidates across the nation. What we are asking the country to do is to support us in electing a President of South-East extraction for inclusiveness, and fairness. It is morally right. “We are not claiming that it must be given but we say it is about time we get people in the South-East inclusive in the affairs of the nation. “The South-East has served the country in different capacities and they have delivered effectively. All those looking for Presidency are qualified but UBNI is looking for the most qualified, who would cut across the nation. Who would understand what you and I feel? Who understands that we need everyone to advance any country? “We are here to endorse him. We have 84 other groups to ensure this aim is achieved. We are calling all Nigerians to join us in making it come true for the benefit of the country. Please all should endeavour to get their voters card. “2023 would be like no other. It would need tenacity and audacity to make it work. “He (Anyim) would fix the country’s problem. Nigerians are doing well in other parts of the world. Why are we not doing this in the country? We need good leadership to appreciate the strength of Nigeria. We are strong and diversified. We have our strength in our diversity. We need to come together. “He is experienced for the job having been Senate President and SGF among other responsibilities. He is prepared with experience to hit the ground running. He has the temperament. We need someone that would unite the country. This is the beginning of a new Nigeria.” Speaking on behalf of the Coalition of Northern Supporters, Alhaji Shehu Suleman, said it would be just and fair that the next President comes from the South-East part of the country. “We also stand with the South-East because we have seen democratically elected Presidents from the North and West. But we are yet to have one from the South-East, which are the three main ethnic groups in Nigeria. “Justifiably and non negotiably, we need to see leadership from the South-East as well. Peace, justice and progress can never be attained.” Also speaking for support groups from the South, Dr Kayode Odeyemi said Anyim should be President because he is the man that is prepared and ready and most qualified for the job. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com