Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said that 2022 and 2023 would be a harvest period for Lagos to reap more dividends of democracy, particularly in the area of infrastructural projects. He stressed that the State Government had fast-tracked the completion and delivery of key infrastructure, which includes Imota Rice Mill, 27-kilometre Blue Line and 32-kilometre Red Line rail projects. The governor, who spoke at the opening session of the 17th Executive and Legislative Parley organised for all elected public office holders in Lagos State, said his government was more committed to the present and future than the past. Sanwo-Olu, in a statement on Friday by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, titled, ‘Infrastructure Delivery: ‘Lagos in its Harvest Period’ – Sanwo-Olu’, shared the strides recorded by his administration in the previous year and review upcoming programmes for more impactful results. Sanwo-Olu said the parley was organised with the ultimate goal of seeking inputs of critical public sector stakeholders and creating strategic ways to implement ideas that would alleviate the suffering of the masses, while also improving life quality, as well as economic development. The governor said the executive arm, which he leads, had consistently thrown its doors open to diverse opinions and views, noting that the forum had become a part of the government’s effort towards distributing development across all parts of the State. He said: “This administration, from the outset, did not delude itself into thinking it had the monopoly of knowledge with regards to finding the right solutions to the myriad challenges confronting the state. “This explains why we have consistently thrown our doors open to diverse opinions and views from various sources, while also creating a forum to rub minds with all critical stakeholders with a view to achieving the Greater Lagos of our dream. “The remarkable strides attained in the last two and a half years would have been impossible, but for the efforts of everyone gathered at this forum today. The past year was particularly remarkable for us in our aspiration to improve infrastructure across the state, many of which have been commissioned, thus giving Lagosians a new lease of life. “As a forward-looking government, we are more focused on the present and the future than the past, because, no matter the level of successes it had brought to us, the past is no longer as important as the present and the future.” Sanwo-Olu said his government had raised its head high and had not let down the electorate. He said his administration had visible achievements with great impact to showcase as the first four-year tenure of his government draws to the end. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com