A member representing Dunukofia Constituency and the Chief Whip of the Anambra State House of Assembly, Mr Lawrence Ezeudu, has resigned his position. The Speaker of the House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Uche Okafor, read out Ezeudu’s resignation letter to the lawmakers at the plenary on Tuesday. Ezeude, in his letter, thanked the seventh assembly for the trust bestowed on him and for the support and corporation they showed on him. His letter read, “I have been in this position for seven years. I decided to cross-carpet from the All Progressives Grand Alliance to the All Progressives Congress, the decision I still hold so dearly. I thought it wise to resign as the Chief Whip of this great assembly. “I want to thank my deputy, Hon. Beverly Ikpeazu Nkemdichie, for showing vigour, throughout my tenure as the Chief Whip. We never had any up-rising from the house. I will still support whoever the majority party deems fit for the position.” A member representing Njikoka 1 Constituency, Timothy Ifedioramma, commended Ezeudu for his courage and quality representation. “I commend his courage and boldness and his sanctity of the standing orders as it relates to his position. He is a man who seeks peace and wants the progress of the entire house. “I thank him for a job well done. We did not have crisis within the time he held the position of the Chief Whip. Respect is earned and not demanded,” the lawmakers submitted. The Speaker, while commending Ezeudu for his commitment as the Chief Whip, stated that the lawmaker had helped in managing the seventh assembly. “It is so unfortunate that you are leaving your position as the Chief Whip and on behalf of the members of the principal officers, and the whole house, we wish you well because it is a personal choice and we pray that your stay in this house will hold fruitful results,” he added. The lawmaker, however, did not disclose his next political move. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com