Students and alumni of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife have embarked on an online campaign to seek support for an ex-Student Union leader at the university, Tunde Eso. The students and alumni circulated a pamphlet containing details of the fund needed on various social media platforms including Facebook, Twitter, and WhatsApp. They also opened a Gofundme account to support Eso. It was gathered that of the N18 million needed by Tunde Eso for surgery, only N3.6 million has been gathered as of February 2. “Tunde Eso is not just a friend but a comrade at Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife where we led many struggles together. We can’t allow him to die now, and from what I saw, he is under unbearable pain, using Lofnac Gel to reduce it,” one of the circulated messages read. In other to also get support for Tunde Eso, past leaders of the OAU Students’ Union and influential students were asked to make a 10 seconds video to be uploaded on WhatsApp statuses, Instagram, and other social media platforms, saying, “Support Tunde Eso Now”. Tunde Eso, who is a former General Secretary at Obafemi Awolowo Hall, is an author, journalist, and a former governorship aspirant in Osun State. “Tunde Eso is such a brilliant dude. I met him as Secretary of Awo Hall when I came in as a fresher to OAU, Ife. He kept on with his articulations about a societal change until he developed a brain tumor. Now he needs urgent medical surgery in India. Please help. #SaveTundeEso,” an ex-student actvist, Kunle Wizeman Ajayi, tweeted. Tearful Tunde Eso narrated that his problem started when he was given the wrong eyeglasses in June 2020 after being diagnosed with glaucoma. Eso said he was asked to run a Magnetic Resonance Imaging brain scan in July 2020 which revealed that he has a brain tumor measuring 28x23x29mm. “In August 2020, I lost my left eye,” he broke down in tears. In December 2020, another MRI scan showed that the brain tumor had increased to 71cm and in February 2021, he went for brain surgery. Eso said, “A week after, I was told that there was still tumour but couldn’t remove because it was close to my brain. I was told that removing it could lead to my death. “I have sold my house, car, my land and some passionate people have assisted me to overcome this serious health challenge. “I spent over N12 million from 2020 to December 2021 on drugs for my eyes, ears, body system, brain surgery, consultancy, feeding, accommodation, and 10 different scans.” When the tumour increased again, Eso was booked for another surgery at Max Hospital, Gurgaon, India, costing N18 million before February 20, 2022. “I am pleading with Nigerians to come to my aid. I want to live to impact society positively. I don’t want to die now. I am in pain,” he appealed. To assist Tunde Eso:
Babatunde Eso,
United Bank for Africa (UBA) – 2085740884 Naira; 2239281003 USD Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com