The Chairman of the Rauf Aregbesola’s faction in the Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, Rasaq Salinsile, has called on security agencies in the state to be alive to their responsibility and prevent havoc on the residents. The call was on the heels of Thursday attack on the campaign office of ex-governor by some unknown gunmen. This is as the Osun State government has dissociated itself from any involvement in the attack on the office of the interior minister. Salinsile, in his official reaction to the incident, declared that the state was fast descending into anarchy under the watch of the governor, Adegboyega Oyetola. The statement read in parts, “Today’s attacks climaxed a litany of others on members of the APC who are opposed to the style of governance and party administration of Governor Gboyega Oyetola in the state. “On the 18th of November last year, a similar attack was carried out in the daylight when gunmen shot into the crowd of members at the same Oranmiyan House. Till date, nothing has been heard of that incident. “Just on Tuesday, thugs were sent after party members in Ikirun during a Federal Constituency meeting. The police, rather than arrest the thugs that unleashed mayhem on elderly women and men, went from house to house of our leaders and members to arrest them in a midnight raid. “They were on Wednesday sent to Ilesa correctional centre. At this stage, all we can do is to alert the whole world to the fast descent into anarchy under the watch of Governor Oyetola and in particular, the devilish plot to mow down APC leaders and members who refuse to go along with him on his misadventure. “We call on the security agencies to, as a matter of urgency, be alive to their duties before more havoc are wreaked by the desperation of the Governor.” Meanwhile, the Osun State government also condemned Thursday’s attack on the Oranmiyan House, the political edifice of the immediate past governor, Rauf Aregbesola. In a statement signed by the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode, the government disclosed that the Commissioner of Police had been charged to fish out the perpetrators of the attack and bring them before the law. It also warned parents and guardians to be more vigilant with their children and wards, to forestall occasions where they become instruments in the hands of trouble makers. The government also strongly dissociated itself from any involvement in the attack, saying that it was wicked for anyone to attribute such mischief to a government that had invested heavily in the peace of the state. “The accusation that the government of Mr Adegboyega Oyetola had anything to do with Thursday’s attack on the Oranmiyan House is sad and laughable. It defies reasoning that a man who has invested so much in the peace of Osun in the last three years will descend that low. “This government is united, it has all its ducks in a row. The Party is also united and its status and activities have been ratified by the national secretariat. There are no reasons to join issues with anyone, let alone engaging in violent act. “Those who are grabbing at straws to stay afloat, especially because their rebels’ den has fallen like a pack of cards, should try to fix their fortunes instead of blaming everybody, but themselves, for what has happened to them,” the statement partly reads. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com