There was confusion in Kaduna metropolis on Saturday as fire outbreak gutted the residence of controversial Islamic scholar, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi. It was gathered that the fire gutted the Islamiyya School located around the Alimi road area in the heart of the city. The Islamiyya school also housed the residence of the fiery Islamic cleric often linked to banditry. A source, who craved anonymity, noted that there was thick smoke coming out of the glasses, forcing other residents of the area to fetch waters to put out the fire. “We just saw smoke coming out from one of the classes. We immediately drew the attention of the people around and started fetching water to prevent the fire from reaching to the other buildings,” the source told journalists. Meanwhile, the controversial cleric through his media consultant, Malam Tukur Mamu, has confirmed the incident, adding that there was no life lost. He said the Sheikh, his family as well as his domestic staff were not affected by the fire inferno that lasted for four hours. The Kaduna State Fire Service was commended for the swift response to distressed call, according to the media aide. A statement released to journalists shortly after the incident by Mamu titled, ‘Fire guts part of Sheikh Gumi’s resident’, indicted that part of a females secondary school founded by the cleric was completely destroyed. Meanwhile, there was another tragedy as mysterious fire burnt down some corpses kept at the morgue at Agagbe community in Gwer West local government area of Benue State. The mortuary was said to belong to St. Francis Xavier Parish, Agagbe about 5pm on Friday. A local told our correspondent that some of the corpses deposited at the morgue burnt beyond recognition. “We cannot ascertain the number of corpses that were in the morgue so also the cause of the fire is yet unknown, we just discovered that the morgue went up in flames Friday evening,” the local said. The State Command spokesperson, SP Catherine Anene confirmed the burning of the morgue and said that six corpses were burnt. “It is true, the DPO is on it, the information we received is that the fire started somewhere and only extended to the morgue. Six corpses were burnt, investigation is ongoing,” Anene said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com