THE Board of Trustees of the Peoples Democratic Party and the National Assembly caucus met in Abuja on Tuesday, where the lawmakers urged the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to assent to the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill. The Minority Leader of the Senate, Enyinnaya Abaribe, in his welcome address, said, “We are asking President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the electoral act which we have passed. We made sure that everything he complained about, we have given it to him.” Abaribe recalled that Buhari, in rejecting the first electoral bill transmitted to him in November last year, demanded options for primaries by political parties. He said the reworked bill, which the National Assembly transmitted to the President on Monday, now has direct, indirect and consensus options. “Now that we have bent backwards, no excuse or reason should be given again. Provisions of the bill are very critical for expected credibility of the 2023 general elections,” the opposition leader stated. The Minority Leader of the House, Ndudi Elumelu, in his vote of thanks before the meeting went behind closed-doors, said the APC had yet to get a BoT since its existence. Elumelu also alleged that Buhari is under pressure from some All Progressives Congress governors not to sign the bill into law. Speaking on electoral reform, Elumelu said, “They said they want direct primaries, we said if it would mean giving Nigerians a very sound electoral reform, we accepted; they are the ones rejecting it. They came back again and said they wanted indirect (primary) and we agreed. They came again and said they wanted consensus; we have given them consensus. “Again, I am hearing that amongst them, those APC governors are still plotting for the President not to sign (the bill into law). “Nigerians are tired of APC. Please tell our party that this is the time that we should imbibe true democracy and there must be transparency in all the primaries that we are going to organise. Let the popular people be chosen. The issue of imposition should be shunned in our party. This is what my colleagues asked me to tell you. “For our colleagues too, this is the period that we have experienced pandemic. Most of us never expected it and we have stood by the party. We have done robust opposition on the floor and we expect that, at least, my colleagues who have been up and doing and representing the party should be so recognised at the point that they are doing this constitution of delegates and also preparing for the forthcoming elections. “We ask APC to sign the Electoral Act. Sign it. Nigerians want it, no more delay.” Earlier in his address, Chairman of the PDP BoT, Senator Walid Jibrin, said the “courtesy and consultation visit” to the National Assembly caucus was due to its important role in Nigeria, especially being “useful and important” members of the opposition party that ruled Nigeria and National Assembly for 16 years. Jibrin noted that members of the Senate and the House of Representatives are statutory BoT members, adding that the total number of current and former senators and representatives on the board today is 44. “This number is enough to assist the BoT in taking major decisions,” he stated. On the party’s presidential candidate, the BoT chair said, “We should rely mostly on consultations and discuss seriously among ourselves and select an excellent candidate who will be the president.” During the day’s plenary, the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, who presided over the session, had announced that both the APC and PDP caucuses would have separate meetings later in the day.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com