A couple arrested by men of the Ogun State Police Command with fresh human parts have narrated how a lady was killed and her head sold for N70,000. The man, Kehinde Oladimeji, 43, and his 35-year-old wife, Adejumoke, were paraded on Monday before newsmen at the police command headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta. The suspects were arrested on Saturday in Abeokuta for being in possession of fresh human parts. The couple, who resided on 72, MKO Abiola Way, Leme, Abeokuta, in the Abeokuta South Local Government Area of Ogun State, were arrested with human hands and breasts. Speaking with newsmen during the parade, Kehinde said his wife solely killed her friend, severed her body and sold the head to a merchant, identified as Omo Baale, a resident of Ibadan, Oyo State. He said the head was sold to his friend at the rate of N70,000. The suspect said, “There was a day my wife invited her friend, a lady, to our house for a visit. The first time she came was a Tuesday; she came that particular day and went back home. “But the second day she came, it was on a Thursday. My wife on that day cooked noodles and eggs for the lady, which she ate. Later, the lady went into the bathroom and showered. “But when it was getting dark that day, I inquired from my wife when her friend would leave, but my wife said the lady said she was weak and she would need to lie down and regain her strength. I was sitting at the backyard, but when I returned to the room, I realised that my wife had killed her friend and dismembered her. “When I asked her what happened, she told me her friend offended her a long time ago. The person who bought the head came from Ibadan. His name is Oluomo. “I have a friend in Ibadan, who is popularly known as Omo Baale. He told me he needed a human head, but I told him I didn’t have the connection of anybody who could help facilitate it. My wife heard the discussion and asked me how much the man would pay for it (human head) and I told her he was ready to pay N70,000. I never knew my wife had made up her mind. “As you can see, I’m not a strong person. When the incident happened, I wanted to kill myself.” But the wife denied killing the victim, saying “I know nothing about it; stop framing me up.” However, she confirmed that her husband’s friend, one Michael, handed over a sack to them, which they later discovered contained human parts after three days. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, had said the suspects were arrested following a report at the Kemta divisional headquarters by one Chief Moshood Ogunwolu, the Baale of Leme community. He said the village head told police that one Pastor Adisa Olarewaju, a co-tenant of the suspects, informed him of an offensive odour from the suspects’ room. Oyeyemi had on Saturday told newsmen that following the complaint, the DPO, Kemta division, CSP Adeniyi Adekunle, led detectives to the scene where a search was conducted. The PPRO said, “On searching the room, a plastic bowl containing fresh different parts of a human being was discovered in the room, and the couple were promptly arrested.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com