Residents of Ginti Community Development Association, Ewu-Elepe, in the Ikorodu area of Lagos State, have lamented the effect of sand dredging in the community. They said the continuous dredging in the area posed serious environmental and security threats to them and their families. PUNCH Metro learnt that many of the residents were retired civil servants, who were allotted plots in the housing scheme established by the Lagos State Government. The residents said they had written several letters to the state government to no avail, adding that those behind the sand dredging had the backing of powerful people in the state. Our correspondent gathered that the continuous excavation of laterite, a soil layer rich in iron and aluminium, recently caused a landslide in the community. A landlord, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the resident association once erected a gate to block the operators from accessing the estate. He said, “We built a gate to prevent the dredgers from entering our estate, yet they kept coming. When we threatened them with the police, they did not stop. “We experienced a landslide recently because of this problem. In fact, water has started sprouting out from some of the places they dug deep and with time, the land will be covered with stagnant water and this can lead to serious health and environmental hazards for us. “Also, the dredgers, when we tried to engage them to stop coming to excavate sand from our estate, they became violent and threatened us on our property. They told us that they were not going anywhere because they had legal backing. “We are begging the Lagos State Government to chase the dredgers away because we cannot handle them on our own.” The Chief Security Officer of the community, Olayinka Olatunji, said it was high time the government protected residential areas from sand dredging because of the long term effects. “Residential estates are not meant to be construction sites,” he added. Another resident, Adeniyi Oyelami, said, “My family has been here since 2007 and we were at peace until the emergence of these sand dredgers.” However, a member of the Ogidi family claiming ownership of the community land, Oladunjoye Olowosago, said the operators got a permit from the government. He said, “Most of them have just small plots which the Lagos State Government allocated to them and we did not cause trouble. Why are they taking us around because of the dredgers? Well, the dredgers have their legal licence to work here and that’s it.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com