The Executive Director of the International Press Institute based in Lagos and former President of the National Association of Nigerian Students, Mr. Lanre Arogundade, was arrested by officials of the Department of State Services on Thursday. Though the security outfit claimed that Arogundade’s arrest was a case of “mistaken identity”, the journalist wondered why he was regularly grilled by DSS officials while travelling. Arogundade was arrested at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport after arriving from Banjul, where he went to train Gambian journalists on Conflict sensitive journalism. Arogundade shared his ordeal in the hands of the DSS official with The PUNCH in this interview: Can you share your experience?
The story started when I was traveling. As required, I presented my passport for stamping by Immigration but the DSS official who normally collects it first asked me to go and see another person. I asked ‘why’? One of them said I am a comrade, that this kind of thing could happen. I now told him that it happens all the time I want to travel that I am getting tired. When I returned today (Thursday), the DSS official asked me to step aside and follow him. When I followed him, he took me to a senior division officer, who started asking me questions again in front of another computer. I then asked him to check the information on the system since he’s holding my passport. After that, the DSS official asked me to follow him to their office. I asked if he knew the implication – You are arresting me. When I got to their office, he handed over the passport to an Assistant Director. He then discussed with him. I was annoyed, an altercation ensued and I said I kept getting disturbed. I asked if I am always harassed because of my profile. While that was going on, I took a selfie and posted it on Facebook to let people know where I was. Before then, I called my lawyer and some journalists to let them know that I was undergoing the ordeal. After that, I took the photograph of the office and another official took the phone from me angrily and said I was doing ‘illegal filming’. I challenged the officer to tell me what section of the constitution makes that illegal. We argued over that for some time. By that time, my wife and other people started calling to know where I was. So, The President of the Nigerian Guild of Editors, Mustapha Isa,  called. The DSS official spoke at length with him. He said it was a mistaken identity, apologised, and said they would let me go. He stamped my passport and I collected my luggage. How long did the ordeal last? The ordeal took place for one hour 30 minutes. Were you rough-handled?
I was not handled roughly but the whole experience was harassment. I felt molested. I really felt uncomfortable. It keeps happening, but now, they have gone a step further by taking me to their office and my passport being seized.
I have not committed any offence that should warrant that kind of treatment Are you planning any legal action?
Yes, it is a very strong possibility. I need to use the instrumentality of the law to know why I am being subjected to this kind of harassment. Maybe they will be able to state what they have and it will be clearer to the public.
Now, they are claiming they didn’t arrest me. Is an arrest not when you hold someone against his wish without any justifiable reason? Seizing my passport! Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com