The Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation has donated a state-of -the- art paediatric unit to Ogun state – owned general hospital in Saala, Ayetoro in the Yewa-North local government area. The project was facilitated by the Chairman of NDIC, Ronke Sokefun, through her foundation in honour of her late parents, Anthony Akanbi and Cecilia Ibiyemi Idowu. Speaking at the inauguration and handing over of the facility to the state government, the NDIC chairman said that the paediatric unit was fully equipped with two infant phototherapy machines, two baby incubators, two oxygen concentrators, and two suction machines. Sokefun disclosed that the facility consists of an emergency treatment room, a 10-bed admission ward, a baby ward, a special baby care treatment room for newborns, and an isolation room for those with infectious and communicable diseases. According to her, the facility has a pharmacy, a doctors’ consulting room, chief matron’s office, a nurses’ station, a waiting room, two-room, four-bed parents’/guardians’ accommodation, fitted with a kitchenette for parents and guardians whose children and wards are on admission. She added that for the smooth running of the paediatric unit, the facility was equipped with a backup solar powered alternative power source. She noted that the gesture was part of the NDIC Corporate Social Responsibility initiative to complement the government’s efforts in adding value to communities and improving the welfare of the people. Sokefun said, “Out of a desire to make an impact in my immediate environment, I chose to start small. The result is what we see today. “All around us, there exist gaps, especially with the provision of social amenities. The truth is that the government cannot do it all, no matter how hard it tries. It is for this reason that we must all be determined to support and give back. “Why the choice of a paediatric standalone unit? There is a saying that healthy children make a healthy nation. We have to nurture our young and that is why this project was conceptualised.” She urged the hospital management to put the facility to judicious use. The state governor, Dapo Abiodun, in his address hailed the NDIC and its Chairman for their ingenuity and for keying into his administration qualitative health care services. Abiodun, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Shuib Salis, urged the people and organisations to adopt a primary healthcare centre, primary school and join his administration in building the future of the people together. He said, “We need every hand on board to build the state and therefore this development today is a welcomed one. “The paediatric unit will not only serve the Ayetoro community, but also other communities around here.” The head of the hospital, Olawale Maku, however, lamented the deplorable condition of the hospital and appealed to the state government to provide the hospital with a visiting paediatrician for the newly built paediatric unit to be put to good use. He said, “The issue of maternal and child health is a big challenge in Nigeria and Africa at large. This centre is a comprehensive one and it will serve as an intervention for a lot of childhood diseases. “This project can solve the problem of premature births, neonatal jaundice and other childhood diseases. “This project will also help other neighbouring communities. Therefore, we appeal to the state government to give us a visiting paediatrician in order for this project to be put into good use.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com