The Progressive Lawyers for Osinbajo says all political steps and strategies taken by All Progressives Congress leader and former governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu, towards the 2023 election will be in favour of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN). The group also said Osinbajo will declare his intention to run for President in 2023 at the appropriate time. The Coordinator of the group, Kayode Ajulo, made this known in a statement on Wednesday titled, ‘Osinbajo Presidency is constitutional and non-negotiable – Ajulo’, According to the lawyer, the VP does not need an ultimatum to declare interest to run as President in the 2023 election, adding that the candidacy of the VP is non-negotiable. Ajulo was reacting to a 30-day ultimatum given to the Vice President by a pro-APC group, the National Coalition Group, asking Osinbajo to officially declare interest to run for President next year. Ajulo, in the statement, said, “It is an unpopular speculation that Prof. Osinbajo may not contest as president in 2023. We have even moved beyond the pedestrian stage of thinking if PYO will run or not. It is a prescribed arrangement and we are already preparing for Prof. Osinbajo’s presidency because he represents everything Nigeria deserves at this crucial time. “Though we all have been expecting, Prof. Osinbajo has not declared because of the magnitude of responsibilities on his desk as the incumbent vice-President, which is huge and very important to national development and cannot be merged with a presidential campaign that demands very much time dedication too. And we shouldn’t expect a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and full Professor of law to jump the gun, there’s electoral law and guidelines and he mustn’t be found wanting. “For me, this is another evidence of the VP’s unwearying characteristics of a dutiful man who is committed to the law and development of the country, and would not rank it above focusing on seeking a political office, an office of the president for that matter.” Ajulo said. The lawyer added, “No genuine supporter of PYO will abuse Asiwaju because of his presidential ambition. He is no novice in this political game. I can boldly say that Asiwaju is strategically working for Vice President Osinbajo, judging by his moves. “Without any iota of doubt, all the meetings and consultations Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is presently doing will eventually be in favour of Prof. Osinbajo. Asiwaju is so calculative and whoever has been following his political moves lately will understand the gimmick that Asiwaju is out to ensure the 2023 presidency is truly for the southwest. “Osinbajo is Asiwaju’s political creation and no creator will allow such a beautiful and convincing work of his hands fail. Now, and as at last count, there are over 126 professional, cultural, political groups across the country working for Prof. Osinbajo.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com