Anaesthesia and Critical Care Consultants and Reddington Hospital have performed a complex surgery to restore the hearing of a four-year-old who was born deaf. The Commercial Director, A3C Consultants, Mr Akintunde Sawyerr, in a statement on Thursday, hinted that A3C was considering setting up a fund to drive more of such cases through its soon-to-be inaugurated foundation. A3C, founded by Dr. Seyi Oyesola in 2015 has a primary objective of making complex surgery and Care usually done in more developed countries available in Nigeria. According to the statement A3C contacted Mr. Anthony Owa, a United Kingdom and U.S trained Ear, Nose and Throat surgeon of Nigerian origin, who had previously done cochlear implants and other complex ENT surgical procedures in conjunction with A3C. Owa performed the surgery at The Reddington Hospital with the technical support of the world renowned cochlear implant company with audiological back up supplied by Dr. Barnabas Vangerwua, Francis Dagu and Med El, while the post operative auditory rehabilitation is being coordinated by Yvonne Kehinde. The four-year-old child who was born without hearing, was initially referred to A3C, who in turn organised for the referral to Dr Owa. Dr. Barnabas Vangerwua, Audiologist/CEO Nigerbell Hearing & Speech Centres LTD, distributor of MED-EL GmbH in Nigeria undertook the audiological assessment to determine the candidacy of the patient for Cochlear implant surgery. Nigerbell ensured timely supply of the implants and undertakes rehabilitation for the patients to enhance communication with the spoken word. The procedure took place at Reddington Hospital, Victoria Island, according to the statement. The Head of Clinical Services at A3C, Dr. Ken Adegoke, said the procedure had to be done before the child was five years old, leaving only a few months from confirmation of the diagnosis to surgery.. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com