Dele Momodu, on Sunday, declared his presidential ambition in his hometown, Ihevbe, Owan East Local Government Area of Edo State, noting that he remains the most qualified among those aspiring to take over from the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Momodu, who was received by a large crowd, said that he might not have been a governor, senator, minister but he has sat with the high and mighty, adding that he’s qualified to become the President of the country. He said, “For long, I have been interacting with presidents, ministers, governors because I know that one day, I will be president.” He, therefore, challenged whoever has a better credential than him to come out and present it. “All I want to be is president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Today is a day to say it finally before my people. Anybody who thinks he is more qualified than me should come out and say so,” he added. The renowned journalist and publisher of Ovation Magazine, who went down memory lane, recalled that his homecoming is 49 years after he lost his dad. He promised that his coming into politics is majorly to serve the people and change the narratives of the average Nigerian as far as deliverables are concerned. Also, the former Senator, representing Edo North senatorial district, Senator Yisa Braimah, said that the presidential hopeful is the locality’s best choice for Aso Rock in 2023. Braimah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, said, “This is a glorious entry. The whole of Ihievbe community has turned out en-masse to receive their illustrious son. A man who has achieved so much in the media.” The traditional head of Ugba Village in Ihievbe community, Pa. Rufus Aigbevbole, described Dele Momodu as a son in whom they are well pleased. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com