A 10-minute wind accompanied by light rainfall has damaged many structures at Ijere-Eleleede community, Pakuro, in the Obafemi Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State. PUNCH Metro gathered that the damaged structures included houses, mosques, churches, shops and container shops. Our correspondent learnt that the incident threw property owners in the community into unexpected expenses. The windstorm, which reportedly started around 4pm on Friday, also fell some electric poles, plunging the community into darkness. Residents, traders and passersby were said to be going about their normal businesses when the windstorm created panic. A landlord in the community, Kalu Idika, said the force of the wind pulled off roofs of buildings, displaced container shops, damaged fences and residential buildings. The Abia State indigene said, “At first, it was drizzling and the wind came and destroyed much property. The period when the rain started and ended was not up to 10 minutes. The entire fence of my house was pulled down. My roofing sheet and the planks were destroyed; my neighbour’s roof was removed entirely and deposited on another person’s roof. “It was a calamity and at the end of the destruction, it was still drizzling. I came outside and saw that the street was full of people asking if anybody died. “Carpenters have been busy working from one roof to another. Some buildings were pulled down completely. We have not contacted the government because we don’t believe they can do anything. I have not commenced repairs on my property because the cost is about N1m and I don’t have the money now.” Another landlord, who gave his name as David, said the windstorm fell about 20 electric poles, adding that residents immediately contacted the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company to suspend power supply in the community. He said, “The windstorm was just for some minutes but a lot of property, including churches, mosques, residential buildings and shops got damaged. I personally counted about 200 structures that were affected by the windstorm. “Over 20 electricity poles fell and what residents did was to quickly contact the IBEDC to cut power supply in the area because all the wires were on the ground. “The building of the church where I worship was also affected. People have been trying to make repairs, but the damage is much. People who built houses in the community and work in Lagos, came for the weekend and were shocked to see what happened.” The Chairman, Obafemi Owode LGA, Adesina Ogunsola, confirmed the incident. He said, “The areas affected are many and I have commenced visitation to the affected locations. I will be revisiting the locations on Monday and Tuesday and I will be coming with my executive members to take note of the damage. “The mosque in our local government was also pulled down and part of our admin building was equally affected. It affected a lot of locations in Obafemi LGA and after my visit, we will know the next line of action.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com