The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Wema Bank Plc, Mr Ademola Adebise, has advised accountants to store data safely and protect them against cybersecurity threats and other criminal breaches. Adebise said this in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State, during the 16th Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria Western Accountants Conference, themed ‘Digital economy: Whither the professional accountant,’ according to a statement. While noting the importance of data storage and security, he said accountants in the digital age must be flexible and knowledgeable to save data on storage devices on premises or in the cloud. According to him, the 21st-century accountant needs to be conversant with the Disaster Recovery Plan to mitigate the loss of data. He said, “A large amount of data is sitting on storage. As accountants, we need to safeguard our storage and be versed in data recovery and business continuity planning should there be a loss or corruption of data. “The accountant must know contemporary issues on cybersecurity – ensuring that digital information is safe and secure, at all times. Going digital exposes you to risk from hackers. So, as an accountant, you need to have an in-depth knowledge of cybersecurity and must know the various data and information security standards to audit the environment.” Adebise said apart from being security conscious and storing data securely, modern accountants should understand the changes taking place in the profession, including the evolution from traditional data collection methods. He said, “These include using Enterprise Resource Planning systems that are interconnected to process data from production, distribution, marketing, and sales. “The accountant, therefore, needs to be skilled to understand the complexities, transaction flows of the new ways of doing things and understand what data is saying.” The statement said, “In Nigeria, the most popular forms of cybercrimes that accountants and other professionals in the financial services sector are susceptible to include fraudulent electronic mails, identity theft, hacking, cyber harassment, spamming and Automated Teller Machine spoofing. “The biggest, however, is still fraud emails. The Nigeria Electronic Fraud Forum revealed that bank customers lost N3.6bn to cyber-fraud in two years (2017 and 2018). Data released by the Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System also showed attempted fraud in 2018 alone was about N9bn.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com