The explosion that rocked a floating production, storage and offloading vessel in Escravos River in Delta State in the early hours of Wednesday is the talk of the town. About three persons were feared dead after the vessel – Trinity Spirit FPSO – exploded into huge fire in Ugborodo (Escravos) offshore location, Warri South-West Local Government Area of the state. Twelve persons aboard the vessel were yet to be accounted for while the cause of the explosion was still sketchy as rescue operation continued. Thirteen people have been declared missing by the management of the exploded vessel following the disaster as panic continued to grip fishermen and oil workers in some riverine communities in the Niger Delta region. The management of Shebah Exploration and Production Company Ltd, while confirming the incident initially, stated that no fatality was recorded but unfolding development appears to be proving otherwise. The SEPCOL management in a statement on Wednesday signed by its Chief Executive Officer, Mr Ikemefuna Okafor, stated that 10 crew members were on board the vessel prior to the incident noting, that “the cause of the explosion is currently being investigated and we are working with necessary parties to contain the situation.” The Trinity Spirit is the primary production facility for OML 108 which covers 750 square km (290 square miles) of water off the Niger Delta, ranging from a depth of 30 metres to 213 metres. The company’s statement read in part, “The management of Shebah Exploration & Production Company Ltd (SEPCOL) in Receivership hereby announces the unfortunate incident of a fire that engulfed our offshore facility, the FPSO Trinity Spirit located at the Ukpokiti Terminal, following an explosion during the early hours of Wednesday, February 2, 2022. “The cause of the explosion is currently being investigated and we are working with necessary parties to contain the situation. At this time there are no reported fatalities, but we can confirm that there were 10 crewmen on board the vessel prior to the incident and we are prioritising investigations with respect to their safety and security. “We appreciate the assistance provided us by the Clean Nigeria Associates, the Chevron team operating in the nearby Escravos facility, and our community stakeholders as well as fishermen, who have been of tremendous assistance since the incident happened. We have duly notified all relevant authorities and we appeal to the members of the public to stay away from the area while our Crisis Management Team continues to monitor the situation and update all stakeholders with new information as the investigation evolves.” Industry sources said that the Trinity Spirit can process up to 22,000 barrels of oil a day and store up to two million barrels. It was also gathered that the inflamed vessel had about 50,000 barrels in storage but was not pumping crude from the Ukpokiti oilfield in the OML 108 block when it exploded. Okafor insisted that investigations were underway to establish the cause of the explosion while attempts to contain the situation were being made with help from local communities and Chevron, which has a facility nearby. Reacting to the explosion, one of the workers who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that a loud bang was heard a few minutes to 1am on Wednesday morning from a vessel which produces crude oil, situated around Meren, a North Field oil facility belonging to a multinational oil and gas company. The explosion, he said, caused serious fears among workers manning oil facilities near the area and fishermen around as they watched the raging fire helplessly as of 7:50p.m on Wednesday. He stated that the explosion was a threat to Nigeria’s ecosystem, saying, “we have to look at it from the point of whether it is an active rig or not. It matters. Irrespective of whether it is an active rig or not, the fact that it has exploded is a threat to fishing in Nigeria’s riverine communities. “That it exploded, its content spilled in the waters around communities close to where it exploded, and that means no fishing for the communities. How long are we going to continue with this trend? This is a loss to our riverine communities. That means they cannot fish due to this explosion.” Also, a prominent Niger Delta environmentalist, Mulade Sheriff, faulted the recurring pollution and degradation of the Niger Delta environment through gas flaring and other oil activities in the region, reiterating remediation of the environment. Mulade, the chief executive of Centre for Peace and Environmental Justice; an environmental sustainability advocating organisation, noted that the Niger Delta region had contributed immensely to the economy and wealth of the nation as a result of the enormous oil production activities in the region, He lamented the incessant pollution of the region’s environment by the oil prospecting industry, saying the development had affected the growth of ecosystem in the region. Noting that the exploration and exploitation activities of oil companies had resulted in pollution and reduced life span in the region, Mulade added that it was the prices that the oil rich region had been paying for feeding the nation. He stated, “Recurring oil pollution has destroyed the environment and the traditional occupation of the people, leading to high rates of poverty unemployment, criminality and violence in the Niger Delta Region.’’ The activist, who is also the Ibe-Seremowei of ancient Gbaramatu Kingdom in Warri South West LGA of the state, stressed the urgent need for the oil multinationals and the Federal Government to interface and make aggressive efforts to increase the standard of environmental practices by the oil companies in the region. He warned the IOCs to adhere strictly to environmental sustainability practices, adding that, “the morbid situation in the region has been worsened by the poor environmental practices of the international oil companies and the failure of government agencies to hold them accountable. “It is no more news that the exploration and exploitation activities of oil companies in the region have degraded and devastated the environment at an alarming rate, so much so that life expectancy in the Niger Delta has been reduced due to health hazards from the polluted environment.’’ He added. “Oil pollution has destroyed the environment and the traditional occupation of the people, leading to high rates of poverty unemployment, criminality and violence in the Niger Delta region.’’ Also, President of the Ijaw Peoples Development Initiative, Austin Ozobo, said that the incident was unfortunate. He said, “We sympathise with the company operating the vessel. We heard several persons are missing. It is so sad.’’ Ozobo however observed that the waterways and air had been polluted with the incident causing a serious environmental impact on the area of operation. He said, “The fishermen and women have been affected as fishing expeditions in the sea are threatened. The entire environment has been destroyed. The implication is that the incident may equally cause a serious health challenges in the area.’’ Ozobo insisted that the environmental impacts bordered on health hazards, ecological effects and the social lives of the people which would be adversely affected. According to him, the incident is also a great economic loss to the country. He added, “It is a setback in the dwindling oil economy in the country. The machines are multibillion. It is a great loss. Of great worry, however, is the plight of the affected crew members which, he said, is a matter of serious concern.’’ Ozobo canvassed the rescue of every worker involved in the incident, noting that adequate attention should be given to the affected communities. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com