Some aggrieved aides to members of the National Assembly, under the auspices of the Concerned Legislative Aides of the 9th Assembly, on Monday, petitioned the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, alleging criminal diversion of funds in the National Assembly. The aides, who held protests at the gates of the EFCC and ICPC’s headquarters in Abuja, implored the anti-graft agencies to “investigate the criminal diversion of our legitimate entitlements by the Clerk to the National Assembly in particular and the leadership of the National Assembly in general.” “We are hereby alleging criminal diversion of these yearly appropriated legitimate entitlements by the Senate President and Chairman of the National Assembly, Ahmad Lawan; the Speaker of the House of Representatives, ‘Femi Gbajabiamila; and the Clerk of the National Assembly, Amos Ojo, because of their complicity in the mismanagement of the Legislative Aides Account. “Out of the 12 quarterly DTAs owed legislative aides of the 9th National Assembly since June 2019, none has been paid. Similarly, there have been no training activities for the past two and half years by the management despite the budgetary allocations for these items, which were neither used for the said activities nor were they returned to government coffers as unused funds,” the petitioners alleged. The Special Adviser (Media) to President of the Senate, Ola Awoniyi; and the Special Adviser to the Speaker on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, did not take calls made to their lines and had yet to respond to messages sent to them, seeking their principals’ reactions to the allegation. The Special Adviser to the Clerk to the National Assembly on Media and Labour, Austen Adesoro, had stated that the management was in talks with the leadership of the National Assembly Legislative Aides’ Forum, the umbrella body of legislative aides, while dismissing the protesting aides as acting in ignorance. The petition addressed to the Chairman of the EFCC, Abdulrasheed Bawa, dated, February 14, 2022, a copy of which our correspondent obtained, was titled ‘Petition on Alleged Criminal Diversion of Funds of Legislatives Aides by the Clerk and Presiding Officers of the 9th National Assembly.’ Signed by Zebis Kekung (North) and Kingsley Ejekwu (South), the petition was copied to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.); Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba; Director-General, Department of State Services,  Yusuf Bichi: Chairman, ICPC, Prof Bolaji Owasanoye; and the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Senator Babajide Omoworare. The aides prayed the EFCC to “investigate this criminal diversion of our budgeted legitimate entitlements, bring the culprits to book and ensure the prompt payment of the allowances and arrears to us.” They demanded payment of their salary arrears that were duly appropriated, payment of their DTA and training allowance including laptops, and payment of minimum wage from January 2020 till date. The petition partly read, “In line with your core mandate of tackling economic and financial crimes especially in public institutions, we had previously petitioned your institution on the same subject matter in the previous assembly. “However, the failure of your institution to act swiftly on our prior complaint in the 8th Assembly has further encouraged and emboldened the officials listed above to engage in financial malfeasance and misappropriation of funds meant for legislative aides of the 9th Assembly. “Incidentally, the current CNA was a principal actor in the same corrupt 8th Assembly where he held sway as the Secretary, Procurement, Estate and Works.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com