A group, the Godswill Akpabio Uncommon Transformational Support Organisation has said the former Akwa Ibom State Governor, Senator Godswill Akpabio, should become the next president of the country because of his infrastructural projects during his tenure. The spokesman for GAUTSO, Bennett Akar, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday, adding that Akpabio’s projects were his footprints stamped all over the state after he left office. Akar was quoted to have said this during an interactive session with journalists in Lagos. He said, “There is no doubt that Nigeria at this time is suffering from infrastructure challenges in all spheres roads, power, healthcare, education, and it is right that we begin to have a conversation on the person who can deliver these things as we discuss the 2023 presidential elections. “We applaud the Buhari administration for its infrastructural interventions, but the only person who can take it a notch higher is Senator Akpabio because he had always seen it as the key to unlocking our potential and fast tracking our development and with the present state of the nation, the next president of the country should be someone who understands how to close the infrastructure gap speedily and ignite economic growth. “Akwa Ibom under his watch was a huge construction with roads, bridges and flyovers. Virtually all parts of the state was touched by his drive for infrastructural excellence and his intervention had the immediate benefits of changing the landscape of the state and attracting investors and tourists to the state.” Akar also noted that the former governor used his position to steer the Niger Delta Development Commission in the right direction. “As Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, he has used his position to steer the NDDC in the right direction in the area of infrastructure. The East-West Road which had been under construction since 2006 is now getting due attention by the commission and to show how serious he is about prioritising infrastructure. In 2020, 345 projects were stepped down to accommodate the N10 billion in the budget for the completion of this important road,” he added.