The Yoruba World Centre said it would organise an annual Yoruba language millionaire contest in secondary schools in the South-West, Kogi and Kwara States. The Coordinator of YWC, Mr Alao Adedayo, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday in Lagos, adding that the centre would collaborate with the Odu’a Investment Company and DAWN Commission. He said the decision was announced by the centre’s management at a meeting with the leadership of Egbe Akomolede, the association of Yoruba Language teachers in secondary schools. “Starting from April 2022, the Yoruba World Centre shall begin an annual Yoruba language millionaire contest among secondary schools in South-West, Kogi and Kwara States. The contest tagged, ‘Time to reclaim our youths,’ is to create opportunity for those students to learn and win cash, materials and other incentives,”  Adedayo said. He said during the meeting with Egbe Akomolede, one of the posers was how to reclaim youths lost to the western culture and beliefs. He added, “This annual contest could be the practical step needed to get back our youths, and we believe it should be our next move: building our future along with physical structures. “Now, about five million children are in secondary schools across South-West, Kwara and Kogi States, with yearly enrolment of over one million. More than 90 per cent of these students are Yoruba by birth and the Yoruba race shall become one of the luckiest people of the world if it can reclaim these vibrant adolescents lost to foreign way of life.” Adedayo also noted that the contest will help in the preservation of Yoruba culture and will be a tool of youth employment. “It is our duty now to entice the children to become interested in the learning of the history, language and culture of Yoruba, through reading, writing and speaking, encapsulated in a competition among the students at secondary schools in all Yoruba will have at least 10 million of its youths who will be able to read, write and speak the language excellently. The effect of this will be rebounding. “It also means the language and culture will be preserved and protected and it will be a tool of employment, empowerment, industry and youth development; and most importantly, national understanding and unity,” he added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com