Valentine’s Day is finally here. Cheers to one of the most anticipated seasons of the year, Valentine’s Day! It’s another day we set aside to celebrate that particular person memorably.  But then Valentine’s Day is a different stroke for different folks. Many look forward to the day to celebrate and be celebrated. Others love the attention to love but cannot wait for the noise and the hype to dissipate, whilst some yearn to read about the drama, surprises, and gush at the “aww moments”. Whatever your inclination, the day, like any other day, lasts for just twenty-four hours.  As they say, time is fleeting. Irrespective of the anticipatory noises on social media, real-life events, date nights, giftings, and merrymaking, Valentine’s Day celebrations will only last twenty-four hours.  Expectedly, the internet has been raving with lovelorn content, countdown memes, gift vendors with different catchy packages, with everyone expecting something ‘Hooge’ this season. Not to be a killjoy, but to ask the obvious question, what happens after the twenty-four hours of frenzy?  Now, let us retrospect on how this year’s Valentine Day went. What gift packages did you get? Were there red roses that hopefully has not wither? Did you get chocolate bars that have already been ravished, or did you save them for another day? Oh, and the dress and jewelry pieces, have they been worn?. It seems like it is not only the day itself but also the things that came with it that are short-lived.  Valentine’s day is set aside to celebrate love, and love, by its definition, is long-lasting and enduring. This begs the question, why do people choose short-term pleasures to commemorate such a symbolic day set aside for love?  Well, the answer to that might not be farfetched as everyone seems to believe that Valentine’s Day is synonymous with a gift of roses, chocolates, cards, and cakes, among others. Well, this is a culture that needs to be unlearned.  According to a survey by the Retail Federation, people spend an average of $30 billion (N12.4 trillion) on celebrating this symbolic day. Now let’s put that in context; it is indisputable that Valentine’s Day is incredibly expensive to celebrate. However, compared to the aftermath of these celebrations and money spent, it seems not to add up. This means that we might need to rethink our spending as we celebrate Valentine’s Day.  While we believe that planning expensive dinners, buying $200 (over N115,000) worth of roses, or lavish cards and chocolate bars can be romantic, we also know for sure that being more deeply witty with our gifts is top tier, and giving out more thoughtful gifts does not remove the romantic gesture of Valentine’s Day.  Have you ever thought about giving a gift that can stand the test of time and life undulations like an insurance policy? Yes! We dare you to think of Valentine’s Day gifts and think insurance. Don’t do the usual, think outside the box, and surprise your loved ones with a well-put-together insurance plan.  Think about it, imagine gifting your partner, family, or friends with a life assurance plan, a motor insurance cover, or a health insurance plan that simply says, “I care enough to provide solid financial protection for any risk that threatens your happiness and the things you hold dear?”  We bet they would think that you are genuinely thoughtful and have your best interests at heart. What would be more remarkable than experiencing circumstances that would have cost you unexpected financial exposure, but then the gifted insurance policy comes through for you?  Well, that’s exactly how your loved ones should feel about you gifting them an insurance plan for a symbolic day as Valentine. It would last way beyond the euphoria of the moment, and it would ensure that your Valentine’s Day lasts more than the traditional twenty-four hours.  Tell you what, flowers or gift cards can create warm, heartfelt feelings, and chocolate bars or cakes can light up your beloved’s face with a smile, but insurance plans, like good friends, will constantly be by the side of your loved ones every step of the way. And should you be unable to show up when the going gets tough, insurance like a love-superhero will be there, holding your hands and lifting you above despair.  So, go the extra mile and ensure that your gifts are not just memorable but also enduring, stand the test of time and not outlive their benefits or usefulness, and we can assure you that this way, you get to concretize your place in the heart of your beloved. *winks*  No matter how you choose to give your gifts this Valentine, ensure, you turn to insurance by gifting yourself and your loved ones with a policy today. Leadway Assurance Company Limited, Nigeria’s leading insurer, is rightly positioned to be there against all uncertainties and risks that may threaten to financially harm you and your loved ones as the year rolls. We promise that not only your Valentine’s Day but every other celebration after will leave an enduring impact or legacy longer than the twenty-four hours post-Valentine’s Day merrymaking.  For more information on the array of products you can buy, please visit www.leadway.com or scan the QR Code at the top right or call the Leadway Assurance Financial Management Experts on 01-2800-70 or email Lcs@leadway.com for professional advice. You call also request a call back by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me.  We are also within your reach on WhatsApp via our virtual assistant support on 08129997044 or any of our social media outlets – @leadwayassurance on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. You can also send a DM, and we will revert with all the information you require.