The First Lady of Edo State, Betsy Obaseki, has assured that Godwin Obaseki’s administration is prioritising women’s economic empowerment, in order for them to be more productive. Mrs. Obaseki, the special guest of honour, made the disclosure on Tuesday in Benin, while declaring open the policy dialogue to reflect on women economic empowerment intervention and programming in Edo state. The policy dialogue was organised by Edo State Partnership for Advancing Women in Economic Development Advocacy Coalition, which was supported by the Development Research and Projects Centre (DRPC). Obaseki’s wife also stated that the Edo government was ready and committed to adequately empower the state’s women, thereby moving the state and country forward. Edo First Lady, who was represented by the Managing Director, EdoJOBS, Ukinebo Dare, noted that Obaseki’s government had continually prioritised women’s empowerment through the administration’s various interventions targeted at improving women’s economic livelihoods and development. The Coordinator of Edo state PAWED advocacy coalition, Vivian Evbotokhai, in her welcome address, declared that Obaseki’s administration was taking the lead in investment in women’s economic empowerment. She noted that the project was targeted at pushing for the Edo government to fulfil its commitments for women’s economic empowerment. She said, “It is recognised that investing in WEE, through training and financial support, boosts productivity, increases economic diversification and income equality, in addition to other positive development outcomes. “When a woman is given the same access to productive resources as men, on average, they could increase yields on their farms by 20-30 per cent. Investment in women economic empowerment helps to reduce gender issues relating to land acquisition by allowing women secure rights to land, reduce difficulties in securing labour and credit, and prevent inequitable access to herbicides, fertilisers, and extension service. “Ensuring economic opportunities for women is an important entry point for ensuring better education, health and nutrition outcomes for families. “In 2022, the Edo State government three specific projects for the women economic empowerment projects include Edo women for agric project – N10 million; provision of equipment for women/economic empowerment – N20 million; and the construction and installation of cages (women and youth empowerment programme), with N40 million allocated to WEE in 2022, compared with N7 million in 2021, thereby constituting 471.42 per cent increase.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com