The Peoples Democratic Party has named the former governor of Osun State, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, Shuaibu Oyedokun, and eight others to a 10-person committee to reconcile the six governorship aspirants ahead of the July 16 election. The Party’s National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, disclosed this to Correspondents on Wednesday as part of the National Working Committee meeting resolution held with Osun State PDP stakeholders at the Party’s National Secretariat in Abuja on Tuesday. According to him, the meeting, chaired by the PDP National Chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, has given the special committee one week to liaise with the six aspirants and resolve their grievances amicably. The six aspirants are former lawmaker Ademola Adeleke; former Secretary to Osun State Government, Abdulateef Akinbade; Akin Ogunbiyi; Omirin Olusanya, Dele Adeleke and Dotun Babayemi. The NWC also directed the committee and the aspirants to return to Osun to commence their meetings. Ologunbagba said, “The NWC, members of the National Assembly and other stakeholders agreed that in line with the position of the Party to carry every organ of the Party along, the meeting decided that we should seek an Osun State solution. “We cannot begin to resolve issues at the National without involving stakeholders and local leaders who are more abreast with issues concerning Osun State PDP. The decision of the meeting is that they will go and meet on all issues. A committee of 10 under the joint leadership of Shuaibu Oyedokun and former Osun State Governor, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, to convene the meeting and bring all members of the Party in the state, including the six aspirants together. “This is to enable them to discuss all issues, and they have one week to report back to the party leadership. The meeting went very well, issues were discussed frankly, and it was concluded on a good note.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com