Members of the Nigeria Union of Teachers, on Tuesday, in Abuja, engaged in prayer sessions following the delay of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to assent to the bill on the new retirement age for teachers. The union also prayed for the federal and state governments to implement the N30,000 minimum wage and other welfare packages approved for teachers. The Federal Government had announced a new welfare package for teachers during the year 2020 World Teachers’ Day. Included in the welfare package were new retirement age and a new salary scale, among others. During the 2021 World Teachers’ Day, the President reiterated his commitment to fulfilling the new welfare package for teachers and promised to extend the package to student-teachers in universities and Federal Colleges of Education. The Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba, in December 2021 stated that teachers would begin to enjoy the new salary scale by January 2022. The prayer session organised by the union was led by Dr Khalid Aliyu and Pastor Adebayo Osijo. The teachers prayed “for the presidential assent to be granted to the bill on the retirement age of teachers at 65; for the federal and state governments to implement the N30,000 minimum wage and the consequential adjustments for both junior and senior workers at all levels in the states awaiting its implementation. “Pray for the implementation of all the welfare packages approved for Nigerian teachers by President Muhammadu Buhari; pray for greater attention to the welfare of our teachers e.g. payment of salaries and promotion for primary and secondary school teachers; and pray that the Federal Government does not increase the pump price of Premium Motor Spirit in the country.” The union also prayed for the reduction in the cost of domestic gas, peace and return of all abducted teachers and students in captivity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com