TORTUOUS from the onset, the long-running scandals involving a disgraced senior police officer, Abba Kyari, just got messier. From being indicted in 2021 for aiding the fraudster, Ramon Abbas, aka Hushpuppi, he has allegedly been caught red-handed and neck-deep in international drug trafficking by agents of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency and is finally in their custody. The sordid affair is still unfolding before a shocked global audience. Without question, Nigeria’s global reputation on corruption, misgovernance and fragile institutions has suffered further battering. Worse may be on the way. From the President, Major-General Buhari (retd.), who (as usual) failed to act swiftly and decisively when Kyari was first fingered in a fraud deal by the United States’ Federal Bureau of Investigation, down to the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, who has been ambiguous in punishing the tarnished police officer, and the official delay to facilitate his extradition as demanded by the US government, the country has been ill-served. The lack of synergy among critical agencies prevalent in the regime is also playing out. Some NDLEA operatives too will not escape exposure. From this scandal, Buhari should take sweeping, decisive action, including sacking complicit senior officials, overhauling the police and the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation, as well as taking charge of, and coordinating the anti-corruption and anti-drug trafficking wars. Nothing less will suffice to salvage the havoc done to the country’s image. The drama came into public glare on Monday when the NDLEA spokesman, Femi Babafemi, addressed a news conference in Abuja, where he dropped the bombshell that Kyari, a deputy commissioner of police, had been ensnared in a sting operation while aiding and abetting drug trafficking. Kyari had allegedly sought to bribe NDLEA operatives, tamper with exhibits, and facilitate collusion with drug traffickers, he said. Babafemi declared, “With the intelligence at our disposal, the agency believes strongly that DCP Kyari is a member of a drug cartel that operates the Brazil-Ethiopia-Nigeria illicit drug pipeline…” This is damning. He presented video evidence that appeared to show Kyari making illegal deals with an NDLEA agent and handing over $61,400 as bribe to pervert justice. Consequently, the NDLEA declared Kyari, who headed the IGP’s Intelligence Response Team before his suspension, wanted. Shortly afterwards, the Nigeria Police HQ issued a statement, saying Baba had ordered an investigation into the matter. Crucially, it said the Force had arrested Kyari and four other officers and handed them over to the NDLEA. Regardless of how the case ends, the entire Kyari saga exposes how deep corruption, impunity, incompetence, and criminality have corroded institutions and governance in Nigeria. True, under the law, Kyari and other suspects are presumed innocent until otherwise pronounced by the courts, but his case smears mud on the regime, the police, and the system. Many questions beg for answers, including the conduct of key officials. Start with the IG: when in July last year, a US court indicted Kyari in the $1.1 million scam perpetrated by Abbas and ordered his arrest, based on which the US eventually requested Kyari’s extradition to face trial, Baba suspended the erstwhile “super cop.” As a Lagos-based civil rights lawyer, Femi Falana, observed; “That a serving police officer who is suspended, would also (be able to) mobilise police personnel to go and perpetrate drug trafficking shows that the system has collapsed.” Baba must explain how Kyari was able to conduct operations and mobilise police officers he called “my boys” while ostensibly on suspension, especially as another officer had been appointed to run the unit. Besides, Baba needs to explain why it took him four days after the NDLEA formally requested it and the viral public exposure by the NDLEA to arrest and hand Kyari and his accomplices over to the drug law agency. Buhari should order an inquiry that will among others, uncover the veracity or otherwise of attempts to shield, cover up and exonerate Kyari, who recently turned up as a guest at the wedding of Baba’s son in Maiduguri, Borno State, from the Hushpuppi extradition affair. Nigerians will recall that Baba has been having a running battle over Kyari with the Police Service Commission. While the IG’s initial report on the Abbas case was deemed to be mild on the disgraced officer, the PSC has insisted that the officer has a strong case to answer and should be so treated. Its insistence on a new investigating panel after it rejected the tepid result of the one set up by the IG has not been acted upon. Elsewhere, there is zero tolerance for corrupt law enforcement officers. In February 2020, a South Texas, US, police officer, Hector Beltran, was sentenced to 10 years in jail for drug trafficking. Similarly, in May 2021, a corrupt Scotland Yard, United Kingdom, officer, Kashif Mahmood, was jailed eight years for involvement with a drugs gang from whom he also stole £850,000. China executes such offenders. An independent inquiry enquiry should thoroughly examine the role of the Office of the AGF. Though Malami has always declared that the Federal Government is cooperating with the US government over the extradition request, some civil rights groups have alleged delaying tactics in bringing Kyari to trial by his office. That is not all. The police also alleged collusion with traffickers by NDLEA operatives, citing investigations and confessions by detained suspects. This is certainly plausible. The NDLEA Chairman/Chief Executive, Mohammed Marwa, should first order a thorough internal investigation to smoke out complicit officers. Buhari’s investigation should also encompass the agency. The police allegations should not be swept under the carpet. Buhari should wake up to the reality of his regime in near-chaos. Agencies and officials go rogue, often working at cross-purposes. Lacking effective coordination, and with the President perpetually aloof and inattentive, anti-corruption and security agencies often operate as they like. In this case, corruption is also on display; so is impunity. He must rein in both. He should set up a strong inquiry, shake up the police and order extensive reforms. All those who colluded with or shielded Kyari should be uncovered, flushed out of the service, and prosecuted. The process must be transparent enough to dismiss conspiracy theories of a ploy to prevent Kyari’s extradition. All processes, including investigation, trial and extradition, should be expedited and long-lasting reforms undertaken. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.
Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com