THE Ebonyi State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has said forgery, lies and falsehood can no longer thrive in the state House of Assembly, irrespective of the powerful forces in the ruling All Progressives Congress. It said though the 15 All Progressive Congress lawmakers in the assembly had purportedly declared the seat of the Deputy Speaker, Odefa Odefa, vacant, he remained the second-in-command of the House. According to the PDP, the purported documents indicating the resignation of the deputy speaker from the House was the handiwork of the Speaker, Francis Nwifuru and his colleagues, who were allegedly working to truncate democracy in the state. The PDP Chairman in the state, Tochukwu Okorie, stated these at a press conference in Abakaliki, on Tuesday. He said, “I am happy to announce that the attempted coup d’etat that happened in the desecrated chambers of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly which sought to forcefully remove from office the Deputy Speaker of Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Odefa Obasi Odefa has failed. “Let me state categorically therefore that Rt. Hon. Odefa Obasi Odefa remains the undisputed substantive Deputy Speaker of Ebonyi State House of Assembly as of today February 22, 2022. “It is trite saying that you cannot put something on nothing. Therefore, falsehood, forgery, lies and impunity cannot and will never be allowed to take over Ebonyi State parliament irrespective of the powers behind such an evil move. “The disgraceful document flying around purporting to be a resignation letter by the Honourable Deputy Speaker is nothing but an act of forgery perpetrated by no less a person than the Speaker of the EBHA, Hon. Francis Ogbonnaya Nwifuru leading a handful of other members.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com