The Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland, Senator Lekan Balogun, has said he is waiting for the Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, to announce the new Olubadan on Monday (today). Balogun, who has been nominated by the kingmakers as the next Olubadan, said this in a brief telephone interview with our correspondent on Sunday. “The governor said he would announce the new Olubadan on Monday. We are here waiting for the announcement like you are waiting also,” he said. The throne became vacant following the death of Oba Saliu Adetunji on January 2. Makinde had said on Saturday at the final burial rite for the late monarch that he would name the new monarch on Monday and indigenes as well as residents of Ibadan are also waiting for the announcement to be made. Balogun is the most senior of the High Chief and all the kingmakers, including the Osi Olubadan, Senator Rashidi Ladoja, had nominated him as the new Olubadan after a meeting held last week. The nomination followed the agreement reached by the High Chiefs to withdraw the suit instituted to challenge the consent judgment against the elevation of the High Chiefs to beaded kings. The administration of late Senator Abiola Ajimobi, had elevated the High Chiefs to Obas while Ladoja challenged the decision of the then governor in court. The elevation of the High Chiefs triggered a controversy on the propriety or otherwise of Balogun to be named the new Olubadan. A former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Oyo State, Michael Lana, had written a petition to the governor asking him to withold approval on the announcement of the new Olubadan. He said Balogun had been crowned once and it would be an aberration to crown him as the new Olubadan. But Chief Yomi Aliyyu (SAN) and some other lawyers argued that the elevation could not stop Balogun from ascending the throne because his elevation did not alter the Olubadan Chieftaincy Declaration of 1957 in anyway. Makinde later asked the High Chiefs to revert to their original positions and they agreed. They also withdrew the suit they filed against the consent judgment against them from court and Justice Munta Abimbola, who is the Chief Judge of Oyo State, dismissed the suit.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com