The Kwara State Government has sent a delegation to Ijagbo in the Oyun Local Government Area of the state,  which is the epicentre of the recent Hijab crisis that recorded at least one death while several others were injured. The delegation, led by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof Mamman Jibril according to a statement by Rafiu Ajakaye, Chief Press Secretary to the governor “is to persuade both parties in the Hijab question to embrace peace and respect government’s lawful directive.’’ It also commiserated with the people on the aftermath of the controversy at the Oyun Baptist High School Ijagbo in which one person died and left others with varying degrees of injury. Other members of the delegation included the Commissioner for Local Government Chieftaincy Affairs and Community Development, Aliyu Saifuddeen, Commissioner for Environment, Buraimoh Olaitan; Special Assistant to the Governor on Religion (Islam) Alhaji Danmaigoro; and a former Christian Association of Nigeria chairman in Kwara State, Prof Timothy Opoola. Jibril, who delivered the governor’s message, charged the people to live peacefully and harmoniously with one another to prevent the recurrence of the ugly situation. He advised against reprisals which would only lead to a cycle of violence and damage to the economy of the area. Jibril added that the crisis could have been averted if those involved had obeyed the rules and regulations in Kwara State public schools on the use of hijab for willing Muslim students. The SSG prayed for the repose of the deceased and quick recovery for the injured. The places visited included the palace of Onijagbo of Ijagbo; the Muslims and Christian communities; families of the deceased; as well as the injured at the hospital. The government also extended cash support to those affected. Meanwhile, the Kwara Baptist Conference has said that the issue of wearing hijab in Christian mission schools in the state had not been resolved between the government and the various missions that owned the schools. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com