A woman identified as Ramota Soliu has reportedly killed her husband, Bello Soliu, at a Fulani settlement located at Iyana Ilewo, Abeokuta-North Local Government Area of Ogun State. Ramota, a mother of two kids, was reported to have poured hot water on her husband which eventually led to his death. Our correspondent gathered that the suspect was said to have fled her house at the Fulani settlement after the incident. It was further gathered that Bello had on Friday invited some relatives to talk to his wife, who he had complained was fond of starving him and an Arabic student living with them. The fleeing woman allegedly woke up on Saturday morning, boiled enough water, and bathed her husband with the scalding liquid. Usman Saliu, a brother to the deceased, said, “My brother has always been complaining about Ramota. She had a habit of starving him and the Arabic student living with them. Sometimes, she would not cook for my brother. “For peace to reign, my brother invited us to talk to his wife. People waded in on Friday, talked to her, but she didn’t say anything in response. “Very early on Saturday morning, she woke up and started boiling water. People thought she wanted to make Amala or pap. The water was on fire for like one hour. All of a sudden, we heard a loud noise from her husband’s quarters where he was sleeping. “We rushed down to see what was happening, and we discovered that that woman had bathed our brother with the water she boiled. His body was already peeling. “We rushed him to a hospital at Rounder in Abeokuta, but he was rejected. We took him somewhere else. But he eventually died on Tuesday evening. Another brother of the deceased, Aliu Soliu, disclosed that Bello had been buried on Wednesday according to Islamic rites. Aliu stated that the family is searching for the woman, saying “we will get her photo so that people can help us locate her.” When contacted, the Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed knowledge of the incident. Oyeyemi said he heard of the incident on a radio programme, claiming that he was not sure the case had been reported to the police. He said “I heard the information on a radio programme. I am not sure if the case was reported to the police,” Oyeyemi replied. He, however, said the police would investigate the matter without delay. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com