Linkage Assurance Plc has said it recorded 34 per cent growth in gross premium written in the 2021 financial year despite the challenging business environment. A statement from the underwriting firm said it grew its GPW from N8.33bn in 2020 to N11.16bn last year, as contained in its unaudited financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2021 made available to the Nigerian Exchange Group. Its gross premium income increased by 33 per cent to N10.57bn from N7.95bn in 2020. Linkage Assurance said during the review period, it sustained efforts at growing its balance sheet, as total assets grew to N34.85bn from N33.88bn in 2020. It said the year under review was challenging in terms of technical underwriting, pushing net claims ratio up to 71 per cent from 31 per cent in 2020, largely due to major claims paid during the period such as claims arising from EndSARs protests and catastrophic losses in oil and gas and manufacturing sectors. The management of Linkage said it would continue to refine its strategy in line with the political, economic, sociological and technological changes in the industry, particularly the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the business landscape. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Linkage Assurance, Daniel Braie, said, “We will also continue to develop innovative products, alternative channels of distributions and strategic initiatives that will enable us to achieve our corporate goals and objectives. “With a medium-to-long term perspective, we believe that we will benefit from growth in these initiatives.” He said Linkage had continued to expand its retail market with tailor-made products that meet the needs of its customers. He added, “We have continued to make efforts to enhance our online portal to make our products and services available to our customers especially the digital savvy customers and enterprises. “In line with the vision statement, we have embarked on extensive digital transformation, this is expected to be one of the major drivers of operational efficiency as it will improve our business process, eliminate wastages, and positively impact our performances.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com