In this interview with Edidiong Ikpoto, the Managing Director of a real estate company, Ocean City, Ms. Dewumi Osagie, speaks on the landscape, prospects and challenges of the real estate industry in Nigeria, as well as the tourism potential of the recently unveiled coastal city project-Ocean City Lagos How would you describe the current state of your industry? The real estate industry is characterised by many fragmented small players and few institutional players. The industry, like any industry, has seen its fair share of growth and decline across the different asset types ((residential, commercial, and industrial) but it has been sustained through resilience and the rapid urbanisation and development of the country. The industry encountered a slowdown in the last few years due to the economic recession, devaluation of the naira and reduced purchasing power of most Nigerians. Long-term investments in the real estate sector declined a bit, however we are seeing resurgence in activities and strong demand in the industry over the last couple of months. Investment in real estate remains attractive, regardless of the pandemic and macroeconomic fluctuations and we expect the market to continue to generate significant returns and major contributions to the GDP in 2022. The real estate market has continued to adjust to the pandemic in its own way and to thrive against all odds, it is majorly characterised by sustainable investments; long-term and valuable investments. Would you say the real estate industry provides an ample window of opportunity to a potential investor right now? Certainly! Depending on the size and nature of the investment, the prospects for the real estate industry remain enormous and there’ll continue to be lots of opportunities available to investors. Across the various asset classes, we expect to see continued interests in the industry as it is one that has seen rapid growth over the years. This is an industry that will play a key role in the nation’s economic recovery, so there is plenty of room for investors to key in. Access to foreign exchange has been identified as a challenge to the real estate sector as well as organised businesses? Do you agree with this assessment? Foreign exchange will always be a problem as the naira is not easily convertible. This is a known issue with exchange control on the naira that makes it difficult for companies to repatriate their funds. It has been discussed at length in many different forms across many industries in Nigeria and abroad and there have been efforts by both the private and public sectors to address it. Nigeria has battled with double digits inflation over the past few years, how has the sectoral inflation (which ultimately contributes to headline inflation) affected the industry in terms of the ability to carry out development projects with the soaring prices of building materials? The increase in the price of obtaining these building materials has definitely led to the restructure and reanalysis of some projects. In order to move ahead of this, there needs to be proper forecasting, planning and analysis to work with these new prices and prepare ahead if there be a need. In terms of regulation, would you say your industry is over regulated or under regulated? The regulations guarding the industry have been carefully deliberated upon before being established. As the industry experiences more growth, more regulations would be put in place. To ensure stability, there needs to be a proper enforcement of these regulations. In what ways do you think regulators can help the industry perform better? Through strong collaboration in the establishment and enforcement of rules and regulations; it is when there is joint partnership between the regulators and industry to work together to make practical rules that are not just good on paper but are actually effective. There has to be constant collaboration and dialogue between regulators and industry to have a good partnership. Regulators should be seen as facilitators and not seen as a hindrance. Of course, guard rails are necessary to ensure that all the interests are aligned. Incidents of building collapse continue to pervade the industry despite stringent rules on the part of the government. Why do you think this issue is yet to be definitively dealt with? How do you think it can be addressed effectively? There have been investigations on the part of the government and I believe there are several measures coming up in order to curb this. However, both the regulators and industry players have a part to play in addressing this. There needs to be transparency and strict compliance with rules and regulations with an emphasis on delivering quality projects with quality building materials. Your recently unveiled a very big project-Ocean City Lagos-which will play host to Africa’s tallest skyscraper. The coastal city will also provide one of the finest sceneries in the country. How will this project be funded? Also, a project of this size will necessarily have several funding sources – both domestic and international. When completed, how will Ocean City contribute to the economy of Lagos State and Nigeria at large? The completion of the Ocean City Lagos project will provide major tourist attractions in Lagos and the project boasts of solutions to numerous gaps in the nation. For example, in completing Ocean City we would be able to harness various natural resources that were lying dormant and turn them into solutions in the various sectors. A number of areas that will be majorly impacted are technological advancement, medical and healthcare, arts and entertainment. The Ocean City Lagos project comes with sustainable solutions across various sectors and this will definitely have a huge impact on the growth of the nation’s GDP and Africa as a continent. What inspired the project- Ocean City Lagos? At the heart of the Ocean City Lagos is a vision for a better Nigeria, identifying various needs and gaps in the country and providing answers to them. It is a trailblazing project with a vision to transform the coastline of Lagos and create a global investment destination through major tourist destinations and development across different sectors. This will definitely enhance the investable qualities of the nation and put Nigeria and Africa on the global map. Outside of Ocean City, have you executed other real estate projects at home or abroad? Yes, we have done smaller scale projects, nothing of this size and scale but having gone around Nigeria and the world and seeing projects similar to this, we have learnt and have been inspired by bigger and smaller projects than ours and are now excited to proceed with ours. There have been calls by experts for a comprehensive review of Nigeria Land’s Use Act. Do you agree with this position? The Act was established for effective management of land in Nigeria with the best interest of both the government and its citizens. There should be a regular review of the Act as the industry evolves. Ahead of general elections, prices of houses and other property usually crash because politicians are believed to be putting some of their houses on sale to raise funds for elections. Do you foresee a similar development as we prepare for the 2023 general election in about a year’s time? We are looking forward to 2023 when Nigerians will get another opportunity to exercise our rights to vote and continue this democracy that has given us the opportunity to speak freely; and to dream up and execute projects like ours. We are happy with the active involvement of many Nigerians who want to actively participate in the election process to be elected to serve this great nation of ours. I think it is a bit of an exaggeration to say that a few houses up for sale in proportion to the size of the real estate market in Nigeria will crash the property market. Now, we all know that in election years, we generally see some anxiety and optimism across different industries, real estate included. This is no different from what obtains in other countries and developed nations. How has the rising prices of building materials especially cement and iron rods affected the housing/real estate sector? As with every increase in price in any industry, it has become more expensive and as you know, some projects have been delayed and others totally stopped. However, for the people who continue to bear the costs, what is important is to execute and deliver the projects according to safely regulations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com