Owa Obokun of Ijesaland, Oba Adekunle Aromolaran, had called on Osun state governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, to upgrade the state College of Education in the town to a university. Oba Aromolaran, who spoke in Yoruba language while receiving the governor and his entourage, who were on a tour of Ijesa South Federal Constituency, in his palace in Ilesa, also said people of the area would repay Oyetola’s kind gesture with support for his reelection. The royal father who demanded commitment from the Oyetola on the issue, also said his people have been raising funds to support the government and ensure that the institution was upgraded to a university. Oba Aromolaran said Oyetola was the only candidate known to people in the area, however, urged him to work on the major request of the community that the College of Education be upgraded to a university He said, “Oyetola will win governorship election for the second term. Anything I tell God, he answers it. “You don’t need to waste your time soliciting votes in Ijesha because you already have our support. You came for commissioning of this palace despite your busy schedule. “We are not ingrate in Ijesaland. There is no other person known to us in Ijesaland, we know only Oyetola. We don’t give room for rascality in Ijeshaland. We have warned our wards that they should not get themselves involved in thuggery. “I pledge on behalf of the Ijesha people that we shall give your administration full support to ensure that you win. Oyetola is so special to me. I always pray with my whole heart for our governor to be victorious. “Oyetola is the candidate that will win Ijesha land, whosoever opposes his candidature can hit head against pole. If they count the votes ten times, he will win. “I am not opposing any political party, but as far as I know, Oyetola will win Ijeshaland because I am in full control of this land. “I urge you to help us upgrade our College of Education to a University. We have been raising money as a community to support the government on the issue of upgrade of our College to a university. I am happy you promised to think about our request and feed us back. You said it is on the agenda of your government.” Speaking earlier, Oyetola told the monarch he was in his palace to seek his blessings, having been told by APC members to seek another term in office. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com