The League Management Company has fined four Nigeria Professional Football League clubs the sum of N7m for offenses committed during their matchday 14 games including security breaches, harassment of match officials as well as encroachment. Abia Warriors, Plateau United, Lobi Stars as well as Gombe United are the teams slammed with varying fines by the LMC. Aside from the monetary fines, Lobi Stars and Gombe United will have to play their next home fixtures behind closed doors after breaching NPFL Rules and Framework. Gombe United have also been fined a total of N2m for failure to provide adequate security cover for the visiting team at the end of the match to ensure they departed the city without obstruction and safely. The bus conveying players and officials of Plateau United was attacked by fans of the host team on their way out of the stadium while the glasses were shattered injuring Plateau United’s team doctor. Also, an official of Gombe United, Bulus Plando, was banned from NPFL matchday activities for eight games. The LMC also penalised Lobi Stars for breaches of Rules B13.52 relating to failure to provide adequate security during the matchday 14 game against Remo Stars. In addition to closure of Aper Aku Stadium to fans for their next home game, Lobi Stars was fined a total of N1.5m and ordered to provide before their next home game, adequate lighting within the precincts of the stadium, particularly, the tunnel leading to the dressing rooms. The club was also ordered to reinforce security arrangements for its remaining home fixtures to avoid stiffer sanctions. Plateau United, however, were fined N1m by the LMC for encroachment onto the field of play to protest a goal scored against them in Gombe on MatchDay 14, leading to a six minute holdup of the match. Abia Warriors and it’s General Coordinator, John Kalu, were also sanctioned for security related breaches in their match against Rivers United. Kalu was found to have championed the harassment of match officials, an action that is capable of bringing the League to disrepute. He was reprimanded and ordered not to be part of NPFL activities for the next eight matchdays. The club was fined N2.5m for failure to provide adequate security, failure to ensure restriction of access of unauthorised persons to restricted areas, encroachment on the field of play and harassment of match officials.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com