American comedian and show host, Pete Davidson, has publicly referred to reality TV star, Kim Kardashian, as his girlfriend for the first time. The Saturday Night Live host made this known in an interview with People, when be opened out about his social life. “Well, I don’t really have Instagram — I don’t have Instagram or Twitter or any of that stuff. So, most of my daily life is getting into cars and showing up to a set,” the comedian said. “Or, if I’m off, I just either hang with my friends or chill with my girlfriend inside. So I don’t do much,” he continued, referring to Kardashian, 41, with the title. The 28-year-old noted that the interest of fans had zero impact on his everyday life, adding, “Once in a while, someone will scream something at you, or it might be hard to get Dunkin’ Donuts. But other than that, it’s pretty fine. It’s not awful. It could be way worse.” After seven years of marriage and four children with popular rapper, Kanye West, Kim Kardashian had filed for divorce in February 2021. Months later, Kim’s romance with Pete Davidson went public. Kanye was also spotted with other women, even as he made it publicly clear he wanted his wife back. Earlier in January, the rapper started dating American actress, Julia Fox, after they were both on several occasions sighted on dates. Ye, as he is legally known, has made his dislike for the comedian apparent ever since the latter’s relationship with his wife became more public. In a recently released music collaboration with The Game, titled Eazy, Ye made threats to beat the comedian up. “God saved me from that crash / Just so I can beat Pete Davidson’s ass,” he rapped. It was also alleged that he spread rumours that Davidson was gay and had AIDs. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com