Gunmen on Monday abducted five persons at two different locations in Ekiti State. Sources said in the first attack, a former chairman of the Ilejemeje Local Government Area of the state, Bamgboye Adegoroye, and one occupant of his car were whisked away, while in the second attack, three workers in a charcoal factory were abducted. The Chairman, Ifesowapo Local Council Development Area, Ekiti State, Mr Kayode Akerele, who shed light on the first incident, said Adegoroye and one other person in his vehicle were kidnapped along the Isan-Iludun Road on Monday. He said, “We learnt that the former council chairman and one other occupant of his car were driving along that route when his car was shot by gunmen, who hid inside the bush. They stopped because the gunshot hit their car and it was at the spot that they were abducted. We have not heard whether the family had been contacted.” On the second incident, the Chairman of Ero LCDA, Mr Akin Alebiosu, said three charcoal workers were kidnapped at Ikun-Ekiti around 6.30pm the same day. Alebiosu said the leader of the workers, identified as Olu, an indigene of Ikun-Ekiti, and other victims were at the Ero River basin for their business when the incident happened. The two council bosses appealed to security agencies to beef up security along the Ayede-Isan-Iludun- Ikun axis, which they said was becoming a safe haven for criminals. However, the Ekiti Amotekun Commander, Brig, Gen. Joe Komolafe (retd), said the outfit was working with other security agencies to rescue the victims. Komolafe, who lamented that some residents offered information to kidnappers on the movement of security agents, said, “But whatever happens, we are mapping out strategies to checkmate their activities.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com