The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria has called on the Federal Government and the South-East governors to urgently fix the major roads in the region to curb tanker accidents. The Chairman, IPMAN Enugu Depot Community, Mr Chinedu Anyaso, made the call in Awka, on Wednesday, while reacting to the petrol tanker fire that occurred in Onitsha last Friday. Anyaso accused the governors of abandoning dilapidated roads in their states and waiting for the Federal Government to fix them. He lamented the loss of money by marketers and other victims who lost property to the inferno, saying the situation would not have occurred if the right infrastructure was in place. He said IPMAN members in the zone had suffered huge losses to tanker crashes and fire outbreaks as a result of bad roads. He said, “IPMAN regrets the fire in Onitsha and the attendant loss to the marketer and tanker owner, as well as owners of shops, cars and houses that were burnt. “This is one loss too many; the condition of Obodoukwu junction portion of Onitsha-Owerri Expressway and some other roads in the  South-East have been a cause for concern for IPMAN because of incessant fall of tankers carrying product. “Petroleum marketers want to use this opportunity to call on the Federal Government and the relevant state governments to address this issue of tanker fire accidents by fixing these roads and making them safe for movement of products.” Anyaso said the Trailer Park project, which IPMAN and PTD-NUPENG, were working on in partnership with the Anambra State Government was yet to take off. He added that the park would address the challenge of drivers’ figure as a result of long-distance driving and use of petrol stations for relaxation. He said, “I know the Anambra State Government is working on the Trailer Park project; we are still waiting for them to provide a site so that we can develop it. “It is our wish that the Governor Willie Obiano administration would complete it and make it part of his legacy to the state and the industry, especially now that Anambra is an oil-producing state. “This is because of the convenience it will bring to downstream operations in the state; it will also enhance safety and generate revenue for the parties.” Anyaso urged marketers to improve on their safety precautions by adhering strictly to the regulators’ standards.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com