The Federal Capital Territory Police Command said it has rescued the eleven victims abducted in Gwargwada community, Kuje area of the nation’s capital. The victims, who were abducted on February 17, were rescued after a raid on their abductors’ hideout on Saturday. In a statement by the FCT spokesperson, Josephine Adeh, the victims were rescued after an intelligence-driven operation in the area. She said a massive manhunt had been launched for the kidnappers. Adeh said, “The rescue of the victims follows prompt response by the Command to the unfortunate report of the abduction of some residents into a forest in Gwargwada community by some unscrupulous and misguided criminal elements. “On receipt of the report, the Commissioner of Police, Federal Capital Territory Command, Babaji Sunday, ordered a massive manhunt for the perpetrators and the rescue of the victims. The prompt tactical and intelligence driven special operation led to rescue of all the abducted victims unhurt. “The CP notes that intelligence at the disposal of the Command uncovered the criminal dens in Forest within the Kuje area of the FCT and operatives are already combing the forests to arrest the criminal elements and rescue other victims (if any). ” She said the rescued victims were already receiving medical attention and would be reunited with their families as soon as they were confirmed medically stable. Adeh called on residents to cooperate with the police in order to tame crime in the territory. She said, “The Commisioner of Police, while registering the Command’s unflinching commitment to combating crimes and criminality in the FCT, calls on residents to remain vigilant and to cooperate with the Police especially on the rendition of prompt and useful information on any suspicious occurrence through the following emergency lines: 08032003913, 08061581938, 07057337653 and 08028940883.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com