Residents of Progressives Estate, Abule  Nla, in the Ebute-Meta area of Lagos State have raised the alarm over the danger posed by a falling electric pole in the neighbourhood. They lamented that the attention of the Eko Electricity Distribution Company had been drawn to the bent pole in front of Block 6 of the estate twice, in March 2019 and July 2020. The residents said they reported the looming danger at both the headquarters of the company in Marina and its district office in Ijora but no action was taken to replace the pole. One of the affected landlords, Mr Jegede Lawrence, told City Round that the residents did some palliative work to hold the pole when the EKEDC was not forthcoming but the concrete had started giving way. He said, “The pole has almost collapsed. We have written to the EKEDC and the letter was acknowledged. There was a time some officials came and dug a hole near the pole. We thought they would bring a pole to replace it. Later they came and covered the hole. Nothing was done since then. “All the six flats in our block are connected to that pole. Our fear is that the pole can collapse anytime and if it does, it would be dangerous. When the company refused to replace the pole, we reported to the estate and warned that if the pole collapsed, it might affect the entire estate. If it collapses when there is power, it could spark off a fire that would spread to other blocks. The chairman of the estate also visited their offices. They promised to do something but nothing was done.” The chairman, Mr Samsudeen Lawal, said he visited the Ijora office of the EKEDC again on Wednesday and the district manager assured him that an official would come to the estate on Thursday to address the problem. He stated, “I was at the Ijora office of the company on Wednesday and met with the district manager. She promised that someone would come to our estate on Thursday. The person she directed to come even collected my phone number but up till now I haven’t seen anyone. Two poles are actually faulty. One of them has been there for over 40 years. We don’t want this to lead to a tragedy.” In the acknowledged copy of a letter dated March 13, 2019 and addressed to the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, EKEDC, the residents alerted the company to “the imminent danger the almost collapsing electricity pole in front of this Block may cause.” The letter added, “We had tried to support the pole with cement concrete blocks but it seems the efforts could not prevent the pole from falling. We therefore appeal to you for replacement of this pole as soon as possible to avert any danger to lives and properties of the occupants of the block.” In a follow-up letter dated July 9, 2020, tagged, ‘Re: Collapsing electric pole in front of Block 6 Progressive Estate, Abule Nla,’ the residents association expressed disappointment over the failure of the company to replace the rickety pole. When contacted on Friday, the Ijora District Manager of the EKEDC, Vera Ugbo, said the faulty pole was only brought to her attention and promised that it would be replaced next week. She said, “It is this week that I saw their complaint and we are already working on it. Once we get a pole, we will fix it before next weekend by God’s grace.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com