About 27 persons lost their lives in a tanker fire in Ogun State, road crashes in Anambra, Rivers states and an attack by suspected herders in Benue communities. The Federal Road Safety Corps in Ogun State confirmed the death of 17 persons in a tanker fire around Isara Bridge, along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The agency said most of the victims were burnt beyond recognition, calling on their relatives to contact the FRSC office in Ogere for more information. It was learnt that the accident happened around 5am on Friday. The spokesperson for the FRSC in Ogun, Florence Okpe, explained that 14 of the bodies were burnt beyond recognition, adding that the FRSC operatives were able to identify one man, one woman and a girl. She said, “The total number of people involved is not ascertained, but a total of 17 bodies have been identified. One male, one female, and one female child only have been identified, while others were burnt beyond recognition.” Explaining what led to the incident, Okpe said the tanker had a head-on collision with a Mazda bus with number plate, ZT728 KLD. She said, “The suspected causes of the fatal crash were route violation and dangerous driving, which resulted in a head-on collision and fire outbreak.” Meanwhile, the Ogun FRSC Sector Commander, Ahmed Umar, described the crash as an avoidable one, urging motorists to obey traffic rules and regulations. Umar commiserated with the families of the victims, enjoining them to contact the FRSC office in Ogere for more information about the crash. In Anambra, two persons; an adult, and a little child, reportedly died when an unidentified driver of a Mercedes 911 truck with number plate, UWZ556XA, rammed into six other vehicles around a filling station on the Ihiala-Onitsha road. Nine persons also sustained varying degrees of injury in the accident which occurred on Friday while 52 people were rescued unhurt. According to eyewitnesses, about 63 people were involved in the crash. An eyewitness said the truck driver was speeding while approaching a police checkpoint, lost control and rammed into the vehicles in a queue at the checkpoint. It was learnt that the Federal Road Safety Corps rescue team from the Ihiallia Unit Command took the victims to Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital, Ihiallia, where a male adult and a male child were confirmed dead. The dead victims were deposited at the hospital’s morgue while the FRSC rescue team on the ground managed the traffic and removed the obstruction caused by the crash. The FRSC Sector Commander, Anambra State, Adeoye Irelewuyi, commiserated with the families of the dead victims and wished the injured a quick recovery. He, however, warned motorists to avoid speeding and comply with the recommended speed limit. “Speed drills, but kills. Check your speed and not your watch. Let us keep our roads safe from crashes,” he advised. Our correspondent, who went round the Onitsha-Owerri Road, known for police checkpoints and extortions, observed that police had deserted the spots at Idemili, Obosi, Oba, for fear of being attacked. Meanwhile, five persons were reportedly killed on Thursday at two separate attacks in some communities in the Gwer West Local Government Area of Benue State by suspected herders. Sources from the council area explained that four people were killed while others were injured in an attack on Tse Udeghe, Mabapa council ward of the local government. The attack was said to have occurred around 4:30pm when suspected herders invaded the community in their numbers. It was also gathered that the same day around 7pm, some suspected herders lay in ambush on Naka-Makurdi highway at Ahumen village and shot at a moving bus, killing one occupant. Confirming the report, the chairman of the local government, Mrs Grace Igbabon, said five people were killed in the two attacks by suspected herders. She added that several thatched houses were torched. Igbabon said, “The incident happened around Thursday evening. We were at the venue where we were donating motorcycles to security operatives when the report came to me that Fulani herdsmen were attacking Mabapa council ward. “Four people were killed in the community including a man and his son. Unfortunately, some herders also blocked Makurdi/Naka highway and shot at a moving vehicle. A lady was said to have been hit and died from bullets.” The chairman said that the council donated 10 motorcycles to the security operatives in the local government to facilitate movement of security men in fighting herdsmen militia in the council area. She expressed concerns over persisted unprovoked attacks on the council. When contacted, police spokesperson in the state, Catherine Anene, said she had yet to receive such reports. Also, the car crash along the Akpajo-Elelenwo Road in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State claimed three lives on Friday. An eyewitness said the accident was caused by speeding. He said a female driver rammed her vehicle into another which crashed into a nearby building. Unidentified number of person got injured in the accident. It was gathered that the crash caused panic and gridlock in the area. Policemen were said to have moved to the scene to evacuate the lifeless bodies while bystanders assisted to take the injured victims to the hospital. Contacted, Head of Operations, Federal Road Safety Corps, Rivers State Command, Chukwuma Mbaegbu, confirmed the incident, adding that the corps was not involved in the rescue operation. Mbaegbu stated that the command got reports and called the police in Eleme LGA who confirmed the incident. Mbaegbu said, “Three persons died, although we (FRSC) were not involved in the rescue. We called the Divisional Police Officer of Eleme who confirmed the incident. We have sent one of our officials to go and get the information from the police so that we send it to our headquarters and put in our records.’’ Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com