A combined team of Nigerian Army personnel and the police have been mobilised to Illela, Safana Local Government Area of Katsina State following an attack on the village by terrorists during which 12 persons were feared killed. The spokesman for the Katsina State Police Command, SP Gambo Isah, confirmed the development on Monday but insisted that he could not ascertain the number of people killed. It was learnt that terrorists attacked the village early Friday to avenge the decision of a repentant bandit, Mani Turwa, who was said to be protecting the community. Turwa and his team were said to be guarding the village and other surrounding communities against being attacked by terrorists. Sources said the terrorists, led by four of their leaders, initially engaged in a gun duel with Turwa and his team and were repelled. It was further learnt that the terrorists then turned their anger on the village and set ablaze virtually all the houses there. An unspecified number of the villagers were also reportedly killed in the process. Although some residents, who escaped into the surrounding communities, including Dutsin-ma and Kankara, claimed that 12 persons were killed by the terrorists, but the police spokesman said he could not confirm the number. One of the residents said, “The terrorists came on several motorcycles and operated for four hours. They had a gun duel with Turwa and his boys, but they were defeated. None of Turwa’s family and his boys were injured. The terrorists later returned to burn our property, especially some of us who are in the Alhazana area of the village. “At least 12 persons were killed and they were buried on Sunday. But many of us have relocated because of fear.” The police spokesman, however, stated “All I can tell you, for now, is that we received a report from the DPO in charge of Safana that Illela was under attack. That was on January 27. Our operatives and those of the Nigerian Army are already there to ward off the terrorists and maintain the peace there. “As for the number of victims, honestly I cannot give you the details until we receive a report from our operatives on the ground there. But, peace has already returned there.” Other sources, however, disclosed that the victims were buried on Sunday, while many residents had relocated for fear of being attacked again by the terrorists. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com