The Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi, has denied writing any letter to the Osun State Government soliciting support towards his wedding to a Kano princess. In a letter dated February 8, 2022, with reference number HIM/TELU 1/14, addressed to Oyetola, stamped and received by the office of the Special Adviser, Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Akanbi was allegedly asking for the sum of N20m from the state government for his wedding. The letter read in part, “I have the instruction of His Imperial Majesty, Oba (Dr.) Abdul-Rasheed Adewale Akanbi, the Oluwo of two, to notify you of the Oluwo’s decision to marry a princess from Kano Emirate, to be precise, Ado Bayero dynasty. “I wish to remind Your Excellency that this kind of royal wedding within two notable traditional institutions in Nigeria will require huge expenses, which necessitate the support of the state government financially, even logistically. “Moreover, the estimated amount for the event is above N20m. His Excellency, Oba Akanbi relies on you for necessary consideration and approval on this request.” Reacting through a statement, the Press Secretary to Oluwo’s Palace, Alli Ibraheem, said the monarch did not author the letter, describing it as fake, noting that it was the work of mischief makers and could not have emanated from the palace. “We read with total dismay a letter purportedly said to have emanated from the palace of Oluwo of Iwoland seeking financial assistance on his personal affairs, wedding. “While we commend the enlightened public for their sense of fair judgment, we want to categorically state that the letter is fake and did not emanate from the palace of Oluwo. The said letter lacks the basic in-house style of Oluwo’s palace correspondence. Oluwo always appends his personal signature while writing the government. “Equally, the font in the letter is not our official style. At the said date on the letter, Oluwo was not in the state up till now. And his secretary has no audacity, whatsoever, to sign on behalf of His Majesty while communicating with the government. “The letter was orchestrated by mischievous people whose mission is to discredit the palace. Marriage is a personal affair; there is no marriage venture too big for Oluwo to finance on his own. Those circulating such should exercise caution. The Queen is coming but not in the haste of the public demand.” Also reacting to the development, the Osun state government noted in a statement by the Commissioner of Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode, that the letter was a failed attempt by ‘mischief makers’ to bring Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and the Osun State Government into ‘a collision course with the citizens’. “We are aware that the Oluwo has denied writing the letter and as a government, it is important to stop those making negative insinuations in their tracks. “This fresh attempt by mischief makers to bring the governor and the government on a collision course with the citizens did not come as a surprise especially as the state draws closer to its gubernatorial primaries and election. The community of sadists is increasing the tempo of their shameless propaganda machine. However, this is another dead-on-arrival plot. “These mischief makers have come up empty again and all their attempts will come to nothing. We will not be disturbed or distracted by the noise of political miscreants whose only job is to grab their phones, get on social media every morning to cause bad blood,” he noted. He also advised the people of Osun to ‘ignore all insinuations targeted at maligning this governor and government.’ Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com