Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a pastor, Peter Omope, over allegation of attempted murder and unlawful possession of a prohibited firearm. Omope, who is the pastor in charge of Celestial Church of Christ, Jesu Yan Parish, at Olambe junction, Akute, Ogun State, was arrested for allegedly shooting a female guest worshiper, Kemi Johnson, at the entrance of the church. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, who disclosed this in a statement on Saturday, explained that the cleric was arrested following a distress call received at the police divisional headquarters, Ajuwon, from one Deji Olalekan. Olalekan, who reported the case, said told the police that he and the 18-year-old were co-workers in the employment of their boss, whom they saw off to the airport. The PPRO explained that after Olelekan, who is a driver, and Johnson, a housemaid, dropped their boss at the airport, they headed for the home of a relative of their boss. The PPRO said, “But on their way home, they were informed that the Oro sacrifice was ongoing at the Olambe area, which made it impossible for them to pass through the area. “They then saw a celestial church where a vigil was ongoing and decided to join in since it was already late in the night. While they were at the entrance of the church, the suspect, who happened to be the shepherd in charge, came out with a pump-action rifle and before they could utter any explanation, he shot Kemi Johnson in the leg. “The victim was quickly rushed to the Ifako Ijaye General Hospital, from where she was referred to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital and finally to the National Orthopaedic hospital, Igbobi, Lagos. “The pump-action rifle and five live cartridges had been recovered from the suspect.”as of the time of filing the report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com