Aretired banker, Kunle Owuye, has accused officials of the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority and the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority of extorting money from him along the Ikorodu Road, Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that Owuye was in his car with his driver on February 1, 2022, when they were arrested for using the BRT lane. The septuagenarian said, “l needed to see a seriously ailing old ex-worker of mine in lkorodu. My driver and l set out for the trip around midday. We have not been to lkorodu in ages. “Around 12.20pm, just as we were descending the Mile 12 Flyover towards lkorodu, we were confronted by a swarm of armed men in uniform — LAMATA, LASTMA, task force, policemen and some men in mufti. “One of the armed men forced himself into the car, sitting next to my driver. In trying to create enough legroom for himself and trap me inside my car, the officer aggressively slid his seat backwards, thus seriously injuring my legs. “We were made to drive a distance away from the spot of the arrest where the rest of the gang and a handful of spectators were standing. Then the bargaining started.” Owuye explained that the men accused him of taking the BRT lane. He said, “After emphasising the gravity of our offence, an unofficial payment of N30,000 was suggested for us to be allowed to continue on our journey, which amount l was obviously expected to negotiate. “The alternative was to be taken to Ketu, LAMATA office, to pay the official fine of N70,000. To the disappointment and disgust of this arresting officer, menacingly touting his gun inside my car, l opted to make the official payment. “When I paid with my ATM card into the account, I later saw that it was not to the Lagos State Government or its agencies but to a private account. “The account name, which they used PoS to make payments to, Elinado Global Services La Ng, is not owned by the Lagos State Government or any of its agencies. This is a big scam. “The BRT lane which we were accused of violating was nothing but a trap, as there was no directional sign or a clearly marked out BRT lane to guide road users. “I understand these scamming enforcers simply lay by all day, waiting for preys to fall into their net. I understand people do fall into their net regularly.” The LAMATA spokesperson, Kola Ojelabi, said there were firms contracted by the Lagos State Government to collect fines. He noted that Elinado Global Services was one of them, adding that nothing illegal was done. Ojelabi said, “We have agencies contracted by the Lagos State Government to collect money on behalf of the state government, so there’s no basis for any argument here.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com