The Deputy Governor, Edo State, Philip Shaibu, has disclosed that Nigeria National League side Insurance were in pathetic state before the emergence of the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration in 2016. Insurance, one of the country’s greatest sides from the 1970s to the early 1990s, have been languishing in the second tier, largely due in part to alleged mismanagement by officials of the Edo government-owned club. The Benin Arsenal had won the Nigerian topflight league twice (1973, 1979), FA Cup thrice (1972, 1978, 1980), as well as the CAF Cup in 1994. But Shaibu was shocked to discover that players were owed salaries and allowances, while officials smiled to the bank with money meant to run the club. “Right from day one, the governor said I’ll be in charge of sports if we get elected. So, when we came in, we discovered had close to 100 members of staff, some were even abroad,” Shaibu said. “When we checked the records, Insurance had money, we had those in management paying themselves salaries and allowances, while players were owed. When we came in, Insurance had no bus. “So, we had to clean up the system and the starting point was to rebrand the club. Last season, we bought a bus for the club from jersey sales alone. This year, Insurance budget is N250m and we already have N50m back from Sterling Bank sponsorship deal.” The Deputy Governor said their efforts at sanitising the club paid dividends, as Insurance gained promotion to the topflight after 11 years in the lower divisions. “We started the clean up with Insurance, and then Edo Queens. After two years, we gained promotion to the NPFL, but went down again.” He lamented Insurance inability to return to the topflight last season, after reaching the play-offs in Enugu, but was hopeful of the team’s chances this term after watching the team’s opening NNL clash versus Vandrezzer in Lagos last weekend. The match ended 0-0. “Last year was our year, if not for the mismanagement of the league. I still insist Remo has no business in the NPFL. But one thing we’ve done is to build a disciplined team.  If the officiating I saw in Lagos is allowed for all matches, Insurance will return to the NPFL. I commend the NNL for this.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com