Former presidential spokesman, Reno Omokri, has raised concerns the circumstances surrounding the arrest of suspended Head of Intelligence Response Team and Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, by the Nigeria Police. He questioned the rationale behind the secret nature of Kyari’s arrest unlike that of embattled leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra who was publicly paraded by the Directorates of State Services on several occasions. Omokri, a former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, raised the concerns on his Twitter page on Monday. He tweeted, “Why the secrecy over Kyari’s arrest? We saw how they paraded a political prisoner like Nnamdi Kanu in handcuffs. Let’s see Abba Kyari paraded like that too for equity. And since Kyari is a fashion consultant, let them force him to wear designers as they did to Kanu!” The PUNCH had earlier reported that Kyari was arrested alongside four others on Monday hours after the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency declared him wanted over alleged drug links. The suspended DCP is also under investigation after the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the United States of America indicted him in the case of fraud involving Instagram celebrity, Ramon Abbas, aka Hushpuppi. NDLEA spokesperson, Femi Babafemi, had at a press briefing in Abuja on Monday, chronicled how Kyari belonged to a drug cartel that operates the Brazil-Ethiopia-Nigeria illicit drug pipeline. The anti-drug agency said Kyari contacted one of its officers in Abuja and struck a deal to secure the release of a total of 25kg seized cocaine. Babafemi said, “After the Agency gave the officer the green light to play along, he and Kyari began a WhatsApp call for the rest of the day. The officer conveyed “their” willingness to play the game.” “He (Kyari) brought with him the money from the sale of the 5kg share of the NDLEA team, a total of $61, 400. Our officer, however, preferred to take the money inside his car. Well, the car was wired with sound and video recorders. And the moment was documented, part of which I will play for you at the end of this briefing. “We have a trove of intelligence, hard facts, from chats to photos and video and a detailed transcript of the communication between him and the NDLEA officer,” NDLEA spokesperson said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com