Rivers United will be aiming to return to winning ways when they host Wikki Tourist in a Nigeria Professional Football League at the Adokiye Amiesimaka stadium on Saturday (today), PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Historically, both teams have met 10 times, each recording five wins. Stanley Eguma’s side lost 1-0 away to Plateau United on match-day 10, which halted their 11-game winless run in all competitions, while Wikki drew goalless with Enugu Rangers last Sunday. Rivers, who are second in the NPFL, have been impressive at home this term with four wins and one draw in their five games so far. They will hope to extend their winning run at home when they host Wikki and hope league leaders Remo Stars falter at Gombe United on Sunday. Eguma believes it’s a tricky fixture for the Pride of Rivers. “We all know what we want to achieve this season and maintaining our good form is important,” Eguma said ahead of the fixture. “Wikki are a good side as well and we must not leave anything to chance in this game. We want to build on our impressive home form.” Rivers United will be banking on their striker Ishaq Rafiu who is also the league’s top scorer to secure their seventh win of the campaign. Wikki Tourist on their path, who are currently placed eighth in the log will be gunning for their sixth win of the campaign in the encounter. They are winless in their last two league games where they lost to Abia Warriors and drew goalless with Rangers. The Bauchi-based outfit are bad travelers as they have only recorded one victory in four away games on the road this season – a 1-0 win over Dakkada on matchday six, an away form he hopes his team can improve on. “We want to climb higher in the NPFL log because we are not happy with the position we are,” Dogo said. “This game won’t be easy on but we are going to make ourselves comfortable to give ourselves a chance to win there and I believe we can get a result there.” Kabiru Dogo’s side has so far recorded 16 points from 10 games. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com