A coalition of over 70 civil rights organisations under the aegis of Nigerian Civil Society Situation Room, on Friday, called on security agencies to document evidence of any violation of the Electoral Act in the area council elections of the Federal Capital Territory, and bring offenders to book. The organisation said it would be holding the Independent National Electoral Commission accountable for its commitment and assurances of preparedness, and look out for early distribution, and deployment of personnel, and materials; timely opening of poll; knowledge of election procedures, and accreditation devices by poll officials; effectiveness of the BVAS; adherence to COVID-19 protocols on election day; transparent collation process and transmission of polling unit results, particularly the INEC Result Viewing Portal. The NCSSR said these in a statement by its Convener, Ene Obi; Co-Convener, Asma’u Joda, and Co-Convener, James Ugochukwu. The statement was read by Obi during a press conference in Abuja. She said, “The FCT Commissioner of Police has announced that adequate personnel will be deployed for the election, and assured of professional behaviour by the operatives. Situation Room reiterates that all security agencies deployed on election duty should adhere to the directives of the Nigeria Police, as the lead agency on election security, and abide by the Code of Conduct and Rules of Engagement for Security Personnel on Election Duty. “Situation Room will also watch out for hotspots identified by the Police, and call on the Force to document evidence of any violation of the Electoral Act to bring offenders to book.” Situation Room also expressed concerns about the poor level of inclusion in the elections. Obi said that in Abaji Area Council — not even a female, nor a person with disability candidate, was nominated by a political party for Chairmanship, Vice, or Councillorship; while only three female councillorship-candidates were nominated in Kuje, and Kwali — only one vice-chairmanship candidate, and one councillorship, are female. “In general, of the 475 candidates nominated by the 14 political parties participating in the 2022 FCT Area Council Elections, just 41 candidates comprised 3 chairmanship candidates, 8 vice-chairmanship candidates, and 30 councillorship candidates are female. Situation Room notes that there was a PWD councillorship-candidate in Karu Ward of AMAC. “We call on the political parties to play by the rules throughout the voting process, and enjoin candidates and their supporters to uphold the principles of free, fair and credible elections. Situation Room further calls on political parties to provide a better environment for social inclusion in their nomination and party processes,” she said. The coalition reminded FCT citizens and residents that participating in voting during an election was one way to make their voices heard. The NCSSR therefore enjoined all eligible voters in the FCT to peacefully come out on Saturday, February 23, 2022, to elect the council leaders of their areas. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com