A group, North-West Grassroots Support Network, has opposed purported zoning of the National Chairmanship of All Progressives Congress by some governors to the North-Central zone ahead of the party’s national convention. The group described the move as selfish and undemocratic. In a statement in Kaduna on Thursday, the Convener of the group, Adamu Yakubu, wondered where the governors were when credible, committed and patriotic party members from other zones, particularly APC loyalists in the North-West committed their time and resources in ensuring the victories of the present administration in 2015 and 2019 general elections. He reminded the governors not to forget in a hurry that the northwest geopolitical zone gave the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) the highest votes in previous general elections. He said, “The North-West Grassroots Network is disappointed to note the speculative kite being flown by some northern governors that position of National Chairman of APC has been zoned to North Central. “While not dismissing the array of competent candidates from the North Central zone, we want to categorically point out that the northwest is more deserving and entitled to the position at this material time than any other zones. “We, therefore, wonder why some selfish governors and their aides will choose to tow this line of infamy. “Why are these governors adamant on causing disharmony within the ranks of the party against the known democratic tenets that anticipate that delegates to the national convention are allowed to vote for candidates of their choice. “We, therefore, enjoin the progressives and all APC stakeholders to disregard the misleading story of zoning the Chairmanship of APC to north Central zone.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com