The lawmaker representing Obokun/Oriade Federal Constituency in Osun State at the House of Representatives, Oluwole Oke, has called on aggrieved members and stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party to stop attacking Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State over the forthcoming governorship election in Osun. Oke, in a statement issued on Sunday, urged those concerned to remain calm, focused and prayerful towards recording victory in the poll scheduled for July. The lawmaker, who is Chairman of the House Committee on Public Accounts, in the statement titled ‘Osun Guber: Stop Attacking Gov Makinde, Let’s Be Focused, Federal Lawmaker Counsels Aggrieved Party Members,’ described Makinde as “an astute and pragmatic party leader.” Oke said, “Recently, l have observed a flood of criticisms towards the doorpost of Governor Makinde over his action or inaction on the evolving PDP matters in Osun State, which is uncalled for, unwarranted, misplaced and misdirected. “I cannot still wrap my head around how Governor Makinde has in any way constituted an impediment in any way in the wheel of progress of our great party and indeed Osun State.” While noting that the issues like those in the PDP often arise when al election is approaching, he said, “All the real and perceived problems within PDP in the state are not beyond amicable resolution and I commend our elders and leaders for their meaningful mediation which is already yielding fruitful results “I consider our problem, or do I say matter, as local and domestic which can and will be resolved domestically. Therefore, let us be civil, couth and display maturity in the use of words. “Beyond politics, let us see and embrace ourselves as brothers and sisters in dealing with one another, in order to collectively build a virile PDP capable of winning all the elections resoundingly. “We need to be diplomatic, strategic, calm, calculative, methodical and decent in our approach to the conduct of free and fair primaries.” Oke also stated that the Oyo governor did not declare his support for any of the governorship aspirants in Osun as being alleged by a group of the party members in the state. “He is a credible leader whose concern is basically for the victory of the party in all the elections,” the lawmaker noted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com