Ukrainian Lviv University for Business and Law has called on the Nigerian government to invest more in the education sector to enhance national growth and development. The Chief of International Relations Department in the University, Ms. Olga krasnopera, gave the  suggestion in Abuja  after the maiden lecture/award and annual lecture titled, ‘Prospects in strengthening Ukraine-Nigeria Diplomatic/Economic Relations.’ During the event, many distinguished Nigerians, including renowned legal practitioner, Dr Reuben Atabo were conferred with Honorary Doctorate degrees by the Lviv University for Business and Law. Krasnopera said the programme would benefit the two countries. “There is the need to develop education, it is the best thing in the world, because education is light if we have to lead in society. “Every country should invest more in education now, not only Nigeria, because we are growing fast, our economy, internet, everything is developing fast. So that’s why investment is necessary all around the globe, not just in Nigeria, in the US in Ukraine, in Kenya everywhere”, she said. She also advised Nigerians seeking education to come to Ukraine which, according to her, has a very strong educational background. Presenting a paper on the prospects for deepening bilateral relationships between the two countries, Prof. Mike Ikupolati said all must join hands to make Nigeria great. Also speaking, the chairman of FTAISA, Skills and Entrepreneurship Development Centre, Dr Cliff Ogbede, said it was instructive to know that Ukraine, having robust diplomatic relations with Nigeria, was offering affordable University admission to Nigerian students with an estimated number hovering above 12,000 currently. The event also witnessed the conferment of doctorate degrees on selected eminent Nigerians. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com