The Zamfara State chapter of the All Progressive Congress has affirmed that no amount of pressure would hinder Governor Bello Mattawale from doing the right thing in moving the state forward. The party was reacting to the recent impeachment of the former Deputy Governor, Barrister Mahdi Aliyu Gusau, and the subsequent appointment of Senator Hassan Nasiha as the new Deputy Governor. In a statement, the spokesperson of the party, Yusuf Idris said, the APC leadership in the state has confidence that Matawalle would change the narration of Zamfara politics to a far better one that people would benefit and be proud of. “It is our belief that Governor Matawalle’s determination to move Zamfara State is uncompromising and no amount of pressure or destructive tendencies will hinder him from doing the right thing in order to move Zamfara State to the promised land”. “We pray that the people will continue to pray for the growth and development of the state under the focused leadership of the people’s Governor and Barden Hausa”. “We also commend the Zamfara State House Assembly under the leadership of Right Honourable Nasiru Maazu Magarya for standing by the truth and the nation’s constitution to usher in new leaf in our Zamfara politics. The statement added that the state’s chapter of the party was determined to work closely with the House to bring more development to the state. The party has also congratulated the new Deputy Governor, Senator Hassan Muhammad Nasiha on his inauguration to occupy the office. “The APC under the Chairmanship of Hon. Tukur Umar Danfulani is confident in the ability of the new Deputy Governor to fully support His Excellency, Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle MON in his drive to move Zamfara forward”. “Senator Hassan Nasiha is unquestionably a loyal and experienced politician who stands out to be recognized at any time”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com