The Federal Government, through the National Agency for the Control of AIDS, has advised Nigerian youths to know their HIV status and avoid risky behaviours during the Valentine season. This is as the Director General of NACA, Dr Gambo Aliyu, added that new HIV infections were currently highest among young people between the ages of 15 and 24. This was disclosed in a statement signed by the head of protocols and public relations of the agency, Toyin Aderibigbe. The statement reads in part, “The Director General, National Agency for the Control of AIDS, Dr Gambo Aliyu, wants to use this season of love to encourage Nigerians, especially young people, to know their HIV status and avoid risky behaviours. “The DG states that new HIV infection is currently highest among young people aged 15-24 years. It is important to reduce this worrying trend among Nigerian youths by encouraging faithful relationships for those who cannot abstain from sex to practice safer sex. “This period is particularly noted for young people expressing their love for one another. The DG NACA urges Nigerians, especially the youths, to express love within the context of caring deeply for their loved ones and avoid behaviour that will make them vulnerable to HIV/AIDS. “The DG, Dr Gambo Aliyu, stated that, ‘As we express love on this day, remember to love wisely. As members of the wider society, your health and productivity is vital to the future of our country. So, I urge you to avoid risky behaviours as we commemorate Valentine’s Day. Love wisely; share love, not HIV. Get a HIV test today’.” NSCDC sensitises school girls on sexual immorality in Kwara Meanwhile, with a few days to this year’s Valentine Day celebration, the Gender Unit of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, on Friday, carried out a sensitisation programme at selected schools in Ilorin, the Kwara state capital. According to a statement by Babawale Afolabi, the public relations officer of NSCDC, Kwara State Command, who represented the State Commandant of the corps, Makinde Ayinla, the motive behind the sensitisation programme was to enlighten the students, especially girls, on the need to avoid any act that could destroy their future, all in the name of Valentine’s Day celebrations. According to the NSCDC spokesman, among the schools visited by the officers and men of the corps in the Ilorin metropolis were St. Anthony Secondary School and C&S College, among others. “Valentine’s Day is all about celebrating and showing love to one another. But the day is being abused by our youths and students. That is why the state commandant deemed it fit to sensitise the school girls about the do’s and don’ts of Valentine’s Day,” Babawale said. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com