While preparing for this article, I had a nostalgic feeling of my days in secondary school. My agricultural science teacher told us that the botanical name of plantain is Musa paradisiaca. It was hilarious because Musa is a person’s name and paradisiaca also sounds like “Isiaka ‘’ which is another name. Trust students, the name was on everyone’s lips for a long time. I will be discussing plantain peels today but permit me to quickly address some things. If you find the orange peel tea too bitter for you as some have complained, you can sweeten with honey. For those who want to go through IVF and are interested in pineapple leaf tea, it is used for at least two months before as well as during the IVF process. Just boil a handful each time. You can also boil water and pour on the leaves. Plantain peel comes with many internal and external health benefits. Some of the main pharmacological effects of the plantain plant including the peels are anti-ulcer, analgesic, wound-healing, hair growth promoter, haemostatic activity among others. It is high in vitamin A, allantoin, apigenin, aucubin, baicalein, linoleic acid, oleanolic acid, sorbitol and tannin which all promote wound healing, speed up cell regeneration and have skin-softening effects. It can be used to treat skin disorders and defects such as wrinkles, skin allergies and acne. Rubbing plantain peel against your skin is one way to eliminate wrinkles due to its abilities to tighten and tone the skin. People who have tried ripe plantain peels for skin care suggest that rubbing the peel on the face can help brighten the skin and reduce wrinkles, placing a freshly opened ripe plantain peel on closed eyes will help to reduce puffiness and rubbing a freshly opened ripe plantain peel on acne scars will help them fade off. In the chemical industry, the peels have shown potential for the generation of important chemicals like ethanol and alkali for the manufacturing of soap. It has reportedly been shown to have potential as a promising raw material which could find useful industrial applications especially in the agro-based industries. The peels have been considered for use as organic fertilisers to enrich soils and enhance better crop production and yield. Reports have shown that the peels are a good potential substitute for cornstarch in the diet of snails and it is also incorporated with other waste materials in the diet of pigs. Also in the food industry, flour made from the peels has been reportedly used to enrich wheat flour at various percentages in producing snacks like cookies and sausages; serving as a good source of fibre, antioxidants and potentially benefiting humans in the management and prevention of lifestyle-related diseases. Several studies have reported the antifungal and antibacterial activities of different parts including the peel of plantain for the treatment of a large number of ailments. The ethanol extracts of the peels were used against eight human pathogenic microbes; five bacteria and three fungi and they proved effective against these human pathogens which have been implicated in several human diseases. So, the peel extracts have been suggested for use in pharmaceutical and medical formulations. The Head, Herbarium and Medicinal Plant Gardens, Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Mr Ife Ogunlowo, told me that ripe plantain peels is one of the constituents his wife uses for making an herbal soap that his family uses because it removes wrinkles and can lighten or tone the skin moderately without side effects. He said the unripe peels can be soaked or blended and taken to manage high blood pressure and diabetes. He also told me that he is currently exploring the anti-ageing potential of the peels on the skin. Scientific studies In a study titled, “Nutraceutical potential of ripe and unripe plantain peels: A comparative study,’’ by Ibhafidon et al, the results of this study underscore the nutritional and potential medicinal importance of both ripe and unripe plantain fruit peels. Although the unripe peel contains more fat, ash, fibre, carbohydrates, essential minerals, and phytochemicals, both peels showed promising potential for use in feed and drug formulations for livestock and even humans. In a study titled, “Phenolic Extracts From Plantain (Musa paradisiaca) Peels Inhibit Angiotensin 1 Converting Enzyme – In vitro : Possible Antihypertensive Benefits,’’ by Oboh et al, the conclusion is that the phenolic extracts from plantain peels could be harnessed as a cheap dietary approach to the management and prevention of hypertension and other cardiovascular diseases associated with oxidative stress. In a study titled, “Potential of plantain peels flour (Musa paradisiaca L.) as a source of dietary fiber and antioxidant compound by Agama et al, The PPF (Plantain peel flour) with high DF (dietary fiber) content, high antioxidant capacity and functional characteristics could be used as a functional ingredient for the elaboration of food products. In a study titled, “Fermentation of Musa paradisiaca Peels to Produce Citric Acid,’’ by Monrroy et al, CA was successfully produced from M. paradisiaca peels. Thus, M. paradisiaca peels were concluded to be a promising low-cost fermentable substrate for obtaining high added-value products such as CA. In a study titled, “Plantain peel- a potential source of antioxidant dietary fibre for developing functional cookies,’’ by Arun et al, the study concludes that it is a good source of dietary fibre and antioxidant phytochemicals. Acceptable cookies were produced by replacing wheat flour with peels flour at 10 per cent level. The incorporation increased fibre content as well as antioxidant potential of the cookies. The peels could be used as a suitable source of dietary fibre with associated bioactive compounds and incorporated as ingredients in a large variety of food products such as making biscuits, cakes etc. In a study titled, “Antifungal properties of Musa paradisiaca (Plantain) peel and stalk extracts,’’ by Okorondu et al, the results of this work justify that the peels extracts were able to inhibit and kill the growth of food spoilage fungi and this implies that the extract can be  used in food preservation. The results obtained in this work further justify the claim that Musa paradisiaca (L) stalk and peel extract demonstrated anti-fungal action in which methanol was seen to be a good solvent for extraction considering the higher percentage growth inhibition of the extract on test fungi. In a study titled, “Potential Effect of Musa paradisiaca peel extract on Skin Hydration,’’ by Cendana et al, significant increase in skin hydration was recorded after the use of the peel extract cream. Apart from using the peels for soap making, you can cut into small pieces, cook and keep in the freezer. Then, you can add the cooked peels into all your recipes. Also, you can boil your peels and drink the water. When next I have to make plantain flour, I will make sure I dry the plantain with the peels and grind them together when dry. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com