Governor of Sokoto State and Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party’s Governors’ Forum, Aminu Tambuwal, has said the only legacy left for the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), is to emulate ex-president Goodluck Jonathan by conducting free, fair and credible elections in 2023. The governor spoke to newsmen shortly after paying a courtesy visit on former governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Malarfi, in Kaduna on Thursday. This is just as Makarfi tasked the governor (Tambuwal) to unite the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party’s family for the party and Nigerians to have cause to smile during and after the 2023 general elections in the country. Tambuwal, accompanied on the visit with a former Governor of Sokoto State, Attahiru Bafarawa, a former Minister of Water Resources, Mukhtar Shagari, lawmakers, retired Army officers and many PDP chieftains among others, said he was in the state (Kaduna) to see Makarfi who had returned from an hospital overseas. On the conduct of the 2023 general election, the governor tasked the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, to conduct free, fair and credible elections to leave a lasting legacy for himself and the president. Tambuwal said, “The head of the electoral umpire has only one option. That option is to leave a lasting legacy. From my knowledge he is from a very good family background. “So he needs to actually make sure that he did not soil that his family history and his own personal history by ensuring he conduct a free and fair election. “Even President Muhammadu Buhari himself, despite all the failures that we are seeing in this administration, the only legacy that is left for him is to ensure he conducts free, fair and credible election – as ex-president Goodluck Jonathan did ensured and handed over to him in 2015.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com