Gospel singer, Kunle Adeyoola, aka Soul Snatcha, tells BLESSING ENENAITE about his engagement to fellow singer, Nikki Laoye, his music career and other issues You have been in the music industry for about two decades. What has been your experience so far? To be honest, it has been a rollercoaster. We started at a time when rap music was not really accepted in the church. As a matter of fact, rap was still trying to get attention in the mainstream, not to talk of the church. We just kept knocking on doors and pushing the music. Gospel music was not really played on mainstream media back then but we believed if the music was outstanding, radio stations wouldn’t care as long as it was great music. So, we made great music and went to all the media houses demanding to be heard.  The moment they listened, it was all over (the place). The moment we got that recognition from the mainstream media, we also got the attention of the church folks. You once said you did free shows when you started gospel music. What other sacrifices did you make for your career? We did not go into music to make money. We came in to make a change with our music. Our first album was titled, Shock Therapy. The music scene was on a decline at the time and it needed a shock therapy to awaken it. It cost a lot of money to make good music. We did a lot of free events to get our music heard and get our message out there. Collecting a performance fee does not make one less spiritual, as long as that’s not one’s motivation. What has changed in the industry since your early days? A lot has changed in the industry. Now, with a laptop, the right software and a microphone, one can record music from one’s bedroom, and upload it to all streaming platforms. Just like that, one’s music would be everywhere. One does not even have to physically go to radio or TV stations. One can just send them a link. There is also social media where one can interact with one’s fans at anytime. These all have their pros and cons but it’s still a great development. What lessons have you learnt so far? I have learnt that one can ‘switch up’ one’s flow and style but one should never change one’s core values. One should always be true to oneself. Nothing lasts forever and nothing is do or die. Also, one should always value relationships. You recently got engaged to fellow gospel singer, Nikki Laoye. What inspired you to make that decision? Certain things happen and we would even be trying to grasp how it all came to be. It was so unlikely and unplanned. It was not something either of us had ever considered. I can categorically say God threw us at each other. It is a question we both ask ourselves because we never saw it coming. God inspired the decision and I have a history of trusting Him and He has a history of always giving me the best. How easy was it for you to take the decision to get married again after the demise of your first wife? It was not easy. I was not searching and my focus was just my children. But, I was in a place where sliding into the dark place of loneliness and depression that ‘my wife is gone and I am all alone in the world’ was looking very tempting. On the first anniversary of my wife’s passing, I went to her graveside and did a walk down memory lane. Marriage is worship; I worshiped my (late) wife. Marriage is serving; I served her.  I have no regrets. There were no words left unsaid. There was nothing I felt I could have done better. I did my best. She was my best friend. God knew He would take her, so He needed someone to prepare her. That was me. I did the job and she’s with Him.  Mission accomplished. Now, I’m ready for the next mission. Are your children enthusiastic about your new marriage? Oh, yes! They are over the moon (about it). We planned the proposal together. My daughter actually just asked me this morning if it is okay for her to tell her friends in school. They love Nikki and she loves them. What are some of the lessons you learnt in your first marriage that would help you going forward? Cherish every moment. Love without holding back. Marriage is a team effort. Do you have a date for your wedding yet? Do you want to buy aso ebi (customised cloth for the wedding)? Well, we are hoping (it would be done) before this year runs out. Let’s see how it goes. What are your plans for 2022? I will be focusing on family, health and more music. More touring, more content and most especially, telling more people about Jesus. How about your partner , SoKleva, at Rooftop MC? Are you still together or are you pursuing solo careers? Sokleva is great doing well. We speak every day. We have prayer meetings daily where we talk and catch up on what we are doing. Rooftop MCs never broke up. We took a break but still keep communicating. We both have solo projects. He has an album, Fistful of Stones, and some singles. I have a studio album, a live album and six singles. We are planning a reunion concert sometime towards the end of the year. Gospel singer, Nikki Laoye, tells BLESSING ENENAITE about her music journey, engagement and other issues Having spent about two decades in the industry, what would you say are the tremendous changes you have seen so far? It has been quite a journey in the music industry as I have had the opportunity to work with local and international artistes, perform and tour across Africa, UK and the USA in the past 16 years of my career. It is great to see the growth and changes over the years. There are more international collaborations between Nigerian and global artistes. Also, there is a wide acceptance and recognition of Nigerian artistes and our music in the global space. The only sad change which I hope will get better soon is the highly reduced airplay of gospel music on the Nigerian airwaves in comparison to how it used to be two decades ago. Besides, content from a few recognised gospel /contemporary Christian artistes like myself are hardly played on TV or radio anymore. I have been speaking out endlessly about this for a while now and I pray this changes soon. People need more encouragement and inspiration, especially in these hard times. What inspires your music? My music is a major form of communication for me and I majorly cover three areas— God, love and life— which I believe are the important areas every human being deals with. Whenever I am working on a new song, I pay attention to the current sounds around me, think about the message that people need to hear and that motivates me. At the end of the day, I just want to put a smile on someone’s face, add some extra spice to someone’s marriage/relationship, drop a hint of hope in someone’s heart, while reminding them that we have an amazing Father who loves us. How would you describe the reception of your latest song, ‘Never Fail’? I am so excited at the global reception the song has enjoyed. Being a Christian Amapiano sound, it went viral quickly because the style is rare in the gospel industry.  Every day, I get notifications and feedback from disc jockeys and radio stations from different parts of the world. The song is presently being played at events in Nigeria, United Kingdom, United States of America, Europe and other African countries, including Ghana, Uganda and Kenya. All I wanted to do with the song was to pass across a vibe of victory, reminding everyone that we have a Father who loves us so much, wins the battle for us and He can ‘never fail’ us. I am always excited to hear the different testimonies and encouraging feedback from different people who have been inspired by the song as it continues to spread across the world. You recently got engaged to fellow singer, Soul Snatcha. Did you see it coming? Getting into a relationship, talk more of an engagement, was the last thing I saw coming with regards to my friendship with Soul Snatcha. We have been friends for over 20 years and have worked on so many projects together, including my song, Taka Sufe. We even supported each other’s first marriages as we got married in the same year (2011). But, life happened. I went through a divorce and he lost his wife to cancer. God then decided to settle us in one family. I was just being a caring friend; out on holidays in the United Kingdom, dropping in to check on my friend and help out with the kids as much as I could, especially during the COVID-19 lockdown. I even had plans to relocate to the United States of America once the lockdown was over as I had a job offer there but God had other plans. Like we both say, God literally threw us at each other when we weren’t even looking. God wanted us to build a loving home for these kids and also become a great team for his kingdom. We didn’t know how much we needed each other until God opened our eyes beyond our friendship and we are forever grateful to our Father who brought us together. For me, getting married again is a blessing and a new opportunity for me to get it right this time. God has added more to me as I am going to be the bonus mum of four adorable children whom I love so much. Their (late) mum, Jennifer, was a sweet friend of mine and I am honoured to continue her legacy and wishes for these children. Finding love again, especially after a divorce or loss of a spouse, can be quite difficult but we had to let go of our fears and trust God completely. We had to allow ourselves to fall in love again and move forward into a new beginning. And, it has been the best decision ever. It is believed that celebrity marriages regularly have issues. Do you have any intention of keeping your marriage out of the public eye? The truth is many marriages have issues, even the ones that are not in the public eye, so it is really not about the visibility but about the two people involved. For us, we are not hiding from the public. We even want to share our personal truths, some advice and tips from our lives to inspire other families and relationships out there. That’s why we started our ‘Meet the Snatchas’ podcast and YouTube channel. Ever since the news of our personal situations and even that of our engagement got out, we have been getting numerous messages and handling closed-door counselling for many individuals who are going through similar situations and need someone to talk to. We know God has also placed a new mantle on us in this new direction and we just want to walk in it and help as many people as we can. Which artiste do you look forward to performing with that you have not had the opportunity to? I had so many on my list but I have been crossing them out over the years. Over the years, I have had the chance to minister and perform alongside people I admire and love dearly, including Kirk Franklin, Cece Winans, Donnie McClurkin, Fred Hammond and Todd Dulaney. I certainly look forward to meeting and working someday with my vocal mentor, Brandy. She (Brandy) has been a major influence on my vocal range and love for harmonies since I was a teenager and I hope we get to do something together someday. Another person I would love to work with is American artiste and producer, Timbaland. That would be super ‘lit’ (incredible). What are the limitations you face as a gospel singer? The major limitations are lack of sponsorships and endorsements from major brands. These would go a long way to help promote and develop gospel music. Gospel artistes are majorly independent artistes, working with their personal funds, which can only cover the basic minimum at the end of the day.  Sometimes, many artistes perform for free or for next to nothing, just to keep their brand visible. But, that doesn’t cover the production or promotion bills required to keep the music going and soon enough, some artistes fall off because they can’t keep up with the expenses. It is quite tough and we call for more support and sponsorship for the gospel music industry, and hope things get better soon. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com