Friends and families of Mubarak Sulayman, who was killed when armed robbers attacked a bullion van around Idi-Ape area of Ibadan, have mourned him. During the attack, the robbers killed two police officers, two civilians, and made away with unspecified amount of money, according to the Oyo State Police Command. Sulayman, who was reportedly hit by a stray bullet, was a trained biomedical scientist, Arabic Language tutor, consultant, and coach. The 37-year-old man was buried on Friday evening amidst tears by friends and relatives. His friends lamented Sulayman’s death, noting that he would be missed. One of them, Akinkunmi Akinpelu, hinted that the deceased had a premonition of his death. Akinpelu shared the last conversation with Sulayman, where the deceased requested to make payment for a service immediately. “I don’t do till-tomorrow business. I might die tomorrow,” part of the message read. While mourning the deceased, Akinpelu posted, “You said you might die before tomorrow, as if you had known that you were going to be killed today (Thursday). “We walk with our heads high up in the sky, unaware that one day we’ll be trapped six feet under the ground.” Ibrahim Ismail Ibrahim added, “Mubarak Sulayman was a vibrant scholar, who graduated from the University of Ibadan, and earned his postgraduate degree in the same university. “Our hearts ache for your departure, brother Mubarak. And we say nothing except what pleases our Lord.” Waliyulah Olayiwola wrote, “Mubarak Sulaiman Olanrewaju, your death came to me as a shock. I’ve been in tears and somehow, I find it hard to believe you have died. “I met you on February 7, and it felt as though we’ve known each other for ages. If we didn’t get to meet, I might not understand how wonderful you were.” A former gubernatorial aspirant on the platform of the Accord Party, Abideen Olaiya, said, “How will the much-touted multi-billion street lights and cameras help unravel the killers of Mubarak is my next concern. Security is the first duty of government!” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com