The Ooni Caucus, an advisory group led by the Ooni of Ife, Adeyeye Ogunwusi, met last week in Lagos over the prolonged detention of Yoruba nation activist, Sunday Igboho. Some of those in attendance were: former Governor Gbenga Daniel of Ogun State; DIG Taiwo Lakanu (retd.), Peoples Democratic Party candidate in the last governorship election, Jimi Agbaje; former Presidential Spokesman, Dr. Doyin Okupe; ex-Presidential Adviser, Akin Osuntokun; Dele Adesina (SAN), Mrs. Toyin Saraki, and nine others A top source said, “The Ooni commended us for the steps we are taking to ensure the safety and security of Sunday Igboho. It was resolved that further steps would be taken in this regard. We discussed the need for the Yoruba to present a united front ahead of the 2023 elections.” Igboho was detained in Benin Republic last July while on his way to Germany. The Federal Government and Igboho are currently in court over plans to repatriate him to Nigeria. Meanwhile, one person was feared killed and many injured on Saturday when armed thugs attacked the Soka residence of the Yoruba Nation agitator in Ibadan, Oyo State. Igboho’s lead lawyer, Yomi Aliyyu (SAN), confirmed the attack in a telephone interview with Sunday PUNCH on Saturday. Our correspondent also obtained footage video of the injured aides of the Yoruba Nation campaigner. One of those who survived the attacks was seen in the 37-minute video narrating how he and others were allegedly shot. Six men, who were drenched in their own blood, were seen being treated by an unidentified person. Speaking in Yoruba, one of them said, “These are the people that were wounded. Have you seen gun? Have you seen the gunshots on them? There are people that have died as a result of the attack. They came to attack chief’s house. Have you seen them? According to Aliyyu, the armed thugs stormed Igboho’s residence and macheted the associates of the Yoruba Nation campaigner, leaving one of his aides dead. He said the hoodlums attacked the same house of the agitator that the Department of State Services attacked on July 1, 2021. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Adewale Osifeso, did not take his calls which rang out. Reacting to the attack, the Agbekoya Farmers Society of Nigeria and the Yoruba Youth Socio-Cultural Association  described it as barbaric. The Secretary- General of society, Dr Adegbenro Ogunlana and the National President of YYSA, Olalekan Hammed  said those responsible for the action must be apprehended. They spoke in separate interviews with one of our correspondents.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com