The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) said on Saturday that his regime was committed to partnering with the private sector to revamp the nation’s ailing economy. Buhari stated this at the 43rd Kaduna International Trade Fair organised by the Kaduna Chamber of Commerce Industries, Mines and Agriculture held at the fair complex along the Kaduna-Zaria highway in the state. The President also said that the regime was deploying efforts to build and strengthen resilience in key sectors which would strengthen Nigeria’s economic security. The President represented at the event by the Minister of Trade and Investment, Otunba Adebayo, reiterated Federal Government’s commitment in partnering with the private sector in realising it’s vision of a strong and resilient economy. He said, “The recent COVID-19 Pandemic, and its attendant effects on crude oil prices, foreign exchange and investment inflows has shown that there is need to urgently reconsider and modify the thinking on investment led by comparative advantage only, in order to guarantee Nigeria’s economic security. “Our need to drive job-intensive economic growth means that we have to enable investment in areas with high potential for job creation and reducing the demand for foreign exchange. While it also serves as an opportunity to change the country narrative to become less vulnerable to incidents which was not created.” Buhari commended the Kaduna government for being one of the most frequently mentioned destinations for investors, for implementing innovative ways and KADCCIMA on the occasion of the 43rd fair. Earlier, the Governor of Kaduna state, Nasir El-Rufai, who was represented by the Commissioner, Business, Innovation and Technology, Kabiru Mato commended KADCCIMA for the annual event which he said would provide opportunities for company to showcase their products to boost state economy. El-Rufai also said the state has been making deliberate efforts in the empowerment of youth and women across the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com