Ministries, departments and agencies are to ensure a 70 per cent implementation of the newly approved Biosecurity Policy and Action Plan 2022-2026, the Federal Government announced on Tuesday. Minister of State for Environment, Chief Sharon Ikeazor, who announced the target at the unveiling and public presentation of the biosecurity policy in Abuja, said implementing the action plan would ensure environmental and biological safety in Nigeria. She said, “At the end of 2026, we are expected as a nation to have significantly improve our national biosecurity system through the sincere and efficient implementation of the National Biosecurity Policy and Action Plan. “To this end, we have benchmarked a success rate of 70 per cent and I know that we can achieve it. “On our part as a ministry through the National Biosafety Management Agency, we will immediately liaise with the national planning team to develop an evaluation template and as well put in motion a facilitation mechanism for the implementation of the policy and its action plans.” Ikeazor explained that in a bid to secure the health of Nigerians and their immediate environments from biological threats, and sustain socio-economic development, the government conceived the framework for the policy. She said this was through a legal mandate to ensure the prevention, detection and rapid response to bio-threats, adding that in 2019 the President assented to the bill amending the National Biosafety Management Agency Act (2015). She said the amendment include putting measures in place to ensure biosecurity in Nigeria, mandating the NBMA to coordinate issues of biosecurity in Nigeria. “Biosecurity is a strategic and integrated approach that encompasses the policy and regulatory frameworks (including instruments and activities) that analyse and manage risks in the sectors of food safety, animal life and health, plant life and health, including associated environmental risk,” Ikeazor stated. She added, “It focuses not only on preventing the loss, theft, misuse, diversion, or intentional release of pathogens, toxins, and other related assets against humans, animals, plants, and the environment, but also include putting measures in place to mitigate naturally occurring and emerging infectious diseases.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com