THE SUPER FALCONS will hope to get the job done when they face Ivory Coast in the second fixture of their 2022 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations second leg qualifier on Wednesday (today), The PUNCH reports. The second leg fixture is scheduled for the Stade Robert Champroux in Abidjan on Wednesday. Nigeria head into this encounter with a 2-0 goal lead after they edged the Lady Elephants in the first leg at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja last Friday to put one leg into the 12th WAFCON finals in Morocco. A brace by US-based forward Ifeoma Onumonu put the nine-time African champions in a commanding position, but they are aware of the wounded Ivoirians, who defeated Niger 20-0 to book a place in the final phase of the qualifiers. Nigeria have never missed out of the WAFCON since its inception in 1991 and will be aiming for a 12th appearance in Morocco. The Falcons are by far the most successful team in the tournament, having won it for a record nine times, but they must overcome the daunting task of defeating the in-form Lady Elephants to stand the chance of defending the title they last won in Ghana in 2018. Speaking ahead of the game, Falcons coach Randy Waldrum remains confident of his side’s qualification. “I feel positive about the second leg. I know and respect that the Ivoirians are fully capable of getting results at home, so, we would prepare to get a good result as well,” he was quoted as saying by NAN. “From the game in Abuja, we understood that the Ivoirians want to be physical, want to foul, want to disrupt the game and more, but what we tell our players was not to allow any of those to affect them. “We have a go in there on the front foot and not sit back and try to hold our 2-0 lead; but to get a goal and make it difficult for them. “We will go after the win and grind results.” The Falcons will however be without their captain, Asisat Oshoala, who will be out of action for 10 weeks following a muscular injury. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com