Former Governor of Imo State and Senator representing Imo West, Rochas Okorocha, tells SOLOMON ODENIYI about his presidential ambition and charges against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, among other issues The rising case of political violence in Gombe State appears to be an indication that the 2023 general election could degenerate to a free-for-all if measures are not taken to halt the trend, writes CHIMA AZUBUIKE DESPITE being in the centre of the North-East and experienced serious security challenges, Gombe State has managed to sustain peace across all fronts. A mere mention of the region usually sends apprehensive thoughts about the safety of dwellers. Before now, in Gombe State, naysayers have been disappointed over the years as the people enjoyed relative peace in their environment. But currently, things are no longer the way it used to be as politics of bitterness seems to have mixed with the simple culture of friendliness Gombe people are known for. The two major political parties in the state; the All Progressives Congress (the ruling party) and the Peoples Democratic Party (the main opposition party), are getting set for the 2023 elections, but without debilitating rancour. Though there has been the argument that the political violence gaining ground in the state was as a result of intra-party disagreement, it is, however, shocking to see property being set ablaze for political reasons by thugs hired by unscrupulous politicians. The first ill-wind was said to have blown on November 5, 2021 when Danjuma Goje, a former governor of the state who came to power on the platform of the PDP, now a senator representing Gombe Central, and currently a chieftain of the APC, was alleged to have been attacked when he returned to the state after months of absence. According to the Gombe State Police Command, the incident left one person dead with some others injured, and some property damaged. The violence sparked accusations and counter-accusations between the state government and Goje’s camp, even as the people continue to wait for the findings of an investigation into the matter. At a recent defection rally in Bajoga, Funakaye Local Government Area of the state, about 11,000 people were said to have defected from the governing APC to the opposition PDP. In what seemed like a movie, some unidentified youths were seen chasing those making entry into the venue, destabilising the event in the process. According to the state Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Usman Muritala, the youths in the opposition party overpowered the hoodlums, chased them out and continued their programme. He alleged that the perpetrators were sponsored by the APC to scuttle their event, adding that the APC had become fidgety about its (PDP) relevance and acceptance by the people. Muritala said, “How can the PDP attack the PDP, judging from scenarios that happened in other parts of the state which are related to thuggery. There was a time hoodlums attacked the PDP office in Gombe Local Government Area; there was a time a serving senator, on arrival in Gombe, was attacked. Was it the PDP that attacked him? This government wants to bring thuggery into the state. We are very sure that APC hoodlums went to Funakaye to burn the venue of the defection and rally. “The PDP youths overpowered and chased the thugs away from the venue. That was how we were able to continue with our programme. We were not there for violence but rather for jubilation. On the day of election, let us see if thuggery can return them to power.” Apart from this, thugs suspected to be working for politicians set ablaze the APC stand at Shongo Idrisa along Airport Road, the PDP state secretariat adjacent Bauchi Park and the property housing Atiku for President 2023 North-East Business Community along Bauchi/Gombe Expressway. This happened between January 31, 2022 and February 1, 2022. The state PDP Chairman, Maj. Gen. Abner Kwaskebe (retd.), explained that he had called on his party members not to retaliate. He restated his confidence in the security agencies ability to unravel those behind the attacks. Kwaskebe, who bemoaned the sad occurrence, described the inferno as one phase of politics which might not be pleasant. “Our office was under attack; it was set ablaze by unknown persons. It is politics and politics has different phases; it will come so sweet, so difficult and sometimes so violent. We have witnessed a violent approach to politics which is not the best. We have appealed to our members to calm down and not to take laws into their own hands. Arson is not accepted in our laws, you can’t come and see a place like this and set it on fire. Definitely, the law will take its course,” he said. Also, Aliyu Adamu, the Coordinator, North-East Business Communities, Atiku for President 2023, described the incident as unfortunate. He said, “In the early, hours around 2am, we got a call from our watchman that some hoodlums came here and vandalised our office.” Though he could not immediately estimate the cost of damaged property as a result of the attack, Adamu stressed that his principal, Atiku Abubakar, enjoyed good relationship with stakeholders in the state. On his part, the state APC Publicity Secretary, Moses Kyari, dismissed insinuations that the hoodlums were sponsored by his political party, noting that his party also suffered loss during the attack. He added that the PDP was in disarray due to utterances of governorship aspirants within its fold. Kyari revealed that the APC office was attacked earlier by those he claimed were identified by the closed-circuit camera. “There is a tiny line with what transpired; our own office was also burnt at about 12 midnight and as the act was been perpetrated, we had footages of who carried out the attack. “Their own office they claimed was burnt around 2am by unknown people, possibly members of the PDP, but for us, we have video clips of who burnt our office and we have presented it to the police. The APC has no hand in the burning of the PDP state secretariat.” Commenting on the attacks on Atiku’s campaign office, the PDP secretariat and the destruction of the APC stand, Gombe’s Commanding Officer, Federal Fire Service, Jonas Ayuba, said the incidents were not normal suggesting that it was caused by individuals. Ayuba revealed that it was as a result of human activities, thereby ruling out the possibility of an accident. He added, “The fire incidents are not from natural cause,” he said. Also, the state Police Commissioner, Ishola Babaita, revealed that investigation had commenced into ascertaining the cause of the outbreaks at the secretariats and the stand. Babaita noted that no arrests had been made so far, stressing that efforts were on to forestall a reoccurrence. “We have commenced investigation; it can’t be natural, the fire can’t be natural,” he added. While urging political parties to eschew violence, the state police boss asked parents to monitor the activities of their wards in order not to become willing tools in the hands of politicians. “The command is using this medium to warn any person or group of persons to know that it is not yet time for political campaigns; anyone found under any guise will be dealt with within the ambit of the law. All aggrieved parties should remain calm and law abiding and give cooperation to the Command while effort is in top gear to unravel those behind the heinous act,” Babaita added. Speaking on the situation, the Commissioner for Information, Julius Ishaya, who spoke on behalf of the state government, condemned the attacks. He noted that government would not condone those he described as been desperate for power, with high drive for the state’s treasury. Ishaya said, “Government of Gombe State condemns in strongest terms the ugly activities of some political thugs acting under the clear instruction and supervision of the enemies of the peace-loving people and government of Gombe State by setting ablaze the APC office and another political party’s office. This show of desperation is the trade mark of some power and blood-thirsty people who lost control of the state treasury and are hell bent on returning, and have resorted to unleashing violence on the peaceful polity of the state which is the envy of other states. The state Governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, upon return from his 30-day vacation, decried the recent happenings in the state. The governor, who received a rousing welcome from his supporters, promised to flush out miscreants in the state. Although Yahaya didn’t visit the PDP secretariat or the Atiku campaign office to register his displeasure, condemned the attacks and those involved. He said, “You can see that the conduct of the youths has been very well today. As far as I am concerned, we shall continue that fight and very soon, there will be no thuggery in Gombe State.” However, a good governance activist, Abubakar Abubakar, said it was practically impossible for the two major political parties to suffer loss almost at the same time, stressing that it might be an attempt to draw sympathy from unsuspecting followers in the state. Abubakar said, “Without trying to jeopardise the investigation by security agencies, this may be another Hitler’s Reichstag experience in Gombe, where they burnt their property themselves in an attempt to get support from the electorate. The fire attacks may be a scam, sort of mismanaged. These politicians can do anything for power. How can the PDP secretariat suffer destruction of equipment, Atiku campaign office suffer same and the APC office destroyed in a space of hours? Everyone (political party) burnt their own office.” Abubakar refuted insinuations that the perpetrators were imported simply for the act, adding that there were individuals with multiple political membership. “There is no difference between PDP and APC, both have same members. There are those who wake up carrying APC cards and sleep with the PDP in mind. It is possible that one of them came with the idea, and it leaked to the others through those with multiple membership and it was jointly done. As funny as Abubakar’s position may sound, one wonders what the motive could be. How come the incident took place at selected venues, almost at the same time,” Abubakar queried. Corroborating the perspectives of Abubakar, a public affairs analyst, DanAlhaji Usman described the attacks on party structures as the height of desperation. Usman said election should be won based on appeal, which is spurred by performances for the APC that is currently in charge of affairs of the state and the antecedent of what the PDP was known for while it dominated the political landscape of the state. He said, “It can only be sanctioned by them (political leaders). I doubt if any of them would attempt to tamper with the other. It is an insider’s job and the purpose simply is to get the sympathy of the people. They seem to forget that there are other means to secure the trust of the people.” Presumably, the public would be told this time about the findings; as they continue to wait for the report especially as police authorities dig deeper into unravelling the real reasons behind the attacks, the perpetrators, their sponsors. The voters are patiently interested in knowing who to vilify or sympathise with. However, a development expert, Abdullahi Hussaini, expressed fear about the possible violence in the state during the 2023 elections if nothing was done to stop the current trend of aggression among the youths. Hussaini revealed that the recent occurrence was passing wrong message to the people, stressing that the discussion within the community had changed to how to protect their ballot. He said, “There will be serious violence; ordinary citizens are willing to take arm during the election and anyone that comes as a political thug to destroy election materials, they will kill the person. When the PDP secretariat, APC office were destroyed, I said it categorically on Civil Society Platform that we need to intensify sensitisation in collaboration with religious and traditional leaders of our youths. Hussaini blamed government for not empowering the local governments to play its role, stressing that such has an overwhelming consequence on youths. “The current administration wants to remain in power by fire or by force. If you gather 10 persons together, eight are tired of the government. If we have 20 persons, 16 are tired. There is acute poverty in the state; there is also rural-urban migration. It is too much in the state because the local government does not have autonomy of its own as they can’t give out contracts for project,” Hussaini said. Also, another public affairs analyst, Atiku Yahaya bemoaned the attacks, saying the timing was a cause for concern. He said, “It’s not really a good time as we have some few months to go into the general elections and these things are happening. Unfortunately, there is no logical explanation as to why they are happening. Nobody has been apprehended. It is not good at all.” He noted that the people should be sensitised in order to become knowledgeable on the need for peaceful election. Yahaya added, “There should be more engagement for the youths and those out of school. Sensitisation and awareness should be increased, particularly on civic education. There should be deliberate efforts by civil society to use the mass media to bring awareness to the people about the need for peaceful election, emphasising that election is not a do-or-die affair; it will go a long way to curb the violence.” On his part, a senior lecturer at the Department of Public Administration, Gombe State University, Dr. Oladimeji Lawal, dismissed insinuations that the 2023 election could be marred by violence. Lawal, who is the immediate past chairperson, Academic Staff Union of Universities, GSU chapter, said the gale of violence in the state was disturbing, but added that it would be curtailed before 2023 elections. Lawal said, “Those disturbing reports are regrettable and should be denounced in whatever form. Government has a responsibility to fish out the perpetrators if they constitute act of sabotage, but I really do not think such incidences are in any way indication of violence or will take a violent dimension in 2023.” He stated that the incidence might have two root causes, stressing that the time for campaign was yet to be approved by the electoral umpire. He said, “I don’t think so, these incidences could be intra-party issues; people within the same political party that are causing the trouble. Sometimes, it can be inter-party related, but why should it be inter-party related? While INEC has not officially declared the commencement of electioneering process for the 2023 election, politicians have started positioning themselves with the hope that they will be candidates of their party. The time of election is far to think we will have a violent 2023 election; I don’t want to think so.” Lending his voice to the matter, the Director, National Youth Mobilisation of the African Democratic Congress, Zakari Garba, said the 2023 election may be in jeopardy if care was not taken. He bemoaned the increasing level of desperation by politicians in the quest to remain relevant, urging them to be selfless and pursue greater good. Garba said, “The 2023 election is seriously at risk. The two major political parties are so desperate to control the resources of the state. The governor is desperate to retain power. Also, the opposition PDP is also desperate to defeat him.” He further questioned the authenticity of the claim of inter-party squabble as the reason for the violence adding, “The APC obviously can’t attack the PDP secretariat, no one can just access that place without being a member and just burn the office. It is a place where some of their thugs sit always. So, it more like a set-up.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com