The Edo State Government has restated its commitment to the fight against all forms of crime in the state, noting that the government is strengthening its security architecture and improving collaboration among agencies to enhance security across Edo communities. The State Coordinator, Edo Security Network, Yusuf Haruna, who spoke to journalists in Benin City, said the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led state government remains committed to the security of lives and property of citizens. Haruna spoke when he received a letter of complaint from some protesters from 14 communities in Ovia North East Local Government Area of the state over disturbances by the increasing activities of bandits in their communities, at the Government House, Benin City. He said, “The governor has put so many things in place to check criminality and secure the lives and property of Edo indigenes and whoever chooses to live in Edo. “Among them is the operation Wabaizigan security architecture and the community vigilante security network and these are working effectively. “However, we still have these pockets of criminals who have sneaked into Edo and as we speak, a combined operation of security forces, including vigilante, and local hunters are going on across our communities, including some parts of Ovia North East where you came from.” He added, “The governor is not resting and is determined to flush out all the criminal elements in Edo and this we are doing. This complaint that you have brought is something of great concern to the governor and government of Edo State. “Remember that the first time we received a similar complaint, the governor mandated all the security forces to visit some of these communities and that was done. “Your presence here today is a call to strengthen our response and the government is serious about securing your lives and property.” On his part, the spokesperson for the team, Johnbull Ewareme, commended the governor for his massive infrastructural development across the state, urging him on the need to strengthen security across the state to ensure the safety of lives and property of residents. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com