The Indigenous People of Biafra has raised concern over the health condition of its detained leader, Nnamdi Kanu. The group in a statement on Tuesday by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, said it was no longer sure of the state of health of Kanu. It challenged the Department of State Services to open up and tell the world why it was shielding Kanu from his family and lawyers. The group also said the Federal Government and the security agencies should know that Kanu, as a prisoner of conscience, should not be treated anyhow, adding that the best option left was to release him unconditionally or bear the consequences of keeping him in custody for so long. It warned that if anything untoward happened to the IPOB leader, the Federal Government and its security agencies should be held responsible for the bitter consequences of such an avoidable scenario. The group stated, “Our attention has been drawn to the refusal by the DSS in Abuja to allow family members and lawyer to our leader, Nnamdi Kanu, during routine visitation in the DSS custody on Monday. “We also recall that the DSS did not also allow family members and lawyers access to our leader last Thursday when they went to see him. Our legal team visited the DSS office in Abuja on Thursday last week, but the DSS refused to allow them to see our leader. Again, on Monday, they denied them access to our leader. “For now we are not sure of his state of health, if he is still alive at all. The DSS should open up and tell the world why they are shielding our leader from the family and lawyers. Have they eliminated him? “We are informing the international community and all diplomatic missions in Abuja to be aware of the provocative actions of the DSS. Nobody should blame IPOB for anything, because the Federal Government and its security agencies have pushed us to the wall enough.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com