The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi has hailed the MTN Foundation for donating mobile ambulances and clinics to the state government. Abayomi, at the handover event, said one of the six Y’ello Doctor Mobile clinics would provide health care services to communities in the state. He said rural communities, semi-urban communities, and markets in the state would receive free medical services including medical screening, diagnosis, consultations, treatment, drug prescription, vaccination as well as referral services through the Y’ello Doctor initiative by the MTN Foundation. “We are grateful to the MTN Foundation for this initiative, and their collaboration with the Market doctors, as this, will help strengthen our primary healthcare platform. “The initiative in partnership with the State Ministry of Health will aid the government in achieving its goal to provide access to health services for all Lagosians, especially those in the rural communities,” Abayomi said. The Director of MTN Foundation, Dennis Okoro, said the Y’ello Doctor project was one of the ways MTN Nigeria was supporting the government’s efforts in health care and improving health services for Nigerians. He said, “The foundation is focused on communities, and that is the one way we feel we can assist the government in their assignment. We come in where we feel we should render assistance. “The Y’ello Doctor project buttresses what the foundation does to contribute to the common growth of the nation.  The mobile medical outreach focuses on the treatment of the regular basic diseases like Malaria, diarrhoea, respiratory tract infection, screening for diabetes, HIV, hepatitis, general consultancy, and COVID-19 vaccination.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com