LEICESTER CITY fans have reacted to reports linking Aston Villa with a £50m summer bid for Wilfred Ndidi. Steven Gerrard’s side are desperate to sign a defensive midfielder in the summer and are reportedly willing to pay £50m for the Nigerian, who has made 200 appearances for the Foxes, according to the Daily Star. The fans of the Foxes are pleased to see the Villans make an offer for the midfielder and will be happy to see him sold for that record fee. Ndidi has been a key player for City since his move to the club in January 2017, amassing 200 games for the club, with 10 goals and 11 assists. The Nigeria international will have two years left on his current deal when the summer transfer window opens. Amid reports over Ndidi’s future and what would be a shock move by Villa, Foxes fans have reacted on social media with a clear message to the club to accept the offer for the Nigerian. @Mr_Evans1914 wrote on Twitter, “Time to cash in. He isn’t the player he was.” @CasuaIFox also added, “I know we’re bad at the moment but there’s just no way any Leicester player would ever leave us for Villa. But a bid of £50m looks good for him.” Sami Best also wrote via his handle @RaxM__ “I honestly think he’s a better central defender because he’s not a great ball player, he’s a midfielder that can’t pass the halfway line; I think Fofana would be a better defensive midfielder. Sell him please.” Ryan Campbell via @Foxes1884 wrote, “I’m with him moving to a progressive forward-looking club. He doesn’t need to waste the short years available at a club in decline going nowhere under a manager who has lost his way. They should accept the bid and allow him move. @IrthlingboroughFox also added, “I could understand if Ndidi wants to move to a Champions League club, but neither West Ham nor Aston Villa are likely not to qualify more than the odd time. We should try not to sell to our direct rivals in the league. However £50m is close to his top value. We’d be lucky to get that much for him.” @Rickyboy58, wrote, “Maguire was worth the money at that time, but he’s not now. I’d be surprised if Leicester City doesn’t agree.” Should the move materialise in the summer, the 25-year-old will become Aston Villa’s most expensive player in the history of the club. Aston Villa had splashed £34.56m on Emiliano Buendia, signing him from Norwich last year, the highest they’ve ever paid for a player. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com