A lecturer at the University of Lagos, Tunde Folorunsho, has received a refund of N6m from a landowner, Rasheed Adetokunbo, after the latter refused to hand over a piece of land the don bought from him in 2021. PUNCH Metro had reported that Adetokunbo refused to grant possession of the land to Folorunsho, who paid N6m into his company account, Butos Ventures Limited. The land was said to be located on Adetokunbo Street, Baruwa-Cardoso, Ipaja. However, Folorunsho accused the landowner of denying him access to the property despite receiving payment, issuing him a receipt and signing a deed of assignment to him. The 41-year-old said after Adetokunbo defaulted on the agreement, his (Folorunsho) lawyer petitioned him and the landowner promised to grant possession to him on or before December 31, 2021. He explained that he was waiting to be granted possession when Adetokunbo’s lawyer wrote a petition against him to the Zone 2 Police Command. In a bid to get justice, Folorunsho reported the matter to PUNCH Metro. Following a report by our correspondent, Folorunsho said Adetokunbo refunded his money and promised to pay for other expenses incurred on the land. He said, “After the report, Alhaji Rasheed Adetokunbo called me and said he was ready to refund the N6m and all other money I expended on the land, but I did not agree. “The police called us to come around for the matter to be resolved and when we got to the Zone 2 Police Command, he (Adetokunbo) didn’t show up; he told the police he lost his dad. “The police gave us a week’s interval for another meeting. Surprisingly, on Friday, I received an alert of N6m from him. He paid using the same account I paid into. “I called him about the money and equally told him I was not selling the land, but he pleaded that he was ready to refund all the expenses as he did not want to release the land and I told him that I would get back to him through the agents.” Folorunsho said he spent about N3m on the land, including payment for government survey, ratification, federal government building approval permit and certificate of occupancy. “I am ready to let go if he is willing to pay the money,” he added. The lecturer thanked PUNCH Newspapers for coming to his rescue. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com