Regional Scrum Gathering Nigeria has said stakeholders in the financial sector will brainstorm on how to boost competitive advantage for Nigeria and Africa. It said in a statement that a former Chairman of First Bank, Ibukun Awosika, and Iyinoluwa Aboyeji of Flutterwave would be among the 15 speakers at its upcoming Agility Conference 2022 with the theme, ‘Agility for competitive advantage – Africa time is now’. The organiser, Aanu Gopald, said the event would be virtual, with thought-provoking sessions. She said during the 2022 Regional Scrum Gathering, individuals would be empowered and get assistance and answers on concerns about how to create positive innovative disruptions in Africa. She said, “The conference is in collaboration with the Scrum Alliance to bring together like-minded professionals in both private and public sectors from across the globe. “Each day features industry leaders, Agile and technology experts sharing their expertise on how to unlock the enormous potentials of Nigeria and Africa into an era of agility-driven growth, prosperity, economic development and pride. “Those that are new to Agile, get ready for three days of disruptive ideas and ground-breaking insights as we bring together the most revolutionary minds on how Nigeria, Africa can innovate faster than any other continent in the world.” Gopald said that Agile professionals attending the conference will earn Scrum Education Units that can be applied to Scrum Alliance and PMI certification renewal. She said the conference would provide a platform for disruptive ideas and ground-breaking insights. Gopald said, “In this era of unprecedented change, the ability for Africa to move faster than the global market in day-to-day decision making and capability development has become a competitive advantage.” “We bring together the most revolutionary minds on how Nigeria, Africa can innovate faster than any other continent in the world.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com