The All Progressives Congress has screened the three governorship aspirants ahead of the February 19 primary election in Osun State. The aspirants include the incumbent governor, Gboyega Oyetola, former Deputy Speaker of House of Representatives, Yusuff Lasun, and former Secretary to the State Government, Moshood Adeoti who recently returned to the ruling APC in June 2020, from the Action Democratic Party. The three aspirants were screened at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja by a seven-man committee led by Osagie Iyamu, on Thursday. Speaking to Correspondents after the screening, Oyetola said his delivery in the past three years in office will guarantee his victory come July 16. According to him, “Let me say this, my performance in office (in all areas of endeavour, in the area of infrastructure, health, education, security, and the economy) as I speak today is enough for me to win the primary in the party and to win the election. “That means by every standard, we have done so well. So given the fact that within the last three and a half years I have been able to justify the confidence reposed in me by the people. “I have been very much involved in the party, right from the time of AD till date. I’m not a novice when it comes to the issue of party. If my performance speaks for me, that is good and fine.” Quizzed about his preparedness for the primary, he said, “I have been going round to talk to members of the party in all the local governments. As of yesterday out of thirty, we have visited about eighteen of the local government areas and we will continue with the strategic engagements starting from tomorrow (Friday). So that is to show you the fact that I don’t want to take anything for granted. “This is an election that is among members of the party so I will need their endorsement to be able to fly the flag of the party. I have been going around to ask for the support of the members of the party in all the local governments of the state. So I’m prepared.” Speaking about the standing of his two contenders, Lasun and Adeoti, the governor said, “I don’t want to go into individuals, believe me, but if you have visited Osun recently you should be able to answer the question by yourself. We have done very well so I can never be threatened by anybody coming in. I am always the aspirant to beat any time any day.” Oyetola’s bid comes amidst approval from the Oluwo of Iwo, Abdulrasheed Akanbi, who on Monday, charged the people of the town to vote for the incumbent governor. Adeoti who also hails from Iwo town, defected from the APC to ADP ahead of the 2018 election. But he later returned in 2020 vowing not to leave the party, even if he does not scale through the primary. He said, “I won’t leave APC. I was the party chairman in AD and later in ACN till 2010 before I was appointed as the secretary to the governor. I left then because of what they did to me as a foremost chieftain of the party not just in Osun but in the entire South-West.” Adeoti, however, affirmed that he has since petitioned the party over the change of date of the primary election and Oyetola’s eligibility to run for a second term. Meanwhile, the third governorship hopeful, Lasun, did not address correspondents as he scurried out of the national secretariat immediately after the screening. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com