The Enugu State Local Government election conducted on Wednesday across the 17 council areas and 260 electoral wards was marred by apathy and violence. This was as journalists covering the election were attacked and two reportedly abducted by gunmen in the state capital. The PUNCH gathered that hoodlums attacked the residence of the Special Adviser to the Governor, Humphrey Onyima, in Mgbowo in Awgu Local Government Area and the chairmanship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in Aninri council area, Benneth Aja. While no life was lost in both incidents, it was gathered that the hoodlums set ablaze Aja’s house while Onyima’s residence was vandalised. The two incidents reportedly occurred on Tuesday night. Locals who spoke to our correspondent on the phone said the hoodlums, referred to as ‘Unknown government,’ stormed the Okpu, Ekoli mansion of the Port Harcourt-based business magnate in their numbers and set the building on fire. An eyewitness stated, “The hoodlums had two days earlier gone round with town-criers in virtually all the communities in Aninri and Awgu LGs, warning that anyone who came out to participate in the election would be dealt with. “So, I think the attacks were premeditated and they attacked the victims’ properties without any challenge.” It was learnt that the election didn’t take place in most polling units across the state, including in Mgbowo and Aninri. Our correspondent who monitored the exercise in Emene, Mbulu Ojodo ward 20, polling units 11 to 15 located at the Practicing Primary Schools reported that less than 50 voters participated in the exercise. At Emmanuel Church polling units 8 to 10, few people came out but the electoral officials were not seen up till 12pm when the reporter left the location. Meanwhile, unknown gunmen have reportedly kidnapped two journalists with the Enugu State Broadcasting Service while covering the poll. It was gathered that the news crew from comprising a driver, cameraman and three reporters were attacked at Obeagu Awkunanaw in Enugu South LGA along Agbani road. Two reporters, Chiamaka Ezeaputa, Chigozie Alex-Nwafor and their driver, Ebuka Ogbozor were said to have escaped by whiskers while Fred Nnaji and Monday Ogbodo were abducted. Although the two abductees were reportedly released hours after, their gadgets, including their phones were said to have been taken away by the hoodlums. The victims were treated at the Enugu State Teaching Hospital, Parklane. The police spokesman, Daniel Ndukwe, could not be reached for comment on the incidents. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com