The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday said his regime was tackling insurgency in the North-East and parts of the North Central with full force. This was as he said that his government would continue to cooperate with the affected States to confront the challenges head-on. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, disclosed this in a statement he signed late on Thursday titled, ‘President Buhari hails Nasarawa governor for complementing FG’s effort on infrastructure development.’ Buhari, who was on a two-day state visit to Nasarawa, said this during a State dinner in his honour, after inaugurating six strategic projects executed by the State and Federal Government in Lafia, the capital of Nasarawa State. They include the Lafia Airport, Modern Bus Terminal, Vocational and Skills Acquisition Centre, and the Shinge-Barkini Abdullahi-Kilema road, executed by the State Government. The Federal Government projects commissioned by the President on the first day of his visit are 330kva Power Substation and the Central Bank of Nigeria building in Lafia. Reassuring Nigerians of his regime’s commitment to intensify efforts at securing lives and property, the President said, “The insurgency in the North-west and parts of North-central is being tackled with full force. We shall continue to cooperate with the affected States to confront the challenges head-on.” He urged Nigerians to support the regime, pledging, ‘‘We will not rest on our achievements but will continue in our drive to secure, safeguard and develop Nigeria.” On peace and security, the President commended the Governor for ensuring the sustenance of peace and harmonious cohabitation of the diverse ethnic groups in the State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com