The Lagos Deep Offshore Logistics on Wednesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Samsung Heavy Industries to resolve a five-year land lease dispute. The dispute began in 2018 when the Nigeria Port Authority purportedly and unilaterally revoked the Presidential 25-year lease approval granted to LADOL, replacing it with a direct lease in 2019, according to the Nigerian Export Processing Zones Authority. NEMSA said the NPA, by this action, claimed to have taken a portion of land from LADOL and leased it to Samsung. It noted that the controversy led to the closure of business activities in the zone by both firms with over 3,000 jobs lost, halting of economic value chains and other losses that have stiffened free flow of revenues to government and further investments. The agency said in view of the impacts the dispute had on the country’s industrialisation process, another Presidential directive was issued in 2020 to reaffirm the 2018 presidential approval of the land to LADOL. It said following directives by the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, the acting Managing Director of NPA, Mr Mohammed Bello, engaged parties to the dispute to implement the presidential directive. Speaking at the event held in Abuja, the Chairman and founder of the LADOL Group, Ladi Jadesimi, expressed delight over the signing of the MoU, saying the conflict had been completely resolved as a result of the meeting. He said, “The meeting today is to bring an end to the dispute between the LADOL Group and Samsung Heavy Industries which has been lingering. It was critical that it is sorted out and now it is completely resolved. “We were able to resolve it peacefully to make for a stronger venture going forward. It was a commercial dispute and it has been completely resolved in the interest of the Nigerian economy.” On his part, the Managing Director, Nigerian Export Processing Zones Authority, Adesoji Adesugba, said the resolution of the dispute would unlock investments worth over $7bn and create jobs for over 10,000 Nigerians. He said, “This dispute has locked up in value investment worth over $7bn. So, the outcome is that investment worth over $7bn has been unlocked for the Nigerian economy and employment of our teeming youths is also unlocked. “Going forward, we will not only employ 3,000; we expect, with the kind of investment coming in, over 10,000 employed Nigerians. “We have finished most of the negotiations and operations have started and we expect that we will start seeing visible results in a couple of months in terms of employment and projects.” Adesugba said the Federal Government would continue to monitor the agreement to ensure that the parties live up to expectations.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com