The Defence Headquarters has said troops’ offensive operation in the northern part of the country has led to the killing of over 120 terrorists and the arrest of 50 others in three weeks. It also said no fewer than 965 Boko Haram /Islamic State’s West Africa Province terrorists surrendered with the period. The Director, Defence Media Operations, Major General Bernard Onyeuko, who disclosed this during a briefing in Abuja, on Thursday, said a senior ISWAP commander, Mallam Ari, the Amirul Fiya in charge of Kirta Wulgo, and some foreign mercenaries fabricating Improvised Explosive Devices for the terrorists were killed during airstrikes in the period under review. Onyeuko stated that the troops also destroyed ISWAP armoury and warehouse, and arrested several terrorists, while assorted arms and ammunition were recovered in addition to gun trucks and other weapons. He said, “Cumulatively, the troops, within the period under review, neutralised 120 fighters, arrested 50 of the terrorists, captured five gun trucks, 50 assorted arms, and 200 rounds of different calibres of ammunition from the terrorists. Additionally, the troops rescued 25 abducted civilians. “Similarly, a total of 965 terrorists and their families, and 550 children surrendered to troops deployed in a different location, including Gamboru, Tumbumma, Kukawa, Baga, Gwoza, Mallam Fotori, Damboa, Kirta Wulgo, Bun Yadi, Gujiba and Madiya, all in Borno and Yobe states. In a related development, airstrikes conducted on ISWAP enclaves at Abbaganaram, Bukar Mairam, Chukum Gudu and Jubilaram in the Marte Local Government Area neutralised scores of terrorists, including high profile commanders, while about 25 terrorists got drowned in the lake in an attempt to escape the bombardment. “It is noteworthy to state that out of the 965 terrorists that surrendered within the period under review, 104 are from the ISWAP camp at Marte.” In the North-West, Onyeuko said troops’ operational efforts resulted in the recovery of 40 AK-47 rifles, 90 rustled livestock, assorted arms and 340 rounds of different calibres of ammunition, 45 motorcycles and decimation of scores of bandits. He added that the troops recovered 33 arms and 150 calibres of ammunition and 450 rustled livestock, among other items of security concern in the course of their operations. He added that troops of the Operation Delta Safe discovered and destroyed 45 illegal refining sites, 72 cooking ovens, 127 metal storage tanks, 30 dugout pits, 23 Cotonou boats, 47 pumping machines and nine tankers. Onyeuko also said the troops recovered 2,531,000 litres of illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil and 2,807,000 litres of stolen crude oil, 20 coolants and nine tankers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com