A socio-political group, under the auspices of the Yoruba Ronu Group, has warned against involving in campaign of calumny ahead of the forthcoming 2023 elections. Specifically, the group condemned some alleged sponsored online media attacks against one of the presidential aspirants and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu. The chairman of the group, Mr Diran Iyantan, in a statement, on Tuesday, said mischievous posts online had become a routine, alleging that the source of those publications is well known and traceable to certain misguided politicians and fake human rights crusaders. Iyatan said, “We have repeatedly stated in our previous releases that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s ambition does not stop other Yoruba or any South-West person from aspiring to the same position. We just feel that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has a better chance than anyone else at clinching the position which is the reason for our support for him. “It is, therefore, sad to see fellow Yoruba persons casting aspersions on the person of Jagaban for flying high the flag of the Yoruba race. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s interest after leaving office has been to help nurture and consolidate democracy in Nigeria. This, he has done, creditably, well. In addition, he has helped the progressives to attain the country’s presidency. “We are aware that the stakes are high as the presidential election approaches, and desperate politicians will resort to different gimmicks, basically, to rock the boat. Those who have committed themselves to a sustained campaign of calumny in the media against the person of Asiwaju Tinubu, the former Governor of Lagos State, will labour in vain and they are well known to us. “We are aware that these cowards and hack-writers have benefited from Asiwaju’s benevolence in the past, only to turn around and sponsor negative publications to impugn his reputation. We charge them to desist forthwith from such callousness because their duplicitous conduct will eventually hunt them down.” The group urged politicians to promote their political party interest, to conduct themselves with maturity, dignity and mutual respect in the interest of the people of Yoruba-land and, by extension, Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com