The Nigerian Army on Thursday said it raided the hideouts of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra and its militant wing, Eastern Security Network in Anambra and Imo states. It also disclosed that during the operations, one of the hoodlums was neutralised, while three suspects were arrested and several weapons recovered. A statement by the Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, also said troops busted an IPOB/ESN syndicate that disrupted Wednesday’s local government election conducted by the Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission. The statement read, “ The troops of 82 Division, Nigerian Army, on Wednesday, February 23, 2022, conducted operations to clear criminal havens, from where members of the Indigenous People of Biafra and its armed wing, Eastern Security Network operate at Azia, Orsumoghu, Lilu Forest, Mbosi and Uli in Ihiala and Orsu local government areas of Anambra and Imo states, respectively. “During the clearance operations, troops overpowered and routed the dissidents, who staged an ambush against the gallant troops. The troops then proceeded to clear Lilu Forest, where they were met with resistance from the outlawed group. “During the clearance operations, the troops uncovered decomposing remains of kidnapped and murdered victims dumped in a deep well by members of the irredentist groups. “The gallant troops neutralised one of the criminals, arrested three suspects and recovered one pump-action shotgun, two live cartridges,  two mobile phones, one black coloured Toyota Hilux vehicle, a polythene bag containing substances suspected to be cannabis and the sum of N1, 920.” “In a separate operation conducted today, February 24, 2022, troops of 82 Division, Nigerian Army, in collaboration with the Nigeria Police burst an IPOB/ESN syndicate that disrupted the just concluded local government council elections at some polling stations in the Nkanu West of Enugu State. “During the intelligence driven operation carried out around Centenary Estate, Obeagu Uno, troops uncovered seven AK-47 rifles, two pump-action rifles, 10 rifle magazines, eight live cartridges, 74 live rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, one hand grenade, a tipper truck containing three corpses, among other items.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com