Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, on Tuesday, switched on the Kwara Television 24-hour transmission, describing it as a giant step that takes the medium an inch closer to the administration’s vision of making it a leader in the audiovisual industry and viable means of informing the public. Kwara TV is now available on StarTimes Channel 113 and Free TV Channel 502, with it soon to be available in DSTV. The Governor turned on the 24-hour transmission switch at exactly 4.06pm, calling it another milestone that would be built upon with massive deployment of modern technology, local contents, and rich Human Resources available in the state. “Today, history is again being made as we are not only breathing life back to Kwara TV but we are also graduating it to 24-hour broadcast. Kwara TV is one of the legacies of the founding fathers of this state. Like many of such institutions, Kwara TV gradually decayed. Like Radio Kwara did. Today we are proud to have Radio Kwara leading the pack in the state with 24-hour broadcast,” Abdulrazaq said. “This afternoon, we are putting Kwara TV back on a sound footing. As we relaunch Kwara TV today, I assure you of our commitment to see it at the top with the right investments and support. “The people in opposition have been attacking us on social media. That’s where they are. They are not on the ground but social media. They talk about the last election being a fluke. How can it be a fluke when none of the media houses was working in 2019? Radio Kwara was off air. Herald was not printing and Kwara TV was like that. How can a reasonable government going to elections without its media arm? It is just a fallacy. “My first visit was to Radio Kwara and we made sure that the right things were done. Workers were being owed salaries. We cleared all that. We invested in digital studios. Radio Kwara is now live 24hrs. Not only that, we will soon launch a radio station in Okuta (Baruten local government). Hitherto, our people were going to Republic of Benin to place adverts – political, health care and others – to cover Baruten local government area. In few months from now, that will be a thing of the past. I am glad and surprised to see what I am seeing here today at Kwara TV. I am really impressed.” The launch was attended by top government functionaries, including Chairman of House of Assembly Committee on Media Hon. Olumide Awolola; House of Assembly member Tayo Felix Awodiji; Commissioner for Communications Hon. Bode Towoju; Special Adviser on Strategy Sa’adu Salau; and former Commissioner for Information Raheem Adedoyin. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com