The National Coordinator, Media Warriors Forum of All Progressives Grand Alliance, Evang. Chinedu Obigwe, has debunked the report that the incoming governor of Anambra State, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, was excluding members of the party from his government. Obigwe stated this in Awka, on Tuesday, while addressing journalists, following a publication by one Eneh Victor Chigozie, that Soludo was gradually sidelining APGA members in the formation of his cabinet. He described the report as a baseless insinuation coming from an armchair critic working for the opposition party to pull APGA down in the state. He assured party faithful that Soludo would assemble the best crop of people that will do the work with genuine commitment in delivering the dividends of good governance to ndi Anambra. Obigwe explained that only people of little faith were the ones losing hope in Soludo and were probably the ones who are behind the negative publication. He said, “Soludo is a product of APGA and the last thing he will do is to abandon the party he used as a vehicle to actualise his governorship ambition. “When he released the list of his transition committee members, people of little faith started saying this same cock and bull story and I debunked it immediately. “He knows very well that the party he used as a vehicle to become governor needs servicing and he will definitely service that vehicle. The only thing is that a lot will change under Soludo’s watch.” He advised Anambra people who reposed confidence in Soludo not to relent saying that the former CBN boss would live up to expectations by making the people proud. He urged all genuine supporters of Soludo to embrace his radical change plan for the betterment of the state, adding that he wants to reduce the cost of governance for the benefit of the general public. “It is not true that Soludo, the incoming governor is excluding APGA members from his yet-to-be constituted government. All genuine supporters of Soludo are confident that he will not disappoint the party members and they are also confident that he will not abandon them. “Some armchair critics like Chigozie are being sponsored by the opposition parties to pull APGA down in Anambra by putting out baseless publications. A genuine supporter of APGA and Soludo will not associate him or herself with such lies. “Soludo will assemble the best team and it will be made up of people that will do the work with genuine commitment. His mindset is that he wants a clean sweep of all legislative seats in Anambra State and he also wants APGA to make inroads into other states in the South-East and Nigeria at large. “My stand is that all genuine supporters of Soludo should embrace his radical change plan for the betterment of our beloved State. I am confident that he will not abandon his supporters because already plans are in top gear on how to empower some of them that will not be appointees in his government,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com