The Anambra State Police Command, on Saturday, reacted to the fatal accident, which occurred at a checkpoint on the Onitsha-Owerri Road, in the Ihiala Local Government Area of the state, saying its men were not responsible for the crash. The crash, which claimed two lives, occurred when a truck with number plate UWZ 556 XA, rammed into six other vehicles at the checkpoint on Friday. Nine other persons were injured in the process. It was gathered that the truck driver, who was on top speed while approaching the police checkpoint in the Azia area of Ihiala, lost control and rammed into the vehicles in the queue. No fewer than 63 persons were involved in the crash as some of the other vehicles were passenger buses. It was gathered that there was pandemonium around the scene as members of the truck drivers’ union blocked the busy highway on noticing that the accident happened at a police checkpoint in the area. The drivers mobilised trucks to the scene and blocked the either side of the highway, an action which caused gridlock. The truck drivers did not state any reason for their action, but an eyewitness said they were protesting the havoc the police checkpoint was causing motorists on the road, as a similar crash had occurred a few months ago in the same area. The eyewitness lamented that passengers were always asked to alight from vehicles and compelled to trek past the checkpoint while raising their two hands, an action which had become a burden to the motoring public. However, the state Commissioner of Police, Echeng Echeng, commiserated with the families of the deceased and the injured victims. In a statement on Saturday, the police spokesman, DCP Ikenga Tochukwu, identified the driver of the truck as one of the dead victims and attributed the crash to excessive speeding and brake failure by the truck driver. The police said the protesting truck drivers were misinformed about the cause of the accident and appealed to them to have a rethink. The statement read in part, “While the police indeed have a stop-and-search point close to the scene of the accident, it is wrong to blame the police for the unfortunate incident. “The fact that only six vehicles were in the queue on a dual carriage way as busy as that expressway is evidence that the police have been responsible and sensitive to the plight of the motoring public by ensuring minimal delay as they conduct their stop-and-search operations aimed at protecting not only police facilities in the area from insurgents’ attacks, but also members of the general public, who are mostly at the receiving end of escapades by criminal elements.” The police, however, commended the officers and men of the Federal Road Safety Corps for promptly rising to the occasion and partnering with them to take the injured to hospital and clearing the wreckage from the road to allow for free flow of traffic.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com