The Bauchi State Police Command said it arrested a military man, Yusuf Adams, with 81 parcels of dry leaves suspected to be cannabis, aka Indian hemp. The state Commissioner of Police, Umar Sanda, stated this when he paraded the suspect alongside others at the police command headquarters on Tuesday. Sanda said, “On February 6, 2022, around 12 noon, our Safer Highway Patrol along the Bauchi-Darazo Road, Bauchi State, while on a routine stop and search, intercepted a Toyota Highlander driven by one Yusuf Gongpolai Adams attached to the Nigerian Army 145 Battalion, Abia State, who is presently on a development course at the Nigerian Army School of Environmental Science and Technology, Benue State. “A thorough search was conducted and 81 parcels of dry leaves, suspected to be cannabis, were found in his possession. “In the course of interrogation, the suspect confessed to the crime.” Sanda said other exhibits seized from the suspect were one pair of Army uniform, two tyres, one Army helmet, one bag containing some clothes and some charms. He said investigation was ongoing after which the suspect would be handed over to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency. Similarly, he said eight suspects were arrested for armed robbery in the state. He identified the suspects as Idi Lawan (40), Tambaya Sule (25), Masa’ud Umaru (30), Mohammed Lawan, alias Dogo (26), Mohammed Lawan, alias Nalumbu (30), Shehu Sulaiman (28), Abubakar Sama’ila, alias Bagobiri (38), and Kachalla Hamza (30). “During interrogation, the suspects voluntarily confessed to be armed robbers and also revealed that they operated in various places, especially Futuk Alkaleri LGA, Liman-Katagum, Bauchi LGA, lariski Gombe-Bauchi Road with AK-47 rifles,” the police spokesman added. Sanda said sequel to the arrest of the suspected robbers on February 2, 2022, the command embarked on intensive investigations that led to the arrest of five gang members who speciailised in illegal sale of firearms. He identified them as Ya’u Sale (37), Sule Halilu (32), Abba Sani (30), Friday Ibrahim (28) and Monday David (28). “The suspects were arrested with three locally-made guns. Furthermore, two of the suspects, Friday Ibrahim and Monday David, confessed to have specialised in illegal sales of firearms,” the police said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com