Some ex-internationals have expressed delight over the Nigeria Football Federation’s decision to retain Austin Eguavoen as the interim coach of the Super Eagles, while also bringing in Emmanuel Amuneke as his first assistant. The NFF, in a statement on Monday, announced the reconstitution of the technical crew, with Eguavoen remaining as the Technical Adviser and former Flying Eagles coach Amuneke drafted in as immediate assistant to Eguavoen. The announcement however quenches speculation surrounding the future of the Eagles head coach job after NFF president Amaju Pinnick announced that the federation was in talk with Portuguese Jose Peseiro to take over the job following the sacking of Gernot Rohr last December. Despite the three-time African champions crashing out in the round of 16 at the just-concluded Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon, fans and stakeholders alike urged the NFF to retain Eguavoen following the team’s impressive displays in the group stage of the competition. The news came as a welcome development for former Eagles goalkeeper, Ike Shorunmu. “I am happy with the appointment and the inclusion of Amuneke in the team,” Shorunmu told The PUNCH. “It’s a welcome development because these are ex-internationals and they understand the passion for the game. It also shows that we have quality hands in the country. All they need is time. And if they are given everything they need, I’m sure that they will deliver.” Swedish based Peter Ijeh added, “Congratulations to Amuneke and Eguavoen combo. I am happy for them and with the big test ahead of them, I am sure all hands will be on deck.” Atlanta ‘’96 gold medallist, Abiodun Obafemi, lauded the NFF for trusting in the indigenous coaches. “I am super excited that the NFF did the right thing by trusting our own coaches and retaining Eguavoen,” the former defender said. “This is what we’ve been asking for, we need to trust our own and give them the chance to show they can do it. Amuneke is a very experienced coach and I am sure that bringing him in to work with Eguavoen will build on the good job that has started. This is the way to go.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com