My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian daughters, While I’m hoping and praying you’ve begun this well on a good note avoiding all forms of satanic distractions, I’d advise you Google-search and read the following articles- 2022: A phenomenal year of shining for the sexually-pure (1 & 2) Girls, manifest your dreams in 2022 and shine like a star! (1 & 2) Girls, don’t let any boyfriend scatter your destiny this year! Story continued from last week! This so-called suitor turned out to be “them”- “destiny truncators” as you call them. He wanted to sleep with me in the name of sorting my admission. He even told me to tell my family members that he wants to marry and afterwards I will go to school (laughing) na today? I know them when I jam them. I decided to give him benefits of doubt so I brought up the issue of courtship to start with! Oga refused, saying he doesn’t have time for that and all he wants is marriage. Each time he was coming to my place of work, I would ask God for the wisdom to answer him well and like magic it was working. At some point he tried manipulating me using his mum as an object of pity, pleading with me to marry him so that his mum would have some peace of mind, so that she can see her grandchildren. I was considering it until one day, he began talking about his escapades with other ladies-how he used and dumped them and so on. And how he has admired me and wants to love me, sleep with me etc. God just made him expose his real intentions. When I brought up the challenges I had with my admission into a tertiary institution, he saw it as a chance to get his request answered. He asked me to follow him to see his mum to present me as his wife even if I won’t marry him to calm her anxiety. I bluntly refused and he also refused to help me pursue my admission. I was devastated because I felt I was just being selfish. I talked to my pastor and he kept telling me that what God cannot do doesn’t exist. However, I was impatient as admission was coming to a close and my name was not yet out so l applied for JUPEB in the same institution and I found out that I was two months away from the exams. I paid the acceptance fee and was about to pay school fees two days later when I was told the JUPEB site for payment had been shut down. I was tired, so I went to the office to complain and that was when the officer jokingly asked me to check my admission first before we try to pay again. I checked and it appeared- I was admitted to study Medical Laboratory Science in that same institution God showed me in my dream. Dear girls, trust me when I say God’s gift makes us rich and adds no sorrow. Most of us are so desperate that we forget that there are things that should come first in our lives. Your future comes first no matter what you think and before any stranger/boyfriend. Securing a solid future for your destiny should be your major focus. I want to be successful. I want to be a woman with a voice. I want to be seen as an outstanding figure by my children and not just their father alone. I want to stand there for my children when they need me and also have a serious impact in their lives. I want to be virtuous and versatile. This life is beautiful when you find the right purpose towards it. A lot of us girls and ladies mess it up when we should be colouring the beautiful picture God has designed for our lives. Learn skills- cooking, hair making, computer programming, tailoring etc. Please step out of that toxic relationship, learn to be selfish when it comes to your destiny. Anything that is to destroy your tomorrow should not be allowed to stay at all. This present generation of girls need to take a step back and restructure the flops an enabling society has created. Thanks so much for the work you are doing. Please hide my identity! Girls…girls…girls…Wow! I can only pray the spirit of God overshadows you all because you are so submerged in the spirit of the world which does nothing good but manipulates you to destroy God’s beautiful plans for you.   Till next weekend. I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com