Evercare Hospital Lekki, Lagos said it has commenced open heart and spine surgeries. The hospital in a statement on Wednesday said it carried out advanced first-of-its-kind paediatric surgeries on November 30, 2021. “Our hospital has become one of the foremost hospitals in Nigeria with top-tier expertise in various surgical sub-specialties, and providing quality and accessible care to patients. On November 30, 2021, we carried out our first open-heart surgery. The patient was a 56-year-old male who was diagnosed with Triple Vessel Disease which is an extreme form of coronary artery disease. The patient was also diagnosed to be hypertensive and diabetic and had suffered a heart attack prior to undergoing the surgery which made it almost impossible to be a candidate for the surgery. “Dr Vaja Harish and Dr Augustine Olugbemi, our in-house Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgeons were the Lead surgeons amongst the team of caregivers who assisted in the surgery. We also had support from the Anesthesia and Critical Care Consultants led by Dr. Ade Talabi, with oversight by A3C’s founder Dr. Seyi Oyesola,” the statement partly reads. Harish, in the statement, said the goal of the hospital was to provide quality health care to the people. “Performing the hospital’s first-ever Coronary Artery Bypass Graft in the hospital was a huge privilege for me which further re-emphasises the fact that collaborative effort among our team of caregivers, delivery of medical excellence as well as providing exceptional patient care through outstanding medical outcomes remains the goal at Evercare,” he said. The hospital also announced the commencement of spine surgeries in November 2021. “Dr Serge Rasskazoff, a double trained and board-certified neurosurgeon in North America and Europe, performed spine surgeries at the hospital which included a Lumber Open Spine Fusion, and an Anterior Cervical Discectomy and Fusin Plus Bone Graft. “With the prevalence of lower back pain in Africa ranging from 28 per cent to as high as 74 per cent in some African countries, which is equally comparable to other developed countries, there is a need to advocate and bring awareness to the resident community that quality neurological care and treatment can be gotten in Nigeria without travelling abroad,” the statement added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com