THE traditional rulers in the Delta North Senatorial District have urged the political class to clear the air on the zoning of the governorship and the district that would produce the next governor in the forthcoming election. The assumed zoning arrangement has gone round the three senatorial districts with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa (North) completing his eight years after Ibori (Central) and Uduaghan (South), respectively. However, rising from an enlarged meeting on Saturday, the Chairman, Delta North Traditional Rulers Forum, Asagba of Asaba Obi, Prof Chike Edozien stated that the zoning issue has not been discussed. He said, “On 2023 governorship election in the state; we, the monarchs called a meeting to address the issues because ethnic groups are coming out to say they want to contest for the governor and they want support. “And so, we called the meeting to address the issues. As the General in our midst, give us time to deliberate and make up our mind. “For now, we are open to aspirants for consultations but we will see how things develop, and then we will know what to do. We supported Okowa on the grounds of rotation. “If Isoko come now and insist that it is their turn, what do we tell them? This is open for discussion. With time, we will take a position on zoning when we might have had consultations with our political class because some of the issues have not been discussed. “If we agree on rotation, will it be on senatorial district basis or ethnic basis? We will discuss this. If it is a rotation by senatorial districts, the Urhobo people of Delta Central will have a say. “If it is ethnic basis, then only two who have not had the chance, that is Ijaw and Isoko. We have not discussed that yet. And if it is to rotate among senatorial districts; it started from central. Where will it start again has not been agreed.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com