Real Estate firm, Afriland Properties Plc has identified professionalism, strategic intent and expertise as the key drivers of the company’s development drive. Speaking at the company’s head office in Lagos, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Uzo Oshogwe, stated that the company has a well-defined vision towards its development projects which is premised on professionalism and expert knowledge of the real estate market. She said “We are intentional about our activities in the real estate sector. We invest in products devised from well thought out strategy and develop clear plans on how to achieve them. Our team of experts are guided by a code of ethics designed to help us as professionals, conduct business honestly and with integrity. These are the reasons why our projects stand out and continue to receive accolades all over the industry and beyond it”. Speaking on the impact the Covid-19 pandemic has had on the real estate industry, she said, “The industry has had a hard time since the outbreak of coronavirus and we are thankful that things are returning to normalcy. If anything, the global financial meltdown taught us to be prepared for any eventuality. It is upon this backdrop that we have come up with the developments we are putting out into the Real Estate space this Year. “ “We have started the construction of an emporium in Trans-Amadi, Port-Harcourt and units are selling out fast. We have also commenced the development of apartment units in Ikeja that will cater to the housing needs of the future of the economy, the young professionals. “Equally set for ground-breaking is our inaugural residential estate in Abuja. The initial phase of the project will see the construction of seven units of four bedroom maisonettes, six units of four bedroom semi-detached duplexes and 10 units of three-bedroom apartments. Finally, we are all set to commence construction on our Club Road, Ikoyi residential development.” “You can see that there is a method to our development and a spread that caters to defined target markets. This is part of our strategy and a grand plan to change the face of Real Estate development in Nigeria. We have our work cut out and can assure our stakeholders and investors of amazing yields on their investment.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com