Twitter fans mocked Cristiano Ronaldo on his 37th birthday after missing a penalty against Middlesbrough late Friday. This is as the Twitter user trended #Penaldo and #Ronaldo, with cruel jokes. United suffered a shock FA Cup exit at the hands of Championship club Middlesbrough who won 8-7 on penalties after a 1-1 draw on Friday. Rangnick’s team crashed out in the fourth round after Anthony Elanga blazed his spot-kick over the bar in a nerve-jangling shoot-out at Old Trafford. Swedish teenager Elanga was the only player from either team to miss in the shoot-out, leaving the forward holding his head in disbelief as Middlesbrough celebrated their stunning victory. Jadon Sancho had put United ahead in the first half, but Matt Crooks grabbed a controversial equaliser after the interval to set the stage for Middlesbrough’s memorable upset. Crooks’ goal was allowed to stand despite Duncan Watmore controlling the ball with his hand before providing the assist. Cristiano Ronaldo had missed a first-half spot-kick for United, who have now lost seven of their last eight penalty shoot-outs, including last season’s Europa League final against Villarreal. United had 30 shots in total but lacked the composure and cutting edge required to kill off supposedly inferior opponents. United are without a major trophy in five years and their hopes of ending that drought are dwindling given their Premier League struggles and a tricky Champions League last 16 tie against Atletico Madrid. Fernandes also missed a golden opportunity to restore the lead, shooting against the post with an empty net gaping in front of him. United had lost their poise and Elanga was destined to finish as the fall-guy. The FA Cup embarrassment is the latest hammer blow for United at the end of a painful week that saw their England forward Mason Greenwood arrested over the alleged rape and assault of a young woman. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com