The House of Representatives would on Thursday, February 24, hold a public hearing on the National Youth Service Corps Trust Fund bill, the Director-General of NYSC, Major-General Shuaibu Ibrahim has said. According to him, the Bill sought to address the infrastructural deficit in the orientation camps, ensure adequate provision of other operational logistics, as well as address the problem of graduate unemployment in the country. Ibrahim stated these during the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Pre-Orientation Workshop in Abuja. He said the consideration of the Bill for the NYSC Trust Fund is progressing steadily having passed second reading at the Green Chamber. Ibrahim said, “When the NYSC Trust Fund becomes operational, the number of corps entrepreneurs will increase drastically, and they will in turn help to provide jobs for millions of other youths of the country. This will equally help reduce the issue of security challenges faced in the country. “I, therefore, appeal to all friends of the scheme, including influential public figures, civil society organizations, students’ bodies, members of the academia and media practitioners, to send memoranda to the House Committee on Youth and Sports as well as make physical appearance at the public hearing to drum support for the establishment of the Trust Fund.” The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Mallam Muhammad Musa Bello, said the FCT Administration would not relent in providing the necessary support to the NYSC, especially as it relates to the security and welfare of corps members. “We, in the FCT, commend the various innovations and positive turn around the NYSC has witnessed so far”, the Minister added. The NYSC Director (Planning, Research and Statistics), Ahmed Ikaka, stated that the workshop would review the previous orientation exercises, especially the challenges encountered as well as the best practices to enable the Scheme to make necessary adjustments during the forthcoming exercise. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com