The family of late Habeeb Idris who allegedly died during agitation for wearing of Hijab by Muslim female students at Oyun Baptist High School Ijagbo in Oyun Local Government Area of Kwara State has rejected the N1million compensation from the State Government. The family of Habeeb said in Ilorin at a press conference that the state government had offered a sum of N1million and another N250,000 for the 10 wounded Muslims. The Kwara State Commissioner for Communication, Mr Olabode Towoju, however, denied the allegation describing it as a figment of imagination of the accusers. Towoju, who said that he was in a meeting last night, however, promised to give a statement on the alleged offer of the money today (Tuesday) Addressing a press conference in Ilorin, the Kwara state capital, the Chairman of the Kwara Muslim Youths, Abdulrazaq Al-Amin, requested reasonable and fair monetary compensation for the deceased and the 10 fatally injured Muslims during the Ijagbo Hijab crisis. He disclosed that the government was supposed to pay one hundred and thirteen million, three hundred and eighty-eight thousand naira (N113,388,000) as blood money for the family of the slain Habeeb Idris. The group is also asking for the prosecution of those responsible for the killing of one Habeeb Idris and maiming of 10 others during the Hijab protest at Oyun Baptist High School, Ijagbo. In another development, the Kwara Muslim Stakeholders have advised the state government not to deny Muslim female students their fundamental human rights by not allowing them to wear Hijab as part of their uniform in public schools in the state. The group in a statement by its Chairman, Alhaji Is-haq Abdulkarim, which was made available to The PUNCH correspondent in Ilorin on Monday said that the government should be proactive in its decision on the Muslim female students uniform. Abdulkarim who alleged that the group was aware that people were mounting pressure on the government said it should ignore an advise to emulate how government of a neighbouring state handle the issue of Hijab in its public schools warning that doing so would be counter-productive. He explained that “hijab is no longer a contentious issue as several superior Courts of record have ruled in its favour in Kwara, Osun and Lagos States – to mention a few; warning that Kwara State Government must enforce its lawful order of optional wearing hijab in all public schools as contained in its Circular issued since March last year. Abdulkarim condemned the criminal acts of killing and maiming of innocent students and parents in Ijagbo and called on Kwara state government not only to ignore the advice of that clergyman but to fish-out the criminals that unleashed mayhem on the people at Oyun Baptist High School Ijagbo on Thursday 3rd of February, 2022 and get them arrested and prosecuted. He said, “it was unfortunate that the State Government allowed some criminals to take over a public school for three weeks where female Muslim students were denied access to their school and the school was not shut until life was lost and people were maimed.” He called for compensation for the life of 25-year-old Habib Idris who was killed and immediate compensation as well for those wounded and are being treated in various Hospitals in Offa and Oyun local government council areas. ‘In any civilized Society, once there has been court judgement on any particular matter, there must not be violations; what is happening in Kwara State shows weakness of the Government in dealing with the matter of fundamental human rights of citizens and enforcement of law and Order”, he said. He accused the police of bias, incompetence and dereliction of duty, adding, “where the security agents colluded with the criminals to turn students back home illegally and watching harmlessly without arresting criminals that were matcheting them on the day ‘hell was let loose’! This would no longer be tolerated.” Recall that Kwara state government last week instituted a 7 member committee to investigate the circumstances leading to the crisis at Oyun Baptist High School Ijagbo and gave the committee three weeks to conclude it assignment. Meanwhile, the Ijagbo community has urged external forces feasting on the Hijab uniform crisis in Oyun Baptist High School to allow peaceful resolution of the matters leading to the unfortunate crisis. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com