For about 40 minutes, I listened to the #securethetribe Twitter space conversation with the question “How does immigration benefit Black Americans?” The question was directed to immigrants generally but surprisingly the real conversation seems to focus more on Africans in the US. It did not spare Nigerian Americans! The speaker, Tariq Nasheed, who called himself a foundational Black American, queried Africans for leaving their country; queried why they could not generate their American wealth in their home countries. He said Africans do not know where they come from. He even said African countries make it difficult for African Americans to come to their countries. Tariq received some shock when a Nigerian intellectual, named @GimbaKakanda, asked him: “one of my friends here works at Microsoft. If you are asked to take my friend’s job are you capable of doing that? and then Tariq said, “I guess not.”  This is a guy who has spoken on the Twitter space for more than seven hours to over 23,000 people and more. A high school dropout? In my country, Nigeria, he is not qualified to argue on immigration matters and their role in the international political economy. How can an African American say that Africans don’t even know where they are from? It was noteworthy to hear another Nigerian tell Tariq, “I can take you to Benin City and show you where all my ancestors were buried.” Tariq went quiet. Besides, the Yorubas originated from Ile Ife around 500 BC with more than 40 million Yorubas in Nigeria alone currently with a single ancestor. There are few races on earth with a single ancestor that are above 40 million people.  That is more than the population of Holland. Yet Tariq claimed Africans do not know where they are from. Rwanda is open for African American businesses. Ghana naturalised 100 African Americans to become Ghanaians in 2018 with some living in Ghana. William Edward Burghardt Du Bois, popularly known as Web Du Bois, American sociologist, historian, author, editor and activist was the most important black protest leader in the United States during the first half of the 20th century. He is the first African-American to earn a doctorate at Harvard University. He became a Ghanaian citizen at age 94. But since Tariq said he was a dropout, how do we explain all that to him? With all his rambling with no data or evidence-based facts, I think there is a need to fix the sense of entitlement of some African Americans. He calls himself a “foundational black American” and that they built the United States. My question is “was it Tariq that helped to build the US or his ancestors?” What is a college dropout asking from citizens of an African country that are the most educated immigrant minority population in the US whose continent contributes more than $40bn to the US economy annually? I am deeply shocked at how Tariq boldly questioned Nigerians, blocking them from speaking and insisting that African Americans never tried to runaway from slave trade despite evidential slave trade facts like Alex Haley’s and the indefatigable rebellious efforts of Eboe Negroes to return to Igboland at all cost. He may not have read that more blacks migrated and escaped to the US states that first banned the slave trade for economic survival and better opportunities like Africans do today. Sundar Pichai, CEO Alphabet; Satya Nadella, CEO Microsoft; Parag Agrawal, CEO Twitter; Shantanu Narayen, CEO Adobe Inc; Arvind Krishna, CEO of IBM are five Indian CEOs leading five of the biggest companies in the US and in fact the world. These companies refused to employ Tariq. They went on for merit not skin colour. My advice is that firstly, African Americans, like Tariq, should take education seriously! Indians take education very seriously. Immigrants contribute $2tn to the US economy. Africans are not the problems of African Americans. Secondly, African Americans should engage more to solve even more global problems whether they are rich or not. You need not become Oprah Winfrey, Robert Smith or David Stewart—who are already doing so much for black communities and globally—to create enduring value. Asians look for problems beyond Asia to solve.  Go out there and solve problems. African immigrants and so many African Americans are all over the US contributing immensely to healthcare, technology, business etc. Tariq and his ideologists should find a way to enter the inner cities and ensure that all black kids go through some serious college education and acquire hard skills. That is the way to create connections to build a nation beyond “tribe!” Tariq’s views and ideologies are solely his and do not project the views of most African Americans. Also, the problem is that you cannot specifically, xenophobically stereotype Nigerians in the Diaspora, particularly if you didn’t pass “SSCE.” In all, this just tells everyone the power of the media, oratory and the chronic importance of critical thinking! While I believe very strongly that Africans in the diaspora must win the support of the different wings of mismanaged African nations to liberate trapped Africans, Africans all over the world must continue to work harder towards excellence, take education seriously, solve more complex problems, connect globally and keep creating value in healthcare, business, technology, finance, etc. This is the only way to true liberation that Tariq missed. Adegbite wrote from the United Kingdom via ourwale@gmail.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com