A former member of the House of Representatives, Mr Abdulmumin Jibrin, has said that 14 governors are lining up behind the desire of the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Bola Tinubu, to win the presidential nomination of the ruling party. He also said four other governors were in talks to join the presidential train. Jibrin, who is the Director-General of the Bola Tinubu Support Group Council, boasted that 26 APC state chairmen had also confirmed their loyalty to Tinubu. He revealed these on his Twitter handle on Friday. Jubrin wrote, “Fourteen governors in and four in talks. Twenty-six state chairmen in. We will not attack or stop anybody from contesting. We are exercising our right of choice by promoting Alhaji Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Do the same for your’s please. We will remain gracious and our doors (are) open now and after the victories.” It was earlier reported by The PUNCH that the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the party inaugurated state chairmen in the 34 states of the federation with the exception of Sokoto and Kano states, on Thursday. Names of the chairmen of both Sokoto and Kano states were not on the list of those inaugurated and none of the factions in the two states were sworn in on Thursday. Jibrin was however silent on who among the inaugurated chairmen that were backing Tinubu. God, govs, ministers, others lining up behind Osinbajo, says support group Meanwhile, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo for President Support Group has said God is with their principal in his quest to emerge as the next president of the country. They also said some unnamed governors, ministers, traditional rulers were queuing behind the former commissioner for Justice in Lagos State, but said they would not disclose their identities. The Convener and National Coordinator of the group, Ben Akinbobola, who spoke with our correspondent, said, “The Osinbajo for President project is a divine one. God is with us and there are others like governors, ministers, traditional rulers, and members of the National Assembly who are with us. When the time comes, they will on their own, come out and speak. We are not boasters, but realists.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com