The proprietor of EkoUniversity Of Medicine And Health Sciences, Ijanikin, Lagos, Dr Ayodele Ibraheem, has said he will bring back Nigerians in diaspora to join the crusades of good medical education and medical delivery systems in Nigeria. Speaking during the matriculation of its 50 students, Ibraheem revealed that he would embark on the construction of a major Medical Research Hospital Complex. “Very soon, I will be embarking on the construction of a major Medical Research Hospital Complex that will be admired by all. “I will bring back Nigerians in diaspora to come and join the crusades of good medical education and medical delivery systems in due course. Because of the founder’s international connections, we will be featuring medical experts join the projects, especially from the United States and some European countries in which I have several affiliations.” The acting Vice-Chancellor, EkoUNIMED, Prof. Adedayo Ejiwunmi, encouraged the new students to read to learn, grow and apply the knowledge garnered for the progress of the society. Ejiwunmi enjoined them to learn to reflect on whatever they read from various perspectives until the subject-matter had become instilled in them. He said, “This is the community of innovative creative thinkers who keep challenging the status quo with demands that require thoughtful responses “In this palace of enlightenment, you will learn not to keep repeating the mistakes of our predecessors correct your own past errors so that we will not remain immature and perpetually underdeveloped.  You are here to Read. Read anything and everything you find useful mentally, academically no matter how challenging and demanding. Read to learn, to grow, to understand and apply. For that to happen, learn to reflect on what you read. To reflect is to recognise your best way to learn or be helped.” The Pro-Chancellor, Prof. Olanipekun Alausa,  during the investiture of Dr Abayomi Finnih as the first Chancellor of EkoUNIMED congratulated Ibraheem for choosing Finnih. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com