Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State has reiterated that the Peoples Democratic Party reclaim Nigeria and Zamfara State in the 2023 general elections. Tambuwal stated this on Monday in Gusau, Zamfara State capital, where he had gone to consult the party’s stakeholders on his options to prosecute or drop his ambition to run for the position of President in the country in 2023. The Gusau visit is the second leg of Tambuwal’s presidential bid discourse as he visited Jigawa State last Tuesday. According to him, the rollback of the fortunes of the PDP in leading Nigeria and Zamfara State will soon be over. He observed that the reasons why he left PDP in 2018 are still subsisting under the ruling All Progressives Congress(APC) are still subsisting, “therefore, the leadership of the APC in the country must be challenged in order to make things work right.” He enumerated the challenges caused by the APC government as insecurity, economic downturns, debilitating healthcare system, and the “collapse of virtually everything”. The Governor pledged that “if we succeed in our bid the country will witness a reversal of the current bad fortunes.” On the recent moves by the Zamfara state House of Assembly to impeach the Deputy Governor of the state, Barrister Mahdi Aliyu Gusau, Tambuwal said, “The matter is in the court and any law-abiding person must allow the law to take its due course.” In his remarks at the occasion, former Governor of Sokoto State, Alhaji Attahiru Bafarawa, said the purpose of their visit is to present Tambuwal to the state PDP stakeholders for consultation with them on the pursuit of his ambition to run for President next year. “He is not a stranger to you. He’s our brother. Sokoto a d Zamfara states are the same entity. He (Tambuwal) sought the same position in 2019. Then seven of us from the North contested and he emerged second. “Young and energetic then and now, I believe he still has the capacity to do it very well more than us. He is ready. I have no doubt that he will represent us very well if he gets the chance,” Bafarawa said. Receiving Tambuwal’s delegation, the Deputy Governor of Zamfara State, Mahdi Aliyu Gusau expressed appreciation to the team for the visit. While enumerating the political credentials of Tambuwal, he pledged to support him in his bid if he so decides. “There’s no turning in our determination to back him all the way,” he assured. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com