Comedian, singer and actor, Koffi Nuel, aka Koffi tha Guru, has stated that having integrity and being honest have robbed him of many opportunities. Speaking in an interview with Saturday Beats, he said, “Being (a person) of integrity, honest, dedicated to my course and principled have cost me a lot. People believe that as an entertainer, one must condone certain practices that I don’t agree with. I like to do things in a different way, so as to create more opportunities for others. A lot of Nigerian platforms are likeminded. That is why most times, musicians sing alike, movies tell the same stories with the same actors, and skits are done to make women the butt of jokes. Once one does not agree with the trend, they push one aside. Being blunt is also not a welcomed idea. I have been blacklisted and robbed of opportunities because I stood for the truth. A man must stand for something or fall for everything.” On the inspiration behind his new album titled, ‘Muludun Medley’, he said, “It is an ethnic pop music rendition comprising popular tunes and a fusion of inspiring thoughts. It is a work of gyration and emotions to get people dancing while learning good things. This style of music was inspired by how ‘ethnic’ musicians of old used to compose beautiful songs yet include life lessons, philosophy and knowledge. A lot of that is lost in today’s music, so while recording my regular music, I also did this medley version to further drive home the message we need to sensitise people with.” Sharing his thoughts about the sex tapes of entertainers being leaked online, the University of Lagos graduate said, “To each his own. I cannot advise adults on issues of sex, neither can I recommend solutions to teenagers who know more than I do. Some things are best kept private, and the spiritual act of sex is one of them.” Koffi also added that it was important for entertainers to have side hustles. He said, “It is very important in this day and age (to have side hustles). One can have a side hustle within one’s hustle. A barber who sells clippers to his customers is very much on course. I am an all-round entertainer. As a comedian, actor, singer, composer, writer, author, producer and director, I am able to function within the entertainment space as a ‘Jack of one trade’.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com