Many a Nigerian may probably remember him as the former Speaker of the Kano State House of Assembly, under whose tenure the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, was dethroned. But I remember Honourable Kabiru Alhassan Rurum as the former Councillor of Ward ‘F’ Ikosi/Ketu/Mile12/Maidan/Agiliti/Awode Elede of Kosofe Local Government Area of Lagos State, where he began to exhibit the makings of an environmentalist through his grassroots sanitation initiatives. Now that the impact of climate change has become a manifest reality in the country’s second-largest city, he needs to stand up and become the climate champion of Kano. Having relocated back to his home state, and after serving at the State Assembly, he is now a member of the House of Representatives, representing Rano, Bunkure and Kibiya Federal constituency. But the irony is that, with all his ecological footprints on the sands of Kano, he has not stood up to be counted as a green politician. The question is: is it because our country has not evolved to green politics or is it that the Environment Committee of the House is not among the so-called “juicy” committees? This article is inspired by the fact that after more than two months of the closure of Tiga Dam for repairs, dry season farmers in about six local government areas of Kano State have come face to face with hardship as their livelihood is grossly affected. The farmers, who used the facility to farm crops such as wheat, rice, tomato, cabbage and many more, lament that they are not able to farm this dry season and that would imply no food for their families and for sale. The Tiga Dam is the main source of water for the dry farming season. This will invariably affect food production in the country. Kano is the state with the highest number of dams in Nigeria; however, most of the water comes from Tiga Dam, where it has the largest storage capacity (about 2 billion m3). A program of dams and irrigation projects was started in Kano State in the early 1970s. Though the program has not been completed, 20 zoned earth-fill dams had been constructed by 1980 by the former administrator, Police Commissioner Audu Bako. Therefore, looking at the bigger picture and into the future, we need to prepare for national adaptation, not just to the shut-down-for-repair of Kano dams, but to emerging climate change-induced local emergencies. Kano State as a whole has a groundwater problem which is why the first governor of the state, Audu Bako, constructed 20 dams. Since then, there has not been a major upgrade or scale-up of the programme. However, in 2017, at the peak of Turakin Rano’s political influence, the Kano State Government announced it would construct eight earth dams in order to boost irrigation activities across the 44 local government areas of the state. The state also planned to rehabilitate some dams to complement the existing 20 dams in enhancing irrigation and providing drinking water for animals in the rural areas. Interestingly, the state government also began the supply of water to Rano from Tiga Dam in order to end the perennial water scarcity in the ancient town, which at that time, Honourable Rurum represented in the state’s House of Assembly.  To address the Rano water problem, the government began to lay a 42-kilometre pipe from Tiga Dam to Rano. Eventually, when Rurum won the Rano, Bunkure and Kibiya Federal constituency to the House of Representatives in the 2019 National Assembly polls, he immediately declared that his mission for joining the race was ecological because Rano, Bunkure and Kibiya are endowed with agricultural, human and natural resources, with enormous arable land, but what was lacking was the modern infrastructure to utilise the natural endowments. Therefore, he proclaimed that his focus would be on ensuring that the Federal Government completed the moribund irrigation projects at Rano. This was why it was baffling to see him emerge as the chairman of the House Committee on Pensions, instead of an eco-related one. Yet, we must give it to him that he tried to stay green. He has facilitated the building of roads in rural areas to aid farm produce movement and also provide farm inputs to farmers. The Federal Government embarked on the construction of 65-kilometre access roads in Rano, Kibiya and Bunkure local government areas of Kano State in order to encourage agricultural production. The roads are the 31km Bunkure Road and the 34km Rano-Kibiya Road. Honourable Rurum said that the roads will link Kano to other farming communities in Kaduna, Jigawa and Bauchi states, noting that they were being executed as part of the Federal Government’s agricultural intervention programme to ease difficulties in the movement of farm produce. He also disclosed that the Federal Government was supporting the construction of 150 tube wells in the state to encourage all year round farming through irrigation. Kano State, located in the Sahelian region of Nigeria, faces threats posed by climate change. A scientific study, which was carried out to observe rainfall and temperature data for the period 1960–2007 (used to examine recent changes in extreme climate over Kano) and published in the International Journal of Atmospheric Sciences, confirms this. For the entire period, the results show a warming trend, an increased number of cool nights, more warm days and a strong increase in the number of warm spells. The rainfall indices show a slight increase in annual total rainfall, a decrease in the maximum number of consecutive wet days and a significant increase in the number of extremely wet days. Such changes in climate could naturally result in an increasing demand for domestic energy for cooling a higher evaporation rate from water bodies and irrigated crops. This will in turn lead to a lower performance of agricultural crops and livestock. The Sahelian region of West Africa is one of the most vulnerable zones to climate change. Since the devastating drought of 1970 and early 1980s, more ecological attention has been concentrated here. It is therefore paramount for policymakers to ensure investment and promotion of more energy efficient infrastructure and domestic appliances as well as encouraging low cost and environmentally friendly energy production systems in order to cope with these extreme weather and climate events. This is why we need climate champions in the political sphere. Rurum has shown an inborn proclivity towards green and it is my view that he disregards all temptations to go the way of ordinary politicians and stick to the green lane. The former American Vice President, Al Gore, became a global green icon by sticking to the path that other American politicians avoided. There is a global consensus that poor and vulnerable developing countries are facing growing challenges to managing climate-related disasters. When people and communities experience droughts and flooding, they need effective support and strong voices. While developed countries seem to acknowledge that this is a problem, they fail to commit to any reasonable steps towards addressing it. We need new and additional political icons among us to stand for poor communities. Kano, being one of the biggest Nigerian states, could become a rallying point for the entire sub-region. It is a commercial fulcrum in West Africa and therefore can help in the fight against climate change at a regional level. Meanwhile, all governments and public officers must become climate champions, and they must take bold decisions to transform their constituencies. The time for action is now. We need champions showing the way towards a green and resilient transition. This is the only way we would be able to prepare our nation to engage the developed world at the international scene while standing with a big shoulder for other developing countries to lean on.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com