A policeman identified as Obasanjo Atoyebi, has allegedly shot a member of the Odua People’s Congress, Moruf Ganiyu. Our correspondent gathered that the incident happened on Thursday night at Imalefalafia area of Ibadan and the victim died on Saturday. The deceased, being the head of a private security in charge of security in the area was said to have challenged Atoyebi for driving to the area late at night but the policeman was said to have rained abuses on him. An altercation reportedly ensued and the policeman was said to have shot the OPC man in the stomach and the back and fled the area. The deceased was said to have been rushed to hospital and was later taken to another place where the bullets were extracted. However, the bullet in the stomach was said to have lodged in his intestine and that led to his death on Saturday. Another resident of the area, Lukman Akinwale, told our correspondent that the policeman always shot into the air anytime he was around and residents had warned him to desist. On the fateful day, he was said to have repeated it and the deceased went to challenge him and that led to the altercation and he shot him twice. Some angry residents were said to have destroyed the shop of the policeman’s wife and wanted to set ablaze their rented apartment but the landlord and other tenants were said to have pleaded with them to have a rethink. The Police Public Relations Officer in the Command, Adewale Osifeso, did not answer calls from our correspondent. But the Coordinator of the OPC in Oyo State, Rotimi Olumo, when contacted described the killing as unwarranted. He called on the police to fish out the killer cop, saying nobody has the right to take another man life without an order of the court. Olumo said, ” I know Muphy very well. He was our unit commander but he has stopped attending our meetings for a while. He is the one engaged by auto dealers in the area to secure their vehicles. “I was told that he asked the policeman why he was coming back late and driving recklessly and an argument ensued from there. ” The policeman was said to have shot him in the stomach and at the back and he was taken to where the bullets were extracted but he died on Saturday. “The killing should be investigated and the killer just be brought to justice. There are places where terrorists are troubling Nigerians, he should have gone to such a place if he is that good at shooting. “My appeal is that this killing must be very we investigated. I was even told by some people that he had been dismissed from the police because of such behaviour. But he should be brought back to yo face the law.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com