Fulani herders under the umbrella of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, and an umbrella body of the Atyap nation, the Atyap Development Association, on Tuesday, clashed over the renewed killing in Southern Kaduna. There were accusations and counter accusations over the killings in the Zango-Kataf communities in Southern Kaduna. While the leadership of the Fulanis claimed they were being massacred by the Atyap militia in Zango-Kataf Local Government Area of the state, the Atyap community insisted that they were being killed by Fulani militia allegedly with government’s backings. According to the Chairman of the MACBAN in Kaduna, Alhaji Haruna Tugga, in spite of the peace efforts embarked upon by communities and the government, the killings of his members by the Atyap youths continued unabated. He said between January 22 and February 2, 2022, no fewer than 10 Fulani herders, including a one-year-old infant, were killed; and 99 cows either poisoned or missing. While expressing concerns over the increasing wave of violent attacks on his members, the MACBAN boss appealed to the state government and security agents  to wake up to their constitutional  responsibilities of safeguarding the lives and property of all herders in the southern part of the state. Tugga made the call in a statement titled, “Resurgence of violence in part of Southern Senatorial zone of Kaduna State,” made available to our correspondent in Kaduna. The MACBAN boss said, “On January 24, 2022, at Kizaga Village in Kauru Local Government Area, two Fulani herders were attacked by some armed Kataf youths from Kurmin- Masara village of Zango-Kataf Local Government Area. “They were killed instantly and one (20-year-old Ya’u Abubakar) was beheaded while the corpse of 30-year-old Adamu Usman was later found within the area. “They also advanced to the houses of the Fulanis and burnt down several houses to ashes while also killing a one-year-old boy (Bilal Bukar) who was inside one of the burnt houses. “On January 29, 2022, in Gankon village of Gora District, armed Atyap (Kataf) youths attacked 19-year-old Zakari Laulo rearing his cows and lynched him to death.” Tugga further listed other cases of violence unleashed on members of his group allegedly by Atyap youths. But the Atyap Development Association accused Fulani militia of killing their members in the renewed violence in Southern Kaduna. The association’s President, Samuel Achie, in a statement titled “The ongoing carnage in Atyap land since the early hours of Sunday, January 30, 2022,” said more than 11 of his members were killed by Fulani militia while over 30 houses were burnt and over 100 people displaced. He said, “Since January 17, 2021, many lives and innumerable property have been destroyed in villages like Abuyab, Mazaki, Mawakili, Takjei, Matache, Matagama, Gora Gan, Kurmin Masara and Atisa. On Sunday, January 30, 2022, 11 people were murdered by Fulani terrorist militia forces; many were wounded, over 30 houses burnt and over 100 people displaced. “On Monday, January 31, 2022, Atisa Village in (Kurmin Masara) was attacked and five lives lost and eight houses burnt.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com