Several Super Eagles players will be in action this weekend across Europe as the leagues continue, after the return of European football midweek. KELVIN EKERETE takes a look at some of the players to watch out for on Friday and Saturday Ola Aina (Juventus vs Torino, Friday) Aina will be hoping to make his first appearance for Torino since returning from the 2021 AFCON in Cameroon when Torino visit neighbours Juventus in a Derby della Mole at the Allianz Stadium in Turin. Before going off to the AFCON, Aina made 16 appearances. Since their first meeting in 1907, the derby has swung in favour of the Old Lady, but Aina will be hoping to see his side get the first win over their bitter rivals since 2015. They last claimed a win against Juventus away from home in 1995. Frank Onyeka (Arsenal vs Brentford, Saturday) The midfielder was in action for 80 minutes when newcomers Brentford shockingly pulled off a 2-0 win over Arsenal in their first game of the season at the Brentford community Stadium. Both sides will square off for the second leg on Saturday and Onyeka will be hoping to be part of the squad to try get a double over the Gunners. He will be available after sitting on the bench in their last league game against Crystal Palace in a goalless draw. The 24-year-old has 18 league appearances for the Bees. Alex Iwobi (Southampton vs Everton, Saturday) Iwobi could make his second start under new manager Frank Lampard when they visit Southampton on Saturday for a Premier League clash at Saint Mary’s Stadium. The forward has shown glimpses of brilliance since Lampard took over as coach: he provided an assist in just two minutes of their FA Cup win over Brentford and was close to winning a Man-of-The-Match award in their 3-0 win over Leeds United. The 25-year-old will be hoping to replicate the same performance or even better when he plays his 15th game of the season. Moses Simon (Nantes vs PSG, Saturday) In-form winger Simon will be playing one of his toughest games of the season when Nantes file out against champions Paris Saint-Germain in a French Ligue 1 match-up on Saturday. The winger was the Man-of-The-Match for his side in their last outing, scoring a cheeky free-kick to hand his side a 1-0 win over Reims. He will be hoping to be a handful for PSG right-back Achraf Hakimi, who is high on confidence after the Parisiens’ 1-0 Champions League win over Real Madrid. Simon has three goals and six assists in 20 league games. Taiwo Awoniyi (Arminia vs Union, Saturday) Having scored his ninth Bundesliga goal of the season on December 12 against RB Leipzig, the Nigeria international has been in search of his 10th goal of the season ever since. He may get the opportunity when Union pay a visit to 15th-place Arminia on Saturday. Awoniyi has scored nine goals and provided one assist in 19 Bundesliga games. Samuel Chukwueze (Granada vs Villarreal, Saturday) After tormenting the likes of Marcelo and David Alaba in Villarreal’s goalless draw against Madrid last weekend, tricky winger Chukwueze will be hoping to be more clinical in the final third if he gets the opportunity to play against 17th-place Granada. Chukwueze has found the back of the net twice in 14 league appearances for the Yellow Submarines this season. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com