Shina Peller, a member of the House of Representatives representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal Constituency of Oyo State and the youth leaders of the All Progressives Congress in the South-West and Kwara State have urged youths in the country to vie for elective positions in the 2023 general elections. Addressing the Progressive Youth Festival held at Liberty Stadium, Ibadan, on Saturday, Peller said the youths should stop complaining but should take a bold step by joining political parties to contest elections to effect the change they desired. He said, “It is time Nigerian youths took the responsibility for rebuilding this nation. We should stop complaining and start the process of rebuilding our nation because we don’t have any other place we can call our own. “Youths must get their PVCs ready and make sure that they join a political party and be ready to contest elections. We have to take that bold step and the time is now.” Among the notable youth leaders and influencers that addressed the rally were the APC National Youth Leader, Ismaeel Ahmed; Kabir Aregbesola, Seyi Adisa, IQ Babatunde, Aderinsola Abiola, Afiz Repete, and a governorship aspirant, Abisoye Fagade. Speaking at the rally, the APC National Youth leader said the festival was one of the numerous initiatives being organised to strategically advocate and position young people for political leadership. He added that the initiative was aimed at driving a bolder effort to energise and empower young people to take ownership of their political future by contesting for leadership positions and organising more effectively for progressive reforms through a mainstream party. Ahmed said, ‘‘The goal is to build a young people’s political movement that will produce the next president, set the agenda and hold him/her accountable for the benefit of the millions of young people that make the majority of our country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com