The Federal Government has described the current effort of the International Labour Organisation in tackling development challenges of unemployment, under employment among others in Africa as a drop in the ocean. It called for a drastic intervention to mobilise donor agencies and institutions to the root of the prevailing social upheaval on the continent. These were contained in a statement on Thursday by the Deputy Director Press and Public Relations, Ministry of Labour, Charles Akpan. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige was quoted to have said this while receiving a delegation of the France candidate for the office of the Secretary General of the International Labour Organisation, Muriel Penicaud, who came to request for Nigeria’s support in the election. The statement quoted the minister of Labour to have said that the ILO was in the best position to assist developing countries like Nigeria create a system to reduce poverty. The statement was titled, ‘Nigeria Tasks ILO on Poverty, Social Disruptions’. It partly read, “There is a scourge of massive unemployment and under-employment. So far, the intervention of the ILO in this direction is like a drop of water in the ocean. We need ILO to assist in mobilising global donor agencies so we can effectively tackle this. “There is every need for the ILO to be on the ground as you said. “When you talk about child labour, it revolves around income. Low income makes families push out their children to the farms , to hawk in the streets. So, we are talking about poverty. The ILO is in the best position to assist developing countries like ours create a system to reduce poverty. “ ur social security system is poor and for the ILO to make meaningful intervention, it needs to shape up and align with other global agencies for impactful assistance . “ Yes, recently , there was a joint effort by the ILO, the UNICEF and Global Fund towards social security, social assistance and the rest of it all . But I looked at the funds being talked about, again, it was a drop of water in the ocean.” He also urged the ILO to draw up new programmes to tackle social malaise, be it is child trafficking, child labour , illegal migration , banditry and other crimes induced by poverty and caused by unemployment or low income. Nigige said, “We reduce poverty through job creation and improvement in welfare. We need schools and hospitals in the areas prone to child labour and trafficking . The ILO can help bridge the gaps and that is the only way to nip them in the bud.” Ngige further noted that negative growth indices were worsened by the COVID-19 pandemic but stated that Nigeria was leaving no stone unturned in the path of progress. He said, “Inequality has been made worse by COVID-19 scourge, which has displaced many working persons , especially in the informal sector, those who earn their living by working daily. “The majority of the population in Africa abound in this bracket and when you talk about Africa , Nigeria takes 60% of whatever you are talking about. “As a government, we are battling to make up for the job losses, and to cut poverty induced crimes. But even as we do this , we also face a great youth bulge that has led many of them into crimes. So the ILO needs a different approach than it currently does.” Earlier in his speech, Muriel Penicaud said she was contesting to lead the ILO to bring about a new “tripartism of multi-country inclusion” so as to “bring the ILO to the ground, to change life for the people,” saying that only inclusiveness can bring the desired change. She said her experience over the years in the ILO had prepared her adequately for the job, with her focus also on mobilization of social partners for social inclusion and protection against extreme poverty, child labour among others, in order to “show the world that something is changing for the best.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com