Background I was born and raised in Kano State. I attended St. Louis Secondary School, a Catholic missionary school in Kano State. I graduated less than a year ago. Growing up in Kano was not really easy because I did not grow up at home. I practically grew up in school. I got criticised a lot for going to a Catholic school as a Muslim girl. It got to me sometimes and that’s one of the reasons I contested for Miss Nigeria. I wanted to prove that I could do it and I did it. Modelling I have only been a model for less than a year. After I graduated from school, I was stuck at home as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. I hated being idle, so I decided to try my hands at modelling. My first modelling audition was ‘rocky’. They picked me at first but they later said I needed better management, and they rejected me. However, that did not really discourage me. Rather, it encouraged me to do better and push harder. My mum told me, “You can’t just start this thing and be successful immediately”. She made me understand that one has to fail before one succeeds. Hijab In the early days (of my modelling career), I felt a bit intimated because of my hijab. I was turned down severally because brands did not want to work with a hijab model. On several occasions, I was blatantly told I had to take off my hijab if I wanted to succeed as a model. Miss Nigeria It still feels like a dream. I have to pinch myself to confirm that I am awake. It is the happiest experience of my life. I took part in the pageant because I wanted to take a chance on myself. When I applied, I honestly did not think for a second that I could win. But, a small voice kept ringing in my head, saying, ‘What if you get selected’? I realised that just by getting selected, I could inspire so many young girls, even if I did not eventually win. Experience Initially, I was quite doubtful (that I could win the competition) because of my hijab. I thought they would drop me because of it. But, after I survived the eviction, I said to myself, “I think I stand a chance”. Support My parents were my biggest supporters. My siblings and close friends were also there for me, especially on the difficult days. Most of the girls from my school really supported me as well. Parents My mum has always been my biggest supporter, so convincing her to let me do this was not difficult. However, my dad, was not on board (with it). He was worried about me being forced to take off my hijab, having to wear a swimsuit or being treated differently because of the hijab. My mum and I had to do an entire presentation to convince him. After that point, I had his full support. Backlash I faced a lot of backlash for taking part in the pageant, and it was not only from northerners. Other people criticised me as well. Some said, ‘Go to school’, while some claimed that I was going to spoil the Miss Nigeria brand because of my religion and the way I dress. I simply ignored them. Encouragement It was my mum’s support that got me through. I felt if my parents were supporting me, why should I care about what other people were thinking or saying? I barely know most of the people who talked bad about me anyway. It was my mum’s support that got me through. Contestants Many of the other contestants were older and more experienced (than me), so I was quite doubtful and wondering how I could effectively compete. But, on the stage, during the grand finale, I had a hunch that I stood a chance. While others were crying, I just kept praying. Advice I think it (my win) is important because people let restrictions and religion hold them back. But, when they see people like them making groundbreaking achievements, they would get inspired to do the same. Even other girls who do not wear hijab will see me and be encouraged that if a hijab-wearing model can do this, they can also do it. So, there is representation and inclusion. I have been getting many congratulatory and encouraging messages from other beauty pageant contestants and people from all over the world, including from South Africa, Rwanda, Somalia, Malaysia and Tunisia. They tell me that I inspired them. My advice to other girls like me is that religious and cultural beliefs should not be barriers to their dreams. Never in a million years would I have thought that an average girl from Kano State like me would ever become Miss Nigeria. Beyond winning, it was an incredible learning experience for me. I met so many wonderful and inspiring young women in camp who have become my friends and big sisters for life. I also got to work with many incredible brands and for that, I am grateful. Projects Working with the incredible team at Miss Nigeria and the Green Girl Company, I intend to focus on eliminating period poverty (inadequate access to menstrual hygiene tools and education), or at least significantly reducing it. No girl should be denied an education because they do not have access to period products. Those are necessities, not luxury items. Legacy I want to be remembered as the 18-year-old girl who changed the world. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com