THE Nigeria Police Force have been asked to immediately release for burial the corpse of Mr Daniel Agori, a 21 year-old-boy from Bayelsa State, who was allegedly killed by policemen in Rivers State. Agori was accused of kidnapping and gun-running by the police men and subsequently killed extra-judicially in 2019. The killer policemen alledgedly led by one Justine Adaka, a Superintendent of Police, had also brutalized the mother of their victim, Mrs Victoria Agori. However, the Independent Investigation Panel on Human Rights Violations by the Defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad and other units of the Nigeria Police Force in 2020, led by retired Justice Suleiman Galadima, had found the police wanting in its report based on a petition by Victoria. The panel awarded N15m damages in favour of the petitioner,  it found the police wanting in the extra-judicial killing. The panel, in a letter signed by its secretary, Hilary Ogbonna, and copied to the Rivers State Commissioner of Police and the Chief Medical Director of University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital, ordered the release of Daniel’s remains for burial. The letter readin part, “The independent investigative panel has taken presentations of testimonies of witnesses, arguments and written addresses of counsel on the above petition. “The independent investigative panel in conference on the third day of December 2021 deliberated and reached a decision that the petitioner was unlawfully arrested, detained, and extra-judicially killed by officers of the Nigeria Police Force, leading to the death of the first petitioner and the traumatic condition to the second petitioner. “The independent investigative panel made the following orders: that the monetary compensation of N15m  be paid to assuage for the loss of life of the first petitioner by the family, as well as psychological, traumatic experiences and other negative side effects suffered by the second petitioner. “That the corpse of the first petitioner/complainant currently deposited at the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital mortuary be released immediately to his family for proper burial.” The deceased’s mother said, “They should give me the remains of my son. I want it for burial. Why are they still keeping it? I see him every time in my dream crying that I should bury him so that his spirit will rest. He said he will not rest until he is buried. They should give the body to me.” Victoria has also called for the immediate arrest and prosecution of the police officers indicted by the panel in the interest of justice. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com