The Chief Judge of Zamfara State, Justice Kulu Aliyu, has inaugurated a committee to investigate the allegations levelled against the Deputy Governor, Mahdi Gusau, by the state House of Assembly. Inaugurating the panel on Monday, Justice Kulu said she received a letter from the Speaker to constitute a panel to investigate the deputy governor. She said Section 188 (5) imposes a duty on her as the Chief Judge of the state to appoint a panel of seven persons to probe the allegations. Justice Kulu stated, “The constitutional provisions are very clear. The use of the word ‘shall’ in Section 188 (5) imposes a duty on me as the Chief Judge of Zamfara State to appoint a panel of seven persons. “The Speaker told me to appoint a panel of seven persons, who in his opinion, are of unquestionable integrity, not being members of any public service, legislative house or political party, to investigate the allegation in this section. “The panel must consist of people of proven integrity and I find you worthy for the job. “I have, therefore, after careful consideration of your track records as persons of proven integrity, appointed you for this arduous task. “I believe that you will discharge your duty without fear or favour, affection or ill-will in accordance with the oath you have just taken. “I urge you to remain resolute in your new assignment and discharge your duty with utmost sincerity.” The state House of Assembly had passed a resolution requesting the CJ to immediately constitute a panel to investigate all the allegations levelled against the deputy governor. The Chairman of the committee is Haliru Soba, a retired Justice of Kaduna state, while Ashiru Tsafe, will serve as the secretary. Meanwhile, a Federal High Court in Abuja, on Monday, fixed March 10 for a definite hearing in a suit filed by the deputy governor seeking to stop the state House of Assembly from impeaching him on account of his refusal to defect to the All Progressive Congress. Justice Inyang Ekwo fixed the date after ordering the parties to the suit to file and exchange all their processes ahead of the date. During the proceedings, counsel for the Peoples Democratic Party and Gusau, Chief Emmanuel Ukala (SAN), appealed to the judge to make a definite pronouncement on maintaining the status quo. In the alternative, he urged the court to direct the counsel for Governor Mohammed Matawalle, the Chief Judge of Zamfara State and the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mike Ozekhome (SAN), to give an undertaking for the maintenance of the status quo. However, Ozekhome told the court that Ukala only served him the amended originating summons, the motion to revive the status quo, as well as a motion for interlocutory injunction on Friday. He argued that by the rules of the court, he was entitled to seven days each to respond to both motions and 30 days to respond to the amended originating summons. Ozekhome also argued that the status quo order granted in July 2021 expired after 14 days going by the rules of the Federal High Court and that the maintenance of status quo order was based on a mere letter of invitation sent to Gusaau to appear before the House to answer certain questions and not an order against his impeachment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com