In a bid to ensure that students of the school do not engage in addictions that could affect their studies, Bingham University in the Karu Local Government Area of Nasarawa state has warned its newly matriculated students against involving themselves in any form of social vices. Speaking during the 17th matriculation ceremony for the 2021/2022 academic session in Karu on Thursday, the Vice-Chancellor of the University, William Qurix, said that the school has zero-tolerance for cultism, drug abuse and other social vices, and would sanction any of its students found wanting. He said, “Bingham University, being a faith-based university, has zero tolerance for any form of social vices. The university has rules and regulations guiding the conduct of students and you all are expected to familiarise yourselves with these regulations and abide strictly by them as any student who goes against the rules would be sanctioned. “A total of 4,530 candidates applied to the university this year to study various courses to include Pharmaceutical sciences, Basic medical sciences, Clinical Sciences, Health Sciences, Arts, Social Sciences, Science and Technology, among other courses. “Out of the figure, 420 of them got admission as postgraduate students while 1,560 got admission as undergraduate students bringing the total of matriculating students at 1,980”. The Vice-Chancellor expressed concern over the level of insecurity confronting the nation and urged security agencies to redouble their efforts in ensuring that perpetrators of the act were apprehended. He further said that the university was making efforts to improve on the existing hostels and that new hostels would be built for the students to ensure that they were comfortable while concentrating on their studies. “The university is aware of the general security challenges confronting the entire nation and that is why we have put in place several security measures in collaboration with security agencies. On the issue of accommodation, I implore students to exercise patience as we are making provisions which should be ready by the end of the semester,” the VC added. Earlier in his speech, the guest speaker, Andrew Zamani, urged the students to be committed to their studies and avail themselves of diverse learning opportunities offered by the institution in order for them to contribute meaningfully to society after graduating from the university. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com