SOME butchers in Benin City on Wednesday called on Governor Godwin Obaseki to call the coordinator of Edo Security Network, Chief Superintendent of Police, Yusuf Haruna (Rtd.) to order over allegation that he is backing the use of thugs against them by one of them, Akhere Odijie. The protesters who were at the Nigeria Union of Journalists said Odijie, who imposed himself on them as the chairman of the Edo State Butchers Association, has continued to unleash attacks on them with the connivance of Haruna. Speaking on behalf of the protesters, Sunny Omokaro, said after imposing himself as the state chairman of the association, Odijie has been attacking and maiming anyone who refuses to cooperate with him or fail to pay money at the abattoir. He added, “Anytime we make complaints to the Police and the thugs are arrested, they would be released without delay. And what we were told is that call came from the governor’s office for their release. They also told us the person who usually called is one Yusuf Haruna. “Recently, we went to make a complaint at the Zone 5 headquarters of the Nigeria Police, and thugs of Odijie were arrested, but they were released. It was there I saw Haruna who came to effect bail of the thugs. It was there I confirmed the allegation. “Odijie, on his part is threatening that even if he kills, nothing will happen. He is boasting that his brother is the governor of the state. As we speak, we cannot express ourselves freely. It has been intimidation and gunshots. When you speak out, you will be attacked.” he added. But Haruna denied the allegation, saying he does not know the protesters nor does he have any business with them. On his part, Odijie said the protesters were sponsored to rubbish his administration which he said has been the most successful. “This is my seventh year as chairman and those people are just using propaganda against me. We are getting close to election and that is why they are causing this crisis. Edo Butchers Association is not part of the national body where somebody is claiming to be the life president.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com