THE Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on Monday arraigned a company, Marqott Nigeria Limited, an alleged accomplice in the $9.6bn Gas Supply and Processing Agreement between the Ministry of Petroleum Resources and Process and Industrial Development Limited. The firm was charged with four counts of money laundering. One of the counts read; “That you, Marqott Nigeria Limited, being a designated Non-financial Institution; and Giovanni Beccarelli, Valentina Fantoli, and Dimitri Duca, being directors of and signatories to the bank account of Marqott Nigeria Limited, sometime in September 2014, in Abuja, within the Abuja Judicial Division of the Federal High Court, failed to comply with the requirements of submitting to the Federal Ministry of  Industry, Trade and Investment, a declaration of activities of Marqott Nigeria Limited contrary to section  16(1) (f) read together with Section 5(1)(a)(ii) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011(as amended and you thereby committed an offence punishable under section 16(2)(b) of the same Act.” The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charges. Thereafter, the prosecuting counsel, Bala Sanga, called his first witness, Umar Babangida, a Chief Superintendent of Police on secondment to the EFCC, who informed the court that he got to know the defendant when the investigation activity letter was dispatched to the Corporate Affairs Commission requesting the incorporation record of the defendant. A statement by the EFCC spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren, said the witness told the court that they forwarded a letter of investigation activity to the Special Control Unit Against Money Laundering and a response letter revealed that the defendant had failed to declare its activities as required under section 5 of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act 2011 (as amended). “It further stated that the company failed to take necessary steps in combating money laundering as required by the Money Laundering Act,” Babangida reportedly told the court. The witness further revealed that a response letter from Guaranty Trust Bank where Marqott operates naira and United States Dollar accounts indicates that “the three Italian directors are signatories to the account and have been receiving payment from ICIL LTD and Babcock Electrical Project Ltd. All these companies are associated with P&ID and are standing trial at the Federal High Court, Abuja Division, for money laundering.” The witness said they discovered from the statement of account that most of the transactions were cash deposits. “The three Italian directors are at large but other representatives of these companies, the court has issued a warrant for their arrest and extradition back to Nigeria to stand trial,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com