Former Super Eagles midfielder, Mutiu Adepoju, and member of the House of Representatives representing  Iseyin/Itesiwaju, Kajola and Iwajowa Federal Constituency, Shina Peller, have advocated sports as means to lure the youths from crime especially ritual killings  to make money. The duo spoke in separate interviews with our correspondent in Saki on Tuesday evening after the opening match of the Peller Unity Cup organised for 20 U-21 teams from 10 Local Government Areas in Oke Ogun area of Oyo State. Iseyin City FC defeated Iwajowa Diamond FC 2-1 in the match played at OYSADEP Stadium. Peller said, “Sports can be used to curb ritual killings, which is on the increase, especially among the youths. There is a saying that an idle mind is the devil’s workshop. If the youths are engaged in competitions like this and they see future in what we are doing, they will redirect their energy and creativity into productive ventures. “Former Nigerian players Dosu Joseph and Femi Opabunmi attended the unveiling of the tournament kits and the press conference and Mutiu Adepoju is here for this match. We have invited scouts to watch the matches. Adepoju is a European recognised scout and football icon and he is here to identity talents. “These and other things can motivate the youths and by the time they are engaged in training and thinking of how to be better, they won’t have time to engage in criminal activities. We need more of this because talents abound in Oke Ogun.” On his part, Adepoju encouraged more investment in sports. He said, “There are many talents in Oke Ogun and this is one of the platforms they can be given to discover them. This Peller Unity Cup is good, the players are well-kitted and the organisation is impressive. “We can use sports to address some of the problems we are facing as a nation. We have talents in all the sports, not only in football. If our youths can be engaged, we won’t be seeing all these killings.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com