The Abia State All Progressive Congress has condemned ‘the purported certification of an unknown individual as the elected State Chairman of APC in Abia State’, insisting that the imposition will never be allowed to stand. During the leadership/elders meeting of the party held in Abuja on Saturday, they rejected in its entirety “the attempt by the Caretaker Committee Secretary, Sen. John Udoudehe, and his likes to gift the party to their suspended friend in the state, noting that the party is not a one man’s business that can be used as a gift”. In a communique issued at the end of the meeting and signed by Mike Ozoemena, the State Publicity Secretary APC, Abia State, the well-attended leaders meeting appreciated the state Caretaker Chairman, Donatus Nwankpa, for his services to the party as the state chairman since inception in 2013 and wished him well in his future endeavours. At the meeting, Nwankpa handed over the reins of leadership of the party in the state to the duly elected state Chairman, Rt Hon Iheanacho Obioma (Chomen), stating that handover formalities would be performed at the State Secretariat soon. The leaders, comprising of all major APC leaders in the state resolved to return the party to the real owners at the grassroots, agreeing that the authentic Abia State APC would convene a mega meeting of the party as soon as possible. The leaders agreed to henceforth close ranks, put their differences, if any aside, for the interest and progress of the party in the state, assuring the party faithful that the authentic APC in Abia state shall form the delegates to the forthcoming National Convention on the 26th of February, 2022 in Abuja. They also agreed that an open letter shall as a matter of urgency be written to the APC National leader and the President, Major General Mohammadu Buhari (retd.), “whose name is being dropped as the backer and sustainer of the charade going on and destabilising the APC in Abia state”. They further agreed to reach out to all our elected and appointed leaders, “especially our number one leader, His Excellency Sen. Dr Orji Uzor Kalu to ensure there is one house for the party in the state henceforth. The leaders assured party members that every legal means would continue to be pursued towards restoring absolute peace and normalcy to our great party in the state. Meanwhile, the APC caucus leader in Abia and senator representing Abia North, Sen. Orji Kalu has called on the members of the party to embrace unity and togetherness ahead of the 2023 general elections In a statement made available to newsmen on Sunday, Kalu who is the Chief Whip of the Senate appealed to different factions to bury the idea of defecting to another political party amidst the disagreements in the party, noting that disagreements are eminent in democratic settings and that he does not belong to any of the factions. Kalu said he is watching keenly the developments in the party in the state and called on all aggrieved members to remain strong with a view to strengthening the party He advised that defection cannot be the solution to their grievances, adding that everyone should allow the party’s national leadership to address the grievances amicably. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com