The Ondo State Government has resolved to block leakages in all its Ministries, Departments and Agencies in a bid to prevent fraudulent activities in the government systems. To this end, the government has directed all MDAs in the state to institutionalise the concept of ‘one administration.’ These were part of resolutions made at the end of a three-day retreat for political office holders and accounting officers in the Ondo State public service. The resolutions were contained in a communiqué issued at the end of the retreat on Saturday. The communiqué was jointly signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Oladunni Odu, and the Head of Service, Pastor John Adeyemo. In the communiqué, it was resolved that Ondo State must fully automate revenue collection, expand the revenue sources and block revenue leakages; while MDAs must prioritise and align capital projects with realistic budgetary provisions to ensure timely completion of key developmental projects. It was also resolved that “effort must be made to attain full implementation of Treasury Single Account.” Meanwhile, a civic-tech organisation, BudgIT, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Ondo State Government on fiscal transparency. It was gathered that the MoU was aimed at improving and supporting fiscal transparency and responsibility in the state. According to a statement by the Communications Associate of the organisation, Iyanu Fatoba, the signing took place at the Retreat for Political Office Holders and Accounting Officers held in Owo in the presence of the Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu; and his Deputy, Mr Lucky Ayedatiwa, among others. BudgIT’s Country Director, Mr Gabriel Okeowo, reiterated BudgIT’s commitment to supporting the Ondo State Government through its fiscal transparency process. With the involvement of the state government’s technical team, BudgIT will design an open state portal for the state government.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com