Some youths of the All Progressives Congress have called on the President, Major General Mohammadu Buhari (retd.) to reject plans by some governors of the party to hijack proceedings at the forthcoming National Convention. The youths under the aegis of  APC Youth Development and Solidarity Forum said it was worried that governors in the party were orchestrating the move so as to singlehandedly pick the chairman and other positions in the party. Speaking during a protest at the National Assembly on Monday, the President of the group,  Danelsi Momoh, said such plan, if allowed to materialise, would tear the party apart. He called on the president to allow a level playing field for all candidates during the party’s convention. Momoh said, “We are consequently pained with the action of some governors in our party who are desperately trying to undermine the democratic process by attempting to deceive you and other party members into endorsing a fraudulent list of candidates at the party’s national convention. “They want to singlehandedly pick the chairman of our party and other candidates for leadership position during the convention. “This is undemocratic and must not be allowed to see the light of the day. It has the potential of disintegrating the party before the convention slated date. “We call on the president as the father of the party and in line with your stance on transparency and accountability, to reject the governors and their plans and equally consult other stakeholders like the forum of ex-governors in the party to make an input. “The president should consult members of our party in the National Assembly which has the biggest caucus in the party towards finding an amicable resolution of the impending crisis .” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com