Crisis has rocked the Katsina State chapter of All Progressives Congress over the chairmanship candidate for the Daura Local Government in the forthcoming council election. The party’s state Deputy Chairman, Alhaji Bala Musawa, while briefing journalists in Katsina, had announced the substitution of APC chairmanship candidate in Daura LG, where the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), hails from. However, the decision was rejected by some aggrieved Katsina APC members. Musawa disclosed that Alhaji Shehu Abdu had been replaced with Bala Musa. The party’s Deputy Chairman said, “Based on the recommendations of the Party’s Appeal Committee, the said Abdu who had earlier emerged victorious at the Daura Chairmanship primary election is bedeviled with a series of allegations. “The party’s appeal committee in respect of the primaries investigated the petitions from various individuals and confirmed that there are allegations and pending court cases in respect of the infractions perpetrated by Abdu. “Therefore, based on the provisions of Section 66(1), 107(1), 137(1) 182(1) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended), which make it constitutional that whosoever wanted to contest any elective positions, including LG Chairmanship shall be free from fraud, dishonesty, criminal breach of trust or misconduct. “In the same vein, the electoral Act (2010), the LG Law (2000) and the
LG council electoral law (2002) of Katsina State is not left behind in making provisions with respect to qualifications and or disqualifications of any candidate standing for such post. “Particular Section 107(1) of the Electoral Act (2010), Section 7(2) of Katsina State LG council Electoral Law (2002) and Section 29(1) of the state’s LG law (2000). “Therefore, in the light of the foregoing, It is pertinent for the party to avoid the risk of fielding a candidate who is prone to being disqualified before the general election as the pending criminal cases against him may lead to conviction.” Musawa emphasised that the substitution was made in the overall interest of the Party. Some APC members from Daura Local Government Area had a fortnight ago, protested against what they called “plans to impose another candidate in place of the one who won the primaries”. The aggrieved APC members, led by the state Chairman of ex-councilors, Alhaji Ibrahim Suleiman, made the disclosure to newsmen then. Suleiman alleged that Abdu was declared winner during the party’s recent primaries for the councilors and chairmanship positions in the council. He declared, “But unfortunately, some of the party members with selfish interests ganged up in an attempt to change the election result which we will never agree to. “I wish to inform you that they have framed him, alleging that he collected money from youths in the area to secure a job for them.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com