The North Central Women Forum converged in Kaduna on Tuesday and resolved to use its resources to ensure that the Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, is elected President come 2023. The forum said its decision to support Ugwuanyi, whom they fondly called ‘Gburugburu,’ was informed by his entrenchment of peace and good governance in Enugu as well as assisting women and the downtrodden to grow their businesses. The group which had members from Niger, Kwara, Nasarawa, Plateau, Benue, Kogi States and Federal Capital Territory held a “Crucial meeting on who to support during the forthcoming 2023 elections,” at Epitome hotel, Barnawa, Kaduna State, with a call on all Nigerians to support power shift to the Igbos, “because it is long overdue.” According to the forum, the decision to hold the meeting in Kaduna was strategic just as they expressed worries over threats of political division, insecurity, high rate of poverty and unemployment, and socio-economic problems militating against the progress and development of Nigeria under the All Progressives Congress regime. In a communique jointly signed by the Coordinator of the forum at the end of the meeting, the group resolved to throw their weight behind Ugwuanyi, whom they described as the most women-friendly governor and a detribalised leader. The nine-point communique jointly signed by Coordinator and Secretary of the North Central Women Forum, Christian Azege and Secretary, Hajiya Amina Kure, read, “He is currently the only governor of a state, who came on board and remembered the welfare of the women, traders and the downtrodden. “One of the reasons we resolved to endorse Governor Ugwuanyi as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria come 2023 is because of his far-reaching Traders Empowerment Scheme launched in 2017 to assist genuine women traders and various businesses, irrespective of the state of origin, religion or ethnicity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com