The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, on Monday, stated that leprosy was still endemic in 18 states of the federation and that 1,508 new cases had been reported as at the last count. Leprosy is a mildly infectious disease caused by a slow multiplying bacillus, Mycobacterium leprae, with incubation period of about five years. Symptoms can take as long as 20 years to appear. The disease mainly affects the skin, peripheral nerves, mucosa of the upper respiratory tract and also the eyes. Leprosy is transmitted via droplets from the nose and mouth during close and frequent contacts with untreated cases. Untreated leprosy can lead to life-long disabilities affecting the skin, nerves, limbs and eyes. The minister said during a world press briefing organised by the Federal Ministry of Health to mark the World Leprosy Day, “Leprosy is still a public health problem in Nigeria as we are among the few countries in the world that are still reporting greater than 1,000 new cases annually. “According to the report of the 2015 National Leprosy Review, 18 states in the federation are still endemic to leprosy although anecdotal evidence suggests pockets of leprosy endemicity in almost every state of the federation. In 2020, Nigeria notified 1,508 new Leprosy cases.” Ehanire, however, noted that the Federal Government was doing everything possible to cater for infected individuals in the society. He said, “Permit me to highlight some notable achievements of the Federal Ministry of Health through the National TB, Leprosy & Buruli Ulcer Control Programme with the support of partners since inception. “Over 33,000 leprosy patients, including adults and children, have been treated successfully from 2009 till date. “Nigeria was among the countries that attained the World Health Organisation elimination target of less than one leprosy case per 10,000 populations at the national level in the year 2000. Twenty-five referral/rehabilitation centres for persons affected by leprosy have been established nationwide. “The National TB, Leprosy & Buruli Ulcer Training Centre, Zaria, was established to undertake human resource development as it relates to TB, leprosy and Buruli ulcer control.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com