A don, Prof Umar Labdo, on Friday in Kano, described the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party as ‘’not better than business ventures.’’ While commenting on the prospects of political parties in the country, Labdo of the Faculty of Humanities, Maitama Sule University, Kano (formerly North West University), lamented that the two dominant parties lacked meaningful manifestos to improve the lot of the common man. He noted, “APC and PDP, as far as I am concerned, are two sides of the same coin and I have reasons to believe that this is what many of my fellow Kano compatriots think. ‘’The two parties lack real meaningful manifestos or programmes aimed at improving the lot of the people and are, therefore, no better than business ventures. “This is evidenced by the frequent defection by members of both parties. The current crisis between the two factions of Ganduje and Ibrahim Shekarau is not a result of ideological differences or adherence to any principle. Therefore, the possibility of reconciliation between the two factions is real, but it may not affect the course of politics in the state.’’ The social critic lamented that Kano politics, which used to be the nerve centre of northern politics and by extension, Nigerian politics,  had declined to an all-time low. He noted, “We used to have politics of service in Kano, service to the people and the common man. This is why our politics was known as the politics of Talakawa. Prior to the coming of the Europeans, Kano was known for its radicalism in politics and for its strong pro-people activism. ‘’This trend had its genesis in the political thought of Abdullahi Dan Fodiyo, the most radical of the Sokoto jihad leaders. Abdullahi broke away from the Sokoto jihad during the revolution under the leadership of his brother, Usman Dan Fodio when he felt that the Jihad movement leaders were deviating from its original principles and objectives.’’ Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com