A former Director-General of the Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, has condemned the forceful eviction of 100,000 waterside settlers in Port Harcourt, by the Rivers State Government. Peterside, who was a governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the state, said Governor Nyesom Wike’s decision to sack the poor and vulnerable Rivers residents from their waterfront homes was “wicked, evil and inhuman.” Wike had last week ejected residents of over 10 waterfront settlements in Port Harcourt, over alleged criminality. In a press statement in Port Harcourt by his media office on Monday, Peterside described Wike’s action against the residents as callous. He said the manner with which the governor treated the waterfront occupants was cruel as there was no lawful quit notice or any compensation paid. “This commando-style of doing things always adopted by Wike has become the hallmark of his administration and its legacy,” Peterside said. While noting that Wike’s action against the waterfront residents was against all Universal Laws and Conventions on Human Rights and Habitation, including the United Nations Human Settlement Programme, UN-Habitat, United Nations Housing Rights Programme, the 1948 Universal Declaration on Human Rights, the 1966 International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and Nigeria’s Policy on Housing, Peterside noted that shelter was a right and fundamental to the welfare, survival and health of man. He said in as much as he stood with and would support any urban renewal programme, such should follow due process and have human face. He added “For Wike, who, in the over six years of his regime, was unable to provide any sort of housing programme  for Rivers residents, to sack them from the little they had, shows how he holds Rivers’ poor population in disdain. “Some of the residents of those demolished areas, most of whom are Rivers people, had lived there for over 40 years. “His actions have dislocated many families and ruined their economic survival, throwing them into the worst form of poverty.  Governor Wike’s action has created more nuisance than sanity or security.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com