The national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has paid a glowing tribute to his close associate and trusted ally, Prof. Tunde Samuel, who died on Wednesday in Lagos after a brief illness. In a condolence message on Saturday, Tinubu described Samuel as a reputable and renowned political philosopher, strategist, administrator, social reformer and distinguished academic. He said the late scholar contributed immensely to the formulation of policies and programmes that positioned Lagos State as the fifth largest economy in Africa and the investment destination in Nigeria. The former Lagos State governor said the news of the death of his friend, confidant and political associate came as a rude shock, noting that writing a condolence message on Samuel was a difficult task for him. He said, “Prof. Samuel was a reputable and renowned political philosopher, strategist, administrator, social reformer and distinguished academic. The many awards and laurels he won in his over 73 years of earthly sojourn are testimonies to his cerebral power and leadership acumen. His administrative footprints and intellectual landmarks on higher education in Lagos will remain indelible for a long time. “His pioneering leadership of the Lagos State College of Primary Education as Provost was the foundation on which the recent upgrade of the institution to the status of a university was laid. His role in the formative years of Lagos State University as a member of the institution’s Provisional Governing Council cannot be forgotten.” Tinubu recalled that as his special adviser on education when he was governor, Samuel’s professional inputs boosted education at all levels in the state and informed the decision of the Federal Government to appoint him as Chairman of Governing Council, Federal University, Otuoke, Bayelsa State – a position he held until his death. He added, “A prominent member of the APC Governance Advisory Council, Prof. Samuel contributed immensely to the formulation of policies and programmes that have positioned Lagos as the fifth largest economy in Africa and the investment destination in Nigeria. We are consoled that his life was a blessing to many. He will be sorely missed but we will continue to treasure his memory.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com