The Chairman, Ekiti Peoples Democratic Party Repositioning Group, Alaba Agboola, on Thursday, said that the group was not in coalition with former Ekiti State Governor, Segun Oni, in his governorship bid under the platform of Social Democratic Party. Agboola said the groupings ceased to exist in PDP after the emergence of Bisi Kolawole as governorship candidate and alignment of Repositioning leaders including former governorship aspirants Yinka Akerele and Lateef Ajijola with the mainstream to ensure the victory for the party and flagbearer. The PDP chieftain, who said in a statement in Ado Ekiti titled, ‘Ekiti guber: PDP Repositioning Group disowns Segun Oni, says we are not political harlots,’ cautioned the former governor to “desist from this namedropping vice that will only mislead the general public”. The clarification was in reaction to a statement credited to Oni on Wednesday where the former governor and SDP governorship candidate declared that four aggrieved former All Progressives Congress aspirants, members of PDP Repositioning Group and South West Agenda for Asiwaju 2023 were in strong coalition with him to win the June 18 governorship. Agboola said, “There was nowhere the group met with Engr Segun Oni or his agents to discuss any grand coalition. Members of the Ekiti PDP Repositioning Group are not political harlots who move from parties to parties and as such cannot be part of any coalition with Oni. “Oni obviously came to the PDP from the APC just for the purpose of using the PDP platform to contest the election. Most importantly, two aspirants from the Repositioning Group, Otunba Akerele and Alhaji Ajijola, who contested the PDP primary election are fully with the party’s candidate. “Therefore, members of the Repositioning Group are in PDP and in PDP will they remain and work with other members and supporters of the party to win the June 18 governorship election,” Agboola said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com