Northern youths, under the aegis of the Arewa Youth Assembly, have hailed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), over the appointment of Mohammed Bello-Koko as the substantive Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority. The group comprises youths drawn from the 19 Northern states and Abuja. The youths in a statement signed by its Speaker, Mohammed Danlami, and made available to journalists in Kaduna on Wednesday, urged the new NPA boss to see his appointment as an opportunity to work diligently with the view to repositioning the maritime sector of the economy. While congratulating the new managing director on his appointment, the group urged the staff and management of the Nigerian Ports Authority to accord the MD the necessary support for him to excel in his new endeavours. The statement read, “The Arewa Youth Assembly, through its leadership, felicitate with Mr Mohammed Bello-Koko on his recent appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, as the substantive Managing Director of the Nigerian Port Authority. “While congratulating Mallam Mohammed Bello-Koko on his well-deserved appointment, The Arewa Youth Assembly is calling on all members of staff of NPA, stakeholders, and well-meaning Nigerians to continue to give the new Managing Director all forms of unalloyed and pragmatic supports. “We also urge the Managing Director to see this appointment as an act of God and an opportunity to do further good, be diligent in the discharge of his duties and to contribute his quota to the development of our dear nation, beyond what has ever been achieved in the history of the NPA.” Koko acted as the Managing Director, following the suspension of Hadiza Bala Usman from office by the President in 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com