The Senate will lay the report of the Committee on the review of the 1999 Constitution Wednesday and begin to vote on the recommendations on Tuesday next week. This was disclosed by the Deputy President of the Senate and Chairman, Senate Committee on the Alteration to the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, on Tuesday. The All Progressives Congress, Delta Central representative explained that the report would be shared with all the senators on Wednesday to enable them to have a copy each, study the document and bring the report to the Chamber on Tuesday, March 1, for voting on the amendments. Omo-Agege said, “The Senate Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution will meet today, Tuesday, 22nd day of February 2022, immediately after plenary sitting at room 221 of the Senate building. “Please, this meeting is very crucial. “Tomorrow, the Senate President will announce that the report of the Constitution Review Committee will be laid on Wednesday tomorrow and, thereafter, we will take our vote on March 1st which will be Tuesday. “That will give us about 4 to 5 days to review the report, consult as we deem fit and be prepared to vote. “It is imperative that all of our colleagues be present on that day. “As you know, there are certain amendments that will require the two-thirds majority of all our colleagues – the entire Senate – not two-third of those who are present, but two-thirds of the entire membership of the Senate and, indeed, there are some other provisions that would require four-fifths of the entire Senate. “So, please, it is my appeal without prejudice to the announcement the Senate President will make tomorrow, in my capacity as the Chairman of the Committee, to urge that all of our members be prepared to be present to cast their vote on Tuesday. “The report will be laid tomorrow and be made available to all members, which report you will take home and we expect you to bring back to the chamber on Tuesday to cast your vote.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com