The Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria has said it will bring together stakeholders in the capital market to brainstorm on sustainability and climate issues. The Chairperson, Corporate Members and Training Committee, Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of  Nigeria, Mrs Abiola Laseinde, said this during a press briefing ahead of the institute’s annual Company Secretaries and Registrars Forum, with the theme ‘Sustainability and the future of green economy: A governance perspective’ in Lagos. She said, “It is a flagship programme of the institute that is organised annually for us to explore, discuss and take decisive actions on emerging trends on the capital market operations. As a governance institute, we live, we breathe governance. We intend to always look at every sphere of the economy and development from the governance perspective. “There is no doubt that issues bordering on climate change, environmentally sustainable development principles, all the environmental sustainability policies and bigger issues on climate are trending.” According to her, the programme is for major capital market operators including the chief executive officers, the boards of companies, registrars and company secretaries, who are drivers of governance. She said after the forum, ICSAN would take actionable points and ensure the implementation of the recommendations from it. The chairman of the occasion, she said is the President/ Chairman of Council, Institute of Capital Market Registrars, Mr Seyi Owoturo. The keynote speakers are the Environmental and Social Risks Manager, Africa Finance Corporation, Mrs Omawumi, KoIa- Lawal; and Partner, PwC, Mrs Rukaiya El-Rufai, while the panellists are the Chairman of Ibadan Zone, Shareholders Association, Mr Eric Akinduro; Chief Business Strategist, Cardinal Stone Registrars, Mr Ayoola Adeola; and Company Secretary/Legal Department, 11Plc, Mr Chris-Olumayowa Meseko. The Chairperson, Publicity and Advocacy Committee, Lynda Onefeli, said it was important for the government and other stakeholders to pay more attention to sustainability. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com