• Nine escape death in Lagos-Ibadan road crash No fewer than nine people, including a pregnant woman, died in an accident on the Ilorin-Ogbomoso Road on Sunday. The accident, which involved a commercial Toyota Hiace and a private Toyota Corolla, happened around 8am opposite the Ilorin International Airport, Kwara State. PUNCH Metro gathered that one of the vehicles involved in the crash carried jerrycans filled with petrol. The Federal Road Safety Corps said the accident involved a Toyota bus with number plate, AFN 06 YL, and a Toyota Corolla with number plate, LRN 787 FE. The FRSC attributed the crash to speeding and non-adherence to road safety rules. Sources, however, told PUNCH Metro that the Lagos-bound passenger bus loaded at the Gerin Alimi Motor Park, and was heading outwards from the Ilorin metropolis when it rammed into the car. The private vehicle, said to be coming out of the airport, reportedly failed to wait for the oncoming passenger bus to pass, which resulted in the accident. It was gathered that the two vehicles somersaulted before bursting into flames. The Sector Commander of the FRSC in Kwara State, Mr Jonathan Owoade, said the casualties were made up of eight females and one male. According to Owoade, the accident involved 20 passengers, eight males and 12 females, in the two vehicles. He explained that while eight people sustained varying degrees of injury, nine passengers were recovered dead. The commander said the injured were taken to the General Hospital, Ilorin, by some good Samaritans before the FRSC officials arrived at the scene, while the corpses were deposited at the morgue of the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital by a patrol team. Meanwhile, a truck driver conveying a container has crushed two vehicles around the Arepo-Magboro end of the Lagos Ibadan Expressway, Ogun State. Confirming the accident, the state Sector Commander of the FRSC, Ahmed Umar, said the nine persons involved in the accident escaped unhurt. He added that the truck driver was driving at top speed when he suddenly ram into the two vehicles, whose drivers were attempting to link the expressway. Umar said, “Nobody died and nobody was injured. Nine people, including eight men and one woman, were involved in the accident. The crash involved three vehicles  – two Toyota vehicles and one container truck. “The truck driver was speeding, but as he approached the narrowed section of the expressway, he lost control of the vehicle and crashed into the two Toyota vehicles that wanted to link the expressway. Our personnel are working with the police and Julius Berger officials to clear the road.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com