Officers of the Lagos State Police Command have arrested a domestic worker, Sossougueto Theodore, 50, who conspired with a neighbour, Oluwasegun Olusoji, 35, to rob his Japanese employer, Yasushi Murata N2.7m. The duo carried out the robbery on February 1, 2022, at the residence of the expatriate on Chris Ali Street, Abacha Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos. According to a statement on Thursday by the police spokesman in the state, Adekunle Ajisebutu, the duo broke into the victim’s residence and forced him to transfer N1m into the Zenith Bank account of Olusoji. “After torturing and violently assaulting the victim, the robbers who were masked, armed with a gun, and an axe, made away with his ATM card after coercing him to disclose his PIN. “A few days after the robbery, the suspects using the ATM, unlawfully and fraudulently withdrew the sum of one million, seven hundred and twenty-nine thousand, eight hundred and fifty naira, making a total of two million, seven hundred and twenty-nine thousand, eight hundred and fifty naira (N2, 729, 850.00) stolen from the victim’s bank account without authorisation,” the statement titled, ‘Domestic Worker Robs Employer In Lagos’ partly read. It added, “The suspects feared for their arrest and in order to cover up the criminal act, threatened to kill the victim if he failed to leave the country or ever disclosed what happened to anyone. “Unperturbed by the threat but pained by the injuries sustained, the victim after recovering from the trauma, reported the robbery through a petition to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti. “Consequent upon the receipt of the petition, the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of the State Criminal Investigation Department, Adegoke Fayoade, immediately assigned seasoned detectives to investigate the incident. “Painstaking investigation led to the arrest of the perpetrators. Upon interrogation, a member of the two-man armed robbery gang, Oluwasegun Olusoji, confessed to the crime and gave a vivid account of how the operation was jointly carried out. “Following the conclusion of investigation, the Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, has directed that the case should be charged to court. “The CP, however, admonishes employers to always carry out a thorough background check on their domestic staff before employing them, and be wary of criminal neighbours.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com