Investments remain the bedrock of growing economies no matter the stage of development. Of course, advanced countries have long realised and confirmed that investment in human capital is the most important. This is because improved labour productivity, which equally impacts positively on the productivity of capital results in increased outputs and a fall in unemployment. We do not need to go far to prove the role of investing in human capital in the general development of all economies. Japan has no natural resources besides human beings, which she invested in to reach and retain the second global economy for a long time before being displaced recently by China. As we go through this piece, the public universities, a larger proportion of our university sub-sector have closed down on the basis of funding among other issues. We shall return to it later. The need to extend the discussion on domestic investments is based on calls from readers of last week’s writeup and a number of interviews in many radio and television programmes on the need for the assistance of domestic investors in the last few days. Questions have arisen about the kind of incentives required; who should give the incentive and which kind of private-sector production needs assistance or support? We do hear of industrial economies, not agricultural economies when referring to advanced countries. Of course, within the context of industrial, we find various sub-sectors with broad categorisation as consumer goods manufacturing and capital goods manufacturing subsectors. The Nigerian manufacturing sector picked up very fast in the late 1970s to early 1980s when the first and second oil booms were properly applied within the context of the Third National Development Plan that served as a guide to economic activities unlike today’s unguided state of affairs. The drive from manufacturing then impacted positively on employment, which is the nature of manufacturing. Without success in the steel industry, Nigeria cannot be properly placed to go into capital goods manufacturing and that is why the consumer goods industry has thrived relatively successfully when compared to capital goods production like wire and cable firms, machine tools firms and the like. Whatever the case, our manufacturing remains at the nascent stage over the years because of lack of fiscal and monetary support. The perennial problems of foreign exchange to import needed raw materials, the high cost of production from high interest rates on lending due to financial crowding out from government borrowing, high cost of power generation and competition from cheaper imported goods. These clearly indicate the area of support and intervention the manufacturing sector needs to get the economy on the path to industrialisation. We have just heard that China has gone into the business of exporting cocoa and we can be sure it is not just going to be raw cocoa but processed cocoa products. China with cocoa is just the test case for her to go into coffee, rubber and other cash crops production, which we have neglected over time. It looks clear that China is on the verge of driving African countries producing raw materials to the wall so that those countries become totally dependent on imports. That is what we can refer to as economic trap and economic capture. One lesson to learn immediately for our government to take appropriate actions is that the Chinese entrepreneurs are not doing these things on their own but with the support of their governments and various institutions. The Chinese government is supporting the entrepreneurs with not only monetary and fiscal policies and interventions but also physically by making sure all government enterprises buy made in China goods. The government, through monetary policy, provides cheap credit facilities for mass production of goods for exports with additional government freight and insurance policies while on the fiscal side, taxes, including excise tax, are not imposed on exports apart from fiscal interventions to aid production. The educational institutions are well funded to aid technological advancement in the production of goods they already planned to get to the market at a specified future time while the economic and business schools produce economic cum business policies and plans on where and how the country can get to a specified destination in the next decade and beyond. Nigeria has to start encouraging and supporting domestic investments in all areas of endeavour but particularly in the manufacturing sector as the route towards industrialisation. The support should be both from economic policies and physically. The government should give some tax incentives or reliefs to domestic investors rather than foreign investors. It should be possible to provide an institutional framework for importing capital goods (machines) for businesses that cannot afford the same and sell to them at intervention costs. That is, instead of the Central Bank blocking the foreign exchange supply totally, the purchase of machines and other capital goods can be done through the Bank of Industry in collaboration with the Manufacturing Association of Nigeria for the benefits of the local manufacturing firms. In the 1970s when Peugeot automobiles and Volkwagen were being produced, the Nigerian government was patronising the manufacturers as a matter of policy, apart from promoting “Made in Nigeria” goods to the public. The present government and legislature must revive such a policy of buying made in Nigeria vehicles and other goods. Even consumption in all the luncheon and parties organised by the government should be based on Nigerian manufactured consumer goods. This will not only give support and confidence to the producers as well as the public but will cause expansion of the businesses with resultant employment generation in the manufacturing, agriculture and service sectors. There is a need for a policy document on this. The roles of the educational institutions in supporting the growth of the production unit of the Nigerian economy has always been underestimated, even by the business sector.  And that brings me to the issue of ASUU and the Federal Government cum public. Education was where China started from in 1949 and the benefits are clear for all to see today. That was where Chief Obafemi Awolowo started with the Western Region in the 1950s and the effects can still be felt where the policy touched. That is where many of our so-called leaders today are steering their children by sending them abroad for studies in ivy league schools and killing the education system at home, possibly with the hope that those children will come back to rule illiterates! That thought or plan will not work. The persistent strike by the Academic Staff Union of University is to make sure that public education does not collapse totally. That is where the children of the masses go. The masses cannot afford private universities or studying abroad, that is why every year there is much pressure first on federal universities, which are the cheapest, and the state universities where some fees are paid, even when many private universities are struggling for students. I am proudly a product of Nigerian tertiary institutions. I had my polytechnic education in Lagos State and university education between Benin and Ibadan. I do not feel inferior to anybody in the world in my profession. In my final year as an undergraduate, ASUU was on strike for three months and by the time our lecturers resumed, we could see the renewed enthusiasm to teach and graduate us in their behaviour because they got their demands met. All my children graduated from the Nigerian public universities and they witnessed many strikes by ASUU but they are better for it today. Even in the process, they learnt some vocation before graduation. The same with many past and present ASUU presidents. Our children were or are in the Nigerian public university not just because we cannot afford to send them to private universities but because we believe in the public universities. The last time ASUU negotiated salary for staff of public universities was in 2009, it has always been funding, funding and funding. When funds come to the university, it does not go to ASUU because it is a labour union. It goes to the governing council of each university, which is government representatives. The earned allowances the government projects as important is only paid to those academic staff that carry out excess workload because it is like overtime due to staff connected. It is not for all academic staff. My salary in 2010, when I reached the last step of my level, is the same in amount today but it is less in value, like many of my colleagues, given the depreciation of the naira and rising inflation, yet we are committed to teaching Nigerians. In fact, the salary must be an issue in this struggle, else, no resumption! If Nigerian educational institutions, from primary to tertiary, are well funded, they will be to the glory of our country. Nigeria is nominated as a member country for the development of the COVID-19 vaccine and we are all happy. It is because they know we have knowledgeable scientists. Are we sure we will be so considered in another ten years if the government continues with the way they have been behaving and ASUU abandoned the struggle? Long live ASUU.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com