Medical experts have expressed optimism that the hybrid research training initiated for middle and senior-level researchers by the National Surgical, Obstetrics, Anaesthesia and Nursing Plan for Nigeria will unravel more effective protocols of cleft care and other surgical conditions in the country. The training, according to a statement on Wednesday was in collaboration with Smile Train, a cleft charity organisation and SearchAnWrite, a research and innovation organisation. The experts who were quoted in the statement to have spoken in Abuja during the ongoing second edition of the five-day training stressed the importance of research in health care. An Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, Dr. Gbenga Olorunfemi, who served as one of the facilitators said medicine evolves and the only way to better the practice is through research. “As medical doctors and consultants, every day we see and manage patients but for us to be able to get the next set of innovations, and the next set of things to do for the patients, we need to go back and review what has been done before and subsequently improve on what we have done before. That is research but most of us don’t have the skill sets for good research. “This is what has made the difference between the high-income countries and the developing countries like Nigeria. In developed countries, there is a high level of research that goes into healthcare every day to renew the level of whatever they do. And most times, we just borrow technology from them. Unfortunately, these borrowed technologies are not locally contextualized and don’t fit into what we do here due to financial constraints and social perception. So we need to come up with research skills to review what we do here and be able to come out at international conferences and say this is what we have been able to do and they could even learn from us,” he said. Also, a chief Consultant Paediatric Surgeon at National Hospital Abuja, Prof. Emmanuel Ameh, said the training would solve the challenge of data which was essential in providing quality surgical care. “One of the challenges we have in this country is that we really do not have reliable and complete data which has been a problem over the years. And without data, even policymaking is a problem. So what we are trying to do is to train not only doctors but all those involved in comprehensive cleft care. Here, you will see obstetricians, maxillofacical surgeons, plastic surgeons, anaesthetists, nutritionists, nurses, and ENT surgeons, so it’s a mix of different groups and specialities”, Ameh said. The Vice-President and Regional Director of Smile Train in Africa, Mrs. Nkeiruka Obi, said the organisation was committed to developing comprehensive cleft care. She said, “Research is a spectrum, so we are looking at the preventive measures, treatment models/protocols, the rehabilitative aspect of cleft care given the fact that the moment a baby is discovered to have a cleft, research will pick it through prenatal diagnosis, when the child is born, then the child will undergo surgery and so on.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com