Nigerian movie director and producer, Kemi Adetiba, has announced her engagement to music executive, Oscar Heman-Ackah. Adetiba, whose relationship status has remained mostly private till now, shared a video and pictures of the moment her man popped the question via her Instagram page on Wednesday. “We’ve taken some time to privately enjoy this moment and bask in the celebration of it all. However, we’re beginning to understand it might be next to impossible keeping a lid on this for much longer. “After thinking long and hard, we ultimately would love for this announcement to be on our own terms and moulded in our own true narrative. Plus, you all here have followed my journey from the start and lovingly root for me – Now if that isn’t family, I don’t know what is. “So dear family, on the 28th of January in Ghana, delivered as a beautiful surprise and expression of love, and in the presence of some close friends and family, @oscarhemanackah asked that we spend the rest of our lives together, and I wholeheartedly said YES… without a single reservation,” she wrote in the caption The King of Boys director also jokingly added that all family members who “conspired” in the surprise proposal should get prepared for her retaliation. Adetiba also requested for privacy as the couple begin another phase of their life journey together. “Oscar and I shall share only as much of us as we’re comfortable with. No more… No less. We hope you will respect this, and bear with us in this regard. “Thank you for the overwhelming love and kindness you will undoubtedly show us as we count down to more festivities and the rest of our lives together. There’s not an ounce of anxiety in this place. “Oh… And before you say it, Yeeeeeesss, he knows he’s a very very lucky man but the beautiful thing about our connection and journey so far is that I know I’m a supremely lucky woman too,” she wrote. Adetiba, who directed the blockbuster movie, The Wedding Party and its sequel, promised that “a REAL Wedding party” was in the works. Heman-Ackah also shared a picture of the couple on his page. He wrote in the caption, “Doing this beautiful thing called life with the most beautiful lady in the world @kemiadetiba.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com