The sit-at-home called by the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, on Wednesday, grounded commercial activities in cities such as Onitsha, Nnewi, Oba and some parts of Awka in Anambra State. Our correspondent, who went round some major cities, observed that banks, motor parks, filling stations, markets, schools and shops were shut. Miscreants were seen harassing and extorting the few pedestrians trekking to their various places of interests opposite the Stockfish International Market, along the Onitsha-Owerri Road. Shops were locked while the people gathered around their houses. The sit-at-home was called by IPOB to show solidarity for its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, whose case came up for hearing at an Abuja High Court on Wednesday. A businessman, Tony Chidalu, lamented the situation, saying that his goods coming from Lagos in a container were trapped at Asaba, as the vehicle could not cross Onitsha, for fear of being attacked. Chidalu said, “This sit-at-home is seriously affecting businesses here and the earlier these people realise, the better for them. I hope it will not be too late as people are already shunning doing business in the region. “Only civil servants and salary earners are happy about the situation because they know that no matter what, their salaries would be paid at the end of the month.” A government official, who did not want his name in print, lamented the negative impact the situation is having on the economy of both the government and individuals. He also reacted to the suggestions by a faction of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, who said any politician who failed to stop IPOB’s sit-at-home in the region should stay away from contesting elections in 2023 in the region. He said, “It is not enough to stay in Abuja or somewhere else and be talking. This IPOB sit-at-home has become a delicate matter, if you talk against it, they will come and attack you and burn your house. That is why it seems people are afraid to talk against it in public.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com