The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project has urged the 36 state governors across the country to immediately redirect public funds used to service ‘underserving benefits’ in paying counterpart funds that would allow poor children enjoy access to quality basic education in their respective state. The group listed the ‘underserving benefits’ to include public funds budgeted to pay ex-governors undeserved pensions and other retirement benefits, and for security votes. SERAP made the call in a statement on Sunday titled, ‘N51bn UBEC funds: Pay counterpart funds or face legal action, SERAP tells 36 governors’, and signed by its Deputy Director, Kolawole Oluwadare. According to Oluwadare, several of the 36 states have reportedly failed to pay the counterpart funds to access over N51bn matching grants earmarked by the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) for basic education in the country, as at July 2019. Oluwadare said the group had since reached out to the state governors through a letter dated 19 February 2022 which was signed by him, to remind them on the importance of the counterpart funds and why they should access N51.6bn of the matching grants to curb out-of-school children menace. The letter, sent to each of the 36 governors, read in part, “We would be grateful if the recommended measures are taken within 14 days of the receipt and/or publication of this letter. If we have not heard from you by then, SERAP shall consider appropriate legal actions to compel your state to comply with our request in the public interest. “The enjoyment of the right to education for millions of poor children remains a distant goal. In several states, this goal is becoming increasingly remote. The persistent failure to pay counterpart funds has hugely contributed to denying poor Nigerian children access to quality basic education, opportunities and development. “State governors are clearly in a position to invest more toward the progressive realization of the right to quality education for poor children within their states. “Rather than spending public funds to pay ex-governors undeserved pensions and other retirement benefits and apparently using security votes for patronage and political purposes, governors should prioritise investment in education by immediately paying up any outstanding counterpart funds to UBEC. “Redirecting public funds budgeted for life pensions and security votes, and cutting the cost of governance to pay the counterpart funds would be entirely consistent with your constitutional oath of office, and the letter and spirit of the Nigerian Constitution, as it would promote efficient, honest, and legal spending of public money. “Continuing to spend scarce public funds on these expenses would deny poor Nigerian children access to quality, compulsory and free basic education in your state, and burden the next generation. “Redirecting the funds as recommended would also ensure access to quality education for poor children, who have no opportunity to attend private schools. It would contribute to addressing poverty, inequality, marginalization, and insecurity across several states.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com