BARELY two weeks to the National Convention of the All Progressives Congress, the party is yet to begin sale of forms to aspirants for offices in its National Working Committee, The PUNCH has learnt. The party had on January 19 said it would begin the sale of forms for aspirants vying for its national positions ahead of the National Convention from February 14. The National Secretary, APC Caretaker and Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee, Dr John Akpanudoedehe, announced the date. But our correspondent learned that the nomination forms for the offices of the NWC have yet to be printed. Our correspondent, who was at the APC National Secretariat on Monday, gathered that the contract for printing the nomination forms was yet to be awarded. Some of the aspirants who arrived at the Buhari House headquarters of the APC to obtain the nomination forms were advised to return on another date. Aspirants from various parts of the country were seen lamenting the unavailability of nomination forms. Among them were two national chairmanship aspirants from the North-Central and the North-East, who sent representatives to obtain the forms but received no feedback. Four other aspirants vying for the office of National Youth Leader were also spotted at the Buhari House but they declined to speak to The PUNCH. However, a source at Buhari House said: “We are all at a loss; for now, we don’t even know what to tell some of the aspirants that have been coming. Nobody but members of the National Caretaker Committee can tell you the position of things. “The nomination form is not ready. In fact, nobody is talking about the printing of any form here. Under normal circumstances, the party would have advertised the sale of nomination forms, indicating the cost of each office before now. Or have you seen such an advert?” According to another senior party member, the unavailability of forms was an offshoot of the internal division and tussle among the party leaders and the Progressive Governors’ Forum. The source said while some APC governors were cooking up a consensus arrangement, others wanted the party members to contest openly. A campaign Director-General of a major contender for the party chairmanship who spoke under anonymity said the representatives from the North-Central expressed disappointment over the development. According to him, they wondered if the party was ready to hold its national convention on February 26. Akpanudoedehe could not be reached for comments on the delay in printing the forms as calls to his phone rang out. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com