The Peoples Democratic Party has condemned the attack on its office and the property of a prominent party member  in Gombe, the Gombe State capital. The main opposition party said that those behind the attack were hoodlums allegedly working for the ‘fizzling’ All Progressives Congress in the state. The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, described the attack  as a great threat to democracy, national security and peaceful co-existence of the country. In a statement titled, “PDP Condemns APC’s Assault on Its Office in Gombe State”, and signed by Ologunagba, the party noted that it remained undaunted despite the attack. The statement read, “The mission of the APC is to terrorise the people with the intent to preventing them from participating in the electoral process ahead of the 2023 general election, having realised that there is no way it can retain power in Gombe State and other parts of the country under a free, fair and credible process. “The APC in Gombe State is in disarray and panicky because it is rapidly falling apart in the face of mass desertion of its prominent members arising from the soaring popularity of the PDP so much so that it believes that the only way it can cling to power is through violence. “Our party draws the attention of Nigerians to how the APC has become a threat to national security by resorting to unleashing violence on Nigerians in various parts of the country as being witnessed in Gombe State.
The PDP cautions that if the attacks by the APC in Gombe State and other parts of the country continue, the people may be compelled to resort to self-help which can escalate the violence with consequential ripple effect across our nation. “The North-East has witnessed a lot of violence, terrorism and acts of banditry which have crippled the economic and social lives of Nigerians in that region. The APC should not worsen the situation with its desperation for power against the wish of the people. “In any case, the APC is fighting a losing battle in Gombe State as no amount of attacks, threats, intimidations or shenanigans will prevent the people from their manifest determination to rally on the platform of the PDP to liberate themselves from the shackles of the APC government that has discounted their lives in the past seven years. “Our party therefore calls on President Muhammadu Buhari who, as the Commander-in-Chief, is vested with the duty to protect the lives and property of Nigerians to immediately rein in his party and ensure that the APC’s proclivity for violence in our nation is checked. “The PDP also charges the Inspector-General of Police to immediately track down the culprits and their sponsors and make them face the full wrath of the law as deterrent to others. “The PDP however calls for calm and urges the people of Gombe State to remain united and resolute in their determination to kick the APC out of government, come 2023.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com