The Zamfara State Government has debunked allegations by the Peoples Democratic Party that the state Governor, Bello Matawalle, was instigating the State House of Assembly to impeach his deputy, Mohammed Gusau. The state government refuted the claims in a statement on Saturday signed by Matawalle’s Special Adviser, Public Enlightenment, Media and Communications, Zailani Bappa, titled, ‘PDP Must Be Held Accountable For Any Breach of Peace in Zamfara State.’ The PUNCH had earlier reported that the PDP cautioned Matawalle to refrain from allegedly manipulating the State House of Assembly to commence impeachment process against his deputy, Mohammed Gusau. The main opposition party in statement on Saturday signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, accused the governor of “stoking and inducing violence in the state by orchestrating and manipulating the State House of Assembly to commence an illegal and undemocratic process of impeachment against the democratically elected Deputy Governor”. However, in its response, the government said it was surprising that the main opposition party was not grounded in the provision of the Nigerian constitution which does not empower governors to remove their deputies. The state government noted that contrary to the claims, Matawalle was focused on his mandates and overwhelmed with the persistent fight against banditry in the state. According to the government, what Zamfara State will not welcome is added crisis to the existing one in the state. Zamfara State is fighting bandits and has no intention to fight Political bandits at this time, nor any time in the future. The statement partly read, “Unless the PDP which aspires to rule does not believe in the working of our democracy in Nigeria, sane people in Nigeria wonder where the Party sourced its information on alleged plan by His Excellency to impeach his Deputy. The PDP must be informed that the Constitution of Nigeria does not empower Governors to impeach their Deputies. “The PDP as acclaimed democrats must be in the position to teach others on the roles of an Executive Governor among which does not include the impeachment of any elected official in the state “However, our concern is the peaceful co-existence and well being of the citizens of Zamfara State. It is therefore, imperative here to draw the attention of all Security operatives in the Country to take serious concern on this unveiled threat to the peace in Zamfara State by the PDP. “His Excellency, Governor Bello Mohammed is right now overwhelmed with the persistent fight against banditry in the State. “What Zamfara State will not welcome is added crisis to the existing one in the state. Zamfara State is fighting bandits and has no intention to fight Political bandits at this time, nor any time in the future.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com