• AFN to meet over sanction Nigerian sprinter Blessing Okagbare has been handed a 10-year ban by the disciplinary tribunal of the Athletics Integrity Unit for doping on Friday. Okagbare, a bronze medallist at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing in the long jump event was provisionally suspended from the Tokyo Olympics last year before the women’s 100m semi-finals after testing positive for human growth hormone at an out-of-competition test in Slovakia on July 19. The AIU decision was contained in a statement on Friday. “The Disciplinary Tribunal has banned Nigerian sprinter Blessing Okagbare for a total of 10 years, five years for the presence and use of multiple prohibited substances and five years for her refusal to co-operate with the AIU’s investigation into her case,” the statement read in part. The 33-year-old — who also won long jump silver in the 2013 world outdoor championships where she added a 200m bronze — was not named but clearly identified in an indictment last month brought against her alleged supplier, Texas therapist Eric Lira according to AFP. US justice department officials in New York said Eric Lira, a 41-year-old “naturopathic” therapist based in El Paso, supplied drugs to two athletes for the “purpose of corrupting” the Tokyo Games. “The sole arbitrator adjudicating the case concluded that the athlete’s use of multiple prohibited substances as part of an organised doping regimen in the lead up to the Tokyo Olympic Games was egregious conduct that amounted to aggravating circumstances under the Rules thereby warranting an additional period of ineligibility on top of the standard four-year sanction. “The sole arbitrator also recognised the AIU’s right to carry out investigations, including the imaging of electronic devices, and to impose sanctions when an athlete refuses to co-operate with an investigation and thereby frustrates the AIU’s ability to fulfill its mandate to protect the integrity of the sport of athletics. “In this instance, the sole arbitrator concluded that the athlete’s refusal to cooperate had denied the AIU the opportunity to discover evidence of possible further rule violations by her as well possible violations of the rules by others, for which he imposed an additional sanction of five years,” the AIU added. Reacting to the decision of the AIU on Okagbare’s ban, President of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria, Tonobok Okowa, said the AFN board will meet to decide on the next step for the athlete. “I’m not going to make any comment until the board of the AFN meets in a meeting and that is when we will decide on what to say or what to do,” Okowa told Saturday PUNCH  when asked if the decision was harsh. Okagbare has 30 days to appeal against the AIU’s disciplinary tribunal’s decision at the Court of Arbitration for Sport. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com