The leadership of the All Progressive Congress, Ward three, in Etsako East Local Government Area, Edo State, have condemned the continuous attacks on the incumbent Senator representing Edo North, Francis Alimikhena. The leaders stated the attack is being carried out by self-acclaimed factional leaders of the ward despite the existence of an elected Chairman and executive members. They said the action of this group would create division, tension, confusion and unrest in the affairs of the ward. In an enlarged ward Executive meeting at the weekend, the newly elected Chairman, Chief Lucky Agbudumhe, stated that all malicious utterances against Senator Francis Alimikhena, propagated by those who ought to hide their faces in shame, must stop. Agbudumhe said the smear campaign against the Senator and creating a faction is a ploy to return Edo North to an era of wasteful spending, without the development of the Senatorial district and its human resources. He said, “We, the elected Ward three executive call on the National and State leadership of the APC to urgently restrict the self-acclaimed factional group from parading themselves as Chairman and leaders of the ward to avoid breakdown of law and order. “It is disappointing that some sponsored thugs went ahead to organise a gathering of cronies to reject the ambition of the Senator, even when he has not indicated interest to run in 2023. This attack on the integrity of the Senator must stop.” He added, “Democracy is a context. Whoever thinks he is better than the Senator should be bold enough to challenge him in a primary election, rather than the ongoing move to force him out of the race to justify their selfish interest.” “While we have resolved to remain law-abiding, the leadership of APC, Ward three, will not chicken out, if this issue escalates beyond this point. We wish to also remind the Senator’s detractors, that Alimikhena has offered a clean break from the corruption and poor representation that characterised Edo North which has stalled its development over the years. “The incumbent Senator came as an awaited saviour to deliver Edo North from poor legislative leadership, by removing Edo North out of the grip and jinx of underdevelopment,” the Chairman noted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com