The All Progressives Grand Alliance has expressed delight in the outcome of the ruling by the Appeal Court in Abuja, which upheld the nullification of the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the November 2021 election, Senator Andy Uba. Addressing journalists in Awka on Friday, the National Co-ordinator of APGA Media Warriors Forum, Evang Chinedu Obigwe, said the judgment was a triumph of truth over lies. Obigwe advised Uba to retrace his steps and stop cutting corners, saying that the era when politicians did so had passed. While commending the judiciary, he added that the decision would only strengthen democracy in the country. He pointed out that the era of daylight robbery of peoples’ mandate is gone for good in Nigeria. He said, “Chris Ngige and George Moghalu did marvellously well because their fight against the Andy Uba’s impunity will strengthen our democracy. “At last, the truth has prevailed and that is because truth can be likened to a nine-month-old pregnancy that cannot be covered with bare hands. “We are not surprised with the unfolding development in Anambra APC and the outcome of the much-awaited Court of Appeal, Abuja Division judgement in a case involving the Uba and George Moghalu.” He pointed out that Uba had failed to realise that the Anambra and Nigeria of today were different from the past where he had the power to do whatever he wanted. “What happened to Uba is a fulfilment of the proverbial saying that ‘every day is for the thief but one day is for the owner of the house’. He made many attempts to stand justice on its head in his case with George Moghalu but at last, justice prevailed. “I doff my cap for the judiciary that delivered the latest masterstroke judgement against Uba in favour of Moghalu. The action of the judges is a warning signal to ‘everything goes’ politicians,” he added. The APGA chieftain also lauded the Anambra High Court judgment that voided the “kangaroo” Congress of Anambra APC that was conducted by the Uba-led faction in defiance to a valid and subsisting court injunction issued against the conduct of the Congress. “The only option left for Uba is to change from his evil ways. We are now in a new generation politically and that is why Uba is finding it difficult to cope. “Every action of Uba aimed at tampering with the mandate given to Prof Chukwuma Soludo by the Anambra electorates will end in shame and that is exactly what happened to him. Truly, Soludo’s governorship mandate is a divine mandate,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com