D’Tigress on Friday boosted their chances of qualifying for the 2022 FIBA Women’s World Cup with a 67-65 win over world No. 5 France at the Ranko Zeravica Sports Hall, Belgrade in Serbia, Saturday PUNCH reports. The 2022 FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup will tip-off from September 22 to October 1 in Australia. The reigning Afrobasket champions needed a win against the Europeans to put themselves in a favourable position to qualify for the tournament and they did it the hard way having to recover from a sluggish start to the game. France started the game brightly taking the first quarter 28-11 but D’Tigress bounced back taking the second quarter 16-10 as they went into the halftime break with a 11-point deficit, 38-27. The Nigerians failed to take their foot off the gas in their second half of the game taking the third quarter 21-14 before wrapping up the fourth quarter 19-13 to win the game by two points with France’s Gabby Williams missing a three-point jump shot with just two seconds to the end of the game. Centre Victoria Macaulay led the team in scoring with 19 points. She made two out of four from beyond the arc while scoring five from seven from the two points line. She added four rebounds, four assists, five steals and two blocks. Oderah Chidom contributed 13 points, six rebounds, five assists while captain Adaora Elonu and Promise Amukamara contributed 10 points apiece. Marine Johannes scored 18 points for France. D’Tigress will face Mali in their last game of the qualifiers on Sunday while France will play China who beat Mali 84-64 earlier on Friday. Head coach of the team, Otis Hughley, praised the team’s performance in the win despite their slow start at the qualifiers. “We had a slow start; we didn’t want to exert so much energy,” Hughley said at the post-match press conference. “I thought our girls really put in good effort. We took the challenge and made a run for winning the game and that they did. They also accused me of not believing. “There was a progression. The goal was to play better than we did against China. If this result is the one to make us feel we are through to the World Cup, then we’ve not because we have to win that next game.” Oderah Chidom also expressed her delight at her teammates’ performance in Belgrade. “I’m really proud of this team, we had some adversity in the first half and the beautiful thing about it is that we played together, there was this miscommunication, we just weren’t together,” Chidom said. “Every time we would huddle because we didn’t want to get frustrated and we just had to figure it out right there at the moment. The team supported one another throughout the ups and downs.” Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com