The Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Education, Mr Tokunbo Wahab, has said plans are in top gear to revamp and digitalise over 700 libraries in public secondary schools and across the state. He revealed that in the next 12 months, 200 libraries would be revamped and digitalised. Speaking to our correspondent in an interview, Wahab mentioned that his office would ensure that the libraries in secondary schools and others across the state were Information Technology compliant. “This year, we are increasing interventions with respect to our libraries. Last year, we were able to intervene in 155 public schools across the state. We had 11 libraries across the state but the state has gone beyond that meaning that we must find a way to bring the reading culture back to the students and the best way to do it, is to take it to them in their schools. The libraries will be IT and digital compliant, we will also teach them the skills through the equipment that we will be giving them. In total, we have revamped 243 schools now and we are looking at covering the over 700 public schools we have in the state, in the next 12 months, we should be able to do 200 more.” He said with the global challenge, the misuse of technology by kids was disheartening, adding that Nigeria should have a benchmark regulation. “Even in developed climes, as much as we can have access to social media, there has to be a restriction with respect to age. Those in charge of our communication and information at the federal level need to look at the NCC act viz-a-viz what we can do because there is a breach of trust between government and citizens. When they say they want to regulate social media activities, the first thing that comes to mind is that they want to gag the press. It goes beyond the press. People go on social media to post some funny stuff, lies, falsehood and pornography, and they have kids who see these and start having funny thoughts,” Wahab stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com