The Ogun State Police Command says its operatives are working to hunt and arrest the social media user who posted a get-rich-quick video on Facebook from where four Ogun teenagers learnt money ritual. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, made this known in a telephone chat with The PUNCH on Monday. According to Ogun police spokesman, the police in the state would ensure all those directly or indirectly involved in the killing of a 20-year-old lady, Sofiat Kehinde, are apprehended. Kehinde was gruesomely murdered on January 29, 2022 in Abeokuta, and her head severed for money ritual by four teenagers who confessed to have committed the crime. There have been killings in the state and in other places in Nigeria for ritual but the murder of Kehinde attracted national outrage and condemnation considering the ages of the perpetrators. The four teenage suspects arrested by the police are; Soliu Majekodunmi, 18; Wariz Oladehinde, 18; Abdulgafar Lukman, 19; and Balogun Mustaqeem, 20. They confessed to have conspired to kill Kehinde and played different roles in her murder. The victim’s skull was severed in her lover, Majekodunmi’s room and burnt almost to ashes. One of the suspects, Mustaqeem, in a confession at the police command, had said, “I saw a post on Facebook that explained how to get rich quickly. I downloaded the video because I had interest in getting wealthy at an early stage. I wanted to get rich and lead a luxurious life. The video was what prompted me to tell Soliu about getting rich quickly at our early age. He was interested after I showed him the video on my phone and asked where we would get the materials we needed.” Of late, there have been money ritual merchants who use social media to advertise their ‘services’. Asked by our correspondent on Monday whether the police had arrested the Facebook user who posted the video Mustaqeem talked about, the PPRO said, “The suspects said they saw the video on Facebook. We are working to arrest them (the social media user).” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com