A sexual health expert, Omolola Adefuye, says men engaging in masturbation with the hope that ejaculating through it can help prevent prostate cancer should stop it, noting that there is no scientific evidence to back their assumption. Adefuye, a Lagos-based sex therapist, said while there are studies suggesting ejaculation during sexual intercourse could help reduce the risk of getting prostate cancer in males, there is no research indicating that engaging in masturbation has similar benefits. Also known as self-induced orgasm, masturbation is the act of stimulating, rubbing, or caressing the genitals or other parts of the body for pleasure. On the prevalence of masturbation, a 2011 survey carried out in America, showed that across age groups, more males (73.8%) reported masturbation than females (48.1%). “Among males, masturbation occurrence increased with age: at age 14 years, 62.6% of males reported at least 1 prior occurrence, whereas 80% of 17-year-old males reported having masturbated,” the survey stated. However, there has over the years been a growing debate on the connection between masturbation and prostate health. For example, a 2016 study involving almost 32,000 men who were reportedly tracked for 18 years suggested that there could be a connection. “The researchers found that guys who did it the most (at least 21 times a month) had about a 20% lower chance of prostate cancer, compared with those who did it less (4 to 7 times a month). That was true in several age groups,” WebMD, a health portal stated, referencing the study. However, speaking with PUNCH Healthwise, Adefuye acknowledged the research works but explained that the case of masturbation might be different. “When we look at prostate cancer and the structure of the penis, where it (prostate cancer) usually occurs and the part of the penis involved in masturbation are two different areas. “There is no established study that it can be caused or prevented by masturbation over time because a lot of people perform masturbation wrongly. There is a wrong way to massage the penis. A lot of people do it (masturbation) in the wrong way.” “In the long run, that ends up affecting the nerves in the penis. There are some nerves connected to the penis. That wrong way of masturbating affects the nerves,” she told our correspondent. She also stated that in most cases, prostate cancer is hereditary. “Whether you masturbate or not, if it is in the family, there’s a high chance of the person having it. It has nothing to do with masturbation,” Adefuye declared. She explained further that ejaculation from sex can be more advantageous than the self-induced orgasm through masturbation.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com