In its effort to tackle the problems associated with estimated billing system, the Federal Government of Nigeria has disclosed plans to begin the distribution of electricity meters to four million households. Speaking after the inauguration of the 330KV/160KVA power sub-station in Akurba, Lafia Local Government Area of Nasarawa State, by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday, the Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, said the gesture was aimed at ensuring that every customer had the liberty to control their electricity usage. Aliyu explained that under the mass metering initiative of the FG, over one million households received meters in the first phase of the programme, while over four million households would benefit in the second phase of the programme, which is expected to commence soon. He said, “The plan of the FG is to make sure that every electricity consumer is metered so as to permanently tackle the problems associated with estimated billing system, because when a customer has meter, they are at liberty to control their energy usage.” He commended the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for completing the 330KV/160KVA power sub-station, which was started in 2017 by his administration. He said small scale businesses such as hairdressing salons, barbershops, welding workshops, and tailoring shops, among others, were already benefiting from quality electricity supply from the sub-station since it began operation few months ago and assured that it would attract more investors to the state in the coming years. Earlier, while inaugurating some Federal and Nasarawa State Governments projects in the state, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) expressed gratitude to Governor Abdullahi Sule for embarking on quality projects that would positively impact the lives of residents of the state. Our Correspondent reports that, apart from the 330KV/160KVA Akurba power sub-station, other projects inaugurated by the President included Central Bank of Nigeria, Lafia branch; Lafia Cargo Airport, Kwandere; Vocational and Technology Institute, Lafia; Modern Bus Terminal, Lafia; and Kilema-B.A.D-Shinge road, among others. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), was accompanied by the Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, Plateau State governor, Simon Lalong, and Kebbi State governor, Atiku Bagudu. Others in his company were the Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu, and Minister of State Science and Technology, Mohammed Abdullahi. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com