A 32-year-old woman, Ms. Jane Amos, who was allegedly scalded with a burning stove by a policeman at her compound in Rumukwuota, in the Obio-Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State, has demanded that justice be served in the case. Amos stated this in Port Harcourt after she was discharged from the hospital where she was being treated. The victim said she suffered severe burns following an argument with a co-tenant, Ezekah Akbelu, in December 2021. Akbelu, a policeman, had prior to the incident, made love advances at Amos, which she reportedly turned down. The co-tenants later had a quarrel as the cop allegedly threw a burning stove at her which made her sustain serious burns. The woman, while denying withdrawing the case against the cop, said only justice would assuage her hurt. She said, “I want to dismiss the rumour that I abandoned the case against the policeman, Ezekah Akbelu, who threw a burning stove at me which resulted in severe burns on my body. “There is no iota of truth in the report. I have been on admission in the hospital for one month and when I was being discharged, the doctors said I would be coming for treatment every two days.” Amos said detectives investigating the case at the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department visited her at the hospital and took her statement. She, however, noted that there was pressure on her to drop the case. “I want justice to be seen and done in the matter. I have suffered severe pains, trauma, and great financial loss since the day of the incident. “I call on the Rivers State Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka, to ensure justice is served in this matter,” she added. The acting spokesperson for the state police command, Grace Iringe-Koko, said the matter was under investigation. “He (Akbelu) was apprehended and the matter was transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department,” Iringe-Koko added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com