Mastercard has announced that its payments-focused consulting services will now include practices dedicated to open banking, open data, crypto and digital currencies, environment, and social and governance. The company said one of the focus of the expansion would involve helping central banks explore the design and deployment of central bank digital currencies using its testing platform. According to a statement, Mastercard’s consulting efforts with banks and merchants cover a range of digital currency capabilities, from early-stage education, risk assessments and bank-wide crypto and NFT strategy development to crypto cards and the design of crypto loyalty programmes. It said, “Mastercard has curated partnerships with digitally native firms that offer best-of-breed solutions in cryptocurrencies, and has helped fintechs expand into new markets, working through go-to-market planning and commercialisation strategies. “For instance, one focus is helping central banks explore the design and deployment of a central bank digital currency using Mastercard’s testing platform, allowing them to research various scenarios before deployment, and drawing on deep expertise around payment systems, policy and regulation, and governance.” According to the firm, as the business world faces an influx of innovation, it also has to deal with changing consumer preferences, rapid digital transformation, and geopolitical shifts. The President of Data and Services, Mastercard, Raj Seshadri, said, “Payments are just the beginning. Over the past 20 years, we’ve worked with our customers across banking, fintech, retail, travel and other sectors, helping them understand and navigate every challenge and opportunity thrown their way. “This evolution of consulting is in recognition of the changing world and of our changing business. It’s about helping customers navigate today’s challenges and anticipating what’s next.” According to the company, its data and services include more than 2,000 data scientists, engineers and consultants, and serves customers in 70 countries around the world. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com