The Ekiti State Police Command on Monday arraigned 98 suspected political thugs before an Ekiti State Chief Magistrate’s Court sitting at Ado Ekiti, the state capital. They were charged with four counts bordering on threatening violence, unlawful procession and unlawful possession of firearms. The police prosecutor, Mr Samson Osubu, told the court that “the defendants committed the offence on January 25 at Itawure, along the Efon Alaaye highway between Osun and Ekiti states border.” Osubu alleged that the defendants threatened violence, went public with arms without a lawful occasion and in such a manner as to cause terror. He said the defendants, who were in 11 vehicles, embarked on an unlawful procession from Ibadan, Oyo State, to Ado-Ekiti, for the primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party. “The defendants unlawfully had in their possession two pump-action guns, three locally-made pistols, six dane guns, 98 cartridges, knives, cutlasses and charms. “The offences contravene sections 516, 80, 88 and Section 4 and are punishable under Section 27(b) (c) of the Firearms Act Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (LFN) 2004,” the prosecutor added. He urged the court to adjourn the matter to enable him to study the case file and assemble his witnesses. The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges preferred against them as their counsel, Mr Odunayo Okunade, Mr Busuyi Ayorinde and Mr Chris Omokhafe, urged the court to grant them bail, with a promise that they would not jump bail. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs Titilayo Ola-Olorun, in her ruling, granted the defendants bail in the sum of N100,000 with two sureties each in like sum. She adjourned the case till February 23, 2022, for mention. Speaking earlier at the Ekiti State Police Command headquarters, where the suspects were paraded, the Commissioner of Police, Tunde Mobayo, said the military authorities, who arrested the suspects on January 25, released them to the command on Friday for prosecution. The commissioner, represented by the state Police Public Relations Officer, Sunday Abutu, said the suspects confessed to have been mobilised and armed to the state for the governorship primary of the PDP. Abutu, who commended the military for its support and cooperation, said the police had begun investigation to arrest the suspects’ sponsors. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com