Workers in Osun State under the aegis of the State of Osun Joint Labour Movement have written the Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, demanding payment of outstanding arrears of salary and pensions. The letter dated February 7, 2022, co-signed by Joint Negotiating Council Chairman, Bayo Adejumo; Chairman, Nigeria Labour Congress, Jacob Adekomi; and the Chairman, Trade Union Congress, Adekola Adebowale; and obtained on Tuesday, was addressed to the governor. The labour movement also demanded payment of four months cooperative deductions which form part of monthly salaries of some categories of workers for the month of June 2019, April, May and June 2020. Parts of the workers’ demands also include giving financial effect to workers’ promotions starting from November 1, 2021, and implementation of nominal promotions and conversion. The letter read in part, “The movement note with concern the non payment of cooperative deductions of monthly salaries which form part of monthly salaries of the affected workers for the month of June 2019, April, May and June 2020. “The immediate payment of the deductions shall be appreciated. It is worthy of note that the government through the attached circular agreed to implement nominal promotion for “2019 and 2020” as contained in paragraph 2 same, yet up till now the issue has not seen the light of the day. “In view of which the joint Labour Movement hereby call for ‘immediate release’ of circular for the implementation of nominal promotions and conversions spanning 2019 – 2021. “Workers and pensioners in the state have been noted by the Joint Labour movement to be extraordinarily resilient having endured the non-payment of outstanding arrears of salaries and pensions which this government has agreed to commence defrayment with effect from 1st November 2021.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com