RECURRING issues of violence and rancorous struggle for succession to traditional stools in many parts of the countryhaveresurfaced. In one such tragic incident, the Alagodo of Agodo near Papalanto in the Ewekoro Local Government Area of Ogun State, Ayinde Odetola, and his three friends were burnt to death by some of his subjects in an orgy of unprecedented violence against the traditional institution. The monarch was ambushed and burnt to ashes right inside his car as he returned to the town from an outing. The tragedy was traceable to the crisis that attended the slain monarch’s installation by the Alake of Egbaland, Michael Gbadebo, which the mostly Owu indigenes rejected as an alleged imposition of the Ake on them. It was further alleged that the same assailants had before then similarly killed the younger brother of the late monarch. The incident highlightsseveral issues that need to be resolved by state governments. First is the issue of people visiting violence on others for the flimsiest of excuses arising from the general insecurity in the country, and the palpable tension that pervades the society. Traditional rulers are supposed to be the custodians of their people’s culture and customs, and to some extent, their security and welfare.But a situation where these respected personages are attacked, subjected to humiliation, and killed wantonly by the very people they are supposed to superintend over calls for concern. In the same Ogun State, rioters had in April 2013 stripped naked the Olofin of Ado Odo, Lateef Akanni, and set his palace ablaze. The monarch’s wives and children narrowly escaped being lynched by the rampaging residents, while several vehicles were burnt in the melee. The monarch was only installed after obtaining a Supreme Court judgement over his rival. Many of the indigenes were not happy about the verdict and took the law into their own hands. The issue of violence against monarchs is not limited to the South-West region assimilar cases have also been recorded in many parts of the country.A report by SBM Intelligence, a Nigerian geopolitical intelligence platform, in March 2021 stated that many traditional rulers were killed in violent attacks in Nigeria in the past 10 years. The organisation said more than 30 of them were killed in the past five years — indicating an accelerating trend. SBM Intelligence said, “In the decade since November 2011, 53 traditional rulers have been killed in various violent incidents across Nigeria.This unfortunate trend appears to be accelerating as 35 of them were killed in the second half of the decade in review, that is between 2016 and now, while the incidents in which those killings happened have become more violent.” In most of the cases, the selection of monarchs stirs up unnecessary controversies as ambitious princes and their backers have been found to corrupt the traditional institutions with money, which results in the recommendation of less qualified candidates getting the nod to mount the thrones. Similarly, governments at all levels often interfere with the monarchical structures in a bid to ensure that only candidates that are acceptable to those in power succeed in becoming rulers of their people irrespective of the traditional ascension plans in place. This often leads to resistance from indigenes, while the powers-that-be most times have their way. In such instances, however, the reign of such monarchs is usually controversial, as the people from whom they are supposed to derive their legitimacy regularly revolt against their imposition. This fuels unimaginable violence. State governments are particularly fond of interfering in the selection process and imposing their favoured candidates. Such misbehaviour should be stopped. Communal rivalries also play a vital role in the disrespect directed at the traditional institutions. This sometimes leads to visiting of violence on the custodians of the people’s culture and norms. Festering rivalries between neighbouring communities and intra-communal crises that are left unresolved also lead to violent attacks on residents and their monarchs. Then, there is the matter of how monarchs should behave, especially in public. In recent times, many traditional rulers are on record as behaving in ways unbefitting of the exalted offices they occupy, thus setting them against their subjects. Excessive desperation in the contest for traditional stools is another factor that fuels violence against holders of such offices.Many royals resort to underhand tactics to ascend the throne. Even after coronation, they entrench themselves by using thugs and many of them have been accused of land grabbing by taking their subjects’ land. In manycases, the cheated subjects put upresistance, and this often leads to violence. Where cases of violence have been established, the government and the police must ensure the arrest and diligent prosecution of perpetrators as no one is permitted to take the law into their own hands no matter his grievance. As imposition often provokes conflict the government must refrain from dabbling unfairly in traditional institutions and stop imposing monarchs on communities. Rather, the government should play the role of impartial arbiter. The police and the government must strengthen security in all communities to quickly nip in the bud issues that can degenerate into violence in the various communities, while controversies between monarchs and their subjects must be resolved to the satisfaction of all parties. Politicians should desist from using monarchs to further their political agenda and a way of marrying the traditional system with republican system of government should be found, while the creation and multiplication of titles and kingdoms by governors seeking cheap popularity or acting out of mischief should be checked. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com