Former presidential candidate and Revolution Now convener, Omoyele Sowore, has described as dead on arrival the presidential ambition of a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, that of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and former governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi. Recall that Tinubu, a former governor of Lagos State, had in January declared his interest to contest in the 2023 presidential election. This was after a visit to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), at the State House in Abuja. Reacting, Sowore, in a post on Facebook, said, “Three weeks ago you would think the election had been decided when Jagaban of Corruption, Bola Tinubu “declared” his intention to run but soon as he discovered that his ambition was Dead on Arrival, he took his ambulance and fled to London!” said Sowore. On Osinbajo, who is believed to be nursing presidential ambition, Sowore said hope is fading away for the Vice President due to “his current abysmal assignment”. He said, “Then #MinimeBuhari showed up, I am referring to the cowardly VP Professor Yemi Osinbajo, you would think he’d won the election but soon as he was challenged about his current abysmal assignment, hope began to fade for the law professor who constantly claimed his hands are tied.” On Obi, who was the running mate to former vice president Atiku Abubakar in the 2019 presidential election, Sowore said his presidential ambition is also dead on arrival. This is despite no official declaration by the former governor of Anambra. He said, “It is now, the turn of the #Chinese Pandora PaPer man, Peter Obi! Ah, he’s gonna open a Gofundme to finance his campaign after all the funds looted from Anambra during his tenure as Governor! This too is dead upon discovery just as transparent dodo! “The truth is that we’ve changed course, no more hanging our patrimony to deceitful, decrepit conmen that ruined Nigeria. We are not apologetic about it. The organic structures have taken over from the criminal transactional structures of the terminators.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com