A former Special Adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, Ikponmwosa Omorodion, has dumped the Peoples Democratic Party for the All Progressives Congress. Omorodion’s formal defection took place at Iguogun, near Iguobazuwa in the Ovia South West Local Government Area of the state on Saturday. Omorodion, who described his defection as the “return of the prodigal son,” said he was inspired to return to the APC based on the good work of Mr Dennis Idahosa, the representative of the Ovia Federal Constituency in the National Assembly. The former special adviser to the governor, who defected along with some PDP bigwigs in the council area, said they wanted to add value to the APC in the local government area and the state in general. Omorodion said, “We know where we are coming from and we know the stuff we are made of. The reason for our defection is that we have seen it and it is not what we heard. “We have history as a people in the federal constituency. Some of us have come of age to know those who represented us in the past. “Today, even to the blind, when you talk of constituency projects, Ovia has never had it this good, even in the entire state. No representative since 1999 has given effective representation to the people like Dennis Idahosa. “History will not forgive us if we don’t align with him (Idahosa) to continue in the same stead and we cannot be seen to be working with him from the other side. “We have come to work to support the APC and most importantly to support Dennis Idahosa.” The Chairman of the party in the local government, Mr Emmanuel Ogbomo, said in the APC, there were no new or old members as everyone had equal rights. He said he nursed no fear over the ability of the defectors to add value to the party, having worked with them during the 21 years he was with them in the PDP. “We all have equal rights and must see ourselves as leaders of the party in the local government,” Ogbomo stated. Idahosa, who commended the defectors for their bold step, tasked them to immediately start working for the party.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com