The Peoples Democratic Party has claimed that the party’s sweeping victory in three strategic Abuja Area Councils during the Federal Capital Territory Council elections last weekend, was a clear demonstration of determination by Nigerians to return PDP to power in 2023. This was contained in a statement by the PDP spokesperson, Hon. Debo Ologunagba, on Tuesday, titled, ‘PDP Sweeping Victory in FCT Council Polls Signals Its Triumph in 2023’. He said that with the victory, Nigerians have firmly established their resolve to completely oust the All Progressives Congress from governance by 2023 to enable them to have a new lease of life. According to him, it is instructive to state that the three strategic area councils are melting pots of Nigerians from all sections across the nation irrespective of political, ethnic, cultural, religious, class, professional, or age affiliations. The statement read in part, “The crushing rejection of the incompetent, corrupt and vicious APC in the three area councils, therefore, represents the collective will, feeling and aspiration of the generality of Nigerians in the national consensus to do away with the APC and return the PDP to power at the center in 2023. In electing the PDP to superintend over the Abuja Municipal Area Council, which is at the core of the FCT, Nigerians have firmly established their resolve to completely oust the APC from governance by 2023 to enable them to have a new lease of life.” It added, “The PDP commends Nigerians as represented in the FCT Area Council election results for their resilience in the fight to liberate our nation from misrule. “The PDP also commends all its members and teeming supporters in the FCT and urges all Nigerians to continue to work together on the platform of the PDP in the resolve to Rescue and Rebuild our nation from the stranglehold of the APC. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com