Social media activist, Segun Awosanya, popularly known as Segalink, has urged the Federal Government to implement the reports of the various EndSARS Judicial Panel of Inquiry across Nigeria in preventing another nationwide protest against police brutality. In a series of tweets on Friday, Awosanya explained that the call had become imperative following several complaints been prevented to reach the Inspector General of Police, IGP Usman Baba, by those he described as ‘cocoon of corrupt felons’ in the Force Headquarters. He alleged that the said personnel were protecting other officers extorting Nigerians across the country, adding that the action was what prompted the 2020 nationwide protest against police brutality, extortion and extrajudicial killings that rocked the nation. To prevent another looming protest, he said, the National Executive Council must immediately act upon the panels report by ensuring the force is properly reformed in line with global best practices. He tweeted, “It is unfortunate that the IG of @PoliceNG is drowning in confusion in the cocoon of corrupt felons he has found himself at the Force HQ. The Police Act 2020 was clear on the mandate of the @PoliceNG_CRU but corruption is fighting back within the system. “This week alone @SIAF_NG has recovered over N2M from kidnappers within the police system in Lagos not to mention Delta, Benin and cases from other states. This was what citizens widely protested against during the #EndSARS protest of 2020. Instead of waiting for NEC to act. “The forces of corruption around the IGP have been hell bent on destroying the Police Complaint Unit with administrative road blocks to cover up the crimes of their colleagues. Reports have been blocked from reaching the IG & now they are launching a parallel complaint committee “All against the provision of the Police Act 2020 and the Minster for Police Affairs has been dragged into the whirlpool of corruption and ambiguity. While we appeal to President @MBuhari to call these enemies of our civilization to order, we reiterate the need for NEC to act! “The Report of the various Judicial Panel of Inquiry across Nigeria MUST be acted upon before another wave of nationwide protest which will be necessary to counter the current plot by police leadership bent on reinforcing the culture of impunity across Nigeria. #ReformPoliceNG “This is the same way they rendered the Police Service Commission moribund that simple disciplinary action of senior officers are hardly completed in years while most are simply swept under the carpet for political reasons. We will not allow this to take root. #EndImpunity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com