The House of Representatives has resolved to investigate the alleged lopsidedness in the ongoing recruitment by the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund. The House mandated its Committees on Federal Character; Labour, Employment and Productivity; Public Service and Persons Living with Disabilities to “investigate the ongoing recruitment into the NSITF and other agencies under the Federal Ministry of Labour, Employment and Productivity.” The joint committee, which is to “recommend appropriate sanctions to anyone found culpable of undue favouritism,” is expected to report back within four weeks for further legislative action. The move was based on a motion sponsored by a member of the House, Ismail Tijani, titled ‘Need to investigate the ongoing recruitment into the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund and other Agencies under the Federal Ministry of Labour and Productivity’. Moving the motion, he said, “The House notes that the NSITF is currently recruiting for positions at the management level. The House is concerned that only people from one particular part of the country are being recruited in the current exercise, which negates the principles of Federal Character. “The House is aware that the Minister of Labour and Productivity (Senator Chris Ngige) has been embroiled in a battle to control the departments and agencies (under the ministry), including the NSITF, and had been summoned by the National Assembly for the alleged misdemeanor in 2016 and 2021, respectively.” According to Tijani, the House is also aware that the summons was based on allegations of employment irregularities, impunity, and anomalies indicating gross abuse of office. He said, “The House is worried that the current recruitment process at the NSITF, which is alleged to be biased, could negatively affect the promotion of hardworking staff of the organisation. “The House is also worried that the minister’s alleged reign of impunity across the ministry and agencies under his supervision has continued unabated despite engagements and interventions of the National assembly. “The House is disturbed that the alleged undue favouritism in the ongoing recruitment exercise at the NSITF could prevent the country from deriving the maximum benefits from the MDAs.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com