A former Big Brother Naija housemate and filmmaker, Diane Russet, has said that though her career is her focus for now, she is still open to the possibility of true love. She told Sunday Scoop, “Can everybody just forget about my love life for now? My love life now is my career for now. I am in love with making Diane Russet great. At the right time, I would find the right person or the right person would find me. We will definitely meet ourselves when that time comes. For now, I am just being me and single. I don’t know if I am available but I think I am open to the possibility of what people call true love.” Speaking about her current projects, she said, “My recent project is my short film, ‘There is Something Wrong with the Bamideles’, which talks about postpartum depression. I feel it is a topic most people do not talk about that women experience. I was just trying to show that side of pregnancy. Russet Kitchen is going fine. We are doing Russet Edibles now. So far, we have been getting good responses from our customers. For now, we are just online. Possibly before the end of this year, we will be able to have a physical store.” The Kaduna State-indigene added that she does not pay attention to the backlash she gets due to her cosmopolitan lifestyle. She said, “To be honest, I don’t pay attention to backlash. I put myself first. People will always have something negative to say. Hence, I would rather focus on things that make me smile, rather than things that make me sad.  I think I will tone down my caring too much (for people). “I was studying in the medical field but I will not say I am a doctor. I am back in school but I am not doing anything medicine or science related. I am doing business because it is something I am already into. I decided to study something I am already practising.” On the assumption that when there are new sets of BBN housemates, people forget about the old ones, the housemate in the 2019 edition said, “I can’t say if it is a yes or a no. I do know that people who have been working with me since 2019 are still there. I think that is what matters because I still see their love.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com