The Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party in Anambra State, Nnamdi Nwangwu, has said that the state governor, Willie Obiano, has taken Anambra State 20 years backward. Nwangwu stressed that Obiano “scored zero” in human/capital development, infrastructural development and economic development, among other key indices of a performance index. He spoke to our correspondent in Awka, on Friday, while denying the presence of any faction in the state PDP, adding that the party is one, led by Chief Ndubuisi Nwogbo. He said, “The administration of Obiano, had sent Anambra State 20 years backward. In terms of human and capital development, infrastructure and economy, the governor had a woeful outing. In fact, the state cannot boast of any critical infrastructure befitting a state like Anambra. “Our roads have been taken over by touts and we are at their mercy. Perhaps, he has done his best, so we are expecting the incoming government of Prof Chukwuma Soludo to come in and start from where we were in 2014 before Obiano took over. “He must put in place the infrastructural development that will enable private people to come in to grow the economy. “Soludo must hit the ground running from day one, because there is a lot of work to be done in the state as the people of Anambra would not accept any reason for non-performance.” He added that the PDP was not challenging the outcome of the governorship election in the state because it just wanted “to allow sleeping dogs to lie.” Speaking on the zoning arrangement in the PDP as regards the 2023 presidency, Nwangwu, said, although the party has not zoned anything to any particular zone but out of fair play, people are saying that the South-East should produce the presidential candidate of the party and that a South-East person should be
president in 2023. He said, “Yes, Chief Raymond Dokpesi came to Anambra State together with former vice president Atiku Abubakar, making consultations as regards the 2023 and 2027 presidency. “Whatever they have come to do is their own personal arrangement because the PDP has not taken a stand on how the presidential race will be directed. “That someone has come to tell us one thing or the other doesn’t mean that the party had taken a decision, there are processes that will be undergone before a presidential candidate will emerge. And during that process, we will now see what happens and who comes out as the
presidential candidate. “We already have two South-East candidates that have declared for the
presidency under the PDP, they are Senator Pius Anyim Pius and Chief
Sam Ohuabunwa.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com