The House of Representatives has called for retraining of workers in the health sector on interpersonal and customer relations as well as time management to address the issues of brain drain and negligence. The House urged the Federal Ministry of Health to “conduct mandatory customer service training in all public hospitals and health facilities periodically,” while the ministry is to “develop a system to track patient satisfaction and complaints and outline punitive measures for service failure and incentives for excellent customer care performance.” This resolution was sequel to a motion moved by Chinedu Martins, titled ‘Need to Retrain Workers in Public Medical Facilities in Nigeria,’ which the lawmakers unanimously adopted. Moving the motion, Martins noted that Nigeria’s health sector is currently burdened with challenges of funding, lack of facilities, manpower shortages, brain drain, and medical tourism out of the country, resulting in the loss of millions of dollars. The lawmaker also noted that the quality of service delivery was crucial in health care management, especially in government hospitals. He said, “The House is concerned that cases of negligence, obsequiousness and impoliteness have been reported in government hospitals, leading to loss of confidence in the public hospitals. “The House is aware that the Federal Government has invested a lot in recent times to restore public confidence in the country’s health care system and boost patronage while driving the government’s agenda of fighting diseases and ensuring a healthy workforce. “The House is also concerned that majority of patients prefer to seek medical treatment in privately run clinics and health facilities in preference to government hospitals. “The House is worried that the alleged poor customer service delivery, negligence and unnecessary procedural hurdles would further erode public confidence and deplete patronage of the public healthcare system.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com