A COVID-19 frontline driver, Jude Oragwa, has accused the Assistant Director, Incident Coordination Centre, National Centre for Disease Control, Dr Evaristus Aniaku, of refusing to facilitate the payment of his hazard allowance totalling N2,130,000. PUNCH Metro gathered that Oragwa was Aniaku’s driver when he was deployed to head the COVID-19 response team in Lagos State. While driving Aniaku, Oragwa claimed that he was entitled to a daily hazard allowance of N30,000, adding that despite driving the assistant director for 71 days, he refused to facilitate payment of his allowance. He said, “I was invited to IDH Mainland Hospital, Yaba, by Dr Evaristus Aniaku, to work with the NCDC as one of the COVID-19 response team in Lagos State. “He (Aniaku) told me that I would be entitled to what NCDC was paying to frontline workers and that they’ll also employ me as one of the NCDC drivers because of my services and the risks involved. He was the team leader of the COVID-19 response team in Lagos State. “I started working with them on March 23, 2020, till May 31, 2020, when he handed over to a new team lead, Dr Kola Jinadu, who took over from him when he got sick. I worked with Dr Evaristus Aniaku’s team for 71 days and the amount I was to be paid was N2,130,000, but up till now, he refused to facilitate my payment. “Aniaku said I was only entitled to a monthly payment, but when I started working with Jinadu, he made sure I got paid the daily allowance for the period of time I worked with him. I worked with him (Jinadu) for about two months.” However, after efforts to get Aniaku to facilitate the payment proved abortive, the 41-year-old said he wrote a memo to the Director-General, NCDC, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu. He added, “After drafting the memo to the DG, I handed the memo to the chief driver of the NCDC’s transport department, who submitted it to the DG. The DG commented on the memo and sent it to the director of admin. “The director of admin called Aniaku to ask why he refused to facilitate my payment and that I could not undergo all the risks and not be paid. The director told him it was his duty to write the memo, but he refused to do so to date. “I went to the admin myself to complain and the director called him to ask why he refused to write the memo. He said it was because the DG was annoyed with him. He could not say anything when the director asked him why it was possible for me to get paid when Dr Kola Jinadu took over. “I decided to speak out because I am helpless; I was promised employment, but after undergoing the risks, I was not employed. The money I was supposed to get for risking my life was not paid. I am pleading with the DG to intervene because my family needs money.” Contacted, Aniaku, who said he got to know Oragwa through his wife, said during the pandemic, the wife pleaded with him that he needed a job, adding that he recommended the driver to the NCDC DG when there was a vacancy. He added, “He was to drive me. Lagos State needed some drivers, so I had to post him to start driving in Lagos State and of course, they were paying him a daily allowance. My DG agreed that he would be paid N50,000 monthly and that was what was paid to contract drivers. “Before then, I was the one feeding him, giving him money and every other thing. But before I left Lagos, I submitted everything and the DG approved N50,000 for him. He came back and went ahead to falsify the document and started claiming he should be paid like other drivers at the NCDC.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com