THE All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State and the campaign organisation of the Peoples Democratic Party governorship candidate, Bisi Kolawole, on Tuesday exchanged words over campaign issues in the June 18 governorship election. The APC, which said its campaigns would be issues-based and centred on the outstanding performances of Governor Kayode Fayemi during his two terms, derided the PDP, querying the opposition party about what it would campaign with. The Bisi Kolawole Campaign Organisation, which said PDP campaign told the APC that records of its government’s “mis-governance in the state by its absentee governor will form part of those issues on which the campaign will be based.” The APC State Publicity Secretary, Segun Dipe, in a statement titled, ‘Ekiti Guber: APC campaign will be issue-based with Fayemi at the centre – What will PDP campaign with?,’’ said, “The PDP should be telling people of the state why they duped them of values and virtues before running away. “Ekiti people have tasted hemlock and they have tasted honey. They now know which kills and which keeps alive. Fayemi’s achievements are more than enough to campaign with. They include touching every community with one or more legacy projects, paying salaries of workers as and when due, recognizing the pensioners, refurbishing decrepit institutions, making the roads motorable and prioritising agriculture.’’ But in his response, the BKCO spokesperson, Lere Olayinka, stated,  “The PDP candidate will tell Ekiti people how he will return Ekiti to a state where the government is responsive, responsible, felt and seen by the common man. It is expected that the APC candidate will be bold enough to tell Ekiti people that he will continue with Fayemi’s legacies of banditry, kidnappings, sacking of workers. “We in the PDP will be reminding Ekiti people of the construction of the old and new Governor’s Office, High Court Complex, House of Assembly Complex, State Secretariat, Adunni Olayinka Women Development Centre, Oba Adejugbe General Hospital, Oja Oba Market and Fayose Market all in Ado Ekiti, among others,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com