Armed police officers were deployed on Monday to control the massive queues for Premium Motor Spirit, popularly called petrol, which persisted in Abuja and neighbouring Nasarawa and Niger states. It was also observed that the price of petrol increased from the N400/litre which it sold for on Sunday to about N500/litre on Monday by black marketers, who sold PMS in various locations in Abuja and neighbouring states. This came as marketers complained that some of their tanks were still stuffed with adulterated products, blocking spaces meant for the delivery of new products. They, however, urged the Federal Government to hasten measures being undertaken for the recall of the over 100 million litres of adulterated petrol imported into Nigeria over one week ago. Our correspondent specifically sighted well-kitted policemen controlling queues and vehicular traffic right in front of the two filling stations opposite the corporate headquarters of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited on Monday morning. There were long queues in front of the two filling stations-Total and Conoil-located opposite the NNPC Towers. On both the right and left sides of the road in front of the stations, the queues stretched over several kilometers. Queues of vehicles waiting to buy fuel were formed around many buildings, as motorists waited patiently to take their turns in the outlets that were directly facing the NNPC’s Abuja headquarters. This prompted owners of hotels and companies to deploy their private and public security guards to man the gates of their premises in order to stop petrol-seeking motorists from blocking the entrance to their various buildings. “This is terrible. What a pity that we are again seeing this in Nigeria. A nation that is blessed with oil, but has continued to suffer fuel scarcity due to the failure of government,” a visibly angry motorist, who identified himself as Mahmoud, stated. Aside from the massive queues in the few outlets that dispensed petrol in various parts of Abuja city centre, other stations that sold the product in the suburbs and neighbouring states also recorded heavy queues. This left many commuters stranded on Monday morning, as there were very limited commercial vehicles to transport people to work or to other destinations. From Kubwa in Abuja to Zuba in Niger and Mararaba in Nasarawa, among other locations, hundreds of commuters were seen standing at bus stops waiting for vehicles to take them to work. Some others resulted to trekking long distances, as they complained of the worrying state of petrol scarcity in Abuja and its neighbouring states. “We used to think that Nigeria has passed this stage, but unfortunately we are here again this time round. I had to trek several kilometers before I luckily got a vehicle to bring me to the town for work,” a commuter, Omobolaji, told our correspondent. Many petrol stations were still not dispensing on Monday. For instance, three outlets, Gegu Oil, Eterna and Oando, located opposite the National Open University of Nigeria around Dutse in Abuja were closed. Also, the NNPC on Arab Road in Kubwa, that dispensed PMS on Sunday, was closed on Monday morning, as attendants stated that they had run out of stock. Black marketers, as usual, made business from the situation and were the accessible suppliers of petrol. They sold PMS for between N450/litre and N500/litre, depending on the location and the customer’s bargaining power. The President, Petroleum Products Retail Outlets owners Association of Nigeria, Billy Gillis-Harry, told our correspondent on Monday evening that many retailers of petrol had still not been able to return the contaminated products in their tanks. “This has continued to block space for new stock and as a result these, affected outlets are not dispensing petrol up till now, hence the severe scarcity you see nationwide,” he said. Gillis-Harry added, “We want the authorities to speed up the recall process so that this suffering will abate. We are, however, optimistic that normalcy will return in due course.” Also providing explanations as to why many filling stations were still not selling petrol, the National Public Relations Officer, Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria, Chief Ukadike Chinedu, had told our correspondent that some retailers who purchased the adulterated products were still struggling to return them. He explained that the contaminated products were still occupying spaces in the underground tanks of the affected filling stations, adding that this had prevented the outlets from accessing new stocks. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com