The National Coordinator, Media Warriors Forum of the All Progressives Grand Alliance Media Warriors Forum, Evang Chinedu Obigwe, has described the utterances by the Peoples Democratic Party as a way of playing an “irresponsible opposition”. The Anambra State Publicity Secretary, PDP, Mr Nnamdi Nwangwu, had on Friday, said, Governor Willie Obiano’s administration had taken the state 20 years backward. However, speaking in Awka, on Saturday, Obigwe said it was the PDP that messed up Anambra State during the years they were in power. Obigwe urged the people of Anambra to ignore the criticisms of the PDP, adding that their “stock in trade is armchair criticism” which the people no longer reckon with. He said the truth is that Obiano’s administration did well in Anambra State. He said, “Throughout Obiano’s tenure, the civil servants did not embark on any protest against his government and that is because of his good performance in the state but the protest was a daily routine for civil servants in the state when PDP was in power because of their anti-people policy. “When PDP was in power in Anambra State all that they did was sharing of the state’s allocation in Abuja and political assassination was also on the rise that time. “Today if they want to travel to Abuja or Lagos, they will go to Umueri to use Anambra international cargo and passengers Airport but they are finding it difficult to commend Obiano for the airport project. They are also feigning ignorance of the community chose your project of Obiano’s administration which their communities are benefited. “That community chose your project initiative of Obiano’s administration is a commendable initiative that took development in the state closer to the people and the PDP are shying away from mentioning it. “In fact, our teachers went on strike under PDP administration watch for complete one year and no experience of bad governance is worst than that. So, the people should ignore what the PDP is saying because Ndi Anambra are happy with Governor Obiano as he did his best for them and another commendable thing he did for them is giving them Soludo.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com