The National Assembly has scheduled voting on constitution amendment bills for next week. The Senate and House of Representatives’ Committees on the Constitution Review are expected to lay a joint report before the respective chambers this week. Deputy President of the Senate and Chairman of the Senate committee, Ovie Omo-Agege, made the announcement while inviting members of the panel to a meeting scheduled for 2pm on Tuesday. Omo-Agege, who presided over the day’s plenary, disclosed that the report of the committee would be laid on Wednesday (today) and copies would be distributed to lawmakers. He appealed to senators to study the report ahead of its consideration and ensure they attend plenary next Tuesday to vote on the bills. Omo-Agege noted that some provisions of the report to be considered and voted on require the mandatory two-thirds and four-fifth membership of the 109-member Senate. He said, “The Senate Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution will meet today, Tuesday, February 22, 2022, immediately after plenary sitting at Room 221 of the Senate building. Please, this meeting is very crucial. “Tomorrow, the Senate President will announce that the report of the Constitution Review Committee will be laid on Wednesday and, thereafter, we will take our vote on March 1, which will be Tuesday. “That will give us about four to five days to review the report, consult as we deem fit and be prepare to vote.  It is imperative that all our colleagues be present on that day. “As you know, there are certain amendments that will require the two-thirds majority of all our colleagues – the entire Senate; not two-third of those who are present but two-thirds of the entire membership of the Senate; and, indeed, there are some other provisions that would require four-fifths of the entire Senate. “So, please, it is my appeal without prejudice to the announcement the Senate President will make tomorrow, in my capacity as the Chairman of the committee, to urge that all of our members be prepared to be present to cast their votes on Tuesday. “The report will be laid tomorrow and be made available to all members, you will take home and we expect you to bring back to the chamber on Tuesday to cast your vote.” At the House of Representatives, the voting process has been scheduled to hold between Wednesday and Thursday next week. Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, while making the announcement, said all members of the chamber are expected to attend the sessions to cast their votes. Gbajabiamila barred committees and their members from oversight tours or hearings within the two days dedicated to the exercise. He said, “We will be voting on the first set of Constitution amendment (bills) on March 3 and 4, 2022. Every member is expected to be on the floor to cast their votes. There will be no committee meetings and no oversight.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com