The People’s Democratic Party Friday in Abuja dismissed the impeachment of the Zamfara State Deputy Governor, Mahdi Gusau saying that he remains the legitimate officeholder. The main opposition revealed this three days after the Zamfara State House of Assembly impeached Governor Matawalle’s deputy who remained in the PDP, after his boss defected in June 2021. National Publicity Secretary of the Party, Debo Ologunagba, disclosed this in a statement he signed late on Friday titled ‘PDP Dismisses purported impeachment of Zamfara Deputy Governor.’ According to the statement, “After an extensive review of the issues, the Peoples Democratic Party dismisses the claims by the Zamfara State House of Assembly that it has impeached the democratically elected Deputy Governor of the State, His Excellency Mahdi Gusau. “The purported impeachment of the Deputy Governor by the sequestered Zamfara State House of Assembly, which has been annexed by the Governor of Zamfara State, Bello Matawalle, cannot stand as the entire process remains unconstitutional, illegal and as such a nullity. “It is instructive to state that by virtue of the Order of the Federal High Court, Abuja in Suit Number FHC/ABJ/CS/ 650/2021 and pursuant to section 109 (1)(g) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) the Zamfara State House of Assembly as presently constituted has no constitutional standing to undertake any legislative action let alone claim to have impeached the Deputy Governor of the State on any ground whatsoever.” The PDP argued that by virtue of Section 109(1)(g), the members of Zamfara State House of Assembly constitutionally lost their seats when they “recklessly cross-carpeted” to the All Progressives Congress when there was no division in the PDP. It said the Federal High Court had on July 19, 2021 granted an order directing the maintenance of status quo ante bellum, regarding any action against the Deputy Governor, which was duly served on the Zamfara State House of Assembly, the Chief Judge of Zamfara State and Governor Matawalle. “The purported impeachment of the Deputy Governor as induced, orchestrated and choreographed by Matawalle, the Chief Judge of Zamfara State and the Zamfara State House of Assembly is therefore not only an exercise in futility but also an affront to the Rule of Law by the APC and Governor Matawalle. “It is unfortunate that the Chief Judge of Zamfara State who should be a defender of the Rule of Law will allow herself to be used to desecrate the Order of Court and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which she swore to uphold. “The PDP is reviewing the actions of the Chief Judge of Zamfara State in this violent assault on the Rule of Law and will take appropriate actions necessary,” the statement read. The PDP, therefore, affirmed that it will not allow the “impunity” being foisted on Zamfara State to stand and appropriate legal action is being taken in that regard. It expressed implicit confidence in the judiciary, which has in the past demonstrated its capacity and ability to defend the Constitution and the Rule of Law by reinstating elected public officials who were unconstitutionally and illegally removed from office as was in the case of former Oyo State Governor Rasheed Ladoja as well as that of former Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Ali Olanusi. The PDP urged the Deputy Governor, Gusau, “not to be deterred by the illegality but remain focused at this critical time Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com