Stakeholders in the Peoples Democratic Party loyal to a National Assembly member, Senator Biodun Olujimi, have expressed worries over the defection of a former governor of Ekiti State, Chief Segun Oni, from the party. The PDP leaders, at a meeting of the Biodun Olujimi Team, said the handling of the party’s issue with the use of former governor Ayodele Fayose’s delegates’ list for the primary was “repugnant to justice and fair play” and warned that it had far-reaching implications. In a resolution at the end of the meeting signed by the former state PDP Chairman, Chief Gboyega Oguntuwase, the stakeholders stated, “As concerned PDP members, we are worried by the fact that because of the approach, the highly respected Chief Segun Oni and his formidable group are leaving the PDP and some other leaders may be leaving. “This is because of the lack of level playing ground in the primary election and the recklessness of the candidate in the way he has been attacking some PDP leaders, who he referred to as carcasses.” Olujimi, an aspirant, pulled out of the race, just as Oni, who was first runner-up, complained about disenfranchisement and on Saturday dumped the party for a yet-to-be disclosed alternative to contest the governorship. The Olujimi team stated, “The PDP is a party to beat in Ekiti State, because of its spread and the non-performance of the All Progressives Congress government. If anything goes wrong and the PDP loses (God forbid), the National Working Committee headed by Senator Iyorchia Ayu should be held responsible. “Though we hear that the NWC has put a reconciliation committee in place, we want to know what became of the findings of the South-West Reconciliation Committee headed by Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola and the National Reconciliation Committee headed by Senator Bukola Saraki. It is our joy if the PDP can be salvaged and we jointly win the election.” However, Fayose, in a statement he personally signed on Sunday, titled, ‘Ekiti Guber: I have no enemy to fight in PDP – Fayose’, said he was committed to providing leadership for the party and the protection of all members’ interests, the different divides notwithstanding, adding that he was on the same page with everyone irrespective of the side taken during the primary. “Let me state that we can wish that no one leaves the party, but we are not in a position to force those who feel strongly that their aspiration can only be realised elsewhere to stay in the party. To me, it is a matter of choice and commitment to one’s personal ambition or the interests of the PDP,” Fayose stated. However, the Segun Oni Movement alleged on Sunday of surreptitious moves to thwart Oni’s mission in the unnamed party by uniting to foil the attempt, because of fear of mass exodus of members that will hit the PDP. The SOM Director of Media and Publicity, Jackson Adebayo, in said in a statement, “The threat of that defection forced the PDP candidate’s sponsor, Fayose, to hurriedly call a meeting of his associates to express his fear on the new development as thousands of the party members joined the Segun Oni Movement.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com