Four people were killed on Tuesday in two road accidents in Ogun and Ondo states. PUNCH Metro learnt that three persons lost their lives and three others sustained injuries in an auto crash at Ogere, Ogun State end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The Public Education Officer of the Federal Road Safety Corps in the state, Florence Okpe, confirmed the tragedy in a statement. Okpe disclosed that the FRSC team in Ogere were deployed in the accident scene around 05.55am. She said, “A total of six persons were involved, which comprised four male adults and two female adults, and three persons were injured – two male adults and a female adult. “Three persons were recorded dead from the crash – two males and a female. Two vehicles were involved, a Volkswagon Sharon with the number plate, GGE175 FM, and a Mack truck with no number on it. “The suspected causes of the fatal crash were road obstruction and speed. The road obstruction was caused by the Mack truck that was stationed; the Volkswagon Sharon lost control due to speeding and rammed into the stationary truck. “The three injured victims were taken to the General Hospital, Isaara. The female corpse was deposited at the FOS, Ipara, while the other corpses were taken away by their family members.” Also, a yet-to-be-identified man was killed on Tuesday in a fatal accident along the Owo-Ikare Akoko Road, Akungba Akoko, in the Akoko South-West Local Government Area of Ondo State. Several others were reported to have been injured in the accident, as the truck, which was said to be ascending the popular Okerigbo Hills, suddenly lost control and fell, scattering its content on the road. An eyewitness said the trailer, which was loaded with pasta, was heading towards Ikare Akoko from Owo, but was unable to climb the hill. The driver was said to have lost control in the process, as the vehicle fell off the road. The witness said, “One person died, while a leg was discovered cut off. The deceased was one of the occupants of the truck, but we can’t identify him.” The Ikare Unit Commander of the FRSC, Mr Oluropo Alabi, confirmed the accident. In a similar development, a luxurious bus loaded with passengers going towards Owo from Abuja was burnt at the Agbaluku area, Arigidi Akoko, in the Akoko North-West LGA of Ondo State. Though no life was lost in the incident, the belongings of the passengers were burnt to ashes. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com