This week, I will be discussing Carica papaya (pawpaw) peels and seeds but permit me to share something with you. One day, there were shouts in an uncompleted building beside our house. We later got to know that the woman who lives there went into labour and had four babies right there! Years ago, the story of an orange seller went viral too because she had a sextuplet (Six babies). Why do women who live in abject poverty and did not go through any form of assisted reproduction have multiple births while some women who live in affluence struggle with their fertility? So, in my head, I started having this funny thought that poverty makes the ovaries hyperactive. But at some point, I did a lot of thinking and I came up with possible reasons why this is so. You see, the woman who lives in an uncompleted building is one who gets pregnant at the first touch because even in her poor state, she eats right. She does not have money to buy junks, her soups are likely made from the vegetables that grow around her or maybe she even has a small vegetable garden around that uncompleted house.  Second, because she is so poor, she walks to where she should board a vehicle because she does not have transport fare. That is a form of exercise. Lastly, there are times she does not have food to eat. This pushes her body into fasting mode which is also beneficial for health (fasting has numerous health benefits).With these three reasons, there is no way her fertility will not be top notch. Does my analysis make any sense to you? Papaya contains the proteolytic enzymes papain and chymopapain before ripening. Both papain and chymopapain are active principles in breaking down or digesting protein. Papain is a popular folk remedy to reduce pain, inflammation and swelling. It promotes healing of the skin and can also enhance the secretion of collagen when used topically for the skin. It is also used to improve digestion, to treat infections, diarrhoea and allergies. It is being studied for potential use in treating cancer and other diseases. It has a wide range in commercial applications in the leather, cosmetic, textiles, detergents, food and pharmaceutical industries. In the food industry, papain is used as an active ingredient in many commercial meat tenderizers. Papain has been found to help open clogged pores and is effective in treating blemish-prone skin. Additionally, it can remove dead skin cells, making it a good agent for a wide variety of exfoliating skin care products including face scrubs, body cleansers and face masks. In the words of Tiffany Bioski, a licensed esthetician and cosmetologist based in Atlanta, United States of America, “think of your skin as layers of tile floors, papain melts the grout between the tiles, allowing old tiles to float off and new tiles to come forward.’’ He added, “This process removes excess build up in the pores and lightens the look of hyperpigmentation.” Though the juice, pulp and seeds of a papaya can be utilised for skincare purposes, the peel and the area surrounding it are the real money makers of this fruit because they contain the highest concentration of Papain. Let’s see some of benefits of the seed Rich in antioxidants Papaya seeds are rich in polyphenols, flavonoids, alkaloids, tannins and saponins. Makes the gut healthy Papaya seeds are rich in fibre. They regulate bowel movements, removing toxins from the body and thus maintaining a healthy gut. Carpaine present in papaya seeds kills bacteria and parasites in the intestines and thus keep the digestive system healthy. Helps in weight loss Because they are rich in fibre, they keep digestion on track, thus helping in the removal of toxins from the body. They also help in regulating our metabolism and preventing our body from absorbing fat. This helps in preventing obesity. Lowers cholesterol levels Papaya seeds are rich in monounsaturated fatty acids like oleic acid. These fatty acids regulate cholesterol levels by reducing bad cholesterol. Anti-cancer properties Papaya seeds contain polyphenols that are powerful antioxidants. They prevent the body from different types of cancers. They also contain isothiocyanate which inhibits the formation and development of cancer cells. Nephroprotective Papaya seeds protect the kidneys from damage. Consumption of papaya seeds ensures the smooth functioning of the kidneys. Cures food poisoning Research has shown that preparing and consuming an extract of papaya seeds can help to successfully kill bacteria such as E.coli, Salmonella, Staphylococcus etc which are responsible for most cases of food poisoning. Scientific studies In a study titled, “Development of a meat tenderiser based on Papaya Peel,’’ by Mir Islam et al, the  conclusion is that dried papaya peel is a viable low-cost but effective ingredient in the formulation of commercial meat tenderisers. In a study titled, “Chemical characterisation of the flour of peel and seed from two papaya cultivars,’’ by Santos et al, it was observed that papaya peel flour stood out for the following parameters; fiber, ash, phenolic compounds, vitamin C, soluble solids, titratable acidity and the minerals copper, sulfur and potassium. On the other hand, papaya seeds flour stood out for protein, lipids and the minerals calcium, iron, magnesium and zinc. In a study titled, “Antioxidant and apoptotic activity of papaya peel extracts in HepG2 cells,’’ by Salla et al, the conclusion is that  papaya peel (PP) exhibited in-vitro antioxidant activities and also offered protection to cells from oxidative damage. It also acts as an anti-cancer agent. In a study titled, “Effectiveness of dried Carica papaya seeds against human intestinal parasitosis: a pilot study, ’’ by Okeniyi et al, the conclusion is that air-dried C. papaya seeds are efficacious in treating human intestinal parasites without significant side effects. Their consumption offers a cheap, natural, harmless, readily available monotherapy and preventive strategy against intestinal parasitosis especially in tropical communities. In a study titled, “Carica papaya peel mediated synthesis of silver nanoparticles and its antibacterial activity against human pathogens,’’ by Balavijayalakshmi et al, the conclusion is that synthesised silver nanoparticles show good antibacterial activity against human pathogens such as Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus and it has many medical applications. Pregnant women should stay away from unripe papaya. Excessive consumption of papaya seeds may decrease fertility in men too. You should not consume more than one teaspoon of papaya seeds per day. Although both ripe and green papaya have proteolytic papaya enzymes, they are found at a higher concentration in green papaya. So to enjoy the benefits of Papain, get the peels of the unripe but almost mature papaya and dry, then grind into powder and use for your skin care or any other thing you wish. The seeds can be chewed raw, you can dry them and grind. You can make tea out of the powder or add them into your smoothies. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com