COMING in torrents, bad news from across the country unmistakably cast Nigeria as a failing state, wracked by an unprecedented level of insecurity. Kaduna State, where bandit-terrorists killed 1,192 persons in 2021, is in the vortex of this blood-soaked brigandage despite vigorous defensive measures. The desperate cry for help by the state governor, Nasir el-Rufai, should not be ignored. Above all else, the state and federal governments need to devise new strategies to prevent an implosion into total chaos. Reflecting the horrific trend in the North-West region, Kaduna suffered 3,348 residents kidnapped in 2021, and the 1,192 deaths were 27.21 per cent higher than the number killed in 2020. About 50 of the dead were minors and 104 were women. In the frequent bandit and communal attacks occurring during the year in the state, 891 persons were injured. The marauding fiends also raped 45 females of which 29 were minors. They stole 13,788 cattle. Chillingly, the figures show that on the average, nine persons were kidnapped daily in a state that hosts sub-Saharan Africa’s largest concentration of military and security units. It is also the political capital both of the North-West geopolitical zone, and of the entire North. It served as the capital of the defunct Northern Region and after Kano, is the largest commercial hub of the North. Its descent into lawlessness is therefore tragic. It must be contained fast. Violence has been escalating in Kaduna because of ineptitude by public functionaries, mismanagement of the state’s diversity, and absence of a local policing system. Initially, banditry was not a major issue. Since the late 1980s however, the once peaceful state has suffered inter-communal strife, pitting some of its 60 ethnic groups against each other in bloody riots. These invariably assume religious colouration. Add to these frequent attacks by killer Fulani herdsmen ravaging villages and farming communities. Banditry and kidnapping have now conflated with all this. Evidence from the state government details a territory under siege. In its novel annual security report 2020, it said 937 persons died that year while 1,972 others were kidnapped. Spectacular raids by so-called bandits saw the kidnap in July last year of 140 boarding students at Bethel Baptist High School, Kaduna, the eponymous state capital. Earlier in March, terrorists had similarly attacked the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka, in the Igabi Local Government Area, seizing 39 students. In October, they raided a Catholic seminary in Kafanchan, abducting six students whom they later abandoned when pursued by local vigilantes. In an audacious demonstration of their reach and prowess, in August 2021, bandits stormed the citadel of the country’s defence forces, the Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna, killed two officers, injured several others, and kidnapped a Major, Christopher Datong. He was rescued three weeks later. Attacks, killings, arson, and forcible occupation of land by herdsmen and militia have been unrelenting in the southern parts of the state with occasional reprisal attacks by the traumatised indigenes. Kaduna is an emergency mode. A report in the Abuja-based Daily Trust on Monday detailed how terrorists, their bandit allies and roving bands of kidnappers are closing in on the Kaduna metropolis from all sides, having made the hinterland, farms, and highways unsafe. Intelligence reports had indicated the hoisting of Boko Haram flags in forests within the state since 2020. Clearly, the situation calls for new thinking and a fresh strategy. As el-Rufai admitted, the 2021 report not only reflects the pains inflicted on residents but is also “a sobering reading because it is a factual account of a challenging situation.” The Kaduna scenario deserves concerted action and deployment of all national and state resources to solve. For one, alone among other northern state governors who perpetually live in denial, elevate politics and ethnic identity above national security, and pamper the terrorists, el-Rufai acknowledges the bandits as the rabid terrorists that they are. Commendably, he has steadfastly disavowed the dangerous policy of appeasement and “amnesty” for bandits favoured by other governors, rightly advocating an iron resolve and meeting them with force. His creation of a ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs with its scientific data-gathering and information-sharing with the public is also proactive. But he needs a drastic shift and upgrade in his strategy. By now, he should realise that his generous funding and backing of the federal security agencies have failed to stop the onslaught. Similarly, his suggested remedy of a military theatre command to tackle the collapsing North-West may not be sufficient. It has not crushed Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists who are advancing from the North-East into the North-West and North-Central regions. Three things the governor needs to do urgently before bandits/terrorists overrun the state: He needs to realise that without a local security agency whose personnel are familiar with the nooks and crannies, forests, and hills of the state, federal forces alone cannot dislodge the thousands of insurgents embedded in them. Stretched thin, the military is engaged in 33 states and on foreign missions, and along with the federal police, are simply not enough to effectively police the country, especially the largely ungoverned rural areas. He should immediately break from the self-destructive politicking and hostility to state-based security initiatives from his political camp and establish, fund, equip and arm a local security agency to complement and work with federal agencies. Only then will all the support to federal security agencies achieve desired outcomes. Next, he should revive his efforts for a North-West regional network along the lines of the South-West’s Amotekun, as the states are contiguous and interlinked by forests. The lives and property of the citizens are at stake. Third, he needs to urgently reach out, and build bridges among the state’s diverse ethnic and sectarian groups. When faced with such existential threat, unity and consensual buy-in by all segments of the society are crucial to defeating the bloodthirsty criminals preying on the people. As governor, he should go to great lengths to reassure the critical but alienated stakeholders. Policies and actions should be fair, equitable and seen to be so. For the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), Kaduna proves once again that his anti-crime response needs a radical overhaul; he should act accordingly. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com