Ahead of the All Progressives Congress’ February 26 convention, the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has reiterated the need for the party to be deliberae about its sucession plans. The president, who made the recommendation while receiving members of the APC National Youth Lobby Group, said, young people’s inclusion in party affairs, governance, would encourage learning and mentoring in government and politics. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, disclosed this in a statement he signed on Friday, titled, ‘Ensure young people with requisite skills get board appointment, President Buhari directs SGF; chief of staff, ministers’. Buhari also assured the Barrister Ismaeel Ahmed-led youth lobby group that the leadership of the party would ensure full participation of young people at all levels. ”I will also support the aspirations of credible and committed young people who are vying for positions in the upcoming convention. ”It is also in our interest to ensure the longevity of our party by standardising, and institutionalising the leadership recruitment system. Hardworking and exemplary individuals should be identified and encouraged and mentored. ”It should be a deliberate policy of the progressives in ensuring that we have a robust succession plan in place,” he said. Commending members of the group for the work they are doing for the party, the president said, ”You are not begging, but negotiating, staking a claim and seeking to add value – which is admirable”. He urged them to help the party achieve a successful convention on February 26, 2022, and in subsequent elections in Ekiti and Osun States. President Buhari declared that APC must be made attractive for younger people to continuously take ownership of it because that is the future, and ”that is what progress means”. Describing the president as the leader of the party, and moral compass of the nation, the APC youth leader thanked him for sending a powerful delegation to the Progressive Youth Conference in June 2021, demonstrating that the present government believed in young people. ”Mr President, young people in Nigeria believe in your capacity and the history of your public service. You joined the Army at the age of 20; you joined the war to save the country at the age of 25; became a governor at the age of 33; minister at 36, and Head of State at 41. ”You joined politics at the age of 60, and was elected president at the age of 72. You have demonstrated through your personal example, the integrity that very few people have had the opportunity to demonstrate in the country,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com