The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, says the glory of North-East Nigeria and other parts of the country troubled by terrorists will be restored. He stated this on Saturday in a Facebook post after the ‘Light Up Nigeria’ outreach in Gombe State which was organised as part of activities to mark the cleric’s 80th birthday. Adeboye wrote, “The Glory of the North Eastern Part of Nigeria will be restored by God’s grace. “I use Gombe state as a point of contact: that as the light of God came down powerfully during the @reach4christ Crusade, the light of God descends upon every troubled parts of our dear Nation Nigeria.” The PUNCH had earlier reported that the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, said the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit uncovered 123 companies, and 96 others linked to terrorism financing in 2021. Earlier in 2021, the regime of the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had arrested 400 alleged Boko Haram sponsors and financiers including bureau de change operators but about a year later, the office of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, has not prosecuted the moneybags behind the nefarious activities of the bloodthirsty marauders who have viciously mauled thousands of Nigerians in the North-East for over a decade. Experts have argued that terrorism financing is a criminal offence and Nigerians have nothing to do with the information that the terror sponsors had been uncovered. Instead, the government should arrest and swiftly prosecute them. A former Navy Commodore, Kunle Olawunmi, last August, had said that Boko Haram terrorists mentioned names of current governors, senators and Aso Rock officials as sponsors during interrogation but the President demonstrated an unwillingness to go after the high-profile politicians for reasons best known to him. The Boko Haram war has lingered for over a decade. Thousands of innocent Nigerians and soldiers had been killed by the insurgents in war-wracked North-East Nigeria including Gombe, Borno, Yobe and Adamawa states. Though the government of the day has repeatedly insisted that the terrorists had been decimated and “technically defeated”, the ferocious fighters continue to wreak unprintable havoc on the Nigerian state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com