Ahead of the 2023 elections, the Convener of the Northern Elders Forum, Prof Ango Abdullahi, on Tuesday, held a secret meeting with former President Olusegun Obasanjo in Abeokuta. The meeting was held at the former President’s penthouse inside the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library. A media Aide to the ex-President, Kehinde Akinyemi, disclosed this on Wednesday in a statement, adding that the meeting lasted two hours. The statement said Abdullahi was accompanied by the Chairman, Board of Trustees, Coalition of Northern Groups, Nastura Shariff; and the Director, Action and Mobilisation, Aminu Adam. According to the statement, the NEF convener said the country needed good tidings from the 2023 elections, hence the need to strategise. Abdullahi was quoted to have said that the NEF and Obasanjo were on the same page on the issues discussed during the meeting. He stressed that in spite of their ages, they could still contribute to society and the country. The statement quoted Abdullahi as saying, “I don’t want to stay away from him (Obasanjo) for so many months or years without seeing him, especially at this period. “So, I am visiting him to say hello and get a briefing from him on how he feels about the nation. We also briefed him on how we feel about the nation. We compared some notes and we agreed on some grounds.” On whether they were on the same page, the NEF convener said, “Yes, we are on the same page and Insha Allah, it shall be well. “We have been having challenges and we have been talking about this. You are in the media and you know what we have been saying about the situation in the country. Things are not good enough and as we head for 2023, we hope to be strategising for the good of the nation.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com