The Wellbeing Foundation Africa and The Scaling Up of Zinc and LO-ORS for the Treatment of Childhood Diarrhoea in Northern Nigeria Project have partnered on timely care and treatment of childhood diarrhoea. According to a statement on Wednesday, the Foundation and the Nutrition International joined other national and international stakeholders for a three-day summit hosted by the Federal Ministry of Health’s National Product Supply Chain Management Programme on New Approaches to DRF/DMA Set-Up in Nigeria. The Founder-President of Wellbeing Foundation Africa, Mrs. Toyin Sakari, in the statement, said, “Improving treatment outcomes in childhood diarrhoea requires access and availability to medicines that mothers trust. “Supporting Sokoto and Kano States to increase and sustain availability and access to zinc and LO-ORS commodities by strengthening their Drug Revolving Fund schemes is catalysing modern medicine with better supply chain and financial procurement management in tangential action with health systems strengthening, deploying a dedicated midwifery and nursing workforce to reach community health care facilities and households – creating statewide behavioral change, is delivering measurable improvements where they are needed most. “Our programme is currently working in 80 healthcare facilities within the states and has reached over 38,980 caregivers in both states.” The National Programmes Lead, Wellbeing Foundation Africa, Dr. Otun Adewale, said the organisation identified the Drug Revolving Fund scheme as a key factor towards promoting the overall well-being of end-users of drugs and medical services. He said, “To achieve the Universal Health Coverage, a sustainable and implementable DRF and DMA system is pivotal, and there is the need for a collaboration between the Federal Government-led National Product Supply Chain Management Programme and the international and local non-governmental organisations.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com