The National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control, on Sunday, stated that it had procured utility vehicles to enhance its operational efficiency in getting rid of fake and counterfeit medicines in the country. The agency also stated that it was currently undergoing an audit by the World Health Organisation. NAFDAC said in a statement on Sunday by its Media Consultant, Sayo Akintola, “In its renewed efforts to rid the nation of falsified and counterfeit medicines, unwholesome food and cosmetic products, the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control has inaugurated 73 brand new Hilux utility vehicles, saloon cars and staff buses to enhance operational efficiency. “The Director-General of NAFDAC, Prof Mojisola Adeyeye, said the provision of the vehicles would put a permanent end to the hitherto practice whereby clients would bring their vehicles to ferry agency staff members to sites for inspection.” According to her, the inspection is already compromised ab initio when staff members of a regulatory body have to depend on their clients to transport them to factories to be inspected. Adeyeye explained that the agency was going through its WHO audit and would be judged on seven regulatory functions or a group of activities. “There is one big area called regulatory inspection. This includes visiting companies to see whether they are compliant with their good manufacturing practices,” she stated. Adeyeye also stressed the importance of vehicles, noting that they were relied on to take workers for inspection. “Regulatory inspection includes good distribution practice, meaning that all the distributors who handle NAFDAC regulated products have to be visited to see where those products are being kept and whether they are going to break down before they get to the retailer,” she added. The DG recalled how the agency was able to bust a syndicate that brought 30 containers of Tramadol into the country about three years ago through a tip-off by the Presidency. She said ports inspection officers of the agency kept vigil for days at the seaports before the consignment worth over N2tn was seized and the contents destroyed. “The containers were labelled for bonded terminals. We wouldn’t have been able to do it. It is vehicles that officers of the Inspection Directorate used to keep vigil at the ports,” Adeyeye stated. The DG explained that officials of the Investigation and Enforcement Directorate would make use of the utility vehicles to pursue peddlers of contraband and counterfeited products across the nooks and crannies of the country, adding, “The vehicles are not a luxury for us. This is not the end of it. Each state should have at least three Hilux vehicles.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com