An oil and gas firm, Green Energy International Limited, says it has donated a mini barracks in Ikuru town, Rivers State, to the Nigerian Navy. A company statement said the mini barracks was built and donated to the Nigerian Navy by Green Energy, the operator of the Otakikpo Marginal Field, in collaboration with its technical partner, Lekoil Oil and Gas Limited. Speaking at the inauguration of the mini barracks, Flag Officer Commanding, Nigerian Navy, Rear Admiral SK Ibrahim, who was represented by the Commander, Ship Jubilee, Commodore Olubode Fazaz, said corporate organisations, host communities and security agencies must continue to work together in synergy to protect investments and secure lives and property in the Niger Delta. According to him, the Nigeria Navy under the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral AZ Gambo, has improved the security environment of the area. He commended Green Energy for the consistent focus on securing its area of operation in Andoni. While noting that the construction of the Navy barracks in Ikuru town will provide more accommodation and facilities to the staff, he said the development would also enhance their performance in their respective duties. The FOC, who called on other companies in the area to emulate the oil and gas company, said “This project will not only contribute positively to the operational effectiveness of the Naval Outpost Ikuru, it will also boost the morale of the personnel of the outpost.” Ibrahim said he felt a great sense of fulfillment, considering the fact that another positive impact has been made on the Nigerian Navy. In his remarks, the Chief Executive Officer, Green Energy, Prof Anthony Adegbulugbe, said the building of the mini barracks was part of its corporate social responsibility, adding that it was in line with its aim to enhance the performance of the Nigeria Navy. He said the project was a follow-up to the building of a Navy facility and barracks in Ikuru town in the Andoni community in 2015, and the donation of a Toyota Hilux truck in 2019. He said the security network of the area would be improved with the provision of additional accommodation. The facility consists of six rooms, a security post, an observation tower, a kitchen, a store and office facilities.  Other facilities include a 20kVA generator and a 12-panel and six-battery solar lighting system. Adegbulugbe further said in view of the company’s mandate to create a localised domestic market based on small-scale gas opportunities in Nigeria and Africa, the company with its JV partner was investing heavily in gas utilisation through the LPG and Gas to Power Projects which are nearing completion and due for inauguration in the second quarter of this year. According to him, the gas utilisation strategy of the company is aimed at solving the age-long environmental challenge of gas flaring while also boosting the economic development of the Niger Delta and the nation’s economy. The gas to power project is designed for embedded power generation for the company and host communities while the excess would be injected into the nation’s grid. Towards the realisation of this objective, the National Electric Regulations Commission has already approved a 40 MW licence for GEIL. He said within over six years of its operation in the area, the company had enjoyed the cooperation of security agencies. He said with the plans to expand the operations of the company, the government security forces should enhance its security network in the area for the benefit of the critical investments and the economy. He also called on the Naval authorities to make effective use of the facility to enhance its performance.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com