The Rivers State Police Command has rescued two children kidnapped in various locations in the state, while three members of the kidnapping syndicate were arrested. Parading the suspects alongside other alleged criminals at the Police headquarters in Port Harcourt on Friday, the state Commissioner of Police, Friday Ebuka said the rescued children, aged four and 12 were kidnapped from their mother’s shop on September 25, 2020. Eboka said operatives from the command rescued the children following a covert operation on June 2021, and February 23, 2022, respectively. Ebuka, who noted that the arrested suspects identified as Favour Ajuzie, 30 years old, Chioma Chibuike, 43 years old, and Comfort Abtuo, 56, were currently under investigation and would be charged to court immediately. He added that the police were on the trail of other fleeing members of the gang. “You could recall that on 25th of September 2020, two little children were stolen from their mother in her shop, the children are Favour Boniface and Miracle Boniface, and just two days ago on the 23rd of February, 2022, we were able to rescue that little girl and arrest three suspects in connection with that matter. “Favour Ajuzie 30, stole the little baby in conjunction with Chioma Chibuike 43 years and sold the baby to Comfort Abatuo, 56, and that child had been living with that woman since then until the child was rescued,” he stated. Meanwhile, the Police Force also paraded a fake military man, just as the CP told newsmen that operatives arrested him on February 1, 2022, after it received information that he was brandishing a rifle at a hotel in Rumuigbo area of Port Harcourt. The fake military officer who identified himself as Adamu Siraju, in his confession, said he wanted to use the army uniform and rifle to accompany a fake pastor and collect his share of the money earned by fraudsters, known as “Yahoo boys”.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com