The Chartered Institute of Professional Printers of Nigeria has urged that ballot papers should not be printed outside Nigeria. The group made this known in a statement issued by the President and Chairman-in-Council of the Institute, Olugbemi Malomo, on Monday. The printers applauded the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for signing the amended electoral act, adding that by assenting to the bill the burden on ballot papers will be relieved. One of the highlights of the new electoral law is the use of electronic card readers and electronic transmission of results. “This marks a major evolution and is a game changer in the nation’s electioneering,” the group said. The institute also congratulates the INEC chairman Prof . Mahmoud Yakubu on the signing of the act. “Once upon a time, the success of our election depended solely on the integrity of the ballot paper, that’s why there was an escalation of ballot paper snatching and other ballot paper related election crimes,” the statement read. The group noted that with the president’s assent to the amended electoral act, “the legalisation of the card reader has taken away a lot of pressure from the ballot paper, such that ballot paper snatching is now confined to the dustbin of history.” In addition, the group sought that the Federal Government should look into producing 100 per cent of the ballot papers in Nigeria, warning that companies to desist from printing ballot papers abroad. “The Institute will also like to sound a note of warning to all individuals and printing companies in Nigeria not to take ballot paper abroad to print.
Printers are advised to print what their capacity can take, so that others with verifiable capabilities can also partake. We must start putting the nation’s interests above individual interests. A”ny members that attempt to take ballot paper abroad against the spirit of our let Nigerian printing jobs remain in Nigeria will be sanctioned accordingly and it’s License revoked. “CIPPON is therefore prepared to work with INEC to ensure that 100 percent local production of ballot paper in Nigeria is attainable.”