The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said it is time for his political associates and elected public office holders in the state to pay back the national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, with their support ahead of the 2023 presidential election. The governor said Tinubu had served Lagosians and wanted to replicate “his progressive ideas” at the national level, maintaining that the ex-governor had the magic wand to fix Nigeria. Tinubu, who declared his ambition to contest for president in the forthcoming general elections last month, has been embarking on consultation across the country, meeting with eminent Nigerians as the race for the highest office in the land gathers momentum. Aside from Tinubu in the APC, Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, the Senate Chief Whip, Orji Kalu, and a former Imo State governor, Rochas Okorocha, have so far declared their presidential ambition. Also a camp loyal to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has been rooting for him to clinch the exalted office, though he had yet to make his decision known. Sanwo-Olu, in a statement on Friday by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, urged politicians in the state to work together towards a realisation of Tinubu’s ambition. The governor, who spoke at the opening session of the 17th Executive and Legislative Parley organised for all elected public office holders in Lagos State, rallied the participants for a common purpose of boosting Tinubu’s political capital ahead of the 2023 elections. All members of the National Assembly from Lagos, State House of Assembly, the Executive Council, Governance Advisory Council (GAC) and members of the state’s APC executive are attending the three-day event holding at Marriott Hotels in Ikeja, tagged, ‘Mobilising Citizens as a Social Capital Towards 2023 General Elections.’ Sanwo-Olu said, “Let me stress the importance of working together as one family, especially as we approach 2023, which is an all-important electioneering year. There is a whole lot we can achieve together as a united bloc. I enjoin all of us to come together and rally round our leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as he gives the nation’s presidency a shot. “He has given himself to the good people of Lagos, and now he wants to replicate his progressive ideas at the national level. It is time to pay him back with our unwavering support.  He is, no doubt, the right and best man for the job. He knows the issues plaguing our nation like the back of his hands and he has the magic wand to fix it.” Speaking on the achievements of his so far, the governor said the forum offered an opportunity to share the strides recorded by his government in the previous year and to jointly review programmes in the pipelines with the delegates for more impactful results. Sanwo-Olu said the parley was organised with the ultimate goal of seeking inputs of critical public sector stakeholders and creating strategic ways to implement ideas that would alleviate the suffering of masses, while also improving quality of life and economic development. He stated, “This administration, from the outset, did not delude itself into thinking it had the monopoly of knowledge with regard to finding the right solutions to the myriad challenges confronting the state. This explains why we have consistently thrown our doors open to diverse opinions and views from various sources, while also creating a forum to rub minds with all critical stakeholders with a view to achieving the greater Lagos of our dream. “The remarkable strides attained in the last two and a half years would have been impossible, but for the efforts of everyone gathered at this forum today. The past year was particularly remarkable for us in our aspiration to improve infrastructure across the state, many of which have been commissioned, thus giving Lagosians a new lease of life.” Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, said legislators, who are the closest to the people, must give in their best to ensure the executive succeeds. Gbajabiamila, who was represented by the Leader of Lagos Caucus in the green chamber, Dolapo Badru, described lawmakers as “party’s eyes at the grassroots.” Speaker of the House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, said the parley would help the participants to bond under a common vision and mission and project beneficial political discussions. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com