The Senate is considering a bill seeking to prescribe punishment for family members confirmed to have benefitted from the proceeds of corruption especially by a civil or public servant. The Proceeds of Crimes (Recovery and Management) Bill, 2021, sponsored by the lawmaker representing Taraba Central Senatorial District, Yusuf Yusuf, seeks to establish a commission to handle forfeiture of assets acquired through criminal and illegal activities. Yusuf, who spoke to journalists on the bill in Abuja, proposed punishment for corrupt Nigerians’ spouses, children, siblings and parents who have benefitted from proceeds of corruption. The sponsor said, “I am really very concerned about the future of the country in the sense that many of us are joking and playing with the extent to which corruption has entered into the fabrics of our polity. President Muhammadu Buhari has warned us that if we do not fight corruption, corruption would definitely not only fight us, but kill us a nation. “Corruption, unfortunately, is in every sector of the economy. Some people say drug peddling is not corruption, but it is. There is an allegation that one of our topmost police officers in the country, DCP Abba Kyari, who had been arrested, was conniving with drug peddlers. Every corrupt person, his spouse, children, siblings and parents are all beneficiaries of corruption. “So, while the law is criminalising an individual for corruption and he is in jail for 10 years, his wife, children, siblings and parents would all be enjoying the fruits of his corruption. It is possible for someone to be corrupt and others may not know but by and large, every corruption has its own beneficiaries. The law should also be extended to all the beneficiaries of corruption, especially the criminal aspect.” Yusuf added, “There are countries where corrupt persons are jailed for as much as 100 years. There are nations which have death penalty as punishment for corrupt people. “It is very disturbing when you consider how far corruption had destroyed the country in all aspects, including the National Assembly, civil service and in the academia. “I believe that creating an agency that would be saddled with the responsibilities of confiscating proceeds of corruption is better than making it the duty of the anti-graft agencies.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com