Terrorists have killed forty four people, and abducted thirty one adults and an unspecified number of children in Shiroro and Munya local government areas of Niger state. The attacks were carried out by the terrorists in Galadinma Kolgo, Erena, Chukuba, Allawa, Guni, Zagzaga, and Dazza, communities in the early hours of Saturday,when they sett houses and farmlands on fire. The president, Lakpma Youth Association, Jibril Allawa, told our correspondent on Monday that the terrorists were demanding a ransom N60 million for the release of the abducted persons. He said that the villagers have already been deserted by residents adding that the villagers have taken refuge in an Internally Displaced Persons camp. “Almost all of the affected communities in the two local government areas are now ghost towns as the villagers have taken refuge at the internally displaced persons camp (IDP) in Central primary school, Gwada,” Allawa disclosed. An influential youth from the area, Abubakar Kokki said that the gunmen stormed the communities and held residents to ransom for hours while they wrecked havoc. Kokki said the way and manner in which villagers are being killed and displaced from their homes was pathetic. He said, “These villagers can no longer harvest their farm produce because the gunmen have warned them to stay away from their farms. “Yet the government has failed in its responsibility of protecting the lives and property of the citizens. We are calling on the relevant security agencies to live up to their duty by protecting the people from the attacks on them by the armed bandits”. The Police Public Relations Officer, Niger Command, Wasiu Abiodun, was unavailable to pick up calls at the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com