THE National Coordinator, All Progressives Grand Alliance Media Warriors Forum, Evang Chinedu Obigwe, has said that the incoming Anambra State Governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, would make APGA a formidable party in Nigeria through good governance and people-friendly policies. Obigwe, while addressing journalists in Awka, on Sunday, said Soludo’s mindset is that under his watch, APGA would win the three Senate seats, 11 House of Reps seats, 30 House of Assembly seats in Anambra while also making appreciable impacts in other South-East states. He added that with the Independent National Electoral Commission releasing calendar for campaigns in the forthcoming 2023 general elections, it is important to let the people know that Soludo would only support the candidates the people have chosen. He said, “Soludo will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that APGA clinches all the legislative seats in Anambra and still make in-roads to other South-East states in the forthcoming general election. “I deemed it necessary to share the mindset of Soludo publicly and his desires of making APGA a formidable force to reckon with in Nigeria politics. He will not joke with the 2023 general elections because it is important for APGA to use the election to send a signal to Nigerians.” He noted that the country needed the emergence of more leaders like Soludo “with a conscience for good governance,” adding that the 2023 general election is an opportunity for the electorates to choose the right leaders. “Soludo will work with other leaders of APGA to turn the party to a beautiful bride in the South-East and Nigeria at large. “Especially in Anambra, he will ensure that anybody that wants to win election in the state must be a loyal party member that is committed to the growth of APGA. And I am confident that ndi Anambra will do that. “On my part, I will advocate for the emergence of those that have a human conscience as candidates and will expose evil-minded people that do not have a conscience because they are inhuman and not worthy of being entrusted with peoples’ mandate,” the APGA chieftain said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com