A non-governmental organisation,  Smoke-Free Nollywood and the National Film and Video Censors Board have launched a digital media campaign to discourage smoking scenes in home movies watched by children. The Creative Director, Smoke-Free Nollywood, Ms Esther Aghotor, announced this in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday. She disclosed that a visual public service announcement on the harmful effects smoking in movies have on children has been jointly released on social media platforms by the two organisations. Aghotor explained that the PSA advocacy video titled,  ‘Children are watching,’  was endorsed by the Federal Ministry of Health and the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture as well as other stakeholders. She stated, “Today, the  #SmokeFreeNollywood campaing and the National Film and Video Censors Board launched a public service announcement on smoking in films watched by children. “The PSA announcement video titled ‘Children are watching’ showcased the harmful effects of smoking in movies significantly as they influence underage members of their audience. “According to research, more than one-third of current adult smokers started smoking due to the influence of film. “The partnership with the National Film and Video Censors Board shows the agency’s commitment to promoting public health and safety of movie watchers, particularly children who are the most impressionable members of society.” The group recalled that the Nigeria National Tobacco Control Act of 2015 and the NTC Regulations 2019 prohibited the advertising, promotion and sponsorship of tobacco products in entertainment. The PSA video, among other casts, features veteran actress and filmmaker, Omotola Jalade Ekeinde, who called on her colleagues to avoid promoting tobacco products in movies in the interest of public health. The #SmokeFreeNollywood had in 2021 released an entertainment industry PSA in support of the campaign from influential Nollywood stars. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com