Praggschrome Quality Control, a company which specialises in independent third-party on-site quality control, material testing, and progress inspection, says it is now offering a 30-day free service to help reduce construction mishaps in Nigeria. The firm said the move followed the constant infrastructural failures and building collapses in the country. According to a company statement, on-site quality control services provided by Praggschrome adhere to design specifications, local rules, national requirements, and international standards. The statement added that the free service aims at encouraging Nigeria’s independent on-site quality control and material testing to comply with international standards. “Praggschrome highly qualified engineers will be providing thorough on-site quality control, material testing, progress inspections, site safety, and training for the next 30 days in the month of February this year,” the statement read in part. “The company enjoins all interested parties to take advantage of the free services, particularly, ongoing private building construction of more than three storey, as well as public buildings and places of assembly with a minimum design capacity of 70 people.” According to Anthony Oladapo Ajayi, Principal Operating Officer at Praggschrome, independent on-site quality control, material testing, and certification are critical to restoring confidence, stability, safety, and durability in Nigeria’s construction industry. “It breaks my heart to see that many resources and lives are being wasted in Nigeria due to preventable construction disasters. The majority of these fatalities are caused by a lack of independent on-site quality control in the initial building design, which is why we have decided to give free service in that spectrum to assist in averting future infrastructural failures,” Ajayi noted.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com