Less than one week to the February 26 bye-elections, the Irigwe ethnic nationality has raised fears over the likely disenfranchisement of 16 communities and 24,00 voters in the poll scheduled for Bassa Federal constituency of Plateau State. The communities were said to have been displaced following the reported attacks and killings by suspected Fulani herdsmen. Already, the Irigwe Development Association said it had written a letter to the Independent National Electoral Commission about the looming disenfranchisement that could set the tone for another crisis in Plateau State. The President of IDA, Robert Dodo, stated these in an interview with journalists during a dialogue among stakeholders which ended in Abuja on Friday. The programme, organised by the Jos-based Coalition for Minority Rights, was themed, ‘2023 General Elections – Concerns for Internally Displaced Persons and refugees.’ The PUNCH reported that INEC had fixed six pending bye-elections for Saturday, February 26. The six pending polls as announced by INEC National Commissioner and chairman (Information and Voter Education Committee), Festus Okoye, are Akure North/Akure South Federal Constituency, Ondo State; Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency, Plateau State; Pankshin South State Constituency, Plateau State; Ogoja/and Yala Federal Constituency, Cross River State. Others are Akpabuyo State Constituency, Cross River State and Ngor-Okpala State Constituency, Imo State. But Ashi told journalists that 16 communities and 24,000 voters would be disenfranchised because they have been displaced by attacks. He said, “We have 16 communities that have been displaced and we have done the census, we have done the statistics and we have almost 24,000 or more people that will not be given their right as citizens to vote. “So, you can imagine that if these people will not be given the chance to vote, whatever is coming out from that election will not be the true figure, and will not be the true exercise of electioneering in our community. “So, we are afraid. We wouldn’t want a situation where they will build figures for us, then they will formulate a position that is not realistic and that is our fear.” Speaking on the petition to the electoral agency, he stated, “When we were considering the bye-election that is coming up in Bassa, Jos North, we quickly went to INEC to explain the situation we have found ourselves in because of this crisis since several of our communities were displaced and houses and properties burnt. “We discovered that because of that destruction, our people have lost so many valuable items including the voter cards. So we had to go to INEC with a strongly-worded letter expressing our fears that we may not be given the opportunity to vote in the bye-election that is coming up on February 26 and even beyond. “We were very surprised that the explanation they could give us was that there is nothing they could do; that they will only allow those who have their cards to vote in this election that is coming on February 26.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com