The House of Representatives’ Joint Committee on Committees on Anti-Corruption and Public Service Matters, on Tuesday, summoned officials of the Federal Government in its investigation of illegal recruitments, nominal roll padding and duplication of projects by Ministries, Departments and Agencies. Those the committee summoned are the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Folashade Yemi-Esan. Others include the Accountant-General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris; Auditor-General for the Federation, Adolphus Aghughu; Chairman, Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, Bolaji Owasanoye; Chief Executive Officer, Federal Character Commission; and the Officer in Charge, Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System. Also summoned were all the MDAs of the Federal Government. The committee issued the summons over the failure of the invited MDAs to appear at the public hearing on the ‘Motion to Investigate the High Level of Corruption in Nominal Rolls of Ministries, Departments and Agencies in the Country.’ The Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, while declaring the event open, said, “The civil service is the permanent government. The men and women who make up its numbers play essential roles in ensuring the government’s smooth and continuous operations from one administration to the other. “This high responsibility carries with it the expectation of probity and professionalism. To the extent that the actual numbers of personnel who make up the civil service are inflated or populated by persons who ought not to be there, it is a matter of grave concern and deserves the most urgent response.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com