A United Kingdom-based Gospel singer, songwriter, author and nurse, Isabella Ogo-Uzodike, aka Isabella Melodies, has said her songs are inspired by her love for Jesus Christ. Speaking on her latest single titled, Omeriwo, the singer said, “My passionate love for Jesus Christ, and my encounters with Him, as well as my life experiences are the things that inspire me. “My song, Omeriwo, which means ‘He has prevailed’, is a song of victory and is the first single to be released off my tenth album which is titled, Melodies from the Secret Place. It is a strong declaration of the victory we have in Jesus Christ, and was birthed following a season of deep consecration, along with other worship songs.” Revealing the story behind her stage name, Isabella, who is married with four children, said, “My birth name is Isabella which means, ‘consecrated to God’. My heart is constantly filled with an unending flow of melodies, so that is how that name came about. It literarily means ‘melodies consecrated to God’. Though she started recording songs officially in 2009, she stated that she had been leading worship sessions since 1999. Asked about her non-governmental organisations which are involved in women empowerment, Isabella answered, “By God’s grace, I serve as a leader of two NGOs. One of them is called Ministry of Wifehood, and it is focused on mentoring wives on the things expected of them in their marriages based on what is written in the Holy Bible. It is also for elderly women, as we advise them to be reverent in behavior; not slanderers, or given to much wine, as encouraged in the Bible. We also admonish young women to love their husbands and children. We urge them to be discreet, chaste, homemakers and obedient to their husbands. “The other NGO is called Women of African Origin in Music Ministry, and it is geared towards encouraging, equipping and empowering female music ministers in fulfilling their call in life.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com