A woman, Ramota Soliu, has allegedly killed her husband, Bello, at a Fulani settlement at Iyana Ilewo, in the Abeokuta-North Local Government Area of Ogun State. The mother of two was reported to have poured hot water on her husband, which led to his death. Our correspondent gathered that the suspect fled the community after the incident. PUNCH Metro learnt that Bello had, last Friday, invited some relatives to talk to his wife, whom he accused of starving him and an Arabic student living with them. The woman allegedly woke up on Saturday, boiled water and bathed her husband with the hot liquid. A brother of the deceased, Usman, said, “My brother had been complaining about Ramota. She had a habit of starving him and the Arabic student living with them. Sometimes, she would not cook for my brother. “For peace to reign, my brother invited us to talk to his wife. People waded in on Friday, talked to her, but she didn’t say anything in response. “Very early on Saturday morning, she woke up and started boiling water. People thought she wanted to make Amala or pap. The water was on fire for about one hour. All of a sudden, we heard a loud noise from her husband’s quarters, where he was sleeping. “We rushed down to see what was happening and discovered that the woman had bathed our brother with the water she boiled. His body was already peeling. “We rushed him to a hospital at Rounder in Abeokuta, but he was rejected. We took him somewhere else, but he eventually died on Tuesday evening.” Another family member of the victim, Aliu, disclosed that Bello was buried on Wednesday according to Islamic rites. Aliu noted that the family was still searching for the suspect. The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said he heard about the incident on a radio station, adding that he was not sure the case was reported to the police. He, however, noted that the police would investigate the matter without delay. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com