The National Board for Technical Education has granted full accreditation for seven Higher National Diploma and four National Diploma programmes at the Isa Mustapha Agwai I Polytechnic, Lafia, for a period of five years. This was contained in a statement signed and made available to our correspondent in Lafia, on Thursday, by the Rector of the polytechnic, Justina Kotso. She explained that the accreditation team who were in the polytechnic between 6th and 10th of December, 2021, granted full accreditation for HND in Business Administration and Management; Public Administration; Accountancy; Leisure and Tourism; Science Laboratory Technology/Microbiology option; Hospitality Management; and Urban and Regional Planning. Others were ND in Social Development; Statistics; Library and Information; Science and Mass Communication, with effect from the 2021/2022 session. The Rector further revealed that the NBTE also granted interim accreditation for one year to the institution, for HND in Estate Management and Valuation, and ND in Architectural Technology, while noting that the board gave approval for the commencement of programmes such as ND in Electrical/Electronic Engineering Technology; HND in Science Laboratory Technology/Chemistry option and HND in Library and Information Science, with effect from 2021/2022 session. She further said that ND in Mechanical Engineering Technology; Civil Engineering Technology; Quantity Surveying, and HND Architectural Technology, were still pending approval from the board for commencement of the programmes. “It should be noted that twenty programmes were submitted for accreditation, out of which eleven programmes were granted full accreditation for five years with effect from the 2021/2022 session. “Two of the programmes were granted interim accreditation for one year with effect from 2021/2022 session; three of the programmes were granted approval to begin, while four of the programmes were withheld pending remedial measures, which the polytechnic is earnestly working to effect,” the statement read in part. Kotso expressed gratitude to Governor Abdullahi Sule, who is the visitor of the Polytechnic, for his continued support, while thanking the Chairman of the institution’s Governing Council, Sani Bako, for ensuring an enabling environment during the accreditation process. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com