An artist, Ayodeji Ilesanmi, popularly known by music lovers as Daygee, says a solid foundation brings about longevity in the music industry. Daygee, who described his kind of music as Afrocentric, explained that a lot of talented artists exist in the music industry, adding that hitting stardom and maintaining relevance and longevity in the music business required a solid action plan. The Lagos State indigene said, “The industry is a very broad place; the talents are much but a solid foundation brings about longevity in the music business basically. “If you want to be there for a long time and want to make solid and reasonable statements, the preparation has to be solid and everything that is solid deserves a lot of work. “And that is why it has been kind of hard to get there as an upcoming artist; although it is just a lot barriers to break but the more you don’t have sponsorship and you are trying to get out there all by yourself, and still trying to do things the right way, that is the process as whatever has to be solid, is worth doing well. “So, for me, God’s grace and passion has kept me going as music is a do or die affair for me. I understand that nothing good comes easy but I am still hanging in there believing that I will get there one day.” Daygee said his music career started in 2016 when he recorded and performed songs at street carnivals in Lagos State. Talking about his plans for 2022, the artist said “I have plans to record more tracks, shoot videos and do promotions to get out there as much as possible. “It’s not an easy task to infiltrate the music industry in terms of getting your work through to the right audience. But I believe I will get there with proper planning, hard work, continuous improvement on my craft  and if I am consistent.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com