American actress, Julia Fox, has officially parted ways with rapper Kanye West six weeks after their romance became public. Fox and West became an item in early January after the actress confirmed dating rumours via a publication on Interview Magazine. The couple released sensual pictures of their date at Carbone restaurant in New York, where the rapper directed a photoshoot for Julia. A statement by Julia’s representative to E News on Monday said, “Julia and Kanye remain good friends and collaborators, but they are no longer together.” Kanye, who now legally goes by Ye, started dating Fox in the middle of his divorce with reality TV star, Kim Kardashian. Ever since news of the divorce broke out in February 2021, West had made several public pleas to have his family back together. He particularly targeted Kim’s new partner, Pete Davidson, and minced no words in expressing his displeasure with the relationship. The rapper released a diss track where he threatened to beat up the Saturday Night Life comedian. On Sunday, he went on a multiple-post tirade via his Instagram page, where he tagged Davidson a “d**khead”. Fox’s statement comes after West reaffirmed his desire to have his wife back via a Valentine’s Day post on Instagram. The post read in part, “Don’t have beef with Kim. I love my family so stop that narrative. I’m not giving up on my family.” Posting a picture of Kim and Davidson, the rapper claimed he bought the coat she was wearing in the image because he thought it was special. He further expressed faith that they would be together again. “So to the public and to the press, sometimes people call me crazy but to be in love is to be crazy about something, and I am crazy about my family. Happy Valentines,” he wrote in the caption. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com