Some dwellers of Port Harcourt waterfront settlements recently demolished by the Rivers State Government tell VANESSA OTULU life has become difficult for them What is your name and what do you do for a living? I am Queen Robert; I am a businesswoman. For how long have you lived in Port Harcourt? I have lived in Port Harcourt for about 11 years. You are one of the residents of the waterfront settlement recently demolished by the Rivers State Government. How were you affected? On December 31 (2021), our governor announced the plan for the demolition but we went through some process, meeting human rights activists and some NGOs pleading, but all was to no avail, the demolition still took place. The thing really affected us. Presently, as I am talking to you, I am on the street and I have nowhere to go. I am a widow with three children. I am really hard hit. Where were you when the demolition took place? I was at home because everybody sat at home that very day. I lost some of my properties to hoodlums who claimed to be helping out as I was bringing my things out of the house. Was anybody injured? Yes. In fact, a woman close to me died in the process. She died from shock. Her body is in the mortuary right now as we speak. When government officials came to mark our houses for demolition they only gave us seven days’ notice to pack out. But how can we get alternative accommodation within seven days and pack out? But on the seventh day, they came as they said and demolished our houses. What reason did government give for the demolition? They said this place is a hideout of criminals. But I have lived here for 11 years and I am not aware of anything like that. As far I know, if any criminal comes here, the boys here will arrest them and hand them over to the police. Did you buy the land on which you built your house? Yes, I bought the place. It is mine. But they demolished our houses without any compensation or apology. Right now, I am on the street and have nowhere to go. My properties, the ones I managed to take out of the house, are right here on the street covered only with nylon. You said the government gave you seven days’ notice to move. Were you hoping they would change their mind? They just told us to pack out in seven days, but we were begging them to give us some more time. But the next thing we saw was a bulldozer. Then we started packing our things in a hurry. I did not believe the government would come back just in seven days to demolish this place, more so when we had begged them; I thought our plea would touch their heart. What is your name, age and occupation? I am Senibo Blakk. I am 40 years old. I do timber wok. Where were you when the demolition took place? I was at home. But I was only able to take my phone and my television before I rushed out with my family; we had no time to pack our belongings. The bulldozer operators were shouting as they went about the demolition. It is not something that anybody should experience. The notice was too short. They just came and demolished our houses and rendered us homeless. If you come in the night you will see a lot of people sleeping outside – entire families with children, sleeping outside. Did anybody get injured during the demolition? A 98-year-old woman died from shock on hearing that bulldozers were coming to demolish her house. I guess it was the anxiety about where she would go. She slumped and died a day before the demolition. Did the government give you notice of the demolition before it was done? Yes, they did, but it was just one week’s notice, which was really short. Some human rights activists told us they were on the matter; they went to the government house. They made us understand that the governor was not aware of the whole thing and that was why we didn’t leave.  On the day they came to demolish our houses, some civil rights activists came out to protest. They were all arrested. So, as common men, what can we do, when the rights activists fighting for us have been arrested like criminals? Did you buy the land where you built your house? No; the place used to be swampy. I was just a child when we moved here with my parents. My dad and his brothers used mud to fill the place.  It was not a place owned by anybody, it was waterfront, swampy area. My family used to trade in periwinkles. What is your occupation currently? For now, I am jobless, homeless and also hopeless, hoping on God to do His wonders. Have you been able to relocate? There is no place for me to go and I have no money. All my loads are outside. It costs about 7,000 to get a room apartment. Right now, landlords are taking advantage of what happened. I had to send my family to Bayelsa and it is not an easy thing. My children already started school here and I have just paid their school fees. During the day, I stay in my friend’s place after his children have gone to school; in the night, I sleep outside because I can’t share my friend’s apartment with his family. The load is just too much on me and I am just confused. But my situation is better than that of a lot of other people. If you come here and see what is happening, you will shed tears; you will see families sleeping outside, children sleeping outside in the cold weather with mosquitoes and everything. It is not easy. I pray government have a rethink. Instead of taking poverty away from us, they are adding more to the problems of the masses. Please introduce yourself. I am Godgift Jaja from Opobo kingdom. I am an entertainer or musician. I am 32 years old. I work in the timber factory to support my musical career. Where were you when your house was demolished by government? I was at home on that day. My house is not far from where I work, so I was around. The government only gave us one week to move, which was not enough. That very week they came. We heard that government wanted to clear this place. They gave us just one week to move out. A man with a walking stick came with some task force men, policemen and soldiers. We approached him and discussed with him. We told him we were not against the government taking over the place but they should give us time to move. The man listened to us and left. The next thing we heard was that they had mowed down Elechi and were coming to our side. We thought it was a joke but before we knew it, we saw bulldozers pulling down houses. They scattered all our property and rendered us homeless. As I am talking to you now, when it is night I go inside the market to sleep because I do not have money to rent an apartment for now. I am just hanging around with some old women who were also affected. If you are able to drive down here you will see how this place is and many of us look for some places to hide the properties in churches, just to keep them safe. Did you buy the land on which you built your house or how did you come about the land? I did not buy the land; it is a waterfront land. We developed the place. It was a bad place, we developed it so much and made it to become a good land. It was a place that no one could stay before we developed it. It was a riverine area and we filled it with sand to push the water away before it became a good place. You said the government gave you a notice to leave. Did you think it wasn’t a serious thing? They marked our houses but it was not even up to a month before they came back for demolition, there was not enough time. We know that government owns every land but at least they should give us some time to find alternative accommodation or the government should, at least, compensate us. Were you able to recover any of your belongings? I lost a lot of my belongings in the rush, as the bulldozers began to destroy everything. I lost my clothes, even my musical instruments, I lost many of them. I wish the government would compensate us Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com