The House of Representatives has urged the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen Farouk Yahaya; and the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, to investigate the alleged invasion and extrajudicial killings by suspected security operatives in communities in Imo State. A member of the House, Emeka Chinedu, had moved a motion of urgent public importance at the plenary on Tuesday on the matter, which the lawmakers unanimously adopted. The motion was titled, ‘Urgent need to probe the invasion, siege, unlawful arrest and wanton destruction of lives and properties in five communities of Ahiazu LGA of Imo State by men suspected to be law enforcement agents’. Moving the motion, Chinedu noted that Ihitteafoukwu, Umu Okirika, Oparanadim, Mpam and Ogbor Umeze in the Ahiazu Local Government Area of Imo State were peaceful and quiet communities within the Ahiazu Mbaise/Ezinihitte Federal Constituency, with the people known for their agrarian values and industriousness. Chinedu said, “The House notes with serious concern the alleged invasion, siege, unlawful arrest and wanton destruction of lives and properties belonging to indigenes of the five communities, which commenced in the early hours of Saturday, February 12, 2022, by armed men suspected to be law enforcement agents. “The primary responsibility of law enforcement agencies is to maintain law and order, and not to wantonly destroy lives and properties, or other actions that are inimical to fundamental human rights. “Such Gestapo invasion, siege and wanton destruction of lives and properties, after sporadic shootings, is expanding in scope and frequency in the country, especially in Imo State, South-East of Nigeria. “The House is concerned that Nigerians are increasingly losing hope and confidence in the nation’s law enforcers due to high-handedness, unethical conducts and total disregard for rule of law and engagements. “The House is also concerned about the news of averted bloodshed across the communities due to the timely intervention of some community leaders, who persuaded youths against coming to the defence of their lives and properties.” He added, “The House is worried that the danger inherent in one-sided narratives as often packaged by law enforcement agents in such circumstances without thorough investigation is not only unhealthy for democracy, but also an intolerable affront to fundamental human rights, especially where law enforcement agents can recklessly invade, attack, destroy and maim before coming up with some frame-up to rationalise extrajudicial activities. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com