The Agile Practitioners Association of Nigeria has expressed its commitment to support positive growth and transformation in the private and public sectors. According to a statement, the Chairman of the association, Mrs Abiodun Osoba, said this while speaking on the upcoming 5th annual edition of Agile Nigeria Conference 2022, with the theme, ‘Continuous improvement strategies’. She said, “The Agile Practitioners Association of Nigeria understands that Nigeria needs transformation in both the private and public sectors. This much-desired change can be achieved using the Agile methodology, which allows a paradigm shift towards an innovative and problem-solving mindset. “Driven by market needs, customer expectations, and evolving technological innovation, today’s constantly changing business environment is forcing companies to adopt the Agile models of management and corporate governance—or risk being left behind. “The Agile Practitioners Association of Nigeria, through its partners and members, provides the opportunity that will allow organisations to connect with other industry leaders and jointly share experiences and insights, helping all members and organisations to better navigate the emerging and complicated domain of business agility.” She said this year’s conference would be both physical and virtual, so that participants would be able to participate in educative sessions, with no fewer than 30 seasoned subject matter experts from within and outside of Nigeria as speakers. The two-day conference, she said is targeted at individuals seeking professional development and aspiring to broaden their horizons in areas such as Agile leadership, change management, Agile mind-sets, systems thinking, and Agile product development among.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com