The Military Pension Board said it had commenced the payment of the 24 months minimum wage arrears to retired personnel. The PUNCH had reported that retired military personnel had on January 5 protested at the Ministry of Finance Headquarters and Ministry of Defence to demand the payment of the minimum wage allowance among others. Addressing journalists on Friday in Abuja, the Chairman, Military Pensions Board, Rear Admiral Saburi Lawal, stated that the payment of 25 per cent of the allowance had commenced and over 90,000 retirees would be paid. He said the board would ensure complete payment of the arrears before the end of the year subject to the release of funds by the Ministry of Finance. Lawal said, “The Military Pensions Board wishes to inform military retirees that the Board started paying 25 per cent of the arrears of minimum wage increments to eligible military retirees on MPB payroll Thursday, February 3, 2022. “This payment is the first out of 4 payments in instalments that will be made to all pensioners entitled to the arrears of minimum wage increment on pensions. “Our esteemed pensioners are pleased to note that this payment in instalment arrangement is the outcome of the discussions and agreement reached between the Board and the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning for quarterly releases of the appropriated sum in the first month of each quarter. “Thus, all things being equal, subsequent payments of the outstanding arrears will be in the months of April, July and October 2022. “We have over 90,000 military veterans that we pay their pension. These figures represent those still alive. I’m not talking of those who have died, all the over 90,000 are going to be paid this 25 per cent. “The Board would like to reiterate that this payment is basically for arrears of increment in pensions of military retirees who are on MPB payroll between 18 April 2019 and 30 April 2021.” He, however, added that retired senior officers from Major General and above were excluded from the payment. “In addition, it is pertinent to state that pensions of senior officers of the rank of Major General and above or its equivalents are not affected by the consequential adjustments on pensions occasioned by the new National Minimum Wage (Amendment) Act 2019. Hence, they are not entitled to the 24 months minimum wage arrears,” Lawal said. He also said all Next of Kins of deceased military pensioners eligible for these arrears would be paid the minimum wage increments together with the shortfall of the death benefits earlier paid to them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com