The French Embassy in Nigeria has called on the government and private sector to collaborate in order to address the problem of out-of-school children in the country. The Embassy said the problem had become a concern for the world, stating that getting these children back to school should be the duty of everyone. The representative of the French Embassy and the Assistant Director, Institut Francais du Nigeria, Benort Billy, spoke during a meeting with the Citizens Intervention and Accountability Network in Abuja on Thursday. He said his country would be willing to support Nigeria on this. Billy  said, “The issue of out-of-school children concerns every country in the world. It concerns everyone, especially everybody here in Nigeria. So there’s a huge international conference in November 2021 about this issue, there’s a lot to be done to improve the situation. “I encourage many institutions to work with the Nigerian government. Let’s hope that more and more children will come back to school and be in a good environment to learn with the material adaptive classes trained teachers. So if we can help with support, advice, and structure the CIAN will be delighted to do it.” The Project and Planning Director CIAN , Samson Abraham said  the intervention of his organisation was aimed at tracking and returning the over 13.2 million out-of-school children across the 36 states of the federation back to the classrooms. He said, “The intervention programme would focus on girls who are either never enrolled in school or withdrawn early from school for early marriage, domestic chores, or hawking  on behalf of their mother, among others.” He said a lot of danger awaits the country if nothing is done to curb the rising number of out-of-school children in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com