The Super Falcons last Wednesday defeated Ivory Coast 3-0 on aggregate to qualify for the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations. More than the result, the performance of England-born Ashley Plumptre caught the attention of Nigerians, with the Leicester City defender, who has a Nigerian father, turning an instant fans favourite. No fewer than seven overseas-born players of Nigerian descent and those hold dual citizenship were invited for the clash as the country beat the Lady Elephants to ensure Nigeria’s 12th appearance at the WAFCON. PUNCH Sports Extra takes a look at some of these players, who dumped their countries of birth for Nigeria, the land of their parents, at full international level… Ashley Plumptre Formerly an England youth international, Plumptre made her senior Nigeria women’s national team debut in February 2022 in the WAFCON qualifying first leg against Ivory Coast in Abuja, after she got approval to switch her allegiance to Nigeria. And she helped the Falcons to a 2-0 victory, with the fans cheering her all day, before again earning a 1-0 win over the West African neigbours in Abidjan in the reverse fixture. The 23-year-old defender is eligible to represent the 12-time African champions due to her father’s Nigerian heritage. Her presence means the Falcons have kept two consecutive clean sheets in both games the Leicester City defender had featured in for Nigeria and the fans will definitely be yearning to see her back in Nigerian colours, and of course the victory dance after every game. Esther Okoronkwo Though born in Nigeria, Abia precisely, Okoronkwo was raised in Richmond, Texas, United States. The Saint-Étienne forward made her senior debut for Nigeria on June 10, 2021, as a 43th-minute substitution in a 1-0 friendly loss to Jamaica. The 24-year-old scored the only goal against the Lady Elephants in Abidjan to practically put the tie to rest to ensure Nigeria qualified for this year’s WAFCON in Morocco. This season in the Division 1 Féminine, Okoronkwo has scored three goals and registered one assist. Michelle Alozie Just like Okoronkwo, Alozie chose to represent Nigeria ahead of America, her country of birth. She made her Falcons debut in the same game versus the Jamaica’s Reggae Girls, coming on as a 65th-minute substitute. Raised in Apple Valley, California, the 24-year-old striker has three appearances for the Falcons, with one goal to her name. The Payne sisters Sisters Toni and Nicole Payne were eligible to feature for either the United States or Nigeria, but both chose the latter. Toni, 26, played for the United States U-17 team, and was in the team which won the 2012 CONCACAF Women’s U-17 Championship before declaring her intention to continue her international career with Nigeria. She made her senior debut on February 18, 2021, starting against Russian club CSKA Moscow at the Turkish Women’s Cup before making her first appearance against a national team two days later against Uzbekistan. Having represented United States at U-17 and U-19 levels, Nicole, 21, followed in the footsteps of her sister, choosing to represent Nigeria at senior level. She was also part of the foreign legion that made their debut for the country in the friendly game defeat to Jamaica. Ifeoma Onumonu Onumonu represented the United States U-23 women’s team before she received her first call-up to the Falcons in 2021. Without much thought, the 28-year-old accepted the offer from the Nigeria Football Federation and has made an instant impact, scoring two goals from three appearances. The 5ft10in forward currently plays for Gotham FC in the National Women’s Soccer League and has scored seven goals in 20 games this season. Patricia George George was born to a Nigerian father and a Venezuelan mother and was raised in Chicago, Illinois where she was born. Eligible to play for the United States, Venezuela or Nigeria, George chose to play for her father’s coutry, and made her senior debut February 18, 2021 as a second-half substitute against Russian club CSKA Moscow at that year’s edition of the Turkish Women’s Cup. Adekite Fatuga-Dada The former England U-19 star was part of the Falcons camp in Abuja last December. Fatuga-Dada was born September 5, 1996, in Hacken, London to Nigerian parents and joined the long list of Nigerians either born or raised abroad that have chosen to dorn the green and white jersey. Coach Randy Waldrum gave Fatuga-Dada her first Falcons call-up when she was invited for the Aisha Buhari Invitational before another invitation in December, when the Falcons were preparing for their all-important clash against Ivory Coast. Juliet Adebowale-Arimoro Born in England, Adebowale-Arimoro also chose to play for Nigeria and could be in line to make her senior debut for Nigeria any time soon. The 18-year-old is among the players called up to the Falconets squad for the FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup qualifier against Congo.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com