Petrocam Trading Nigeria Limited said on Monday that it had opened a new solar-powered LPG filling skid outlet in Lagos State in a bid to boost the availability of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (cooking gas) supply. The company said in a statement that the facility, located in Ejirin, Epe, Lagos, has a capacity of five metric tonnes. According to the statement, Petrocam has made huge investments in LPG bulk storage and retailing through active participation in LPG distribution channels to ensure the products get to the consumers in high quality and safety. The Managing Director, Petrocam Trading Nigeria, Mr Patrick Ilo, at the inauguration of the outlet, said the company built the LPG gas skid in order to encourage the usage of LPG in Ejirin, where many people use firewood. According to him, the establishment of the gas skid has provided employment opportunities for the people of Ejirin. On the proliferation of LPG stations in Nigeria, Ilo said, “I’m not sure we have enough because we have over 200 million people in the country, and where we are going now is an alternative source of energy and it’s not going to deplete the ozone layer. The only thing we have to look into is the security concerns and make sure they are properly situated. “Like here, we are certified by the regulator and we got all the documents from government, from suitability (which they look at) to approval, to construction, from licence to operation. So, proliferation does not really matter here and if you look at this environment, we are the first.” He advised the government on the implementation of the National Gas Policy, saying, “Government should show liberalism. They should make sure the usage of gas is deepened like in advanced countries without paying lip service. Payment of VAT on importation of gas should be removed totally. “Government should make conscious efforts in ensuring that we produce more gas locally instead of importing to bring down the price.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com