Two people were injured and several houses, among them the palace of a traditional ruler, were burnt during a clash between the Tivs and Jukun on Wednesday. The incident happened at the riverside beside rice mill around new bridge at Wurukum in Makurdi, the Benue State capital. The crisis was said to have forced the traditional ruler to run to an unknown place to escape the wrath of rampaging youths. The cause of the crisis was not immediately known but it was gathered that a controversy over a fish pond triggered the crisis. Chairman of Makurdi Local Government, Anthony Dyegeh, who confirmed the crisis to our correspondent on the telephone, said two people were injured. He said, “The problem is because of the small river beside Rice Mill down the New Bridge Wurukum. That river that separates itself from the main river, you know, is a fish pond and every year, people fish from there and get a lot of money. “So, it is the cause of the crisis today. But no life was lost. Two persons were injured. Of the two persons that were injured, the mother of one of them is even from the Tiv side. “Some houses were also burnt. The traditional ruler’s house was also torched. That is the situation. But we are here with men of the Nigerian Army, police, Civil Defence and other security agencies.” Dyegeh, who said the situation had been put under control, said security operatives were at the time of this report trying to meet and resolve the crisis. He added, “We have called for a meeting between the two communities. We are waiting for the traditional ruler from the Tiv side who ran to an undisclosed location after his house was touched. “So, we are waiting for him to come so that we can discuss and bring back peace in the area. The situation is calm in the area right now. As I speak with you, we are deliberating. The Chief from the Jukun side, Chief Nuhu, is also here and we are waiting for the Chief from the Tiv side to come so that we can discuss with the youth.” “We have asked each side to bring five youths each so that we can discuss with them. After here, we will ask them to continue with the peace while we schedule for a meeting whereby traditional rulers and stakeholders of the Tiv and Jukun in Makurdi will sit together and then discuss to see how they can continue to relate harmoniously again.” When contacted, the spokesman of the state police command, Catherine Anene, confirmed the incident but said she was still gathering facts from officers on the ground.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com