Four men have been arraigned before an Igbosere Magistrate’s Court, Lagos State, for offences bordering on forced entry, contempt of court and action likely to cause a breach of public peace. The defendants, Johnson Matthew, 40; Taiwo Tijani, 46; Bolaji  Makinde, 47; and Azeez Sanni, 34, were arraigned separately over a landed property reportedly owned by the Oyetubo Oyemade Royal Family in Sangotedo, Lekki, in the Eti-Osa Local Government Area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro had reported that some hoodlums invaded the property with weapons and destroyed structures, as residents and developers on the estate petitioned the Inspector-General of Police over the matter. Matthew, Tijani and Makinde, were subsequently arrested and arraigned on Tuesday on three counts. The charges read in part, “That you, Johnson Adebayo Matthew, Taiwo Tijani, Bolaji Makinde, and others now at large, sometime between December 23, 2021 and February 14, 2022, at Sangotedo, Lekki Peninsular, Eti-Osa Local Government Area, in the Lagos Magisterial District, did conspire among yourselves to commit felony, to wit, damage, contempt of court and conduct likely to cause a breach of peace, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 411 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State of Nigeria 2015. “That you, Johnson Adebayo Matthew, Taiwo Tijani, Bolaji Makinde, and others still at large, on the same date, time and place, in the aforementioned magisterial district, did commit contempt of court by forcefully entering and retaking possession by Oyetubo Jokotade Estate and residents of the Oyetubo Oyemade Royal Family by a writ of court, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 10(h) of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015.” The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges. Their defence counsel, A. Anayo and Ngozi Ibe, applied for their bail in liberal terms. The complainant, who was absent in court, was represented by I.S. John of the Olanrewaju Aiyedun and Co. Chambers. The magistrate, K.K. Awoyinka, admitted them to bail in the sum of N200,000 each with one surety each in like sums. The fourth defendant, Sanni, was arraigned on Thursday on three counts. The charge read in part, “That you, Azeez Sanni, and others now at large, sometime between December 23, 2021, and February 16, 2022, at Sangotedo, Lekki Peninsula, Eti-Osa Local Government Area, in the Lagos Magisterial District, did conspire to commit felony, to wit: malicious damage, contempt of court and conduct likely to cause a breach of peace, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015.” The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charges. His counsel, Ngozi Ibe, applied for his bail. The magistrate, Awoyinka, admitted him to bail in the sum of N100, 000 with one surety in like sum, adding that the surety must be gainfully employed and must show evidence of a minimum balance of N500,000 in his bank account. The case was adjourned till February 22, 2022, for mention. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com