The Osun State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, on Monday, said it has handed over to the police, a teenager, Pamela Ibe, allegedly trafficked from Enugu to Osun. A statement obtained in Osogbo, signed by the NSCDC Public Relations Officer for Osun Command, Olabisi Atanda, said the victim was found walking aimlessly on the streets of Ejigbo town in Osun, before she was rescued by some operatives of the command. Atanda further said a man called Samuel from Benin Republic that was in Enugu for a business had promised to take the victim to Lagos to learn hairdressing and in the process charmed and took her to Ejigbo without the consent of her parents. The statement partly read, “According to Pamela, one Samuel from Cotonou, who is the suspect in the case came to Enugu for Plaster of Paris business(POP). The suspect visited the house of Pamela’s parents in Enugu and promised to take her to Lagos for hairdressing training. “Pamela thereafter asked Samuel to allow her inform her parents. But before she knew what was happening, Samuel had forceful put a charmed bangle on her wrist. She became unconscious, as she later found herself at Ejigbo Local Government in Osun State. “Pamela, who in her statement at the state headquarters of the NSCDC, said she didn’t know the actual date she got to Ejigbo LGA; but on getting there she met two boys and girls in a room. She also said Samuel used to touch their heads with eggs anytime he was going out. “Luck smiled on her as she was able to escape from the room she was kept. While roaming around the streets of Ejigbo, officers of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Osun State Command, invited her up for further investigations. “Meanwhile, since the parents had already reported the case of a missing child at the Nigeria Police Force in Enugu State command, the Anti Human Trafficking and Irregular Migration Unit of the NSCDC in Osun Command, therefore, on the 4th February, 2022, handed over Miss Pamela Ibe to the Enugu State Command of the police in good health and rightful state of mind.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com