Nigeria has won the toga of an underdeveloped or developing economy since its independence in 1960. How long Nigeria remains in this category of lowly countries has nothing to do with God who has provided her with both human and non-human resources that can make a country great. It may have to do with Nigerian leadership. But, how long Nigeria’s leadership wants to remain proud leaders of an underdeveloped economy depends on the followership who tolerates them. No amount of prayers will take us out of the doldrum but deliberate and sincere efforts at changing our status for the better. The nomenclature on the categorisation of countries, in economic parlance, into the Third, Second and First worlds has been argued and changed over time, probably to save the face of the so-called Third world countries. We now talk about developing, emerging and developed economies. But which country is not developing or emerging? A progressive country must continue to develop. I have chosen to refer to Nigeria as an underdeveloped country in order to unveil the veil. If a country has all the resources as we have and the leadership cannot utilise them for the benefits of its citizenry while countries with equal or fewer resources around the same time we gained independence have left us behind, then we deserve no better nomenclature than underdevelopment. So, no apology for referring to Nigeria as an underdeveloped country. That is what this country is and if we want to change that, both the leadership and followership have to change our ways. This stage of underdevelopment is definitely not in our destiny but in ourselves. What are the socio-economic and political elements of underdevelopment? The country and the people exhibit a lot of these elements and below are some elements. It is the characteristic of underdevelopment when contributions of industrial output to the gross domestic product is far less than 40 per cent and a large proportion of educated youths are found roaming the streets in search of jobs or engaged in jobs below their level of education, which is referred to as underemployment. Records show that the industrial sector contributed 28 per cent to GDP in 2020 while unemployment was around 30 per cent of the population. A large number of the okada and tricycle riders have post-secondary certificates. A country is underdeveloped where leaders display affluence carelessly and followers hail them; where excellence is sacrificed for mediocrity in national assignments; official thugs are provided with security outfits by the state when moving around on political assignments, and where youths are deeply involved in cybercrimes and parents stay visibly in the background to give them support. Underdevelopment exists when youths are seen hawking snacks, sachet and bottle water, and the likes on the highway to earn living in absence of decent jobs; or youths are seen moving around, even in big cities, in search of potable water for cooking and home or domestic use; where women are seen busy working to  feed their families while men are found drinking ogogoro and burukutu in early part of the day to while away time; where domestic cooking are largely carried out with firewood, and sometimes kerosene, instead of gas and electricity; where fake products, fake human beings in security uniforms and fake clerics have field day with little or no arrests. Underdevelopment is a situation where justice system messes you up if you are poor by given you overarching jail sentences but pat the rich in the back with light sentences when eventually and unavoidably found guilty for heavy crime; where a governor is seen struggling to commission a block of four classrooms; the president is hailed physically with drums and dancing and virtually with lavish advertisement for commissioning cotton or cocoa or rice pyramid when his peers are commissioning shuttle gadgets going into the space! In fact, it is underdevelopment when after protesting that our president should sign an electoral act amendment bill and he did, then we started praising him for doing what he seemed to have been forced to do. What manner of followership! We can go on rolling out all sorts of ludicrous issues that should have gone with the first decade of independence but remain cherished over six decades thereafter and will possibly be celebrated in the next few decades if we do not change our ways. It is clear that Nigeria remains underdeveloped or is not developing and cannot be called a developing economy. If our grandfathers welcomed crude oil in the 1950s and exporting same some few years after but the bold step that led to establishment of refineries was cut short due to lack of planning, poor maintenance culture and progressive corruption, to return us to where we were in the 1950s, then we are not developing. For emphasis, it is underdevelopment that after decades of oil prospecting, the country has to resort to buying fuel, including toxic fuel, from countries that may not have crude oil but have refineries for prodigal countries like Nigeria. If our grandfathers commissioned groundnut and cotton pyramids in the 1960s as raw agricultural produce and we can launch and commission rice pyramid, another agricultural produce with fanfare in 2021, then, we remain backward. If Nigeria fought a civil war between 1967 and 1970 with our domestic resources (or without borrowing money externally and without oil money) but four decades later, and in peacetime, with billions of dollars of oil money over the years, the country is not only one of the highly indebted countries in the world but the poverty capital of the world, then we are seriously underdeveloped. If, in 1975 money was not our problem but how to spend it, but in 2021 we are finding it difficult to pay workers’ wages and salaries, then we are retrogressing in development. If in the late 1970s and 1980s Nigeria could set up and fund ‘Nigeria Trust Fund’ under the management of African Development Bank for the benefit of poor African countries and the same country is now a beneficiary of lowly loans from the same institution, it looks clear that Nigeria is neither a developing nor an emerging economy. There are so many other ifs for us to ponder. It is not a matter of how did we get here but how can we get out of this mess? I do not share the opinion that all Nigeria’s past leaders were bad because “if they laid good foundations, the country would not be as bad as it is today.” The first generation of leaders, armed with the zeal to show the world that we can govern ourselves successfully, tried their best even with the constraints of inexperience and meagre resources. The foundation that Chief Obafemi Awolowo laid in the Western Region has not been totally destroyed by the military and the rampaging political neophytes and parasites we have thereafter. We can also check facts on Sir Ahmadu Bello, Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe and some fine followers in their generation. We can also recognise some past state governors who performed satisfactorily. We cannot start asking about whom we offended or where we get it wrong but accept that we are not on the right path to development. If we say that we offended God who gave us the resources we failed to utilise, Nigerians will return to or bury their heads in churches and mosques asking for forgiveness that is not required. If we are looking for where we got it wrong, it will become a blame game between the military and the civilian, even when we know that both are guilty. Let us assume we are starting from the beginning. Let the leaders be less selfish but more patriotic and nationalistic like the leaders at independence who believe that we can make it without depending on others. Let the followers be less sycophantic, more assertive and believe in themselves, their capacity to get results and to make Nigeria work for ourselves and future generations. More importantly, let us embrace patriotism, hard work, creativity and productivity but fight and suppress corruption, tribalism and hegemonic tendency. Let us start with a home-grown 50-Year National Development Plan with a positive attitude.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com