The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has inaugurated the second batch of 19 high-capacity drainage clearing and maintenance equipment, and assured residents that under his watch, Lagos would not be ravaged by flood again. He said that the new drainage equipment and vehicles were part of his quest to ensure that Lagos remains flood-free, adding that ‘never again will Lagos be branded as a flood-ravaged city’. Sanwo-Olu spoke during the handover event which took place at the EFAG Yard in Oregun on Tuesday. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘Never again will Lagos be tagged a flood-ravaged city – Sanwo-Olu’, and shared on the government Facebook page. Represented by Commissioner for Environment and Water Resources, Tunji Bello, Sanwo-Olu stressed that the State Government would always be a step ahead in terms of its preparations for rainy season and its aftermath because of the nature of Lagos as a coastal city. He averred that his administration would continue to position the Office of Drainage Services to perform its statutory roles, adding the equipment would be evenly deployed to every part of Lagos. He explained that the complaints of non-removal of silts from drains promptly have been addressed with the new tipping trucks acquired, adding that drainage tools represent the second batch of equipment to be procured while more will be purchased in due course. In his remarks, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Drainage and Water Resources, Engr. Joe Igbokwe, said the government was aware of its responsibility to evolve strategic methods that would improve the environment and guarantee that the state was flood-free and beautiful for residents. He added that this feat can only be achieved through sustainable cleaning of all drainage channels within the State. Also speaking at the commissioning, the Permanent Secretary Office of Drainage Services, Engr. Lekan Shodeinde, expressed confidence that the injection of a new set of equipment would improve efficiency in providing all-year-round drainage maintenance for effective and efficient flood management in the State. The Permanent Secretary said the first batch of equipment was procured in 2019 and had since been put to use, adding that the second batch being commissioned would also be used to complement the existing fleet. The commissioned maintenance equipment comprised of two loaders black hoe model, one low loader trailer, one track loader, four wheel pickups, five tipper trucks, two light cargo trucks, one low bed horse, one crane truck as well as two floodlights. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com