A former Imo State Governor and Senator representing Imo West district, Rochas Okorocha, has kicked against the zoning of political offices in the All Progressives Congress. He, however, appealed to party leaders to allow a level-playing field for candidates regardless of their region. Okorocha said this on Monday in Abuja at a press conference, which doubles as the official declaration of his intention to run for the President after it was made public on the floor of the Senate last week. He said, “I hear people talking about zoning, I’m not a candidate of zoning or rotation; I am a candidate of justice. Maybe the South-East or the South-South has not been able to present their matter very well before the rest of Nigerians. We must not make anyone feel like they are not part of this country. “I appeal to my party – APC, to allow a level-playing ground. And the South-East must know that power is not given, it is taken. You must reach out to people who you want to vote for you. But let justice reign.” The lawmaker also said that despite advice from close friends and relatives to stay away from politics, he was in the Presidential race not for what he could get from the country but for what he could give. “One of my close friends said to me, ‘Rochas, can I advise you? I said go ahead and advise me. He said, ‘if I were you, I’d leave politics. You are blessed. You’re wealthy. God has blessed you in all ramifications. You don’t have a business being in this dirty thing called politics. You’ve been arrested severally.’ ‘You’ve been molested and cajoled, your children are arrested, and your wife humiliated. I advise you to pack your load and find somewhere in the comfort of America, Japan, or the UAE and enjoy the rest of your life.’ “That’s the suggestions and advice from my folks. But I told my friend what you did not know is that I’m not in politics for what I can get; I’m in politics for what I can give. “What my friend did not understand is that I’m not satisfied. My heart bleeds for as long as the little boy in Maiduguri or Katsina cannot go to school, and my nation has been tagged with 14.3 million out-of-school children. I’m not satisfied. I’m not satisfied that Nigerians are going to bed in fear.” “Insecurity is ravaging our nation and I’m not satisfied, and as long as poverty becomes the order of the day and Nigerians go hungry looking for food to eat, in such a great nation,” he added. To address the spate of unemployment in the country, the aspirant promised that a significant portion of his strategy would be dedicated to youth empowerment for self-employment. Okorocha also affirmed that he is neither too young nor too old to run for office given his unique position as “a bridge between the old and new generation.” According to him, “Our youths are intelligent. They are intelligent and energetic more than any other youth population in the world. But the opportunity has not been given to them. New Nigeria shall give you the desired opportunity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com