The Chief Executive Officer of Crystal Shine Skin Clinic, Dr Oluwakemi Ajiboye, has urged Nigerians to stop the act of skin bleaching. Ajiboye, who is also a Dermatologist, said this during the unveiling of Crystal International School of Skin Aesthetics in Lagos. She said, “Bleaching is a menace that we’ve had to deal with in Nigeria. There was a report by the World Health Organisation some years back that 77 per cent of Nigerian women bleach their skin. It is a challenge that I have put upon myself to combat. “I know it is not what I can do alone, that is why I decided to branch into education. Aside the clinic, the school will also help in raising the awareness against the menace of bleaching. The school is something that was in view for several years and it took so long because we had to seek international accreditation. I didn’t want to confine the academy to just local accreditation. My mission for the academy is to raise global skin therapists. The expert warned against using harsh chemicals on the skin, adding that a concerted effort was needed to tackle the menace of bleaching in the country. “Skin bleaching is a major menace in Nigeria which has unpleasant attendant consequences. Unfortunately, many females in Nigeria bleach their skin with hazardous substances. There’s therefore the need for concerted effort to curb the menace. “Sometimes, Nigerians are not patient enough to get results. They want to use harsh chemicals that will give instant results. But with a lot of awareness, counseling and effort, they are getting to know that all those chemicals that give instant results are not good for their skin. I know with time they will get to understand better because the process of making the skin glow has a cycle and it must not be compromised. “Crystal International School of Skin Aesthetics was established to provide global standard training on skin therapy because we know that the right education in this regard will go a long way in reducing such harmful practices and consequently improve the health of the general public,” Ajiboye said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com