The people of Ejiyan Ekiti in the Ijero Local Government area of Ekiti State on Sunday lauded the Governor Kayode Fayemi administration’s autonomous policy for deserving communities, describing it as a catalyst for the development of parts of the state. The community, which said the autonomy granted it by the Fayemi in 2013 had spurred development and taken Ejiyan Ekiti to higher heights, said it had also doused tension among communities that had regained autonomy. Dr Olakunle Olajide, the Planning Committee Chairman, First Coronation Anniversary of the Obalaaye of Ejiyan, Oba Adekunle Adepoju, who made the disclosure at a press conference to herald activities for the celebration, said, “The policy has benefited us immensely”. Olajide, who was represented by the former Chairman, Ijero Local Government, Bode Agbeleye, said that the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi and Ajero of Ijero, Oba Joseph Adewole were among traditional rulers expected at the grand finale billed for Friday. Oba Adepoju was installed on February 11 last year following the demise of the first occupant of the throne, the late Oba Olukayode Ikupolokun. The community, which insisted that the splitting of the old Ipoti Ekiti to three – Owa, Ejiyan and Ipoti, had ignited competition in terms of development, said, “Ejiyan is now being rated as second to Ado Ekiti metropolis in project execution and concentration. Our kabiyesi and all our chiefs are now recognised by government. “We have been getting government’s support through construction of new primary school, modern market and skill acquisition centre. Our new hospital was built by a member of House of Representatives, Hon. Bunmi Ogunlola, and all manners of self-help projects are springing up. “We have no bickering with other two towns, but we are focused about development and progress. We are developing at a fast pace and lane. This community was once a lost village due to incessant war, but today, as an autonomous community, it has been reinvented and restored,” Olajide stated. According to him, activities for the weeklong coronation anniversary included free health outreach programme, foundation stone laying for the community’s ultra-modern palace and conferment of awards and chieftaincy titles on deserving individuals. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com