Ogun and Oyo state governments have resolved to install closed-circuit television cameras on highways between the two states to check the activities of criminals. Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, and his Oyo State counterpart, Seyi Makinde, disclosed this on Wednesday, in a communique, jointly released after a joint security meeting, held in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. Rising from the meeting, the two states in the seven-point communique read by the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice of Oyo State, Oyelowo Oyewo, agreed to set up a Joint Border Security Task Force “with membership drawn from various security agencies in the two states, to patrol the border communities to ensure the security of lives and property for the residents and commuters.” The communique read, “To jointly collaborate on emergency/distress calls, especially on the highways that connect the two States. “To effectively engage, cooperate and collaborate with all the stakeholders, including but not limited to the Federal government, state, and non-state actors (traditional institutions, religious groups, community development associations, etc.) whose input and support are required for improved security in the two States and around the border communities. “The meeting also agreed to implement the following initiatives in the short term: Threats assessment and analysis along the border corridors; deployment of CCTV on the interstate highways; setting up of outposts along the border communities for the use of the Joint Border Security Task Force; harmonisation and mainstreaming of voluntary police and informal security outfits “Timeous and diligent prosecution of criminals to signify the resolve of the governments of both states to clamp down on criminality. In this wise, the Attorneys-General of the two states should ensure synergy between law enforcement agencies and their prosecution departments or directorates during the investigative and prosecution phases of cases.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com