Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, on Saturday replied those claiming that the Peoples Democratic Party in the state was divided over his choice of Pastor Umo Eno as his preferred successor, adding that there was no division in the party. Emmanuel said this while fielding questions from journalists during a programme, ‘The governor speaks’, which was broadcast live on the Akwa Ibom Broadcasting Corporation’s radio and television stations. He said he would not be distracted by insinuations on social media, stressing that he would rather remain focused on his completion agenda. The governor warned politicians against using violence to grab power, adding that he would vote for peace and not for violence during the party’s primaries and the general elections. Emmanuel stated, “As a leader, I am entitled to only one vote during the party primaries and the general elections. And that my vote is not for violence; it is not for the man that will go and carry a gun and point on your head to grab power. “Whoever grabs power by violence will rule by violence. So, I am telling you that my vote is for peace; it is for progress; it is for economic prosperity; for infrastructural development and unity; and I can keep counting. “So, our party, the PDP, is not divided. Those social media things we read are not helping us in any matter. I don’t follow those things; I must get focused; I don’t need those distractions.” The governor also gave an assurance that his administration was doing everything humanly possible to ensure that all ongoing projects were completed. While thanking God that his administration had been able to complete some of the capital projects it started despite the parlous state of the country’s economy and the negative effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy, he explained that the execution of projects across the state had created job opportunities for the youth, who work as labourers at construction sites. The governor added, “These are things that stimulate the economy anywhere in the world. Anytime a country is in recession and you want to come out of recession, spend more money on infrastructural development and on capital expenditure.” “People hear about COVID-19, but they don’t know the negative impact on the economy around the world. Thank God we have just completed our smart building.” He commended the youth for maintaining the peace in their domains, saying, “Our youths are very committed to keeping the peace in the state. I can see their determination to actually make the state safer than what we can offer from the normal course of policing. That is commendable and I applaud them for that.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com