The Rivers State University, Port Harcourt have asked contractors handling building projects in its three new campuses to deliver them before the end of March, 2022. The university said the new campuses in Etche, Ahoada East and Emohua local government areas of the state would be inaugurated in May, 2022. Speaking to newsmen after a tour of the satellite campuses as well as the faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, Clinical Sciences and the Pathology buildings under construction, the University Vice Chancellor, Prof Nlerum Okogbule, however, expressed happiness at the pace of work. Okogbule said, “As you have seen the campuses are almost ready, some of the contractors have completed their assignments, the jobs that we gave them and some have attained 90 per cent completion level. “We are hoping that by the end of March, most of the campuses should be completed and taken over by the university in preparation for the commissioning in May 2022. “We are working in accordance with the directives of the State Governor, Barr Nyesom Wike and the governor is committed to the completion of the project on schedule. “”From the contract schedule, most of them (projects) are supposed to be handed over by the 30th of March, but from what we have seen, we are going to take over the buildings on the 15th of March. “We have mandated them (contractors) to ensure delivery by the end of March, 2022.” He said the faculty of Agriculture would utilise the Etche campus, the faculty of Humanities would occupy the Ahoada campus, while the faculty of Social Sciences would make use of the Emohua campus respectively upon completion. “Just as there are always challenges in every human endeavour, there were initial challenges particularly in relation to topography in Ahoada and Etche, but those challenges have been overcome and you can see that the projects are moving very well,” the VC added. In February 2021, the Rivers state Governor, Nyesom Wike, announced the release of N9 billion by the State for the effective take-off of three campuses, allocating N3 billion to each of the campuses. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com