Some members of a faction of the All Progressives Congress in Osun State, known as The Osun Progressives, who are loyal to the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, have renounced their membership of the group in Owena, Oriade Local Government Area of the state. A statement by Ismail Omipidan, the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, on Saturday, said those who renounced their TOP membership attributed their decision to the need to collectively build and strengthen the party for future electoral victories and successes. Speaking on behalf of the concerned TOP members during a meeting in Owena, the leader of the faction in the area, Mr Mikaheel Oyediran, said they resolved to return to the mainstream of the party, having been convinced by the way and manner the leadership of the APC had managed their grievances over time. Oyediran, who stated that over 500 TOP members had renounced their membership of the group in Owena, Ikeji-Arakeji and neighbouring communities, promised to work in unison to ensure victory for the party in the forthcoming governorship election. Oyediran said, “I was a strong member of TOP in the entire Oriade Local Government Area, if not beyond, but I thank God today that I have seen good reasons to return to the mainstream party. We left for obvious reasons and we returned in the interest of unity, progress and development of the party. “We have returned for good. We are solidly behind the party and we are ready to work for its success. As you can see, my followers are here; some have come and gone, because of other engagements, and those who couldn’t make it here are fully supportive of us. “I am using this medium to assure our people that no effort will be spared to ensure victory for the party and above all, Governor Oyetola, in the forthcoming governorship election in the state.” In his remarks, Oyetola, who was represented by the Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Dr Adebisi Obawale, expressed gratitude to the returnees and assured them of equal treatment and opportunity. Oyetola said the party and his government were ever ready and open for reconciliation and promoting anything capable of contributing to the growth and development of the party. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com