Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar says he will declare his 2023 presidential ambition at the appropriate time. He spoke on Tuesday after a visit to Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State. Speaking to journalists after the meeting on Tuesday, Atiku said he visited Niger to commiserate with the government and people of the state over the recent attacks by bandits. “I only came on a courtesy visit to the governor and to commiserate with him and people of the state over the incessant banditry in Niger State,” Atiku said. “I just discussed with the governor on the insecurity in the state and from what I heard, it is a very serious and pathetic situation and it is most unfortunate.” When asked about his presidential aspiration, the flagbearer of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2019 presidential election said, “I have only come on a visit, I will let you know about my presidential ambition at the appropriate time.” Several presidential hopefuls have emerged from the Southern region in the last few days including All Progressives Congress National Leader, Bola Tinubu; media personality, Dele Momodu; former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Pius Anyim; Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi; ex-Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha; ex-Governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi; former Governor of Abia State and Majority Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Kalu; former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Kingsley Moghalu, among others. A few northerners including Atiku; former Senate President Bukola Saraki; Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal; and former governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso, — all of the PDP — have been reported to nurse presidential ambitions but while Saraki and Tambuwal had declared intention to run, Kwankwaso and Atiku are yet to publicly declare the intention to run. Though party primaries that would lead to the emergence of candidates are expected to hold later in the year, permutations, political bickering and serial defections continue as the race for who succeeds Buhari gets intense, while Nigerians wait with bated breath to see who would occupy the exalted office in Aso Rock in 2023. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com