An ecological group, Health of Mother Earth Foundation, has called on the National Assembly’s Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution to reinstate the clause, ‘right to food,’ which was reportedly deleted in the amendment bill. In a statement made available to journalists, the foundation said the bill, which had been pending before the National Assembly, sought to introduce the words, ‘right to food’ and ‘food security’ in Chapters 2 and 4 of the constitution. HOMEF stressed that the right to adequate and safe food remained a fundamental human right and lawmakers should not legislate against this right in the constitution amendment process, adding that doing otherwise would send the signal that the lawmakers wished to set Nigerians on the pathway of starvation and neglect. The statement read in part, “The ‘right to food’ is a key component of food sovereignty which beyond food security sees to the right of food producers at every level along the food chain to be in control of what they produce and how. “Food sovereignty not only ensures access to food but makes sure that the food is healthy, nutritious and culturally appropriate; that the food is produced with ecologically sound means. This is the future of food and farming. It is the direction we must go.” It added that the reintroduction of the clauses would address the “failure of agricultural policies to ensure food security in Nigeria; given the philosophical context that there can be no food security without the right to food. “The Senate and House of Representatives Committee who are currently reviewing the constitution reportedly rejected the clause on the ‘right to food’ based on the premise that passing the bill with the clause on the ‘right to food’ as proposed could put more financial burden on the government. “The clause was also rejected on the ground that it “could be misinterpreted by citizens and might lead to damaging consequences.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com