The Independent National Electoral Commission has admitted that there were glitches with the usage of the Bimodal Voters Authentication System machines during Saturday’s Federal Capital Territory Area Council election. Speaking with journalists after the election, the INEC FCT Resident Electoral Commissioner, Yahaya Bello, said that in some cases, there were misunderstandings with officials handling the machine. Bello said, “We have observed the malfunctioning of BVAS. We have seen it function and malfunction. There are a lot of reports in respect of the malfunctioning of the BVAS in some places. “Equally, there is maybe a misunderstanding of what to do with the BVAS; a lot of the officers don’t know what to do with them. “INEC has invested to prepare for this election and from the report we have received from those outside, the preparations were in good stead only that the BVAS were not functioning as they were expected.” Bello, however, said that the National Commissioners and six other Residents Electoral Commissioners deployed for the election are expected to write a report on the situation in order to find a lasting solution to the problem ahead of subsequent elections. He said, “This election has the complete involvement of the commission. The chairman of INEC deployed three National Commissioners to this election and also deployed six Residents Electoral Commissioners from various regions to join us in this election. “They write a report and the report would be weighed when the commission meets. They would look at it and then the function of the BVAS or absence of it would definitely be discussed. That is where the next level of discussion would start but for now, all we can say is that we have gone round and seen that the BVAS have not performed the way they are expected. “What we are going to do about it is an issue the commission would sit down and look at. We have so many elections coming after this one.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com