A Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, has ordered the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to stand down all actions against Senator Rochas Okorocha. Justice Stephen Pam gave the order on Tuesday following an application brought before it by the counsel for Okorocha, Mr Ola Olanipekun, SAN. Olanipekun had told the court that the EFCC was acting contrary to its judgment in suit FHC/ABJ/CS/45/2019 in which it ordered the commission to release the passport of the defendant, among other decisions. Following the refusal of the EFCC to obey the judgment, Okorocha approached the court for the protection of his human rights, which he claimed was under threat. Olanipekun, at the resumption of proceedings on Monday, reminded the court that on December 6, 2021, it entered a judgment in favour of Okorocha, but that instead of the applicant to obey the decision or appeal the same, it went ahead to contravene it. Olanipekun further informed the court that despite its decision, the EFCC had refused to release the passport and other travel documents of his client. The counsel regretted that the EFCC disobeyed the court when it took an aspect of the judgment to a lower court, adding that the anti-graft agency’s action amounted to contempt of court. Counsel for EFCC, N. A. Dodo, told the court that he only got the application from the applicant on Monday, pleading for time to respond to the processes. Dodo denied that the EFCC was going against the judgment of the court, adding that it had called on Okorocha to come and pick his passport and other travel documents, but that he had not responded. “Mr Lord, we are complying with the judgment. We have called him (Okorocha) to come and pick his passport, but he has refused,” he said. Justice Pam maintained that he was not happy with the attitude of the EFCC and warned that he would not tolerate contempt of the court. Justice Pam said, “I take exception to disobedience. Your organisation (EFCC) should not do anything to the applicant until this matter is determined.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com