One of Nigeria’s leading travel and tour firms, Agil Express, has unveiled three entertainers as its brand ambassadors in a bid to boost reach and customers’ confidence. The entertainers – Woli Arole, Salau Olayiwola popularly known as Testimony Jaga, and Femi Asaye ‘Sir Judah’ – were unveiled at a well-attended annual thanksgiving and endorsement event held at Ogba, Lagos State. During the unveiling, the Chief Executive Officer of Agil Express, Ayodeji Gbeleyi, assured customers of better service delivery. He also commended the new brand ambassadors for believing in the dreams of the company and agreeing to be a partner in progress. He said, “It’s a matter of great joy to see our company growing, embracing good value, system and achieving more than what we have ever thought. Often, I have been asked as to what is the reason behind the success of our company, Agil Express and what is its biggest strength and I always have one impromptu reply: My Team. “I am extremely proud of my team and I can wholeheartedly say that we have the best extraordinary team with equally high aspirations and dreams. I want to say that the road ahead will be challenging, as unpredictability will continue to rule, but I will continue to motivate you all to strengthen your capabilities to understand yourself in a better way. “Since the inception, we have been adding on to everything we have, the manpower, list of achievements, areas we deal in and even to the dedication we have for our work and responsibilities, this is obviously an amazing sign for any organisation. “This positivity has been reflecting clearly in our growth rates ever since the beginning. As they say, “slow and steady wins the race”, we might not have been on the list of the most rapidly growing company, but Agil Express has undoubtedly been one of the most steadily growing companies in the globe.”  While thanking customers and other partners, he said, “I have no words to express my gratitude, your relentless support and contributions are worth more than diamonds to me. Many more success stories and achievements are yet to come our way. Till then, let’s just keep up the good work and keep aspiring for more.” On her part, the company’s General Manager, Omololu Adewale, said Agil Express has expertise in ticket and hotel reservation, visa procurement, educational programmes, corporate travel management, airport transfer, travel insurance, tourism travels arrangements, and pilgrimage tour among others. In a bid to ashow the competence of the company, Taiwo said, “Despite the challenges we experience in 2021 for the suspension of major Airlines in Nigeria we are able to remain focus. With the above challenges, we are able to provide solutions to Soto tickets. “As we promised you in year 2021, we now have four IATA branches, (Dubai, Cotonou, Abidjan, and Maryland) which are fully in operation. We have been offering excellent services to our clients as usual with an effective and professional team. Meanwhile, we would henceforth take advantage of the new technologies and innovations to satisfy the needs of our clients. We would also come up with world-class customer relations management strategies that will enhance and increase the patronage of our brand under the new period. “We will continue to develop new business models to provide excellent services beyond our customers’ expectations. Our door would be open to Sub-agent who wish to partner or do business with us. “Let me assure you that as we seek to always provide best ticketing and reservations services possible we will not relent in ensuring we serve our teeming customers through channels that align with the safety and security policy frameworks of regulatory authorities.” In his address, Woli Arole noted the brand ambassadors would work for the success of the company. “We are happy with Agil Express services. It’s about taking the business to the next stage,” he said.