Following the passing-out of 422 Batch A stream I corps members on Thursday, Governor of Gombe State, Muhammadu Yahaya, has urged them to embrace the gains inherent in agriculture. Yahaya, who was making a first physical appearance at the National Youth Service Corps event since assumption of office, also urged them to key into the policies of the Federal Government. According to him, the corps member should endeavour to be innovative, stressing that there was a need to ensure that they utilised the knowledge gained in the past year in advancing the society. Yahaya said, “Dear compatriots, the end of every service year represents an important stage in the lives of our corps members. It marks the beginning to explore the world out there. “The knowledge and experience gained during the service year will prove useful for the challenges of today and tomorrow. I encourage you to be innovative and determined to discover the vast opportunities that abound in our nation by being self-employees. “You should exploit the goldmine inherent in agriculture, manufacturing, mining and rendering of social services among other business ventures. I urge you to key into the policies and programmes of the Federal Republic of Nigeria geared towards youth empowerment, self-employment and economic development.” While lauding their interventions in advancing the course of the state, the governor said they have uplifted the educational, medical sectors during their postings. “It is with great pride I am commending you for the invaluable contributions made through group and individual community development projects in the nooks and crannies of Gombe State in various spheres of life such as education, sports, agriculture and other critical sectors of socio-economic development. “We thank you for the selfless efforts in making our communities better, particularly the strengthening of our health initiatives for Rural Dwellers Programme across the state by providing free medical interventions. It is gratifying that you approached every task assigned in the course of your service with open minds and dedication,” Yahaya said. Speaking earlier, State Coordinator of NYSC, Ada Imoni, said 422 members were set for passing out, adding that two others eloped while one other would face an extension of service. She said, “A total of 422 corps members are set to be released into the labour market for the 2021 Batch A Stream I Service year, out of which, two absconded and one got an extension of service after facing the disciplinary committee.” She urged them to remain law-abiding citizens and continue to contribute their quota to the development of Nigeria. “Remember. Your success in life is hinged on your ability and commitment to fully utilize the skills and experiences gained in the course of the service year,” Imoni added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com