A former Commissioner for Works in Ekiti State, Mrs Funmi Ogun, has rejected her nomination as the Peoples Democratic Party’s deputy governorship candidate for the June 18 election in the state. Ogun, who is the PDP State Secretary and close ally of former Governor Ayodele Fayose, said the rejection was to avoid any clash with the party’s national leadership following its refusal to act on her nomination for the position by stakeholders in the party in the state. This came barely two days to the deadline for submission of party nominations to the Independent National Electoral Commission. A former chairman of the party in the state, Bisi Kolawole, emerged the party’s governorship candidate on January 26 following which a running mate was nominated for him by stakeholders in the party. The rejection of the nomination was contained in a letter dated February 24, 2022 and titled ‘Re: My nomination as deputy governorship candidate,’ addressed to the PDP National Chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu. The letter reads in part, “This is to formally inform you that I am not unaware of my nomination by Ekiti stakeholders for the position of the deputy governorship candidate in the June 18, 2022 gubernatorial election. “Notwithstanding their good intentions, I formally write to reject the nomination for personal reasons. However, I appreciate the uncommon recognition and assure the party that no effort will be spared at ensuring our victory at the election. “The candidate can, therefore, be approached for a fresh nomination.” Ogun told journalists in an interview that “All the stakeholders in Ekiti PDP had endorsed me and forwarded my name to our national leadership, but they didn’t act on it. So, I have decided to reject my nomination for me not to be on a collision course or ruffle feathers with our national leaders. “I have written this letter while awaiting the reaction of our leader, Ayo Fayose, and the national leaders. But this doesn’t suggest any trouble in Ekiti PDP. “I want to confirm the authorship of the letter, but it was not meant to slight anybody. It did not mean that I had disagreement with our leader, former Governor Fayose, who is abroad at present.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com