Ogun and Oyo State governments have resolved to install Closed-Circuit Television cameras on border highways between the two states to check the activities of criminals. Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun; and his Oyo State counterpart, Seyi Makinde, disclosed this on Wednesday, in a communiqué, jointly released after a joint security meeting held in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. The meeting tagged “Ogun, Oyo Joint Security Meeting” was held to address the spate of insecurity in both states. The governors, during the meeting, met with security heads from both states and announced the setting up of a “High-Level Joint Security Committee” to tackle criminal activities along the boundary communities and interstate roads between the two states. Both states have been battling with increasing cases of kidnapping and armed robbery incidents on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Rising from the meeting, the two states in a seven-point communiqué  read by the Oyo State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyelowo Oyewo, agreed to set up a Joint Border Security Task Force “with membership drawn from various security agencies in the two states, to patrol the border communities to ensure security of lives and property for the residents and commuters”. They also agreed to share experiences and intelligence on security matters. This, according to them, would assist the overall safety and security of lives and property in the two states and the nation at large. The meeting also agreed to implement the following initiatives in the short term, “Threats assessment and analysis along the border corridors, deployment of CCTV in the interstate highways, setting up of outposts along the border communities for the use of the Joint Border Security Task Force, as well as harmonisation and mainstreaming of voluntary police and informal security outfits.” Abiodun alleges threats to life, says no hiding place for criminals Abiodun had earlier disclosed that kidnappers and other criminals are after his life following his government’s efforts to tackle crimes in the state. He said the hoodlums were feeling the heat of the newly re-launched security outfit codenamed OP-MESA. Abiodun said, “After we launched our OP-MESA last week, I understand that they have been working extremely hard. “In fact, what I heard is that those criminals are now saying that Dapo Abiodun is making life unbearable for them and that they are going to come after me. “Let me assure you (criminals) that I will continue to make life intolerable and unbearable for you and I am waiting for you. We will ensure no more hiding place for criminals.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com