The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has announced automatic employments for the two overall best graduands of the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye. Abiodun, who announced the job offers at the combined 30th and 31st convocation of the institution held on Monday, also rewarded each of the graduands with N1 million. The management of the OOU had announced Peter Ebuka Iloka of the Faculty of Pharmacy and Adebisi Fatima Awolumate of the Faculty of Agricultural Economics as overall best graduating students for the two sets. The Vice-Chancellor, OOU, Prof Ganiyu Olatunde, said Iloka scored a Cumulative Grade Point Aggregate of 4.92 to emerge as the overall best graduating student for the 2020/2021 academic session, while Awolumate of the Department of Management and Rural Development emerged as the overall best graduating student for the 2019/2020 session with 4.86 CGPA. A total of 6,257 graduates were produced at the combined convocation with 55 of them making First Class. “The two overall best graduands will have automatic employment with the civil service and a sum of N1m from us to encourage them,” the governor announced. Abiodun, however, tasked tertiary institutions in the country to use research and innovation to inspire practical and lasting solutions to the myriad of challenges facing humanity. He advised that solutions should be sought for local challenges, stressing that there was a need to encourage and cultivate the culture of innovation, ingenuity and technology among the youth. The governor, who congratulated the graduands for their successes, urged them to persevere in life and avoid temptation to use short cut, saying it would lead to nowhere of worth. He also urged the youth, particularly students, to emulate the best graduating students in learning and character of diligence and hard work. Abiodun disclosed that the state government had approved the construction of a 1,600-bed space hostel in OOU to ease the accommodation challenges being faced by students. The vice-chancellor, who was completing his tenure, said over N20 million had been expended on scholarships for 446 indigent students in the last four sessions. He also said the university had witnessed significant growth and development in its operational and administrative sectors. “Discipline is a major focus of this administration and it has been integrated as a culture. We ensured that our students are well behaved and modestly dressed by enforcing a dress code that enhanced the moral standard in this great institution,” Olatunde added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com