THE country’s most senior legal officer and its chief judicial officer recently engaged in a public spat that drew attention to the vexatious delay in the trials of politically exposed persons. This phenomenon has contributed to subverting the anti-corruption war, dismayed Nigerians and kept the country firmly among the world’s most corrupt jurisdictions. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, stirred the hornet’s nest when he publicly blamed the judiciary for the delay in high-profile corruption trials. This drew an instant response from the Chief Justice of the Federation, Tanko Mohammed, who placed the blame squarely at the feet of the executive. In the TV interview, Malami, while discussing the case of a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir Lawal, who is standing trial for alleged abuse of office, said the executive could not be blamed for the conclusion and determination of a case, adding that “it is exclusively a judiciary affair.” He accused the judiciary of running an opaque budget, challenging that arm to open its books for scrutiny. He cited the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, which the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), inherited and activated in 2015 to speed up trials, but which the judiciary had allegedly failed to leverage. Though Malami has since unconvincingly tried to walk back on his comments, the issues raised are potent and deserve close attention. Decidedly, the judiciary has not been a vigorous player in the anti-corruption war, but so also have the executive and the office of the AGF never impressed Nigerians, the world, and international watchdogs in fighting corruption. Both arms, in the estimation of most, have fallen short of expectations. With their failure, Nigeria has continued to rank poorly in global corruption ratings. In his rebuttal, the CJN said the AGF’s statement was one-sided, citing instances where the executive would file more charges than it could prove, or provide dubious witnesses to allow “ostensibly at times for the prosecution to even fail.” The CJN’s response is instructive. Agents of the executive are often bungle some high-profile corruption cases, starting with poor investigations that culminate in weak evidence that fall apart in court. A former governor of Delta State, James Ibori, was arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on 170 counts of money laundering. In December 2009, he was discharged and acquitted by a judge who did not even take the accused’s plea. But Ibori was arrested in Dubai in 2010 after escaping extradition in Nigeria, flown to the United Kingdom where he admitted to 10 counts of fraud. He was convicted and jailed for 13 years. The difference was that while the EFCC filed 170 repetitive charges, and a fickle judiciary did not even peruse critically them before squashing the case, the Metropolitan Police had incontrovertible evidence, the Crown Prosecution Service filed a tight charge sheet, and a diligent judiciary served the cause of justice. The executive also has a knack for disobedience to court orders which frustrate and prolong even simple court cases. Despite court orders, a former National Security Adviser, Sambo Dasuki, was detained for four years until reason prevailed. His case is in limbo. The case of a former Petroleum Minister, Diezani Alison-Madueke, is instructive. Despite the humongous sums and properties recovered from her and her cronies since 2015, the Federal Government failed to diligently seek her repatriation to face criminal charges. It was only a few weeks ago that the EFCC obtained an arrest warrant from a Federal High Court in Abuja. The government shamelessly plays politics with some high profile cases. For eight years, the EFCC was on the trail of a former Gombe State governor, now a senator, Danjuma Goje, over a N25 billion corruption case. After Goje met Buhari in June 2019 and dropped his ambition to contest the Senate Presidency in favour of the regime’s favoured candidate, the AGF filed a nolle prosequi and the court struck out the case. This was after the anti-graft agency had spent over N150 million pursuing the matter. What a monumental waste of time, resources, and expectation! Cases against some PEPs are dropped when they cross over to the ruling party. Allegations of corruption and collusion between the prosecution and the defence counsel are also rife. Cases consequently suffer countless adjournments with defence counsel claiming ignorance of exhibits and evidence, witnesses not appearing in court. In exasperation, judges are then forced to dismiss them. It behoves the AGF to ensure that corruption cases are diligently prosecuted. But the judiciary too cannot escape blame. The courts must implement the ACJA to ease access to justice. Some judges routinely throw out public interest cases based on technicalities, sacrificing fairness, equity, and justice. American rights activist, Lydia Maria Child, said “law is not law if it violates the principles of eternal justice.” This is the essence of judicial interpretation of law and judicial discretion. Judges are curiously lenient with PEPs while visiting the full weight of the law on lowly Nigerians.  For example, a Federal High Court sitting in Jos, Plateau State, after a four-year-long trial, has just sentenced a former Water Resources Minister, Sarah Ochekpe, and two others to two years imprisonment on each of three counts for money laundering involving N450 million of public funds, but gave them light option of fines. Such favourable judicial discretion is rarely extended to the less privileged offenders. It is also insufficient to deter would-be treasury looters. Many corrupt politicians have escaped justice relying on a compliant judiciary to dwell on technicalities rather than judicial retribution for treasury thieves. The CJN must address this problem urgently. In December 2019, a former state governor was jailed for 12 years after he was convicted for stealing N7.6 billion public funds. But the Supreme Court quashed the judgement on technicalities and ordered retrial of a case that had lasted for 12 years. The judiciary sometimes creates ‘sacred cows.’ Some judges accused of serious infractions escape censure or are given a slap-on-the-wrist. Three judges of coordinate jurisdiction gave conflicting ex parte orders in matters with the same parties and subject matters. An investigation committee indicted them. In December, the NJC only “warned” and barred them from promotion for two to five years. This is too mild. Also, in 2013, Abubakar Talba of the Federal High Court in Abuja jailed a former Assistant Director, Police Pensions Board, Yakubu Yusuf, for only two years for stealing N24 billion, with a bail option of two years. Yusuf immediately paid the fine and left a free man. After a public outcry, the ruling was later overturned by the Court of Appeal, which sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment and a N22.9 billion fine. Talba was only suspended for one year by the NJC. Nigeria has a corruption problem, entrenching poverty, weakening institutions and preventing development. To stamp it out, the executive and the judiciary must work together to ensure the guilty do not exploit the weakness of the system. The buck stops on Buhari’s table; he has to devise an all-encompassing strategy, take charge and appoint a coordinator to oversee the campaign.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com