Dear Mum, May God continue to increase your anointing. You have been a source of inspiration and motivation to me. I really appreciate you ma. Coming across your article in Saturday PUNCH about eight years ago, I found everything about you interesting and since then your articles have been my compass in life! Thanks so much ma and please don’t stop your good works! Dauda Kenny Dear Mummy Temilolu, I never knew how important it is to be a virgin until I came across your words of encouragement. It’s been really helpful and I can’t thank you enough. Keep up with it mama, you are working for God. A lot of girls must be praying for you silently. You are a role model, a mother figure and everything. I love you momma. Aminat Dear Ma, I love you so much mummy and I thank God I began reading your articles in the newspaper since I was in S.S.2. Later on, I got a phone and started seeing your posts on Facebook. You have really helped my life. May Almighty God grant you more grace. May you live the type of life you desire and live long in Jesus’ mighty name. I just can’t wait to meet you Ma’am. BK Beegold My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian daughters, On January 1, I began a series of articles I’m too sure would assist you in having the best year ever and took a break last weekend to talk about Valentine’s Day! Please Google and read these articles as I conclude in this article and the next. 2022: A phenomenal year of shining for the sexually-pure (1 & 2) Girls, manifest your dreams in 2022 and shine like a star! (1 & 2) Girls, don’t let any boyfriend scatter your destiny this year (1 & 2) How to have your dreams manifest this year and shine like the star that you are Monitor your dreams Unknown to many people, your dreams are a blueprint of the state of your life! That is whatever is going to happen to you usually stems from and is established in the supernatural realm which is the source of our existence. Many say they don’t dream and I tell you that’s like groping in darkness. If you are lucky to dream regularly, you must ensure you take steps to see the manifestation of your good dreams or cancel the bad dreams with the power of God! A lot would have fared so well in life and wouldn’t have suffered misfortunes that made their lives “hell on earth” if they had prayerfully attacked some bad dreams! A lady once told me on the last day of a certain year, she dreamt she gave birth to triplets and her mother killed the babies and she woke up crying. I know for certain that she went partying that day and didn’t embark on any serious prayers or deliverance. The following year was a nightmare for her as she faced rejection, disappointments, lack of favour, closed doors and pain in all forms such that she almost took her life! God could even show you wonderful wonders He’s planned for you but if you are not careful enough and well-prepared to receive them, the enemy who has also seen them, can ensure they never come to pass. People have had life-transforming breakthroughs, marriages, children plucked off their lives forever in one dream or the other rendering their stay on earth very unpleasable. May that not be your portion in Jesus name! Strive to lead a complete life of holiness It is written in the scriptures- “The Lord confides in those who fear him; he makes his covenant known to them.” Psalm 25:14 “However, as it is written: What no eye has seen, what no ear has heard, and what no human mind has conceived – the things God has prepared for those who love him-these are the things God has revealed to us by his spirit. The spirit searches all things, even the deep things of God.” 1 Cor.2:9-10 If you want to enjoy what God has planned for you this year and have them manifest, you have to lead a life that’ll please God and draw Him close to you. I bet if a lot of girls/ladies saw their originality and the goldmine they are, they won’t be sleeping with men and dashing out what should settle them in life and make them wealthy. In your ignorance, may you not be deprived of what will settle you for life and give you global prominence in Jesus name! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a Secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576. Copyright PUNCH All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com