Students have lamented the declaration of a four-week strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities. They described the strike as an “unpleasing Valentine’s Day gift”. The PUNCH had reported ASUU on Monday declared a four-week “total and comprehensive” strike. ASUU President, Prof. Emmanuel Osodeke, made the declaration at a press conference in Lagos after the union’s two-day National Executive Council meeting. He said the strike takes effect from Monday, February 14, 2022, would last for an initial period of four weeks. One of them, Kachi, tweeted, “Valentine’s Day breakfast. Bad gift’. “This is ASUU Valentine gift to all Nigerian students,” Steve Abia, added. Inemesit Ndueso said, “What a touching piece of news for Nigerian students! This Valentine’s gift from the FG and ASUU is uncommon.” Some of the students also asked ASUU to be decisive in the action. They complained of a situation where a strike is suspended and another one is declared for the same purpose within a short interval. Amafaye Winnie said, “Why is the Education of our children not important to this present administration. Federal Government, please settle them for the betterment of our country.” Oladosu Akeem said, “The money used to channel rails to the Niger Republic is enough to improve the quality of our universities. The government of today only focuses on what has meaning to them. Neglecting education left Nigeria into the chaotic condition we find it today.” Abdurrazak Yahaya added, “The government gives priority to nonprofitable projects through exaggerated contract amounts, while our universities were left to decay and the lecturers treated as beggars if compared to other staff in many federal ministries and commissions.” “Some professors should stop rigging elections for these politicians! If not, we’ll keep experiencing this same bad leadership!” Timba Ayuba warned. “I wish I could get out of this country. ASUU and the Federal Government of Nigeria are dragging students back,” Alex Ugwu said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com