The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr Abiodun Alabi, has said his office will support Caleb University, Imota, Lagos in terms of security. Speaking during a courtesy visit to Caleb University, Alabi promised to assist the institution in whatever level required in the area of security, saying he would ensure no human rights were breached in the state. “On security issues, police can’t do it alone, we need the public to partner with us so we can share information together.” Alabi also said there was the need to enforce the law against land trespassers in Lagos, saying the issue of land trespassers was a major problem in Lagos. This was after the Vice-Chancellor of Caleb University, Prof. Nosa Owens-Ibie, complained about the activities of land grabbers on their proposed staff quarters land in Imota and Medical College land at Lekki-Ajah, Awoyaya, which had hindered the institution from developing the lands. Alabi said, “Land trespassing is a major problem in Lagos. As long as you can establish ownership, it is criminal for someone else to claim ownership. We need to enforce laws against land trespassers. It is a matter of getting them arrested and they will learn. We will see to it that it doesn’t occur again.” Owens-Ibie also requested for the establishment of a permanent police patrol team pin down point, along the highway in front of the university gate, adding that this would discourage undesirable elements and criminals from any attack on the university. “We humbly request for your assistance, advice, and recommendation by virtue of your wealth of experience on security issues. We appreciate the presence of the patrol vehicles along Ikorodu-Agbowa road on stop and search duties, to minimise crime in the area,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com