The Federal Capital Territory chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party says it has uncovered plans by the ruling All Progressives Congress to arrest and detain prominent members of the party ahead of the forthcoming area council election. The party also accused the APC of plans to import thugs to scuttle the election. The PDP, in a statement on Saturday by its Chairman, Sunday Zaka, said the same antics played out during the 2019 election, but failed because security agencies were alive to their duties. The statement read in part, “There is an underground plan to use fake security agents to arrest and detain prominent members and stakeholders of our party ahead of the February 12 election. “We are not taking this lightly because the same scheme was deployed in the last 2019 election, but failed due to the display of professionalism by the heads of security operatives in the FCT, and now, this same satanic plan by the opposition is resurfacing, but we strongly believe it will fail again. “We wouldn’t have taken the report seriously but with the utterances credited to some prominent APC party stalwarts during the campaign across the FCT. “Our background checks and fillers have also revealed that there are plans to mobilise thugs from Nasarawa Toto, Gadabuike and other neighbouring towns of Kogi and Niger states ahead of the election. “We also want to place it on record that should there be any breakdown of law and order during the February 12 election, the APC should be held responsible. “We are appealing to all security formations and operatives in the FCT and those that will be deployed for the purpose of the election not to allow the desperation of the APC to ruin the relative peace and security we have enjoyed in the FCT over the years.” Zaka said to guard against this, the party would equip all its agents with body cameras for the coverage of all polling units. When contacted the FCT APC Chairman, Abdulmalik Usman, said the PDP was crying foul because it was clear to it that the APC would win fair and square. He said, “I do not know what they are talking about. An intelligence report from which of the security agencies? Is the PDP now a security agency? Their allegations are baseless. “As far as we are concerned, we will not and never hire thugs from anywhere to participate in the forthcoming election. They are only crying foul, because they know they will be squarely defeated in the forthcoming election.”  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com