An aspirant for the position of the National President of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, Alhaji Danburam, on Sunday, said he would permanently end the herders-farmers crisis in the country if he becomes president in the group’s forthcoming election in April. Danburam, who is the incumbent National Adviser to MACBAN on Peace and Conflict Resolution, in an interview in Jalingo, said reconciliation between herders and farmers was the only sure way to end the crises and ensure national security and development. He noted that as President, he would initiate peacebuilding measures that would foster unity and permanently end the age long crisis between the two groups. Danburam stated, “It is true that our people are in crisis with numerous communities across the country. It will be my duty and responsibility as a president to provide suitable platforms for dialogue, peacebuilding initiatives and mutual unity of purpose among the various communities where our people reside to permanently resolve the herders-farmers conflict. “I will also engage the government to review the existing laws and bring up favourable ones that will support the economy and the wellbeing of our people.” The former Taraba State Chairman of MACBAN also promised to improve on the educational standard of the herders to give them a better way of life. He stated, “Our people all over the country are backward in education and modern ways of life. They are denied not just education, but information that can properly position them for a greater future. “When I become the MACBAN president, I shall liaise with the necessary agencies of government and non-governmental organisations to fast-track the provision of educational materials, schools and teachers for our communities across the country.” Danburam also pledged to work in synergy with the government to provide livestock feeds and soft loans for nomads, the same way subsidies were being provided for crop farmers in the form of fertilisers, chemicals and other farm inputs. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com