Many of the vices and crimes that pervade Nigeria have one thing in common: men. Take the problems of drug abuse, ritual murders and the abduction industry altogether. Add them up with the prevalent problems of investment scams and the fraud schemes (“Yahoo Yahoo”), romance scams, cultism and a larger pattern of what characterises all these issues emerges: young men in their formative years are dealing with serious social issues. All the vices being perpetrated by these young Nigerian men are not disparate. They throw up the realities of social relations and anxieties that motivate a generation. Our society has raised a generation of men, who cannot be men in the traditional sense of meeting social expectations, and they are resorting to criminality and willful self-destruction. We have a crisis of masculinity. In the past few years, you would have noticed how many times agencies like NAFDAC and NDLEA have raised alarms about the increasing use of drugs in our society. From opioids to aphrodisiacs, a generation of men from their teenage years mixes and consumes a cocktail of drugs that either dulls the pain of reality or enhances their sexual prowess. There is also the festering issue of what we call “money ritual,” the social phenomenon whereby the belief that money can be conjured drives murder. The latest case that shocked virtually everyone was some teenage boys in Abeokuta, Ogun State, who decapitated a young woman, Sofiat Kehinde. Then there is the abduction-for-ransom industry that has probably become one of the most profitable in Nigeria. About two weeks ago, we read the sad story of five-year-old Hanifa Abubakar in Kano, abducted and killed by her school proprietor. These days, it is not unusual to read of boys, often part of a cult or gang, burgling houses. These crimes vary but the age range of the perpetrators shows that males in their formative years are lost. Ideally, a society works when its young people see a viable trajectory for upward mobility. Of course, we know that such assurances of social mobility are not always guaranteed. Still, young people in a society must see how they can progress through life. They should expect that as they grow biologically, they will also go through social phases where they meet the milestones of education, employment, family-raising, career-building and other attainments that make for personal fulfilment. What is happening in Nigeria is a case of millions of young men who do not see that defined path to upward mobility and are therefore trapped in permanent adolescence. These are men for whom the means to social mobility have been subverted and, consequently, are lost. For instance, you could get an education up to the university level and still remain unemployed for an extended time. Education no longer guarantees gainful employment and most people are acutely aware they are not even employable. Without either formal education or vocational skills, they are thus permanently stuck in the juvenile phase of social life where they seethe with rage and frustration. Life bypasses them and the good things of life they desire are being shared over their heads. We have in abundance, men for whom the traditional avenues of performing masculinity—in terms of earning power and sexual virility—are being receded. There is therefore a confusion and a crisis of what it entails to become a man in Nigeria’s society. Society has always told us that “to be a man is not a day’s job.” However, without opportunities for upward social mobility, even a lifetime is insufficient to make a man. Moving from boyhood to manhood requires certain rites of passage like education, marriage, family, etc. Without prospects for continuous advancement, the rites that mark one’s movement from one social phase to the next loses meaning. The males for whom the trajectory of social mobility has become blurred spend their time to breed and brood their resentment and rage. When they abduct for ransom or “money rituals,” or even scam people, they are heartless and utterly unconscionable. We have always known that people will do anything for money, but how they demonstrate this tendency—as the unfortunate cases of Sofiat and Hanifa demonstrate—can still be exceptionally horrifying. In the past few years, I have written on the issue of “money rituals.” As I noted in those two articles, the idea that money can magically manifest gets intensified in a society as the gap between the rich and the poor widens. When people who have no means of upward mobility see the wealth wielded by an upper class, but also do not see it connected to any visible enterprise, they develop the idea that the money manifested through magical means. One recent example is the burial of Ezinne Iyiegbu, the mother of Obi Cubana. For days, that burial was a sensation even though much of the ceremony was just a bunch of grown men throwing money at each other. In the aftermath of the lavish display, Obi Cubana himself lamented the deluge of correspondences he received from people who begged him to “cut soap for them,” a particularly Nigerian way of asking to be shown whatever path to attaining wealth. The search for magical means to make money is only one dimension of the occult economy. Criminality is another. The daring adventures that establish bravery, activities that move males from boyhood to manhood, are being supplanted by sheer criminality. In the wake of the Abeokuta ritual murder, some people blamed Nollywood and even “skit makers” for their uncritical portrayal of “money rituals.” True, the philosophically and aesthetically unsophisticated ways the cultural industry depicts the belief in money ritual can go a long way to persuade would-be ritualists but it is also too simple to put all the blame on television. Nollywood’s output reflects only part of the story, like looking at your face in a piece of broken glass. The bigger responsibility for this present darkness rests on the various breakdowns in moral authority. From the family system where fathers who left the job of nurturing their children to their overburdened wives, to the political and religious institutions where leaders now have to remind us to respect their “constituted authority,” the already precarious centre no longer holds up. Recently, Senior Pastor of Salvation Ministries, David Ibiyeomie, while preaching, cursed “Yahoo Yahoo” boys for their crimes of dispossessing others of their money. He got a dramatic pushback from people who reminded him that pastors too fraternise with thieving politicians. Some of those that responded to him were self-identified Yahoo boys. It was an awkward situation but it is not unexpected in a society where the supposed custodians of values and ethics have yielded their roles to the dictates of materialism. Just weeks ago, the same pastor boasted that two plots of land cannot contain his fleet of cars. The pastor did not elaborate how he made his money beyond narrating how he sowed money meant for buying his first car into God’s kingdom and is now assured of getting a lifetime supply of cars. It is quite ironic that he missed the similarity/correlation between the occult economy of seed-sowing and what Yahoo boys do. But the blowback shows the extent to which fatherhood—from biological fathers to the fathers in the Lord—has become a task of managing a repository of values to which young people do not want to subscribe. Yahoo boys do not want to “work” because work takes a lot of time and guarantees nothing. They will rather be like the pastor who gets a lifetime supply of cars simply by giving out just one car. Thus, we now have an urgent problem of crimes being perpetrated by men in their crucially formative years. They want to grow through the juvenile phase and proceed into social adulthood. Society has redacted the means and so they resorted to vices. The only way they know to become a man is to “blow” and they do that at the expense of the collective. Unfortunately, they are not even building the skills that will sustain them in the long term. What they are doing is living in the perpetual present where they are no longer boys but have not fulfilled the conditions of becoming a man either. Neither boys nor men, they are trapped in a social phase where they grow into monsters.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com