Tension engulfed Delta State University, Abraka on Monday as protesting students of the institution kicked against what they tagged the astronomical increase of the school fees. The angry students in their hundreds stormed the University campus in the early hours of the day and shut down the main entrance gates as well as all other access roads thus preventing vehicular movements into and out of the institution. The protesters comprising both indigenes and non-indigenes carried placards with assorted inscriptions calling on the school authorities to review the decision regarding the had me in the school fees. Some of the placards read, “We don’t want to be involved in ritual activities and sex trade in search for money for school fees”. The angry students lamented that the Delta State University authorities were pushing students into prostitution and ritual activities by their actions and appealed to the State Governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, to wade in without further delay and effect a downward review of the school fees in the state’s tertiary institutions. They further stated that except the decision on the fees increment is reviewed, lots of students would drop out of school. A witness told our correspondent that “the protesting students, both Deltans and non- Deltans, arrived Abraka campus in their numbers locking up the main gate and the gates of other sites. “The protesters can be heard shouting and singing, calling the Governor and the Vice-Chancelllor names saying ‘we nor go gree oooo, we nor go gree oooo.” “The protesters had appealed to the governor Ifeanyi Okowa to review the astronomical increase of school fees in State as they don’t want to be involved in ritual activities and sex trade in search for money for fees,” the witness said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com