Operatives of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested 43-year-old Kehinde Oladimeji, and his 35-year-old wife, Adejumoke Raji, for being in possession of fresh human parts. The suspects, residents of 72, MKO Abiola way, Leme, in Abeokuta, were reportedly arrested after different fresh human parts such as: hands, breasts, including other parts, were found in their house. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Saturday. Oyeyemi said the couple claimed to be herbalists, who got the human parts from one Michael, resident in Adatan area of Abeokuta. The PPRO said the suspects were reported at Kemta Divisional Headquarters by the Baale of Leme Community, Moshood Ogunwolu. Oyeyemi said Ogunwolu told the police that one Pastor Adisa Olarewaju, a co-tenant with the suspects, informed him of an offensive odour, coming out from the room of the suspects. He said, “Upon the complaint, the DPO Kemta Division, CSP, Adeniyi Adekunle, quickly led his detectives to the scene, where a search was conducted. “On searching the room, a plastic bowl containing fresh different parts of human beings, was discovered in the room, and the couple were promptly arrested. “On interrogation, the suspects confessed they were herbalists, and that the human parts comprised hands, breasts and other parts, given to them by one Michael, who they claimed resided in Adatan area of Abeokuta. “All efforts to locate the said Michael proved abortive, as the suspects could not locate his house. “It would be recalled that a dismembered body of an unknown person was found in a swamp at Leme area of Abeokuta about a week ago; it was not yet clear whether the parts were those of the found body or not.” Oyeyemi, however, said the Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the Homicide Section of the state Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, for discreet investigation. He added, “The CP vowed that anyone who is directly or indirectly involved in the crime would be brought to book, to serve as a deterrent to others.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com