The Commissioner of Police in Imo State, Rabiu Hussaini, has ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of State Intelligence Investigation Department to begin the process of arresting the killers of seven community leader in Nmahu in the Ohaji-Egbema Local Government Area of the state. A statement issued by the spokesperson for the command, Mike Abattam, on Wednesday, disclosed that the leader of the gang who killed the community leaders had been identified. The statement disclosed that the leader of the gang was one Ossy who escaped from Owerri Correctional Centre in 2021. According to the police, the attacks which led to the killing of seven community leaders were cult-related. The statement read, “On February 8, at about 2200 hours, one ‘Ossy’ led about twenty armed men with their faces masked to Mmaahu Community in Ohaji Egbema LGA of Imo State, went to the following identified persons houses namely; Charles Mgbarahor, Funky Anane, Charity Nwachukwu, Edeme Okoro, Isaac Ojenya , Ndubuisi Nwabusi, and Junior Ifeyinwoke , shot and killed them. “The Divisional Police Officer on receipt of this information immediately, mobilised his men and other patrol teams to the area, on arrival at the scene, the hoodlums have deserted the place, leaving seven persons dead. “Preliminary investigation, revealed that the killing has elements of cultism. And that ‘Ossy’ is an escapee from Imo Correctional Centre Owerri who is reasonably suspected to belong to a cult group known as ‘De- Gbam’. While the persons killed are suspected to belong to another cult group known as ‘De- Well’. “Meanwhile, the command has deployed additional tactical units to the community to support the operation of the Egbema Police Division and Area Command to forestall a reprisal attack. “The Commissioner of Police, Imo State Command, CP Rabiu Hussaini, while calling for calm in the community, directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge State Intelligence investigation Department to immediately, commenced a discreet investigation with a mandate to fish out the perpetrators behind this dastardly act.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com