Hours after the Governor Abdullahi Ganduje faction of the Kano State All Progressives Congress defeated the Ibrahim Shekarau faction through an Appeal Court ruling, the state governor on Thursday appealed to the Shekarau camp to consider reconciliation. Ganduje made the appeal while addressing journalists at the APC national secretariat in Abuja. Earlier in the day, the Ganduje-led faction defeated the Shakarau-led faction at the Appeal Court over the leadership structure of the state chapter of the APC. The Appeal Court in Abuja held that the lower High Court lacked jurisdiction to recognise Shekarau’s faction. It also held that the case was not a pre-election issue but an internal party tussle; therefore, it should be decided by the party’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee. Responding to the judgment during a visit to the party’s national secretariat, Ganduje appealed to the Shekarau faction to cooperate with him in building the party, saying, “Kano State is 100 per cent APC.” He said, “I am appealing to them (Shekarau-led faction) because we are members of one family, the APC. So I am appealing to them to come and Kano State is almost 100 per cent APC. We will come together and forge ahead in such a manner.” Ganduje also confirmed that the APC national leadership had handed his own state Chairman, Abdullahi Abbas, his certificate of return. He said, “The APC of Kano State has a judgment that all the elections we conducted from the wards to the state levels are legally recognised. “I want to thank the party and the leadership for initiating the peace move to ensure that our party is united. I have to thank the party for that. A judgment has been passed in our favour, and the APC stakeholders in Kano are here to show our appreciation to the leadership of the party.” When one of our correspondents contacted the Chairman of the Shekarau-led faction, Alhaji Haruna Danzago, for his reaction to the Appeal Court’s verdict, he said, “I am aware of the appellate court’s ruling but will await the return of our counsel from Abuja before deciding on what line of action to take.  All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com