The Rivers State Commissioner for Information and Communications, Pastor Paulinus Nsirim, has said the administration of Governor Nyesom Wike has put an end to multiple taxation in the state. Nsirim said this on Monday in Port Harcourt when the newly elected executive committee of the Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture, paid him a courtesy visit in his office. According to a statement by his media assistant, Amieyeofori Ibim, he said, “We want PHCCIMA to have a voice. The voice of the chamber needs to be louder because we must articulate strategies that will begin to project Rivers State to the outside world. “I don’t think there is any state that has an integrated and comprehensive security architecture like what Governor Nyesom Wike has put in place in Rivers State. We have the conventional police force, the Operation Sting, the C4i and the Neighbourhood Watch.” Nsirim said the governor had provided the right leadership, built the right infrastructure and made the state safe for businesses to thrive. He said, “Governor Wike has done his part. He has also properly streamlined the tax regime to ensure that businesses do not suffer multiple taxation. We need to begin to develop the synergy that will begin to build on what he has done for Rivers State. “We cannot quantify in monetary terms how much this administration has impacted in businesses. That is why Governor Wike was quick to set up the Ease of Doing Business Council strategically designed to build a framework for the expansion of businesses.” The President, PHCCIMA, Mr Mike Elechi, commended the commissioner for projecting the governor’s developmental strides in the state. According to him, the chamber has plans to reposition small and medium enterprises, and exploit the economic potential in the local government areas. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com