WHILE the country is under siege by criminals whose blood-curdling activities have overwhelmed the existing security architecture, the Nigeria Police leadership has entangled itself in a needless fight with the Police Service Commission over the recruitment of new constables. By insisting – despite the provisions of the law, a presidential intervention, and a subsisting appellate court order – on directly handling the recruitment of 10,000 new constables, the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, has effectively delayed the planned phased enrolment of new police officers to beef up a badly depleted force and meet rising security challenges. Beyond Baba’s recalcitrance, the blame for the impasse rests squarely on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for failing to step in strongly and stop the feuding. He should immediately order the police to back off and allow the PSC to undertake its legitimate duty. Governance in Nigeria has reached new lows. The police recruitment saga captures this anew. Across the country, citizens are being slaughtered, maimed, robbed, kidnapped and raped. On the rampage are terrorists of different hues, armed robbers, mass murderers, criminal gangs and vandals. The farms, homes and highways are unsafe. Even police officers, soldiers and security sanctuaries are being attacked. The insecurity has forced a painful awareness that the police are hopelessly undermanned and that the country’s single national police structure is inadequate. Buhari seeks to add 40,000 new recruits to the Force in phases to meet the challenge. Alas, the insensate bickering between the IG and the PSC has stalled the programme. The disagreement started in 2019 when the then IG, Mohammed Adamu, reportedly ‘hijacked’ the exercise. The PSC promptly challenged this in court, insisting that it was the only agency constitutionally empowered to conduct recruitment into the force. Its roles include promotion and discipline of police officers, from constables to deputy inspector-general of police rank. The commission eventually triumphed as the Court of Appeal set aside a judgement of the Federal High Court, which initially had awarded the mandate to the police. Hinging its judgement on paragraph 30, part 1 of the Third Schedule to the 1999 Constitution, which states, “The Commission shall have power to (a) appoint persons to offices (other than the office of the Inspector-General of Police) in the Nigeria Police Force,” the appeal court upheld the PSC’s constitutional mandate to recruit police constables. Instructively, the authority of the commission to recruit is also enshrined in the Police Act 2020 signed into law by Buhari. Hopes that the recruitment would then proceed were dashed when Baba, rather than obey the judicial pronouncement which also restrained the police from interfering with the recruitment, allegedly chose to reassert control over the exercise. Buhari should intervene once more, this time more decisively, by removing all obstacles to hiring new constables and reprimanding Baba. The PSC too should stick strictly to its mandate under the law and seek closer cooperation with the police hierarchy. While they bicker, the country bleeds. The PUNCH reported the killing of four police officers on February 12 by gunmen at a checkpoint on the Awkunanaw-Agbani Road in Enugu South Local Government Area, Enugu State. Just 48 hours earlier, three police officers and a Customs officer had been killed in similar attacks on two checkpoints within the state capital. Six persons, including four police officers, were killed at another checkpoint in July 2021 by “unknown gunmen.” Kidnappers and terrorists have made the northern states unsafe. SBM Intelligence reported that over 497 police officers were killed in different attacks across Nigeria in the last six years. It noted that the officers were killed in 554 incidents between January 2015 and March 2021. The body count is mounting. Data derived from media reports revealed that 7,063 people were killed in 2020, while 10,366 were killed in 2021, averaging 28 people killed daily. The breakdown showed that 972 were killed in the first quarter of 2020, 2,732 in Q2; 1,588 in Q3, and 1,771 in Q4. The earlier intervention by Buhari in the recruitment debacle did not resolve the situation, typically because of his inattentiveness. At a meeting he held with then IG (Adamu) and the PSC Chairman, Musiliu Smith, in September 2019, Buhari had affirmed the commission’s authority, saying, “By the mandate of the commission, the task of appointment, promotion and disciplinary control of officers of the Nigeria Police Force, except the Inspector-General, falls under it.” It is exasperating that the police leadership continues to disdain the President’s declaration on this matter without sanction. It reflects the President’s poor leadership. In January 2018, he ordered then IG, Ibrahim Idris, to relocate to Benue State to restore law and order following mass killings perpetrated by Fulani militants. Idris ignored the order and despite repeated cries by residents and the state Governor, Samuel Ortom, Buhari was to publicly confess two months after that he never knew that the IG had disobeyed his order. Idris was neither punished nor compelled to obey. In-fighting and ego-driven, self-serving inter-agency rivalry is part of the many negatives of the Buhari regime. While security agencies bickered publicly, including a complaint by the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, that the then service chiefs were bypassing his office to attend illegal meetings with the President’s then chief of staff, Buhari remained aloof. The minimum Nigerians demand is a police force that is service-oriented, business-minded, and intelligence- and technology-driven. Without offering alternative workable solutions to the policing and security challenges confronting the nation, Buhari has consistently opposed state police. It bears repeating that, as an index of federalism, state police or multi-level policing, is a true symbolic gesture of democracy and is inevitable in a diverse polity. Without further delay, Buhari should ensure that the recruitment goes ahead immediately, transparently, and devoid of corruption, nepotism and other underhand dealings. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com