Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested 43-year-old Kehinde Oladimeji and his 35-year-old wife, Adejumoke Raji, for being in possession of fresh human parts. The suspects, who are residents of No. 72 MKO Abiola Way, Leme, Abeokuta, were arrested after different human parts such as hands, breasts and other parts were found in their house. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Saturday. Oyeyemi said the couple claimed to be herbalists and got the human parts from one Michael, who resided in the Adatan area of Abeokuta. The PPRO said the suspects were reported at the Kemta Divisional Police Headquarters by the Baale of Leme community, Moshood Ogunwolu. Oyeyemi said Ogunwolu told the police that one Pastor Adisa Olarewaju, who is a co-tenant with the suspects, informed him of offensive odour coming out from the couple’s room. He said, “Upon the complaint, the DPO, Kemta Division, CSP Adeniyi Adekunle, quickly led his detectives to the scene, where a search was conducted. “On searching the room, a plastic bowl containing different human parts was discovered and the couple was promptly arrested. “On interrogation, the suspects confessed that they were herbalists and that the human parts, comprising hands, breasts and others, were given to them by one Michael, whom they claimed resided in the Adatan area of Abeokuta. “All efforts to locate the said Michael proved abortive as the suspects could not locate his house. “It will be recalled that a dismembered body of an unknown person was found in a swamp area in the Leme area of Abeokuta about a week ago; it is not yet clear whether the parts were those of the body or not.” Oyeyemi said the Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation. “The CP vowed that anyone, who is directly or indirectly involved in the crime, would be brought to justice to serve as a deterrent to others,” the PPRO added.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com