The Nasarawa State Government has said that it recently attracted investments worth over 500 million US Dollars in order to boost the economy of the state. The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Nasarawa State Investment Development Agency, Ibrahim Abdullahi, made the disclosure during a press briefing on Thursday in Lafia. He said NASIDA was able to attract investments to the state following Governor Abdullahi Sule’s administration’s commitment to ensure that the state is industrialized which would, in turn, create jobs for the youths. He said, “Since the coming of this administration, a lot has happened in the area of investments to improve governance of Nasarawa State. We have closed significant 13 public-private partnerships and over 8 business environment initiatives have been implemented. “The role of government is to provide legal environment regulatory framework for business to operate in the state. The creation of NASIDA is a deliberate effort of Governor Sule to create an enabling climate for the private sector by creating the platform to attract both domestic and foreign investors into the state”. The NASIDA CEO mentioned some of the investments attracted to the state to include, Nasarawa Transport Company, Karu Retail, and Recreational Mall, Cassava processing park, Nasarawa Technology Village, Nasarawa Agriculture Commodity Company, Meter Manufacturing Plant, among others. While expressing gratitude to the governor for the opportunity to serve the state, Abdullahi said, NASIDA, a one-stock shop for all business opportunities, has the mandate to initiate, promote, facilitate, and coordinate investment in the state”, He called on residents of the state to continue to support the agency in its effort to make the state an economic hub. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com