The Peoples Democratic Party Governors Forum has announced the kick-off of a peer review exercise and special interrogation of legacy projects initiated and executed by Governors in their respective states. This is according to a statement signed on Thursday by the Director-General PDP Governors Forum, CID Maduabum, titled ‘Legacy projects comparative review begins in PDP states’. According to the statement, Sokoto State would be the first state to be reviewed under the agreed and approved set of criteria on Friday. While noting that the review would last a few days, in the first instance, Maduabum disclosed that each review exercise will begin with a presentation of identified legacy projects by the states, followed by a site tour of some of the projects, and incisive appraisal of programmes and policy options and outcomes. The exercise will involve the media, independent consultants and Civil Society Organisations, and social media influencers from across the country. He said this will be followed by a conference interrogation by the team about the quality of project delivery, cost management, capacity and relevance of the projects and impact on citizens of the State. The team will also consider the project’s multiplier impact for social and economic development in the State. Coordinated by the Forum, the team will visit all PDP governed states.
The Forum said the review will be objective, intensive, incisive and will measure value for money spent. It may well represent a first of its kind in the country. Maduabum explained, “The PDP must begin now to collate materials and narratives that will usher it boldly and convincingly into the debates and campaigns for the 2023 General elections based on performance indicators of its Governors, who presently represent a sample of the kind of government to be run by the party in 2023 at the federal level.” While noting that PDP Governors have demonstrated an uncommon capacity in project execution and prudence in the administration of their States over the past six years, he said “These legacy achievements will be introduced to Nigerians through a peer review campaign and media reporting on the Legacy projects in infrastructure, agriculture, roads, bridges and flyovers, health, education, encapsulated in the human capital development identified and presented by the states for Peer Reviewing.” According to the DG, “the PDP ruled Nigeria for 16 years and is now essentially a party in opposition. But it controls 13 of the 36 states in the Federation. It cannot in any way be a pushover in a contest for hearts and minds of Nigerians for power at the federal level in 2023, following the disastrous performance of the APC led Federal Government.” He affirmed that the peer review will be presented to Nigerians, “a choice of at least two competing visions and tendencies, the PDP years of performance and the APC years of failure and misrule” because “meaningful choices and opportunities must be presented to the voters to inform their decisions as they go out to vote in 2023.” “The PDP Governors as the governments in opposition need to interrogate and present its policy choices, projects, programmes and achievements in concert and close consultation with the leadership of the PDP for 2023.” The DG added that at the end of the exercise, the reviewed projects and programmes will be collated comparatively and presented to Nigerians. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com