Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Thursday, assured Nigerians and foreigners that the state is open to more businesses and investment opportunities. According to a statement by the state government, titled, ‘Sanwo-Olu, Ambassador Inaugurate Swedish Honorary Consulate in Lagos’, the governor gave the assurance on Thursday when he joined the Swedish Ambassador to Nigeria, Ghana and ECOWAS region, Ambassador Carl-Michael Grans, and Honorary Consul of Swedish Government, Philip Akesson, to inaugurate the New Swedish Honorary Consulate in Lagos. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony at Landmark Towers, Victoria Island, Sanwo-Olu said Lagos is open to more businesses and will be ready to collaborate with willing partners. He said, “Lagos is part of our Nigeria but a lot of businesses and sovereign nations in our country realise and appreciate that while we have a thriving capital in Abuja, for them to be close to their citizens, activate businesses and exchange cultural activities, there is always a sense that they must have a presence in Lagos. “It is really more about what Lagos stands for and the benefits that we all can see when you have a consulate that is just being handed over to Swedish citizens, businesses and the Nigerian community. You will begin to see further mutually beneficial cultural, economic and political benefits that both countries will enjoy. “We are very happy that you can see that Lagos deserves it and I want to thank the Swedish government for putting this together for us. I want to assure you that the Lagos community and business community will use this place very well.” The Governor said the new Swedish Honorary Consulate in Lagos will further strengthen Swedish and Nigerian businesses, and more importantly, signpost Lagos as a commercial and economic nerve centre of the country. Sanwo-Olu, who reiterated Lagos State Government’s determination to partner with the private sector to turn the state’s Ocean lines into tourist destinations in the country, commended the Swedish Embassy for taking the lead in ensuring that they have a waterfront view. Speaking earlier, Grans said Lagos is the incontestable business hub of Nigeria and West Africa. On his part, Akesson stressed the importance of the new Swedish Honorary Consulate in Lagos, saying it would strengthen the bilateral relationship between Sweden and Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com