Angry youths on Monday protested the alleged killing of Augustine Jogoji by his immediate elder brother, 73-year-old man Ohalete Jogoji, in Imo State. Our correspondent who arrived the scene of the protest at the Amaraku junction, in the Isiala Mbano Local Government Area of the state, saw the youths protesting. They later stripped the suspect naked and threatened to beat him before some youths led by Berthram Uwandu rescued him and took him to the state Police Command headquarters in Owerri. When interviewed, the suspect said he killed his younger brother while he was asleep. When queried why he killed him, the septuagenarian said that his younger brother, a truck pusher, diverted the only plot of land belonging to the family. The man who spoke in Igbo language said, “I was angry that he took the only land belonging to our family. Instead of me to be in possession of the only portion of land as the first son, he took possession of it. I got angry and attacked him.” The suspect’s daughter, who identified herself as Nkiru, said though his father and his slain younger brother regularly had minor issues, she was surprised that the issue went out of control to the extent of his father allegedly killing her uncle. But Uwandu told our correspondent that the suspect invaded his brother’s room while he was asleep and killed him. The youth leader said, “This man attacked his direct brother yesterday while everybody was away watching the Chelsea and Liverpool EFL final match. Before help could come, the man had died. We have deposited his body at the mortuary. We are law-abiding youths. We don’t want to take the law into our own hands. That is why we are taking him to the police now. Our correspondent who monitored the situation, saw the suspect being taken to the police command headquarters by the youths accompanied by the wife and son of the victim. The police spokesperson for the command, Micheal Abattam, had yet to respond to an inquiry made over the murder incident as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com