The Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Universities Commission, Prof Abubakar Rasheed, on Tuesday, stated that with over 200 million citizens, the country needed more universities as the current number was not enough to cater for the admission of Nigerians. Rasheed stated this while presenting certificates of the two newly established universities in Lagos State to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The NUC issued letters of recognition to the Lagos State Government for the establishment of two new specialised universities as approved by the state House of Assembly. Sanwo-Olu had earlier in the year signed bills converting the Lagos State Polytechnic to the University of Technology, and the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education to the University of Education. Speaking during the presentation of the certificates, the NUC boss said, “Nigeria, with over 200 million population, requires more universities to cater for the tertiary education needs of the citizens. “Nigeria currently has an enrolment of two million students in the existing 200 universities; this is quite low when compared to the number of candidates, who seek admissions into universities annually.” The NUC boss noted that the commission did not hesitate to approve the request of Sanwo-Olu for the establishment of the two universities, because of his demonstrable commitment to the funding of the existing Lagos State University, which was established about 39 years ago. “Sanwo-Olu has been a reference point for support to state universities in Nigeria. We have visited LASU several times and we saw that the governor has ensured that LASU takes its proper position in the university system in Nigeria,” Rasheed stated. He, however, advised the governor and other proprietors of universities to look at new courses relevant to the needs of the various states and the nation at large. The governor said the upgrade of the institutions became necessary in order to meet the growing demands of the state. “Lagos has the largest economy in the whole of Africa. Unfortunately, Lagos today has only one state university that was given to us about 39 years ago. So, we are happy to come to the NUC today to pick two brand new university approvals for the people of Lagos State,” Sanwo-Olu stated. He noted that his administration had invested extensively in the institutions that had been upgraded with one of them having over 60 PhD lecturers, while their infrastructure was being developed aggressively. He said, “We believe that the approval to have the Lagos State Polytechnic turned into the University of Science and Technology will bring about innovations in engineering, science, inventions and things that will bring development to our country and state. “It is about the future of our citizens. It is about the future of our youths, who truly believe in us to do the right thing. It is about our commitment to taking tertiary education to a level that all of us will be proud of. It is all about ensuring that we give hope and opportunity to our teeming youths that believe in us to do the right thing. “We are giving a commitment that what we have done in LASU, we will also replicate in the two new universities. We will ensure that the two great children that we are giving birth to today are not left alone. All of the various development infrastructure, human and materials that are required to make the universities one of the best in the country, Lagos State will make those resources available for them. “We say this with every sense of responsibility, knowing fully-well what we are doing in LASU, the level of infrastructure we are putting into the erstwhile polytechnic and colleges of education; we will double up those efforts at ensuring that they can turn into great citadels of higher learning and universities that will be reference points in the years ahead.” Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com