A lawmaker with the Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Hon. Victor Chukwu, has lambasted the Peoples Democratic Party, for consistently and ‘mercilessly’ attacking Governor Dave Umahi over the insecurity and crises in the state. According to him, insecurity was a national phenomenon, which every state of the federation currently battles. The Leader of the State Assembly, who represents Ezza North/West Constituency, stated this during a meeting with journalists, in Abakaliki. Recall the PDP had in the past four days come heavily on Umahi, accusing him of having a hand in the killings and violence in Ebonyi State. But the lawmaker said, “Anybody who knows the natural disposition of the governor cannot be that mean to recklessly accuse him of killings in Ebonyi State. Even though the governor appears to be rugged in nature, too, he is one of the meekest people I have seen on Earth. “The Umahi I know has never hidden his displeasure over the shedding of blood of any sort, in the state, especially the human blood. But it beats my imagination that disgruntled elements (in the camp of the PDP) could carry out such level of campaign of calumny against the person of the governor. “Umahi has always demphasised violence, on the grounds that he wouldn’t want his victory stained with blood. “Now, one would begin to wonder. What are the killings they are associating Governor Umahi with, for? Are they ritual killings? Is the governor orchestrating those so called killings to atone for ritual obligations? What are the killings for? Is the governor at war with those fighting in Effium? “For goodness sake, insecurity is now a national thing and every state of the federation suffers it. “For me, the PDP is just wailing over the frustration its members suffered in the past and still suffer currently. Its attacks on Governor Umahi is baseless, unfounded and, is borne out of envy and jealousy. “Let it be known to you that the biggest beneficiaries of his administration are one of the victims of the Effium war, I mean the Ezza people. He has shown an unquantifiable love to these people. What is his interest in Effium? Does it mean he wasted billions of Naira to construct the Effium road so that people could be killed ? *Therefore, it’s foolhardy, inhuman and wicked to link Governor Umahi with killings and violence in the state. What I hate is this wickedness of extreme politics of name-calling and propaganda. When politics become extreme, I wonder if actually the participants are humans or non-humans.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com