The All Progressives Congress has described the recent activities of politicians that dumped its fold to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party as selfish and self-serving adding that they are undemocratic elements. A former deputy governor of the state John Yoriyo, was one of the early set that jumped ship, followed by gubernatorial aspirants Jubrin Barde, Jamilu Ishyaku and many others. Briefing journalists in Gombe on the turnout of events, the chapter’s Publicity Secretary, Moses Kyari, said those concerned have never contributed anything meaningful to the growth of the party. He revealed that those who defected have never attended political meetings, but mere sympathisers who sought shade within the broom. According to him, “What has been playing out is a circus show remotely been directed by certain individuals to shore up the image of the opposition. They are bringing the malicious intentions of the perpetrators and actors as well. “Barde, Ishyaku and Hon. Rambi Ayala were on-lookers and passive members in the first place hence, their resignation from an organisation, of which they were passive members, does not hold water. They were passive members of the party. “Jubrin Barde, as soon as he lost the APC primary of 2019, he detached himself from our campaign, he never attended any party function. He never contributed to the party’s successes. “Also, Jamilu Ishayaku as soon as he lost the PDP’s primaries of 2019 left PDP out of anger and pitched his tent with APC because he knew the APC was going to win the election. What he did was use the APC to ventilate his anger on the PDP. He was never an active member of the APC.” Kyari continued, “Furthermore, Rambi Ayala was expelled from PDP for disciplinary reasons, he went to the court and lost. In his desperation, he organised a charade to claim he has defected to the APC but never attended APC functions. “Hamza Soye’s resignation was to save his face and hide under resignation but the real reasons for his leaving was a result of financial recklessness of government funds and the governor out of his magnanimity has kept mute over the matter but most people in Gombe State know the offences the former chairman of the Sports Commission committed and he thought if he resigned and defected he will save his face. Is this the kind of people we want in government?” While expressing the unflinching support of the party to the governor of Gombe State, Kyari alleged that many of them defected because they may not realise their political aspirations in APC. “Yaya Bauchi who never sponsored a bill in his seven years in the House of Representatives wants to be a Senator and feels that if he stays in the APC, he will not realise his ambition. There is no way he would have stayed to serve others. “The above-mentioned politicians are selfish, self-serving and undemocratic elements are only relevant in the media space. They leaving our party is good riddance to bad rubbish as they were dead woods in our party. “We look forward to meeting them at the polls, we shall see their political worth, very soon we will be unravelling our true qualitative and grassroots mobilisers. ,” Kyari said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com