An Anambra State High Court sitting in Awka, on Wednesday, voided the ward, local government and state congresses held by the All Progressives Congress in the state in January. Seventeen former chairmen of the party in the local government areas led by Lawrence Emegini had gone to court seeking a declaration that their tenure still subsist. The party had conducted congresses, which produced Mr Basil Ejidike as the state chairman in January. But Justice Ike Ogu of the High Court 4, Awka, who delivered judgment in the matter before him, ruled that the exercise contravened the interlocutory injunction earlier issued by the court. Justice Ogu ruled that the plaintiffs’ case succeeded. The court stated that the tenure of ward, local government area and state executives elected during the 2018 congresses in the state was subsisting. He noted that whatever congress conducted by the APC and its representatives in the state while the tenure of the 2018 elected executives subsisted contravened the order of the court. He stated that the Emeka Ibe-led executive members should be allowed to complete their tenure, which was illegally terminated. The factional Secretary of the APC, Mr Chukwuma Agufugo, described the judgment as victory for the rule of law. Agufugo said some people wanted to disorganise the party by trying to hijack its leadership through the back, but the court had liberated it. Cunsel for the plaintiffs, Chief P. I. Ikwueto (SAN), said his clients had been vindicated by the decision of the court. The Legal Adviser to the faction of the APC in the state affected by the judgment, Mr Chinoso Chinwuba, said the judgment would be studied to know the next line of action to take. “We will file a notice of appeal and stay of execution. The judge erred in law and the judgment will be set aside on appeal,” he said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com